Episode: 2419
Title: HPR2419: Alien Brothers Podcast S1E01 - Introduction
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2419/hpr2419.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:44:05

---

This in HPR episode 2,419 entitled Alien Brothers Podcast S1-201 introduction, it is
posted by first time post the Alien Brothers Podcast, ABB and in about 126 minutes long
and Karim and exquisite flag.
The summary is, meet the Alien Brothers, Caspar and Rutiger, two tech junkies that take
nothing sacred.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An Honesthost.com.
The Alien Brothers Podcast with Caspar and Rutiger.
There we go, and action, action.
Aren't you lucky a podcast listener to be here for this inaugural session of a podcast
without a name?
That's how ready we are.
Yeah, it's all going to go down here, and you are here live to listen to the formation
of something, which as of yet has no name.
You sound so professional.
Well, I've been listening and podcast for quite a long time, so I have an idea of how
to parse words and think about things.
Even President Obama would sound professional and unique and bring strengths to our American
culture.
Okay.
Do you think you could sound less professional?
I could certainly drive.
Yep.
So this is Rutiger.
Rutiger.
Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
What's your name?
My name is Caspar.
Caspar?
Yes.
Like the friendly ghost.
Like the friendly ghost.
For that, that degenerate kid from Larry Clark's Seminole movie, kids, oh, kids.
Yeah.
That's like my kids.
How can we not?
Oh, geez.
So where were you?
Wait, wait, wait, we got to, we got it for the benefit since we have, we don't even know
what we're doing.
Well, well, do we need to lay foundation?
We need to help the people listening.
We need to dig a hole and pour some concrete first here, I think we need to dig the hole,
get in the hole, then someone else needs to pour the concrete to put an end to put an
end to this, to this folly before the misery started, please say, could I have some more
concrete?
Can I have some more concrete, please say, can I have some more?
This is a lovely beach palace.
Thank you.
You are, Casper.
Thank you, my friend, for A's, for many things, including saving my life back in January
and, yeah, the two major things you've done for me, you saved my life in January and
you brought me on this wonderful beach, get away here in Delaware, yeah, in the, uh,
the corporate state of Delaware, the first state, the first state, is that, was it the
first state?
Because D is early it, no, it was, it is the first state, you, you've obviously not seen
license plates around here, I, I'm saying what is the pet, what is the, what is the
etymology of it being the first state?
Why is it the first state?
Because I'm, I'm guessing, I don't think, I don't think, I think there's some qualification
for license plates, because some, I would think, like North Carolina's first of flight.
Yeah, so I mean, you can't just go throwing that around.
Is it because some felon in a, in a pediatentiary somewhere came up with a bright idea that,
Oh, when they were just brainstorming, in the prison, in the prison, they're like,
hmm, so we're in Delaware, what are we, but he had, he had recently gotten the enviable
job of being like the, uh, steward of the library or something, so he was reading up, he
was getting book smarts, he was, to improve himself, he was wearing the green jumpsuit.
That's right.
I thought the green jumpsuit meant you sold pot on the inside, but I don't know.
I thought, but it's been, it's been a long time since I've been on the inside, man.
What I have seen in eyes.
I'm not looking to go back, man.
No one wants you to go back.
I don't want to go back.
Don't go back.
I'm not going.
It's not as simple as that.
You just don't go.
I got no plans to go back.
You know, in fact, I think if you were to show up there and ask to be admitted, I hope
they send me away.
They, I don't think they would, I don't think they just admit there.
So yeah, I hope they would send me away or shoot me in the face.
So this is a podcast, if anyone has not figured this out yet, this is a podcast.
I'm, I'm Rutiger.
That's the part where Casper is supposed to say I'm Casper, but Casper was a podcast.
He's trying to wrap his head around, we're trying to do here, so we're just sitting
at the beach.
We just arrived at the beach here.
We've had some interesting times, we've had some interesting conversations and even beginning
to approach the mountain of the scope that is what would we entitle a conversation that
is all encompassing as ours can be.
It's a tall order.
Was that a sentence?
I don't think I completed that sentence.
I was thinking for the first one, I mean, you're right, we've dug a lot of holes and
filled them with verbal diarrhea for, I don't know if it was your idea or my idea, it's
the night that we definitely try, try a podcast out of your idea.
I think we agreed earlier, early on to abandon my suggestion of picking a topic and researching
a topic and then hitting record and favor, just hitting record, which is why at this point,
100% of the people who have started this podcast have been stopped because without a single
train of thought, you lose your interest quickly.
Yes.
All you hear are a couple of guys that sound like stoners who aren't, we're just sitting
here listening to the rain, the rain.
I was going to set the bar low and say most influential, five most influential video games.
That was going to be my first suggestion, but I suspect that you're looking for something
deeper.
For our inaugural, however, I was not the one to first suggest to dig a hole and then go
into it and then have concrete poured on top of us.
So if you're going to go into, that sounds nice.
If you're going to go into deep subjects, you're trying to pin that on me, I don't think
that's the right route or vector, if you will.
Well, deep subjects, that's definitely your thoughts.
That's definitely your, your forte deep thoughts with Casper and Rettiger, I mean, I'm
no, I'm no novice to podcasts.
I've gone by a lot of monocurs, but Rettiger's who I am today.
I know you and it's nothing else.
The fact that your Iron Man arc reactor is blinking, you're still recording?
Oh, you mean my nuclear generator, which powers my body?
For the members of the podcasting audience who care about our production technique and
that would be zero of these zero people listening.
We're doing a what's called double ending, double ender recording style where Casper, double
fisting, double fist insertion style, just double everything where each burger is, each
recorder, each participant is recording on their own digital device close to their mouth.
And in post production or what the hip podcast producer will simply refer to as post, we
will, we will mix it together.
So you're so hip, I am, I am, I know I'm pretty hip.
You're pretty hip and on top of that, you're doing this all on spec.
Oh, to stop recording, I'm doing, you mean I'm doing it on spec, you mean speculation
as in we're doing this without any guarantee that people are going to listen to it?
Welcome to the world of podcasting.
I think this true of 100% of all podcasts or were you, did you mean something else by
spec?
I'm in something else in the industry when something is said to be written on spec.
I mean, you're doing it without getting paid.
It means you're writing it on the speculation that someone may be interested in.
That's why I just said, in speculation.
In picking up the project at a later time, when I wrote my, both the screenplay is I've
written, I've written on spec and they will remain on spec because they're never going
to be fucking blonde and boring here, but you know, you put it in a more morbid form.
You can write things on spec and then have them get picked up.
You can.
You can, but not with that attitude.
If you write.
If you write.
Yeah.
I mean, I can.
Which is why I started out the podcast with a professional sounding voice and you say,
hey, can we tone it down a little bit?
Can I sound like I'm really super tired and then can I talk about suicide and then the
podcast just blazed off to a resounding start.
I think we've set, we've met our introductory goals of setting the, the tone of help, help
the listeners understand exactly who they're dealing with here.
Have we been tuning the WNPMs as this is going on?
What's that?
The words per minute.
You are a super hit.
I don't think you're a hit enough to pick up on that one.
So I'm using, I am not using a recording tool.
I'm using just press record for iOS and that does not tell me words per minute.
Well, what about our producer in the back, Gerald and Gerald's drunk right now?
Oh, no, Gerald, you know, Gerald, Gerald, put that, yep, I see, I saw that, you know,
we got, you know, we got it, we got it, we're going to take a short break.
We got to sit him down.
We're going to go, we got to talk to this guy.
It's out of control.
We're going to, we're going to get back and, this is just bananas, we're running off the
rails.
Oh, dear.
This is Ruddiger.
Are, are you going to sign out?
No, I'm just saying we'll be right back, would you like, would you like to say we'll be
right back?
No, I'd like to say, listen to these messages or else we will not be right back.
That's the deal.
You listen to the messages, then we do more stuff.
Okay.
Enjoy.
The Alien Brothers podcast with Casper and Ruddiger.
Hey, welcome back.
Welcome back, thanks for coming back.
Thanks for, you tape.
I'm recording.
Oh, okay.
Me too.
Good.
All right.
Thanks for having faith.
Okay.
Yep.
Okay.
Gerald, good.
There's no one back there.
I'm just sorry to break the fourth wall there, but there's no one.
Gerald doesn't like it when you talk about it like that.
I don't like it when you talk about the figments of your imagination.
Like they're real people.
It scares me.
Especially since I have to be alone at this beach house with you all weekend.
I don't want to wake up in the middle of the night to see you in some Gerald Persona standing
in my bedroom door.
I don't like the, I don't like the first thought of having it right now.
It's scary.
First of all, I think we need to go back to standardization of our recording format.
First and foremost, you're, you, you're going off the roads by picking it up.
Yeah.
Okay.
But what you didn't know, except for maybe by virtue of the fact that it sounded awesomer
for a while as I had, I had picked up the recording device, but now it's back, said recording
device by the way to help really bring you into the fold as a, a 256 gig iPhone 7 Plus
with a big ass frigging crack running from the upper left corner down the side.
I've never felt such shame.
Anyway, would you have phone envy?
I have, I would have complete phone envy of this phone if I wasn't shamed or the fact
that it has a big ass crack in it.
It's just the crack.
Well, it's, it's the crack and what it represents and what it represents is that I'm currently
jobless and broke and can't afford to fix it at the moment.
All right.
So it's really, it's more, it's more of a, of a meta, the crack, it's like, it's like
the fall, it's just, it's exactly like the fall of the house of Usher.
It's not just that the crack is there breaking the house apart.
It's what it represents, which is the madness of Roderick Usher and the decline and the,
the fracturing of the aristocracy class in 19th century England.
And which video game was that?
In which video game was, oh, video games, why, why, why do you bring up video games?
What's the meaning?
Why, why would I bring up such a thing?
How are you saying that we're getting closer, are we getting maybe closer to the topic
of this first episode or a topic, the first topic of the topic of our first segment?
You started Go Deep and I didn't want to spoil the fun.
I wasn't going to go deep.
When, when, when, when was that?
That was, I got this deep, what was that deep?
Was that at the concrete stage or was that when we came back and then turned the crack
on your phone into a representation of your broken life and soul?
I didn't even get that far, but that's true.
You actually did.
It's also a representation.
You did get that far.
I was, I was content to end at the fall of the house of Usher and the aristocracy, but
you, you had to bring it home, but you're right.
What, what, what's the point of loading the bases if you don't bring it home?
I, frankly, I just forget to bring it home sometimes.
I'm just, I just get, I just get so enamored at the awesome things I'm saying that I, I totally
forget the reason why I'm saying them, but that's, I mean, that's my cross to bear.
That sounds good.
That's my cross to bear.
So for this first segment, you, you, you had a great idea.
You had a great idea for a, a great idea for what, what, what a, what a Casper, what, what
does Casper contribute, what, what did he do?
You're contributing much, much grounding.
You're keeping things tied, tied to the, to the dock, lest we just float away.
So you said you had a great idea for some discussion about video games.
Yeah.
I did have an idea for a discussion about video games.
I thought that we could discuss our top five favorite video games.
Top five now, by the A, I think that's a great idea, B, because I, because I love video
games.
Thank you.
I'm glad that we agree on such.
I'm pretty sure I love them too much, but don't we all know, no, no, I don't think we
all know, but I do some people don't appreciate video games.
No, no, as people should be put in the whole, let's be careful, let's be careful in the
whole.
We need to expand our demo here.
Okay.
It's okay if you don't like video games.
Yeah.
Come on.
We didn't think this through by not having a, a, a, a, a digital mechanism set up for
our listeners to get in touch with us, like email, but don't worry, we'll take care of
that in post.
Yeah.
Well, we've got our analog Gerald inside who was supposed to be handling that, but is
now rummaging through the Lecker cabinet, as we speak.
So video games, tough five video games, all time, your favorite can be any reason it's
your favorite.
All that matters is that it is your favorite.
Number one, for you, so, or should we start at five, I can't, that's ordering them
as to is more than I can handle at the moment, so we're just going to list five.
Well, we might find when we, in the process of getting to five that we need to go further
or lesser, I'm, I'm so glad I brought up this idea of video games so that we can.
It's a very, so that we can try and keep focus.
It's a very good idea.
More focus on our focus.
Here's what I'm going to, here's what I'm going to try to do.
And then when I try to bring the focus to the focus, it then just did all of that.
Have I told you you're doing a great job?
I try.
Have I told you, I love you.
You've not told me that lately and I miss it.
I'm sorry.
I, when you saved me from myself back in January, I was telling you a lot and I need to get
back to doing it.
That January?
Can you, can you believe it?
It's been six months.
Admittedly it was right at the end of January, but we're discussing, we're making reference
to things that you don't know about, gentle listener, but you will learn about it in time.
Suffice it to say for now, I would not be here if, uh, what's your name again, Jerry?
Oh, Casper.
Um, if Casper had, what am I, do you think I'm German or something?
Call me a Jerry.
You have, um, you have, you have Casper all the drunk, he's Irish, I don't know why.
If Casper had not transubstantiated from his, his phantom form and to real form, to drag
me to the hospital, but that's another topic.
But for video games, I'm going to start with the first and I'm going in, in no particular
order, but my first, just by virtue of, just play, Erasmus said it, that's just
definitely.
I'm going to do my, the first one I'm going to bring up, not in reference to, I'm going
to do first my favorite sandbox game.
Now, okay, so I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to throw it down by make it categorized.
So what's a sandbox game for the listeners that don't know?
If they don't know, they turn, if they hadn't turned this shit off by now, they, they turned
it off as soon as they heard the phrase sandbox game.
But a sandbox game in, and, and, and I do not know what a sandbox game.
My definition, the definition I go by is that it's a, a game that does not necessarily
follow a linear narrative, which, which, which, which form.
Yeah.
So, as you can do what you want, yeah, usually there are, there are narratives, frequently
multiple intertwining narratives within most sandbox games.
And I'll use an example, an example or two, where like the, the popular Grand Theft Auto
series, the, where you're, you're basically saying open world and role playing games.
It's, there's usually a fairly open world and you're playing the role.
Usually of, of one or a handful of central protagonists that you might call antagonists,
or, yeah, or both, or, and you know, there, frequently there is a main narrative.
If you want to quote, unquote, beat the game, but how you go about achieving that narrative
in sandbox games, it's usually allowed to be somewhat at your discretion.
You can achieve the main goals by kind of being the bad guy and killing a lot of innocent
people, or you can achieve the goals by, I'll use another popular sandbox game, Skyrim
by Bethesda, or, well, there's Xenomax, if they're immediate, they're parent company,
but by Bethesda's soft works, and in that you could be, as Dungeons and Dragons type stuff,
you could be a, a warrior, or you could be a thief, or you could be an assassin, and
okay, or a wizard, let's, yeah, and we can be anything.
Let's reel it back in here.
You can't be Santa Claus, I, as far as I can remember, you can't be a rabbi, a conversion,
you can convert to Judaism, you can become a, you can convert to vampires.
Reeling it back in, I thought I was going to talk about our favorite games, then we're
going to talk about sandbox games, and then we discussed sandbox, and what the definition
is, as all the different things you can be within a sandbox game, I was perfectly happy
to not explain it, but, and I'm going to use sandbox, this is the first, because then
there's going to be a second, which is going to be my, what's the game?
You know, I'm going to have to, I'm just going to, I'm going to have to cheat and go for
a game.
I'm going to have a game, a fallout for, thank you.
Which is like lame, but because it's current, it's not exactly brand spanking new, it came
out in the last two years.
But it's, I like, for anyone who doesn't know, which is 100% of the zero people listening.
It's a, you play the central protagonist in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, the aesthetic
of the game, pre-apocalypse, is sort of a 1950s, art deco, accepts.
Similar to Bioshock in the kind of nuclear age representation of the nuclear family, and
this is what you do with this happens, and run to your nearest shelter, right?
Yeah, I would agree, it's, it's got a lot of sort of family values, stuff being thrown
at you, and very 50, undertones, racism, segregation, for undertones, yeah, like you
know, it's more like overtones, yeah.
Well, the, the, the racism stuff, maybe might be more Bioshock infinite, yeah, I'm sorry,
I'm sorry, I, I'm sorry, I thought that for is what, yeah, but it's even, even in that
there, there are a lot of, think of it like what would happen in the 50s if we miniaturized
nuclear power, seems to be the, the big thing, so we had like nuclear power in our homes
and stuff like that, and, and all the technology advances that come along with that.
So anyway, there's a nuclear war, and then somehow you survive it in this thing called
a vault, which is a fallout shelter, and you get out of it, and you have an emission,
you have one or multiple or hundreds of missions to accomplish, I won't ruin it for
you, but yeah, yeah, I mean, you gotta figure out what's going on.
You've been in a fallout shelter, there's been a war, a lot's changed, yeah.
And it's, it's part of a series, as you can probably imagine, since it's fallout four,
the series itself goes back over 15 years, I can't remember the name of the original
company that started it off, but it has great music, great aesthetic, I think the game
mechanics are really good, fantastic visuals, pretty sharp dialogue, and...
I thought the user interface was a little lacking in general user friendliness.
Tell me more, it was counterintuitive in many ways, so for example, all of the things
you had to create, all of the... when you have to generate power, when you get your first
say, base station, if you will, you have to then make power lines and produce those and
connect those to these things, and it wasn't as intuitive as I would have liked, I would
like some on screen instructions to walk me through that first one.
That was a little rough, and so are you saying that in the game, the first time you had
to build a power generator, as it were, or the first thing you create is like a diesel generator?
Well, it was very, I mean, it took a long time for me to even figure out that that's what I was
supposed to mean. You're saying you were confused by the idea that when you made the generator,
and you wanted to light a light bulb that you had to run a cord from the generator to the light bulb?
No, no, I'm just like in real life.
No, I'm saying that the menus and all of the buttons that I depress to get to the right
selection of what I wanted to build, is it... what is a power line? What category does that
fall under? I had to figure out that first, like it, you know, and all these things,
if you've... I've talked with others that also have the same complaint about the user interface
within Fallout 4. I believe user interfaces within any RPG can always be improved, hence the
massive amounts of mods you have for Skyrim, and I'm sure there are for Fallout 4 as well,
which could probably lessen these hurdles I had to climb, so to speak, to get there. But then,
after I got over those hurdles, then the game might kind of just stop playing it.
So you got as far as to turn on a light bulb, and that you reached the peak of your achievements
in Fallout 4. I mean, what else is there? I mean, you see the cartoon, right? The light bulb
comes on. That's it. I can understand what you're saying, you know, I mean...
No, I guess it's not that the light bulb coming on was the... it's like, oh, I won the game,
I'm done. It was that after figuring out all of that, and then I say, oh, okay, so now I have to keep
going into these abandoned places and teaming up with these people and doing this and that,
and then I'm going to expand my bases and things. I was just like, yeah, I see where this is going.
I've had fun getting here, but I'm good getting off.
I hear you. And I hear you too regarding the complexity of the interface, I think...
It seemed a little clunky. I think by the time I was hooking up my first light bulb,
I had probably put over 70 or 80 hours of game time. So it might have...
You made it. You made it. I had the controls down a little bit.
I might have had the upper hand in that regard.
And when I spent three hours thinking...
Yeah. And who's to say whether three hours or 90 hours is the right...
amount of time to spend for something is relatively early a game mechanic as turning on a light bulb,
but it's not... We're not game theorists, okay. We're just gamers here. We're not...
We're not Dr. Nash with from a beautiful mind, right? We're not here talking about game theory.
All right. You know, I'm a generation Xer and I announce labels.
You're not a generation Xer. I'm sorry to tell you.
I'm not even... I'm not sure I'm a generation Xer and I'm 10 years old.
You know that you're not supposed to talk about a man's age like that.
You're like whatever is right before millennial or...
Yeah. What generation X?
There's something... There's something...
There's something younger than generation Xer.
It's called generation.
Generation what? X.
What's... Hence the Pepsi commercial when I was growing up called Generation Next to play
on the generation X because I was growing up during that generation. Hence generation.
I think HBO made a documentary series about the generation...
Oh, my favorite video game I thought you should never ask.
I think it's... I think the generation... I think you're... I think you're in generation kill.
I think that's the generation. Oh, thanks.
Do you watch that HBO show?
I've seen enough to thank you for that.
So... Okay.
Um, I'll take a break.
Not really.
Okay.
Do you?
No.
So I'll take the bait.
So what's your favorite sandbox game?
Casper?
Oh, you're limiting my favorite games.
You don't... I mean, you don't have to pick...
Just because I picked Sambo's.
And I didn't even get to my honorable mentions.
But that's fine.
I mean, that's fine.
I could let you go on and on and on about...
Yeah, all the different possibilities of what you could do within a sandbox game.
I mean, all we got could be entertaining.
Well, all we got to was light bulbs.
No, I mean, you're going on with lizards.
Okay. You could be a cat.
So...
You could be a...
I wish I would be a cat.
You...
I could be a monkey if in fall for...
Well, you could be a...
If fall for, if you could be a cat,
I would not be sitting here with you at this...
In this beautiful beach mansion.
I would...
I would pass your manhood when you put on the cat video immediately after giving you...
I would be at home in Arlington, Virginia, in my way too hot part of me.
Arlington's a big place.
I would, uh, in my 95 degree apartment playing Fallout 4 is my cat character.
If I could do that.
So, what are you...
For your favorite game, where you're going to stick with the sandbox genre,
you're going to go elsewhere.
You know, you put me on the spot.
You can do whatever you want.
And I'm kind of...
No, this is a tough question.
It's tough to make decisions and stand by them.
I've played so many games.
Yeah.
And...
I didn't even really get into what I like Fallout 4.
You cut me off, but that's okay.
I forgive you.
I think we...
I kind of...
We're talking about Fallout 4 anymore.
That's what you say.
Okay, so what's your...
I think...
What's your favorite Fallout?
What's your favorite...
What's your favorite...
Which Fallout's your favorite?
I'm just...
Is that the one that's going to happen when you close your eyes tonight?
When we come back from break.
Okay.
The apocalypse that happens.
Oh, is that it?
The Alien Brothers podcast with Casper and Rediger.
Welcome back.
Welcome back.
Wow.
Those were some great offers.
I gotta say.
And with those promo codes,
I mean, you're saving a heck of a lot of money.
We're big time.
We uh...
These deals are first EP.
This is our first episode.
Our first episode, we don't even have a name.
We do?
Wait, what?
Yeah.
Breaking news.
First episode.
The Alien Brothers podcast.
Okay.
You heard it.
You heard it the same time I did.
The Alien Brothers.
The Alien Brothers.
And when you download our podcast with the promo code Alien Brothers,
you can listen to the podcast.
And you can get the extended releases
of the uncut, raw, unedited, unfiltered,
unmitigated,
uncircumcised, podcast,
which that
that almost wasn't was.
Yeah.
If you know what I mean,
that unedited one might have a 100% similarity to the edited one for this pilot episode.
That would completely be awesome.
Not for the people that paid the extra money to get behind the paper.
We are getting
we have not posted the first step.
We haven't even gone to post.
We haven't even gone to post.
We haven't, we haven't, we haven't, we haven't finished.
We haven't cut and wrapped the tracking phase of the first one and we're already
talking about, you know what Eleanor Roosevelt said.
She said, behind every great man, there's great woman, that's me.
So fuck you.
She also said,
great minds talk about ideas,
average minds talk about events.
And you know what she said, little minds talk about?
Penises?
Maybe, maybe also, but more, more famous slide, little little minds talk about people.
So I think, I think she was saying,
I was conflating events with people because usually people in events are where,
when is there a event without a person?
That's, that's a good point.
I think, I see that I was just talking about an idea
hence for I am brilliant.
Did I just solve a logic puzzle?
I think she might have been saying like the idea is that American society is following
a part and the event might be the election of Donald Trump,
President Donald Trump, and the person might be Donald Trump.
You had to drop the G-bomb on our first episode.
I think people tune in to Alien Brothers to get the kind of ideas,
the kind of perspectives, kind of fresh thoughts that you don't get from your MSAM
corporate control, and they do, and I agree they do tune in for that, and it all, it's all,
that's all on your shoulders.
Because, are you getting off at the, are you getting out of the bus?
It's the mystery machine.
No, wait, I got to work up, I got to work up right there.
I got to work up to the third tier in Miss Ms. Roosevelt's
Stratta of Evol thinking, by the way, I don't really know that it was Eleanor Roosevelt.
It could have been Betty Ford, it probably was Betty Ford, and she was probably drunk when she said.
Or it could, it also could, it could have been Mary Todd Lincoln, and she might have had the
or it could have been Matthew McConaughey, and, uh,
Day of the Confused?
I was going to say a Lincoln commercial.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What was, how did I put that?
Do you believe me?
I didn't know
medium thinking people talk about ideas oh I know I'll say it's all right I'm
all right oh I know is when I drive this Lincoln I like it like the weight
feels like the leather on my on my butt up through my asses
chaps I don't know but because I liked it yeah so all right all right all right so
we left on the apocalyptic note so it was your turn the fifth fallout which I
predicted so now on your turn the the fallout is that I came up with a favorite
video game is there a category no no category this one is picked
specifically because of its time okay and where I was and the all the
circumstances around it you are at the Empire State Building at two in the
morning April 3rd 1977 what happened it was there something that you said it
was because you said it was because of the time and where you were right but
this is your favorite so what's the game was that that backdrop to the
Nintendo game with the monsters we just throw the apartments you mean
Donkey Kong no no no the one with the the green monster and the there's the
ape and the lizard and you crawled up the buildings you mean Donkey Kong
and you ate the people now it's different I know you're talking about
land page yes yes okay that's exactly what was that Empire State Building not to
my knowledge no but what okay let's let's hear it quake very good game important
game in gaming history I believe we might have covered a little bit of the
backdrop of why quake was such an important game already we were talking about
gaming I believe the other day Duke Newcomme and about the Doom engine three
realms those sorts of things does that ring about yeah we talked about how quake had
the 3d rendered environments but they took it to the next level in terms of
having 3d modeled adversaries as opposed to bit maps that were just
presented to you in various front on side on back on the shadows the jumping now
not volumetric shadows mind you but like still the emulation of the first
emulation of shadows and you had but that see here here's where we let's let
let's back this up a little bit I want to let me lay the foundation for why this
was the my favorite game yeah that's why that's what I was that's what I was
making fun of with the time and place reference the first thing to know is
that when you started playing it for the first time you were getting a blow job
right okay that probably would have made better by other than that you just
knew you start playing and you just got your fingers out of a Chinese finger
I thought we agreed we were going to talk about that okay we'll just take it
out host no we're not all right well we'll see well the reason I like quake
was because I believe I got that game with a video card which was the 3d blaster
creative labs 3d blaster fair-type rendition fair-type 2,200 it was one of the
first 3d accelerators at the times when they were first coming out even in
arcade games like some of the 3d fighting games at the time polygons and the
amount of triangles per second or something was still the measure it was a
very simple measurement we're now we count crazy amounts of random anyway
we would need the myth-ghost musters guys to explain to us holographic
car cars yeah with all the there's tons of features that weren't there but
still it was the first game that was powered by something a massive amount of
the game was powered by not DCV so you're talking about visual quality
resolution frame rates that were ungodly just unseen you could even find
that kind of quality in an arcade at that time so the frame rates were like
12 frames a second now we're talking you know 50 60 and I remember this was in
the like 95 1995 1996 era this one is when the is when the first quake engine came
96 sounds alright I would have been does it ran on 90 windows 95 that's what I
would have been 12 12 or 13 now who's giving too much information
not me go on so so it came it you got the card the graphics card by this
company that was known principally for sound cards right which in hindsight it
makes you wonder what gave creative labs the right to frickin think they can
make a graphics card but I guess then again it it was early on it was the
wild west in terms of graphics cards things hadn't completely standardized on
ATI and right in fact that was the only other company in the game they have
released a very very underpowered graphics card it was based on power VR maybe
architecture actually power VR still around today powers some of the
phones we might be recording on right now but anyway that's it that's a
one other story but there are there's it was a very small field the thing that
it's not are you still recording that you just meshed your hands yes yes just
looking out for the thing thanks I appreciate it buddy system to personal don't
don't write don't go up faster than your air bubble unless you want to die
because baby don't want the bands you know I have any real friends right here
that's all I'm not playlist I made tonight we didn't I don't we never got
it now but someone just kept wanting to jump ahead but that someone was driving
so I appreciate it because that someone can drive right now because the man
doesn't have his drivers license any who so you had this kick-ass video
again this graphics card by a stone great it was great it was great it was
unmatched at the time there was simply nothing else on the market for a whopping
six months and then you had 3d effects come out with the due to a line of
graphics cards now what they did was they took it to the next level by
completely by having really cool boxes no that's what I remember now I was a
Mac dude I wasn't concerned about graphics cards because I bought my graphics
cards from Apple baby yeah because they were really at the forefront of gaming
so I would have you know on that topic briefly interlude marathon
integrated a number of the revolutionary features that Quake brought to PC 3d
gaming before Quake but that's not important I'll just leave that as it is
and marathon which is the precursor to Halo was a Mac only title for the event
stop there did I I should get to mention all the reasons why I don't agree
with you in marathon was made by bungee which made Halo I don't think I I
I peed on your fallout raid I want being I was just I was just informing your
argument so you could make it better listeners what you just heard was what we
call this is rationalization we call it that in addiction recovery to rationalization
oh I I was just going to call a show business but or it's really one in the
same or I mean who are we kidding who are we kidding if you're not there you're on
the way we what we had Prince we had Bowie we how many people have we lost but
that's a good old different topic to the direct don't want to go down that
road I want to get back to Quake yeah and I want to get back to great game why I
it was great was because I really fun game I would put in rage against the
machine CD when I played the game that's your first mistake no you know why I know
exactly why because I know who did the soundtrack the Quake yes not just
the sound effects to how I was not aware that's why when you had the nail gun
and you picked up the nail gun box it had the nine of shnails logo on it yeah I
do knows more about Quake than you do I don't know who didn't pick it as their favorite game
anyway so that's why I enjoyed it was because I had I had the system that was
better than an arcade it was it was better than anything for like six months
for about six months yeah so what happened to a ti what sorry what happened
labs or creative labs in general because they don't exist anymore they still
exist actually they still make sound cards but they focus more on
external USB-based sound cards especially once for people that go to work
for all those gamers that used to buy you know sound blasters and the all 32
which could be a whole another segment but they are still around and making sound
blasters cool what what what what what value are they bringing to the market that's
not handled by system on ship basic signal processing dedicated sound
acceleration there's still a lot of features and it's for example if you want
the new Dolby what is it called Atmos is the newest latest and greatest Dolby you
know if you want for gaming yeah not for like pro audio production yeah yeah
okay right if you want dedicated acceleration for gaming you would invest in a
dedicated software so does that mean that when you use their stuff especially
fast or they're like no no no but it's especially important for people who
play games online competitively when they're using a headset and then you're
talking about headsets then if they're streaming on top of that because that's
the big fat where you actually have two computers one for streaming the
thing that you're playing and that whole thing that sound card is kind of a
necessary component as I understand it in the online gaming if you're into
that whole world because you want your your voice when you're taunting people to
sound like a chipmunk because you're accelerating the voice you said
yeah yeah yeah that's why it's like it it's all so that we can all have
thrown the 13 year old kid voice yeah that's why creative blocks exists and
that's why you're so upset when you get fracked as they used to say fracked
and you're like oh that kid from Japan beat me again how to New Zealand the
kids New Zealand yeah I remember with the X the first Xbox and there was the
first Xbox live yes I did the first Xbox live and you had the ability to
bash your voice with different filters and one of them was the monster
filter and it all it just made every big no matter what you said it just came
out of it it was it was it was the worst thing or but so you okay quick so you're
saying in the shooter genre one of the most important yes in a category yeah
and one of and a favorite as well it's a it's a personal favorite but I
believe that it has a strong argument for moving games forward at least on the
PC platform PC about it so in your rings how many how many joysticks would you
give it how many joysticks do I have you give it all that you had I know I don't
know I mean what's the scale what's the you can do up to five joysticks I guess
it may be gaming keyboards instead of joysticks yeah because you know that W.A.S.D.
is important we're back in the day we used to just do ANZ and shift and control
in all space but those are the doomed days when we didn't have to jump so you think
you give it five five joysticks five gaming keyboards I mean for the at the time it
was a complete five out of five hundred percent I think I don't think you could
go if if we were to go and ask Google or Siri you know what were the ratings of the
game at that time everybody gave eight pluses I mean it was it was the best game at that
time so the next real engine to come out to challenge it after that was what on
real right yeah yeah that had a lot that I believe the Quake engine did not that's a good one I
don't know this specifically big game Quake 3D enemies professionally created music I remember
the dogs were especially terrified there's like mutant dogs yeah the mutant dogs just
of the way that they're built they're they're quite terrifying the way they were just sneak up on
you like so was that like were they aliens demons or alien demons it was the way there's doom
and Quake it was always a satanic monster hell on Mars yeah it was like it was on Mars how on Mars
right it that was the premise how it makes so much it does make sense I mean because where else
would help me what I heard there actually there's a alien civilization on one of the Saturn's moons
they found a civilization on one of Saturn's moons oh I mean they're fine one and report about it
but the X Canadian title said that one of the species one of our alien brothers out there
is this something that we're switching the topic to or should we save that for the next we should
definitely save that for the next I was just mentioning we don't want to talk about Mars we
definitely don't want to blow people away all at once you know or we could be too much I don't
know I'm not anyone anyone who stuck with us this long in our inaugural episode of insert title here
you mean the alien brothers the alien brothers yeah I'm a lot clearer when I said yeah that's
weird I'm a robot I am talking like a robot listen that nature out there you all catching this
it's the ocean the ocean's exploding it's the ocean of the ocean the ocean is they're firing artillery
at us you know they they do say that more exposure to nature that has to increase your
mood overall and that's due to negative ions water it's why being near
fountains and waterfalls will improve your mood because water hitting water releases negative
ions which has for a reason I don't understand but somebody might a positive effect on
mood funny huh and that's a negative that makes a positive in this case kind of like a negative
times the negative makes a positive indeed and kind of like that old sailors saying there's no
happier man than a drowning sailor all the negative all the negative ions yeah only if he's
drowning in the middle of a turbulent ocean I mean that's how to say I that's the
the extended version yeah okay so yeah I mean it's my turn yeah past the
uh quick it is good I think that's about the time I maybe wasn't playing shooters so much until
halo came around but um quick is a good game I kind of got into Star Wars shooters for a while like
dark forces and uh and uh
and uh uh uh that was a lot later uh battle front yeah but but there were earlier incarnations uh
where you would use the they had earlier Star Wars games where you just fly the spaceship and it
was like more cinematic yeah um like they had x fighter right x-way x-way tie fighter right they
all lose games the LucasArts games yeah yeah in the greatest LucasArts LucasArts of all the
mystery of monkey island yes uh I don't have a personal connection to that one but I understand
that's why we were spotted you could learn a lot from a man like guy three brush
he's the character you play and is it the mystery of monkey island or return to monkey island I think
I think it's return return might actually have been the sequel I well I the one I hear about it
I believe is the return that's the one that that is the cult classic if you know if if my understanding
is correct um but you know what the original return to monkey island was uh the island of dr.
moron no king calm no go back go back the original king calm the original monkey island that kind of
oh king's quest I was thinking more of easer if you're leisure soup Larry okay
so hey I understood what you meant correctly in terms of games of that mechanic where it's
essentially a 2D game that's drawn in multiple layers where you can walk behind things and it's
funny that you say leisure shoot Larry because we both have trouble seeing suit leisure shoot Larry
leisure shoot laser laser laser laser laser laser laser suit Larry
leisure suit Larry hilariously you must understand it's all divided Sierra the creator of king's quest
and it's all it's all it's all descended from the king's quest engine king's quest king's quest
two king's quest three space quest they do what seem a max two which one same a max yeah I think
they did same a max that are probably Lucas because Lucas took that whole thing improve the graphics
and improve the writing and just kind of ran with him yeah I'm not saying that so
grim fan dango was uh Lucas oh if i grim fan dango was Lucas then same a max was awesome yes
as well leisure leisure shoot yeah yeah they had a cat he they had they've milked to that thing
I had the first one on the amiga I had the first one on imagine how unfunnant was to play in black
and white on the mac okay it had that ridiculous age verification system in the beginning of it
mind him because you because I had an amiga amiga you were elite you were elite I was on
24 bit 24 bit graphics system when that was still a decade away mainstream at 16-bit audio on her
you're on like what a four bit maybe a speaker that went beep maybe had maybe had a speaker that
one beep yes yeah in fact it went beep it went boom when you turned it on I'll have you know that
the sound chip in my mac s e was capable of
I'm actually I'm full of shit I was I was about to say it could do 16 bit 44k but that's
not true because that's what CDs at the time 44.1 kilohertz now it could do 16 no now originally
could do 8 bit 8 bit 8 bit 22k is what it could do which all which is about as good as like the
original mp3s were that were like it really low bit rates I never even saw this like you remember
mp3 is originally had like variable bit rate to try to keep that that came I hope I came on later
anyway the original mp3 is that sound like utter shit the vbr vbr mp3s didn't come long
until after the worst mp3s that was doing new creation well kids we never promised that this was
that this was cosmos it's not a well-informed podcast it's well-informed enough
it's well-informed enough to know you get bonus points if you can if you get some name questions to
insert email here alien brothers you can get a bonus by naming the name of the the inventor of the
the algorithm that sits behind mp3s
oh it's not who I want to say it is it's franhofer yeah yeah yeah that that's great because
whenever you open the about and since because now this is instantly just become cosmos i'll also
point out the reason that they sample quote-unquote high fidelity audio at 44k is uh you know humans most
of us only can hear not me because my hearing's horrible but the typical human auditory range is like
40 hertz to 22 kilohertz so it's like why are you sampling it at 44 and the franhofer's theorem
is that if you sample and double the the rates that the audience can discern at then it's
effectively lossless there's no digitization i this is cosmos podcast i'm Neil deGrasse Tyson
and today's topic is the sound is the sound of black holes my favorite um
Atari 2600 game now that's not fair because you were you were not even a little baby
crawling around when the no i was so what was your i was a baby crawling around i actually i was
specifically a baby crawling around a two-year-old baby so what was your first counsel to
super deep Nintendo entertainment system no i saw in tary a tary 2600 i assume it was 26 all i
know is i got babysat when i was little at a friend of my mother's house and there was an older
child who will call berry uh the older child had a Atari and let me watch him play it and then
i think let me at least try to play it but i remember it had paperboy on it which was awesome
because i like paperboy when we would go to a diner when i was little and my mom would give me 25
cents to play paperboy and i was like two or three years old that game was hard man
but i like that actually i take that back paperboy may have not been on the Atari it wouldn't it
wouldn't have been on the 2600 it was it was on antenna yeah that game had way too much to
stuff going on and unless the Atari they could have been like the Atari 2600 version of it where the
you on the bike was just a square now and you were shooting smaller squares
over the doors but then again they just would have called it yards revenge in that case this
this is like memories of a two-year-old so all i really remember was that controller and like
the console and how like cool it was i didn't really i don't have a really good
regulation of the game going so so what was the first computer game Batman actually was baseball
i think Batman or baseball my game on a computer that was memorable oh actually no i'm sorry
not a console a computer computer like a whole dungeon and dragons which one
i don't know the name of the game off the top of my head but i can describe it as it was the
first dungeons and dragons game it was a side-scroller it wasn't part of the leader dungeon
dragons role-playing things the side-scroller you'd get seven characters and you basically would
start and you'd have to finish the whole game in one sitting you couldn't save or anything you got
like the seven or eight characters like tannis i can't even remember the characters there's like gold
something you get like the dwarf or whether you know all the typical series of the gold characters
so and then you was racist you couldn't pick what races you had no no you had you had a set
and so it was that the word of the ring is great right and then you had the set from the books
from the dungeon dragons dragonlands books in fact that was how i got my introduction to
the dragonlands series of books dragonland side that rings a bell now because those were based on
the dungeon dragons i got a game came with a this huge block it was like you know it was a little
kid you see that i was in third grade and it's like a book it's like four hundred pages you know
just like you know i'm reading that thing you know but when it's connected to the computer game
you're playing and you're all into that computer game you're like maybe i'll read a little bit
so you read and then you get before you know it you're absolved into a fantasy world
under a mountain dwarves and of course all sorts of stuff and and then that also improved my
vocabulary to a large degree uh because reading all of those books i think i read every dragonlands book
it was and you could use the the phrase bore bulge sword on a daily basis and correct
sent in context you could you could use the phrase you could use the phrase gelatinous cube
appropriately um mom this is over this is as overcooked as a gelatinous cube this needs to go
down the disposal mom not even billcaste would like this to that this is the part this is the segment
after this break we'll we'll transition over to relentless assaults on celebrities who can't defend
themselves because he said putting
and and for the record i believe i believe i'm sorry let me let me let me clarify that
i believe him when he says putty
since it's getting late we'll skip our last
no we won't it to you it'll appear that we take a break but to us it won't see that we're really
giving you inside inside into what's going on the inside inside as it goes to the outside
and saving you the inside track and we'll be right back the alien brothers podcast with
caster and reddiger yeah yeah baby all right what's about after two a.m a inaugural episode of
of can't hang with your host two aliens alien brothers alien brothers
podcast from deep space the alien how about how about the alien broad cast bro
brood cast brood cast
did you have you seen that the alien brood cast have you seen that movie
bronies oh are you familiar with this is not this is not this is not new i'm going to stop you
right there this is not news people no no i'm not going down this is not this is not up to date
information this is the stuff podcasts we're talking about five years ago so all we're doing
all i'm doing is shaming myself mate you want to you want to wrap it up with each of us
describing a movie or something we've seen recently and extolling its virtues since what could
we really say about Bill Cosby other than these are rapists i agree with that it hasn't wasn't
that established in a court of law wasn't it established wasn't it established by him settling
with his 40 x other accusers well it's established in the court of public opinion
and i think that's the main only court in America that matters really yeah oh well i mean
it still matters if even though the in the court of public opinion the Leonard Peltier should have
been released i know bomb had the chance but uh the court of popular opinion doesn't always win
as in many cases but uh yes he i i just like the court of popular opinion doesn't determine who
becomes our president yeah now nor does it matter he becomes our president sadly that's not
true i i don't even see the presidency or anything related to the presidency as news affecting
uh news watching public it does suck to live in a country that looks more ridiculous than it usually does
but you know we'll get over it i'm not we you're not getting over it now that kind of almost flies
in the face of what you were just saying in terms of it not making much of a difference
about the presidency about who is the president i can i can i can say that i don't think it makes a
difference who is the president but then i can at the same time say i'm not okay with that
and then i won't i don't like accept that i don't think that's that's an acceptable thing
a good topic for the the third installment would be where are we at as a society to toilet and
the most effective mechanisms for for population to troll uh divide and conquer macchiabelli and
uh should we go into uh the essay i uh essay i chemtrails and extraterrestrials and the base on
the other side of the moon and uh next time from jfk to nine eleven the rich man's trick
the illuminati oh yeah it's a big one and what's that family whose name i can never
Rothschild the Rothschilds yeah the Rothschilds more jp morgan um you've also got the bushes
uh from proscott bush down to current bushes uh it's it all goes back to royal blood even that uh
stupid guy who's stupid i that's disrespectful uh the weird guy who ended up in north korea
like as hostage for doing something with a flag or whatever that heck went on there i don't
mean Dennis robman no there was a a guy who was arrested in north korea and he had some medical
and the guy they've just killed or he'd something happened they just got him back and he's like a
brain brain he had a brain thing and they thought it was like botulism but then they're like wait
maybe it's not we don't really know and then then we should probably know we probably should
probably know this person's name because it's kind of important it it is but if only if only
we had an ipad that wasn't in use sitting right in front of us so we could look it up on it
i i believe there's only been one white person to be uh within the last few years to be arrested in
korea heard doing something with a flag this isn't the economist people possibly catching
this isn't the ontulism and then being returned to the u.s. in a uh quote unquote uh mental
state of uh conscious fatted fatted consciousness or something or it was something like that and then
he was dead and then they didn't do an autopsy on him to find out what had actually happened to
but anyway the point was he also had a royal blood that was connected to the bushes the
whole thing so you heard it here i had to hide for one don't know what i just heard but 36 chambers
Wu Tang Wu Tang it's the Illuminati 36 you know anything about Pythagoras you know what i'm
talking about we can go into Shakespeare's sonnets and i know that i know the pyramids i know that
a squared plus b squared equals c squared not with that kind of attitude it doesn't i know that
i know that i know that um that you're tired yeah and i worked hard today you're fading i got up
got up went to a interview with a mega corporation oversaw their fascists their operations
a fascist chemical gave it gave it my approval gave them my my DNA so that they have it on file
and they can frame you through the trump next time
on the other side it'll be an interesting twist in my life to be making 12 dollars in 25 cents
an hour i was thinking back to i can be able to manage to what i can be able to manage it i have no
fucking idea i'll i'll be able to manage it by getting another shot it that takes up the time
i'm not working at that job that's pretty much it but that's another fun topic but
i was i was going back through my revenue history i don't think i ever had a job paying 12-25
when i was like in high school so this is interesting this is this is this is part of the
what they say in the cult i mean um 12 step early sobriety where uh you know everything turns out
the way it's everything turns out the way it's supposed to but we'll save we'll save that for
other time as well i'll leave i'll leave with this let's see um what am i watching uh we talked
about Tim and Eric which is not new Tim and Eric awesome show great job Tim high-decker
Eric Wareheim comedic geniuses i'm glad you finally discovered these comedic geniuses it's been a
shame that you're so behind yeah well i mean i'm not i'm not on the i'm not on the cutting edge
there are like still on the honey badger team am i is that why i still listed on those emails
when the lottery tickets get purchased no that's because you give money to John it's been a long time
since i've done that i hope you're probably a good thing uh it's probably a good thing i don't think
giving money to John ever it's good i mean that came off wrong so we agreed that
netflix is the handmade's tales worth watching it's a uh a frightening uh i would say
it's not quite it's some of its are parable-ish but some of its are kind of just an exaggerated
historic modern unrolling historical fiction about what could happen if a
coup took place in modern successfulness state a modern fundamentalist Christian appears to be
what is kind of happening in that show and a coup happens and it's a return to fundamentalist
values except i don't recall specifically in american fundamentalism where
puritans forced women to be raped but then at least not white woman right good point
but it's uh a great show not just because of the rape but uh great performances very thought provoking
well as a bit moss hmm well as a bit moss yeah she's she's good also scientologist also
scientologist also i thought that added to the intrigue of the whole series because she is more
because she is a producer of that series and because the series is about a halt going back to
traditionalist values and she is practicing scientologist now i'm not one to judge anyone
why they're faith or spirituality or whatever you want to call it however i do find it
interesting
that she is a Scientologist and also produced this
series okay i just i think it's interesting i'm not saying that
i guess my for all i know my team level could be off the charts and that is the biggest problem
i'm just i'm i'm wondering what the what you perceive is the the association okay so
okay so here's here's my perception is because we so what do we what is what pop culture
what what do we think of pop culturally as since you're not a Scientologist right
uh i can either confirm nor deny that okay well i'm not so what i understand of it
is pop culture combined with having listened to the audiobook of going clear and then watching the
HBO series on so that's all i know so it's it's a uh made up religion like all made up like all
religions and um it's a tax exempt cult pyramid scheme uh well not to to find a cynical point to
it since since most religions in this country have have have breaks um right but
science and mythology uh infiltrated the irs in order to make that happen that they actually
had an old operation on this which you should know from going clear we'll save our expose
of Scientology which will go which will go into far more detailed and
going clear will and it won't so it's a religion that is practiced by many
Dan mischievous is going to be on the next episode by the way views
of of the alien brothers podcast
Dan mischievous i know the head of Scientology yeah he's going to be here next week
then i will make sure not to be here because the the mere idea of that guy frightens me much less the
ranting reality oh once the cocaine and the prostitutes set in
it's really not but why why would you ever want it to slow down
slow down didn't you say once once the coke in the in the process the hookers
slow show out that he's a that he's chillers that way you know i'm saying once once
let's start to indulge in his kind of lifestyle and uh everything he's a little bit more tolerable
it kind of breaches a homeostasis you know i mean that that's why i i'd neither confirm nor deny
being a Scientologist because did you say dermatologist Scientologist okay i might have said dermatologist
we'll have to fix it we're not fixing
you know your skin looks a little uh bad uh a little little chat um no bad um sorry Dan yeah um yeah
we're gonna need to put some some aloe on on that bad boy um no i just think uh Scientology
well yeah religions cult status but so but anyway public opinion would say that Scientology's
of a cult within itself so then to make a production that shows the subjecting of women and people
to certain roles um and sort of the acting as these roles um in a you know a post like real world
you know which is whoever they keep flashing back to when you have exactly that type of system
within Scientology as i understand it there are roles if you're like you know being punished and
you know like you have the role of the one to take the lashes right the role of scraping the barnacles
off the off the off the off the off the off the off the the sea out of the sea is the the the
the Poseidon adventure the the uh is the what are they called the rainy McDowell's dead the sea
core the sea the sea the sea the sea yeah look at freaks yeah the sea core because we go into
international waters before we rape our that's the that's the place to do it you know we do it in it
if you're going to do it international waters that make the sea core sea core we're getting right
in there one can i one can i see one can i be uh officer to fly the sea core jet yeah well as soon
as soon as you better show up next week when damn miscarriage is going to be here as soon as you
because scraping the barnacles off the other side of the sea shanty if you if you can if you can
if you can hang in if if you can hang in there for for next week and and you let the cocaine
and the prostitute settle in we can you get along with them and you won't be scraping barnacles my
friend you will be going down in the sea core below deck if you know what i'm saying getting that
prime prime sea core fill in the blank you got it so here so here's the so there's there's a fork
in the road which do you take do you go below deck or do you scrape barnacles okay well
a that's a very compelling question i'm going below deck i'm going i'm going below deck i'm just
let you know going below deck however i just for the record no illegal activities below deck it would
be consensual and the person would be a woman of eight of age of over 13 of legal age being
whatever state or mean as well wait wait wait wait we're in a mean this we're in international
water yeah no no i'm saying no i'm saying the legal age not taking advantage of the legal age of
a mermaid and for that matter of merman is 13 merman right what what you've been on some
interesting boat rides my friend and to be honest i don't know if i want to go out so on the
own one is okay so it's what you're saying i just want to go below deck is what you're saying is
that with consensual like 18 18 let's say 18 so to be safe is what you're saying yeah that it's
at a minimum ironic or at a maximum hypocritical that Elizabeth Moss being a Scientologist and
Scientology having the reputation for being caught like feeding off the people taking their
and order to break it down into into simple words being restrictive and not too interested in
civil rights and suppressing it and suppressive any kind of and to send or anyone that's been in
the organization and then trust levens talk about what happened within it and that those and that
those allegations that become quite widespread from credible sources especially in the last five
years right you have the woman that now has a show based on on these experiences i thought she
was debunking King of Queens going clear though i thought she was coming out you know you're talking
about Leah remedy yes i thought she was coming out in favor of Scientology and you got that wrong
sir okay well like i said she left like i said this isn't cosmos right no where this is just a
conversation to alien brothers trying to figure things out and you're figuring out with us yes it's
an adventure so do you want to come below deck or do you want to scrape barnacles and that's decision
just think about it just think about it on that note hold on
Leah remedy just want to clear this up we can't wait was she the hot one who uh was on
L.A. she was on King of Queens is she the one that's married to harry hamlin
so i all i know is she was on king of queens should should that not be enough what what thing of
queens yeah king of queens the doofus who's on all the Adam Sandler movies now uh Evan James
yeah mall cop yeah he was the primary it was a sitcom he was the primary guy and
Leah remedy was the his wife king of queens it was a big show i've never seen this okay well is that
the one with the only reason i was at the moment Raymond he might stop i know Raymond was
right and that was its own show Ray Romano that was its own show yeah no the only reason i know
about this show to be just to be clear was it a spin off of everybody loves me no i'd not
that to my knowledge i had happened to when i used to go to a gym and work out it would be on the
television did they have Charles the rock and dutton okay so this guy okay so on the show
she plays the king of queens is why if who's a Scientologist on the show she does not play
a Scientologist Leah remedy the actresses a Scientologist she was and she's now caching in on the
not being on the public above board anti-scientology and to say caching that's a little harsh
i don't know is she does she have a TV show or not she does and does it say all profits from this
TV show or being donated to help survivors of Scientology does it say that i don't know we will
have to look into that and update our listeners as to if she is investing in providing shelter
and services to victims of seed-faring vessels or cabins out in the woods that are fenced in
and people have to escape from did you know tell me more oh yeah there's a guy out in some remote
place in West Virginia and it was in this fence that there was a fence in the area
apparently and then there's like a shag and the guy was locked in and somehow i don't know he got
found or escaped from it or the police somehow and they're like wow this guy was being held locked
in there against his will essentially kidnapping and the Scientologist were quick to come in
dismantle the whole place and see so the the inferences that he had been kidnapped by
Scientologist and being kept jailed in a shack in the woods yes like very remote location
um and yes as soon as it was discovered the thing came in and just tore it down but apparently
this kind of thing happens more than was the guy's name Giovanni Rybise?
yeah thanks a
well that's our podcast for tonight thanks for tuning into the Alien Brothers the Alien Brothers
this is the pilot episode one Casper signing off this is uh Rutiger signing off
i love you Casper love you Rutiger i'm i'm glad uh i'm glad to be alive today
i mean i don't really mean that i mean you're always so uplifting and i think that's what keeps
keeps our listeners coming back but it's i mean you're you know you know it's like a self-help book
just in audio for that really is what listening i think i think it really is so much more
it's you know you gotta you you gotta you gotta lay it straight it's just you can't lay it straight
why right i mean why lie yeah you know yeah there are good days and there are bad days
but when we have a day when we can discuss the merits of the things we like and go to bed with a
clean conscience and think about look at the bright side of making twelve dollars and 25 cents an hour
and say hey you know hey i'm my my recovery call tells me that's exactly what i should be doing
you know it's you can just look at it like a a mental exercise you know it's like hey i just need
to unravel the puzzle for why that's okay and uh you know if nothing else it gives you something
to do i think that you might meet a lot of interesting people
at your new job i think you're right because personally for me as i've gone up in the uh
corporate ladder if you will um i meet less and less interesting people um
um i when i worked at you know in high school after high school with kitchens uh i worked at radio
shack for a bit when i worked you know in different different sorts of jobs you meet a lot of
interesting people and you have a lot of interesting experiences um based on those jobs you're not
in pain a lot uh you know so you're not taking work too seriously and those people are also
looking to have to fall on outside of work so you get to kind of enjoy that a little bit or
you at least get to hear a different perspective people are usually a little bit more open to
you know air because it's more of a temper you know it's like you know whatever it's not like
ooh i've got to see you know people are more more open i've found i i can hear you i mean you'll
be standing outside with them after your shift they're like here you want some of this smoke smoke
smoke some of this doobie yeah right right let's smoke this doobie and you're like yes there's
some good doobie and like yeah it's like yeah i mean i don't mind making it's like this job sucks
but at least we got this doobie and we got each other we got this doobie we got each other
and we should feel pretty good because i mean it's not like we have college degrees or anything
and what more should we expect from ourselves and and life and why can you have a college degree
and also work in our restaurant and and smoke a doobie and it's these are these are great days
did you now watch american beauty what's that did did you miss the the movie american beauty
you have no you i completely serious note you don't know how many times
the luster burnum syndrome has crossed my mind and this is this is complete jumping into
non facetiousness here we're we're going into bonus time and this is going to be put up
bonus to me youtube this is the yeah the kick out yeah i mean i've gotten
i won't say it's a large number but i have gotten a number of the cliche sorry there's no way we
can hire this view for this because you're too qualified and like the first two times i heard it
i'm like you know i honestly thought that that was like a fictionalized thing that people say
i guess we know why there's so much foliage out in the front man sorry do we matter up but
it sounds like there's sprinklers there's what sprinklers think that's the ocean dude
you get ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch ch those are sprinklers or maybe it's a giant c rally now
there's sprinklers down there i know they're in plan anyways sorry yeah i'm like okay i
I had no idea that there was such a thing
as being overqualified, but you know what,
it makes perfect sense, thanks.
So, but why, at that point, can't you just say,
yes, yes, I'm overqualified, but I'm also over awesome.
And, but I'm, I never, I never saw being
overqualified as an impediment.
I mean, if it's one thing, if you're overqualified
and you don't agree with the salary,
but if you're overqualified and it's like,
hey, I can't get anything better, I'd like this job,
please, what's the prop, what's the hold up
on the employer side?
I think I'd rather have somebody that's overqualified
than under.
I took, I'll leave it with this before signing off,
putting myself in the shoes of the time
and I've been in a hiring manager
or hiring influencer position.
I think it boils down to the thoughts of either A,
this person is clearly insane if they're going for this job.
Right, there's a reason that they're not aspiring.
Like, for example, they're a jailbird
who spent three months in every hab in St. Asylum
and is, you know, completely fucking unstable.
That would be insane.
That's crazy in here.
That's a great.
So I mean, I think that's like reasons like that
are probably what's going on.
But this is Rutiger and we're going to be back at you
here with MC Casper, the friendly ghost,
not the rapist from Larry Clark's kids,
which we can talk about.
Oh, geez.
Oh, yeah, that reference does go back.
Oh, okay.
Now it's all coming full circle.
It took this whole podcast for me to connect the whole.
I was like, why were you talking about me?
I forgot that there was a character called Captain.
And you just thought I brought up kids for no reason.
I don't know.
The light bulb went off.
I mean, it's understandable.
I mean, it's like, perhaps 90% of all the conversations
we have regarding anything I've heard about movies
or kids specifically, kids?
The movie kids.
No, we don't talk about movies.
I don't talk about movies.
Yeah, no.
All right.
I mean, but anything in life can be related.
No, I'm not even going to go there.
Six degrees of separation people of kids.
It's always out there.
That actor's dead bacon.
The guy who played Casper's dead by the way.
The veins?
The veins?
I don't know the actors, man.
I said of AIDS.
I don't know what he died of.
I think he killed himself.
Because he had AIDS?
I don't know.
AIDS is no laughing matter, though, folks.
So get tested.
Spoiler alert, if you haven't seen kids.
You're thinking of the other guy.
You're thinking of the guy that played Telly.
We never even went over when I might have seen this movie,
which may explain why.
Well, I have a very loose grasp on which characters.
Given when it came out.
You were probably toppling over the Atari 2600.
It was probably the same age.
Sorry.
I don't even think skateboards weren't there.
I think it was Atari 2600, then skateboard and Bart Simpson.
It was like all in an 18-month period
that those three all three things came together.
It was at the late 80s, 2600, Bart Simpson, New Wave,
and Slary Clark's kids, written by Harmony Koreans,
and Slint Tweez.
Slint?
Oh, the band Slint.
And they're album Tweez.
We need to talk about that, too.
All right.
Are we going to come up with a sign-off thing?
Or do we save that for next time?
I would just for tonight, I don't think
we need to have a standardized sign-off.
I'd like to make it more of a improvisation
on the moment, feeling the vibe at the time.
So, in this particular instance, I'd like to sign-off
by saying, good luck, and good night.
You've got to get yourself together.
You've got to start getting older.
But Amy and brothers are together with Saster and Brothers.
We can't get out of it.
So we says.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
