Episode: 2171
Title: HPR2171: hello world
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2171/hpr2171.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:14:08

---

This is HPR episode 2,171 entitled Hello World, it is posted by first-time post-pacement
and in about 4 minutes long.
The summary is, this first HPR podcast is to introduce myself and what I am about.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15, better web hosting that's
honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Well, Hello World, this is my first podcast for HPR and this is quite interesting.
I've started making podcasts over new social but I figured why not use that already existing
audience over there so this is basically an introduction podcast to tell you what I'm
about, what my show quote unquote is going to be about.
So let's introduce myself and I want to do this half and half so basically this show
is going to be split into two things.
The first one is programming.
I'm a programmer, I'm a free software programmer, I want to talk about programming and how
computers are awesome and how we can implement them to use in our daily lives.
So yeah, free software, every user thinks and computer related things.
Now, obviously it's not because I'm a programmer that I want to be like autistic and talk about
computers that nobody understands, I always like to make everyone understand what I'm saying
regardless of their programmers.
The other half is my biggest critique of the free software community.
The other half is AFK stuff, AFK, like things that you do when you're not programming, things
that you do when you're away from a computer, because you know, free software programming
and all that, it's all nice, it's all good.
But it's not enough, we need to know things other than computers, other than programming
in our lives as programmers, things like nutrition, like I see so many fat programmers all
there.
Money, so many of them just don't know how to make money, they don't know how to sell
themselves, they don't know how to sell their product, they don't know how to present themselves,
or money left living.
And I got like money, but I also like to like share knowledge about how to not use it,
just how to use the earth that provides for your own body, your own self, your own self
preservation.
I want to talk about energy, electricity, how do you generate it, how do you calculate
what you need so you can just, let's say, purchase something to just generate your own
stuff, but just pay for it.
I want to talk about veganism also, fitness, and when I say veganism and fitness, if you
combine the two together, it's just like something that can be extremely powerful to change
your life, to have more energy and just be fit, more attractive, feel better about yourself
and all that.
And I also want to talk about like four things that we control, like thoughts, emotion,
knowledge, fitness, and I added another one here, environment as well, because we controlled
our environment, we control who we want to talk to, we know that.
So in a sense, I'm happy that I can post a Lee podcast on HPR, I'm happy because I get
to really sit and really write down what I want to talk about.
So yeah, just a quick, just a quick conclusion here, I want to talk about programming, lots
of subject security, usability, yeah, just computers, whether works best with everyone
with computers, I need to have a subject, and the rest is AFK stuff, so both while you
are on the keyboard and when you're not on the keyboard, so that's pretty much it, and
I already have podcasts, like five of them, you can look them on my blog, but if you want
to reach me right now and keep on seeing what I'm doing, what I'm all about, you can go
to loadarriage.org slash spaceman, happy hacking.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicon computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binwave.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise status, today's show
is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
