Episode: 2914
Title: HPR2914: Describing how I listen to podcasts PART 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2914/hpr2914.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:10:52

---

This is HPR episode 2914 entitled describing how I listen to podcast part 4.
It is hosted by MrX and is about 9 minutes long and can in an explicit flag.
The summary is in this episode I cover my second ad on board for the Raspberry Pi.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Video News. My name is MrX and welcome to this podcast.
I'd like to start by thanking the people HPR for making this so as available to us all.
It's really invaluable service. They go to a great deal of effort to streamline the service
and make it as easy as possible to use. Just pick up a microphone, record something and send it in.
You must have something interesting to say I'm sure. It's really quite easy. If I can do it,
anyone can. Okay, this is part 4 of how I consume listen to podcast and I think
pulling it all together has been a bit haphazard and I was kind of
had a few notes and whatnot and I think some of the notes didn't make enough lot of sense.
So it was probably a bit rambly the previous episodes but hopefully you go up a bit of information
from it anyway but useful information or interesting anyway. This part 4 is going to describe
my second add-on board for the Raspberry Pi and how I use it to control the playback of
podcasts and such like. So here we go to start off with that scene. So my second Raspberry Pi
add-on board was that even more useful Pi face control and display board. It's an add-on board
that sits on top of the Raspberry Pi and connects via the Raspberry Pi's GPIO connectors.
It costs about 40 UK pounds. There are two versions available, version 1 and version 2.
Mine is the original version 1. Both the original version and version 2 have very
similar specifications. I think it was mainly redesigned to work with the newer version of
Raspberry Pi. The following information describes what the unit is all about. Most of it comes
from the company's own website. Specification. Pi face control and display is a plug-and-play
device that allows you to use and control your Raspberry Pi without a keyboard mouse and monitor.
It saves space and power by removing the need for a monitor while still providing a simple yet
capable interactive user interface. Making it ideal for applications such as
Internet Radio, Streaming Media, XPMC and many more. Pi face control and display is
supplied with easy-to-use software that enables the easy creation of custom bit-map icons,
getting started as quick and simple by using the single-line install script that pulls
in all the drivers software that is needed to run pre-designed examples.
Maybe I should say first of all that I just bought this thing. I've got no connection with it
and you know but I did find it very useful. So that's probably what they're getting but
it goes without saying. Just in case you're thinking of sponsoring this thing or anything.
The Pi face control and display features a 16 character by 2-line, half a numeric display,
which is able to display status information, messages and menus.
Flexible control of the Raspberry Pi is enhanced with an IR remote control or the onboard buttons.
So bullet point features, 16 character by 2-line, half a numeric display,
user-defined custom characters, LED display backlight, IR receiver for infrared remote control,
3 position navigation switch, 5 tactile switches for control and menu navigation,
Python libraries provided to quickly and easily build menus.
How to install it? With Raspin installed you can easily install Pi face control and display
software with AppGet. To use a Pi face you need to install the software that runs it.
Install the Pi face command and display this software with a following command.
It's just a usual thing.
It's a pretty standard stuff really.
This will ask you a couple of questions to proceed to enter Y.
Now reboot your Raspberry Pi with the pseudo reboot.
At the time there was an excellent case available, which I bought for my Pi face control and display
board, which enclosed both the Pi and this board. It was available in a range of colors.
The case was very neat and allows access to all the ports, switches and sensors.
The only minor complaint I had was that they used a tiny piece of plastic that sat directly
above the Pi's LEDs and pressed into small holes in the case, or at least that's what it was
supposed to do. The piece of plastic was to transfer the light from the LEDs up to the holes
in the case, so you could see what the Pi's LEDs were doing. I actually had to blue tack
the piece of plastic in place to hold as very fiddly but the plastic.
In blue tack it's like plaster scene and sticky stuff you can hold but it's paper up with it
just in case you've never come across blue tack. I'm sure there's other manufacturers make it just
as a side note. After some time the plastic fell inside the case and now rattles about.
If I squint through the holes I can still see the on board LEDs and I can see what the Pi's doing
and I can't be bothered taking the case to bits so it remains rattling about in the case.
This is a very minor criticism as the case designer's options were limited,
it's not clear to me if the case is still available as I couldn't find it with a quick google search.
The case is designed to lie flat with a screen pointing upwards and is only available when
viewed from above. This was not ideal for my purpose as I wanted to be able to see the screen
from across the room. I was luckily given a tablet stand made by Anker for my Nexus 7.
I ended up not using the stand much and it was just lying about not being used.
This turned out to be the perfect, this turned out to be perfect for holding the case at 45
degree angle, making it easy to see at a distance. I'll close some pictures when I finally get
around to posting this podcast so you can see what the case and stand both look like.
Okay, that's about it for this podcast, I'll keep it nice and short. I hope you enjoyed it.
Next time on the screen would have done with the Pi face control and display I done board
and how I use it to control the playback of my podcast. Remember as I said earlier,
if you have an interesting story or passion, why not share it with the rest of us?
There's a fast community view out there, give your bums and give us a show. I'm sure we'd find
it interesting. Finally, if you want to contact me, I can be contacted at MrX at hpr at googlemail.com.
That's MRX, AT, HPR, the at symbol googlemail.com. So until next time, thank you and goodbye.
Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen to me, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen
You will practice us show, you will practice us show, you will practice us show, you will practice us show you...
are contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECKAR Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise status.
Today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
