Episode: 2328
Title: HPR2328: Baofeng UV5R VHF/UHF Handset part 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2328/hpr2328.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:21:47

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com, get 15% discount on
all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web
hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio audience. My name is Mr X, as usual I'd like to start
by thanking the people at HBR for making this service available. If we'll contribute
to the show with more shows than we know to do with, the show is provided by the community
for the community. It's actually very easy. We've gone to a great deal of effort to streamline
the whole process and it's actually quite, quite easy. The hardest part I find is getting
down to writing the show notes, just to make a pick up microphone and hit the record
button. We should must have something interesting that we'd all love to hear. Okay, here
I'll attempt to cover the menu options of the Bo thing UV5R and HL Transever. I'll cover
some of the options in detail, the more obvious ones I'll just briefly cover. I'll highlight
any options I don't understand and can't get information on. The options I know little
about will likely be either Bo thing specific options or options that are not really relevant
to the radio amateur. If I remember, I'll try to include the radio announcements of the
menu selection.
Menu. DCS. Transmit. DCS. T-DCS. Menu 12. Sets of digital coded Scratch DCS code for
the transmitter. Refer to the manual for complete reference of DCS codes and for their corresponding
numeric value. Remember to input any leading zeros when using the numerical keypad to
set it to off enter code 0 0. Menu 13. Transmit. CT CSS or T-CT CSS. Available parameters
67.0 to 254.1 or off. Presumably that says that's hers. This says the continues toward
coded Scratch system CT CSS subtone for the transmitter. Refer to the manual for a complete reference
of CT CSS subtones. To enter a CT CSS tone on a numerical keypad, enter its frequency directly
rather than the numeric code. Remember to input any leading zeros when using the numerical
keypad to set it to off enter code 0 0 0. Menu. Voice prompt. Menu 14. Voice prompt. Available
parameters ENG, CHI and off. Presumably that's English Chinese and off. When enabled,
your radio will talk back to you, meaning audible confirmation when pressing keys and working
the menu system. Two languages are available. These being English and Chinese. Menu. ANI code.
Menu 15. ANI-ID. Automatic number ID for both in UV5R. This can only be said via computer
linked programming. Default value is 80808. It's transmitted when the alarm is triggered by pushing
the orange side button and menu 32 alarm mode is set to code. Menu 16. There's no prompt for
this one. Menu 16. DTMFST. DTMF tone of transmitter. Parameters available 1, 2, 3 and 0. Determines
when the DTMF side tone can be heard from the transceiver speaker. DTMF tones are the tones
you hear when you are asked to pick an option when an automated phone system. When a button on
your phone is pushed, this generates a specific DTMF code unique to the particular button.
I've never actually used DTMF tones with amateur radio but to believe it was fairly commonly used
in the United States. Further I believe though could be wrong that it was used to patch into the
phone network, making it possible to make local telephone calls through a local repeater.
UK regulation prohibits radio amateurs from connecting amateur radio equipment to the phone
network through radio links. The options for hearing DTMF side tones are as follows.
Option 1, which equals DTMFST, which means side tones are heard only from manually
KIPAD DTMF codes. 2, ANI dash ST, which means side tones are heard only from automated KIPAD DTMF
codes. 3, DT plus ANI, all DTMF side tones are heard and option 0 off, no DTMF tones are heard.
According to Wikipedia, dual tone motif frequency signaling DTMF is an in-band telecommunications
signaling system using the voice frequency band over telephone lines between telephone equipment
and other communications devices and switching centres. DTMF was first developed in bell systems
in the United States and became known under the trademark touch tone for use and push button
telephones supplied to telephone customers starting in 1963. DTMF is standardised by the ITU-T
regulations Q.23, which is also known in the UK as MF4.
The DTMF system uses a set of 8 audio frequencies transmitted in pairs to represent 16 signals
represented by the 10 digits, the letters A to D and the symbols hash and star. As the signals are
audible tones in the voice frequency range, they can be transmitted through electrical repeated
amplifiers and over radio and microwave links. AT&T describes the product as a method of push button
signaling from customer stations using the voice transmission path.
Menu 17, S dash code, there's no voice prompt for this either. Signal code, available parameters
1 to 15. Set your transceiver to one of 15 group ID codes. The actual ID codes are only
setable from a computer. You cannot set S codes well in channel slash memory mode.
Menu 18, S C dash R EV, the scanner resume method, time, carrier and search, T O C O and S E.
Set the behavior of the radio scanner upon finding active frequencies.
The radio detects a signal in all the scanning modes when a strong enough signal is present
to open the scratch circuit. In T O mode, the time operation mode the scanner stops when it detects a
signal and after a preset time-out time of an activity at resume scanning, C O mode, carrier operation.
In carrier operation mode, the scanner stops when it detects a signal. As soon as the signal goes
away, it resumes scanning. S E mode, search operation. In search operation mode, the scanner stops when
detects a signal and does not resume scanning. Menu 19, PTT-ID, no prompt for this either, no voice prompt.
When to set the PTT-ID, beginning, end or both. Set S 27 to PTT-ID, A and I, and or S code codes.
One equals beginning of transmit, two equals end of transmit, three equals both beginning and end
of transmit, and zero equals never transmit PTT-ID. You cannot set PTT-ID when in channel slash memory mode.
Menu 20, PLT-LT, no voice prompt for this either, signal code sending delay, parameters available
0 to 30, delay before sending a PTT-ID, values in milliseconds, default 5 milliseconds.
Menu 21, MDF-A, there's no prompt, voice prompt for that either, channel mode A display,
available parameters, name, slash frequency. Set the display mode for the upper display,
name, display is the given name on the upper display, this option is only applicable in channel mode,
the name given to any particular channel can only be set via computer. Frequency displays the
current frequency on the upper display. Menu 22, MDF-B, channel mode B display,
well that's the self evidence, the same as Menu 21, except for the lower display
sets either name or frequency mode and the display, displaying either a name that you set up
during programming or a frequency. Busy lockout, Menu 23, BCL-busy channel lockout,
available parameters off and on. If enabled, your radio will prevent you from transmitting
on active frequencies, a channel is deemed active if the square root is open, this will prevent
you accidentally transmitting while a signal is being received. What's never a good idea to
transmit while the person you are speaking to is transmitting, just like when you're having a
normal conversation it isn't a good idea to talk over someone, there is a situation where
this may not be suitable. For example, if working through a repeater and the station
either hand the conversation back to you, it is usual to listen for the beep from the repeater
indicating that a signal on the input frequency of the repeater has disappeared, probably because
this station has returned a conversation to you. The repeater will now be listening for your
reply on the input frequency while continue to transmit on the output frequency. In this situation,
your radio will be receiving a good strong signal from the repeater. If the Busy channel lockout
option is active, your radio will prevent you from transmitting until the repeater stops transmitting
when it's output frequency. The repeater may continue transmitting for a considerable time
depending upon how it's configured, so for this reason it may not be ideal to seek this option
when working through an amateur repeater. Menu 24, Auto-LK, automatic keypad lock. Locks after
eight seconds of inactivity, parameters available on, off. If enabled, keypad will automatically lock
after eight seconds of inactivity. This is useful to guard against accidental button activation.
I haven't found this necessary as the buttons have a nice positive feel to them and need a reasonable
force to activate. The keypad is unlocked by pressing and holding down the hash key for two seconds.
Okay, that's about it for this episode. Hopefully you haven't found it too boring. If you want to
contact me, I can be contacted at MrX at hpr at googlemail.com. That's MRX ATHPR theat symbol googlemail.com.
So until next time, thank you and goodbye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an hpr listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated. Today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
