Episode: 2468
Title: HPR2468: THE WELL
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2468/hpr2468.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:44:38

---

This in HPR episode 2468 entitled The Well, It's Enthosted by Vladimir R and in about 7 minutes long and carrying an exquisite flag.
The summary is, I record a video with audio on my father's well set up in the sticks.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello and welcome to another episode of HPR15.com.
This is a quick introduction to a short video that I am going over with my father with about his setup with a well which is quite complicated.
The general idea is the farther you dig the more complicated and expensive things get so I will let this video kind of explain itself.
And there is the audio of course along with it should be kind of interesting and enlightening.
The whole way down to where the rock is.
And then from then on it's just a hole.
It goes down to it's actually 750 feet.
And inside of that is the pipe that runs down with...
And down here at the bottom is the pump.
That's at 725 feet.
So that's 20 feet?
What does that say 60?
20 feet.
Oh it's only 20 feet down.
No, the dirt is only 20 feet until you get to rock.
From this point it's rock all the way down to 750 feet.
So here's what happens is because this remember this has you got 725 divided by 15.
Okay so 1, 2, 3, 4, 4, 15 is 60.
That's 25.
4, 1, do we get 15?
Yeah.
Which leaves 10.
And 6, 7, 8, that's 8 times 15.
42, 4 round.
We got it on the curve.
And 40, 8 times 10, that's 8 times 8, 6, and 15.
That's 90.
So let's close you now.
41.6.
So there are 41.6.
Let's call it, there are 42 pieces of 15 foot long.
But galvanized pipe.
Why is it?
It's this.
This is the pump.
No pump.
This actually still works.
This is the casing or is this something else?
The casing looks like that, but that's only 4 inch diameter pipe.
That's exactly 65.
That could squeeze into it.
Nope.
So the pipe screws into this.
That's an inch and a quarter inch.
An inch and a quarter galvanized pipe.
Peace.
Okay.
5 to 4 is 21.
2,100 pounds of just pipe.
Yeah.
Tacked that 80 pounds onto it.
Let's call it 2,200 pounds.
But this is sitting on the bottom of the ground, right?
No, it's not.
It is hanging.
It is hanging because you don't want it sitting in the dirt on the bottom.
It's rock on the bottom.
It's not sitting on the bottom.
It's just suspended above the bottom.
It's hanging up there.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Because this is rock.
There's continually little pieces of rock and stuff falling down from the sides.
To the bottom.
That's it.
Okay.
So this suspends here.
And it has wire.
This wire.
Yeah, you're right.
And this is, if you'll notice, I'm going to piece the wire in there.
Yeah.
1,2,3,4,4.
There's 4 pieces of wire here.
And that has to run the 725 feet plus how far is it from here to the well about 500 feet?
So it's over a thousand feet. It's like 1500 feet. What's the thing I'm plugged on the generator?
There's like something on plug
Like a little white plug. It's like a like a power supply plug for a hard drive or something like
Oh, it's 12 volts. You can run you can get it. You can put 12 volts to it. Okay, so it's not something you unplug
Yeah, no, no, you can you can plug
You can plug 12 volts into it and run 12 volts stuff off
Freezing yourself. So what what I think the problem is is that the weight
This this 2000 this ton of weight has somehow caused this to crack
Down here somewhere and good old Georgia red clay is seeping in through that crack and ended up down here
That's what I'm pumping out of it. And so this guy has one of those cameras. It's on a, you know, the 500 foot
Roll a wire that he can run down the well and look to see what's going on
I need him to go down here and inspect my
casing and see if it's cracked
So and if you do the if you if you look at but it's this part right here
That is vulnerable to freezing. Okay. Yeah, and that's why I have my light bulb in there, right?
To
To keep it
So what when this if this was if this fails the pump stays on all the time
Sprows water all over the place and then the pump eventually dies
Well, no, the only thing that turns the pump on is
is this
Is this pressure?
So yeah, but what will happen is if if you have to break in this then the pressure will drop down and yes
The pressure switch will turn the pump on and then we'll say, okay, I'm pumping but nothing's happening
But I don't care because that's all I know is pressure, right?
So that is a danger. There is really nothing. I don't have anything
Ideally, you would have some kind of a timer, right?
Pump comes on and normally it runs for
15 minutes at the most let's say
If for some reason the pump runs more than 15 minutes ding ding ding ding. I need to be concerned
I probably got a problem. Go see what the problem is. So yeah, that's something that's missing
You've been listening to HECKA Public Radio at HECKA Public Radio dot org
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
HECKA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
Unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments
Attribution share a light 3.0 license
