Episode: 2423
Title: HPR2423: Open Source Gaming #2: Oolite
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2423/hpr2423.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:44:26

---

This in HP are Episode 2,423 entitled Open Source Gaming Hush 2, 2ight, it is hosted by the
dude and in about 7 minutes long and can in an explicit flag.
The summary is Episode 2 in about the Space Travel Simulator 2ight, which in an open source
remake of Elite.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honest Host.com.
Okay, here is the dude here again and here is another episode of Open Source Gaming.
All right, last episode was on Meridian 59, which was it Open Source MMORPG.
How about an open source game that is a Space Simulator?
Now a lot of people in the gaming community probably heard of Elite Dangerous, and those
in like the old school computer days probably remember the Space Simulator Ealy, well this
one is Ealy, which was released in July 2004 and is completely open source and free.
So you don't need to have money to play in a Space Simulator, you also don't need an
emulator, you just download it to your computer whether it be a Mac because it does support
Mac OS, also supports Linux, also supports FreeBSD, and of course it runs Windows.
So the best thing is you don't really need that much of a graphics card to run the game.
So yeah, pretty much any computer could pretty much run this game that was made after
2004.
I'll just say that because I'm not sure about beforehand.
Forehand obviously, you know, the stuff from the 80s and 90s isn't going to run it.
Anyway, pretty much it runs like Elite, you know, you just trade and win fight things,
and gather up points to become quote unquote Elite Rating is pretty much the build-in
score.
There's different missions such as destroying pirate ships and collecting bounties.
You can also become a person that raids ships yourself.
There's really not much besides there's decent mods for the game.
You can get like different expansion packs because of course it's open source.
So you can get like more planets and other content.
I wish I really had a lot more to it, but it's not much to really say about the game without
really saying much about like what people already know about Elite Dangerous and the original
Elite.
I will say this though, it is a single player game.
I know all the Elite games are pretty much single player, I'm not sure about Elite Dangerous.
I'm not sure if that's multi player because I'm not totally familiar with that.
Hold on, let me do my research on that.
I probably should do research before I do this podcast, but oh well, winging it as usual.
Elite Dangerous.
Yeah.
Oh, it is advertised as multi player, but you know, that's going to be, but yeah, Elite Dangerous
multi player, Elite is in, but regardless, it's not like you're going to run into like
another player.
Space is big even if it was multi player, but you know, just like with other open source
games, you can add different things.
So if you really want to spend the time, you could probably make a multi player version
of Elite.
I think other things I should probably also say the licensing, Elite is under GNU, GPL,
version two for the source code, and it's Creative Commons's C-C-B-Y-N-C-S-A for the
other resources such as models, music, textures, you know, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So as usual, really check it out.
I played it a couple times.
I liked it, although the learning curve is pretty steep.
I will say that, I mean, it is a space simulator, and unless you played other space-similar
games, it's familiar with the games in the Elite series, you're definitely going to
have quite a learning curve.
But other than that, it's a fun game, and it also has gotten positive reviews.
And I'd say it's worth a try.
But anyway, yes, I know this is a short episode, but hopefully the next one will be bigger
when I will talk about another game that ends up being open source.
But anyway, until next time, I am the dude, so keep on listening to the next podcast
of Open Source Gaming, and keep listening to the rest of the podcasts on Hacker Public
Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under a Creative Commons Attribution
ShareLive 3.0 license.
