Episode: 2865
Title: HPR2865: The YouTube channels I really like
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2865/hpr2865.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:28:23

---

This is HPR episode 2008-165 entitled, The YouTube Channel I Really Like.
It is hosted by your own pattern and is about 14 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is just some random thoughts on some random YouTube channels.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Well, hi there. This is Jerome Batten again with another podcast.
And this time I thought let's talk about the YouTube channels that I really like.
I just some random thoughts on some random YouTube channels.
There are a lot of YouTube videos, a lot of YouTube channels and of course a lot of viewers.
So what makes me any special? Well, nothing.
So there's that. But nevertheless, let's just proceed and see where this is leading us.
So the first thing that I like to talk about is it's a sort of a comedy channel.
It's called The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.
And he is sort of a late night talk show host in New York.
He is clearly a liberal or a Democrat or both, but anyway, really not a conservative.
But I just I find him funny. So lots of laughs, at least on my part.
And whenever he publishes a show, it's one of the things that I
what I try to do to end the day, you know, end the day on a good note.
He doesn't publish it every day.
And that's that's a weird thing.
So he publishes outtakes of his show.
So without commercials. Okay, that's great. I mean, I hate commercials.
But if I then then become interested and I thought, okay, let's buy a subscription to view
the content. It's banned because I'm living in Europe and not in the US.
So, well, anyway, that's their loss, right?
And well, I'm not going to talk politics because I don't think that this is the place for that.
It's just, well, I like the show. By the way, all the shows and channels I mentioned are in
the show notes with the URLs. So if you got interested, just hop over to the show notes,
click on one of the URLs and enjoy. So the next one, the next channel I like to talk about is
the one called Curious Mark. And Curious Mark is a techie guy and he likes to work on restoring
old stuff. Now, that by itself is great. I mean, he has a whole story of
rejuvenating a teletype model 15 and model 20. That's back from 19, 15 to 19, 35.
That day, day and age. So long time ago. And, but, and this is rather special at the moment
because it's about, this year, it's 50 years ago that the world put the man on the moon
with the Apollo space program. Now, Curious Mark has somehow gotten his hand on an original Apollo
A.G.C. And A.G.C. is the Apollo guidance computer. And the Apollo guidance computer is,
it's a rather cool piece of technology even from 90. It's high tech in 1969, right? And before
you think, well, that can't be high tech, trust me, it can. How do you put someone on the moon?
How do you write software? How do you store a program reliably into a machine that go to travel
through space? There are no spare parts in space. You know, you can't just hop over and start
working on stuff. Anyway, and it's, at the moment, it's a series of, today I saw part 21. So,
at least 21 parts in this series, the Apollo A.G.C. And it's, it's fascinating. It absolutely is
fascinating there. The way the hardware in that time worked, how they sort of built hardware
room by using magnetic core memory, but then weaving small threads in a specific order through
the course in a way that it was a red-only memory module. As per one of the parts, they simulate
a flying to the moon guided by the A.G.C. And at some point, they want to start to land on the moon,
and for that, you need the input of accelerometer, accelerometer, so that the capsule, the rocket
part, whatever, knows that he is descending in a controlled way. And, well, they haven't had,
haven't got that hooked up yet, so that's where this exercise stops. But the way this works,
and the way you use verb and nouns to select a program and parameters into a system.
And you only have seven segment displays to see the output. It's, it's amazing. It really is.
Anyway, so that's a really nice thing to see. Fascinating. That's all I can say.
Well, and then there is the other channel. It's completely unrelated, except for one video that
sort of overlaps curious marks at Apollo A.G.C. series. And that's the Moshek's channel.
Now, the Moshek's channel, for those who have heard all my podcasts, because my first one was
about running your mainframe on Linux for fun and profit. And I already discussed the Moshek's
video channel there, because he puts in all, he puts online a lot of videos describing how old
mainframes work. And in much detail and very easy to follow. But now his recent video is where he
shows how you can find the original source code of the Apollo guidance computer, because the
software for the Apollo guidance computer is an open source. It is on GitHub.
And there's even a compiler that runs on Intel hardware that can compile the old stuff to
the original bytecode. And there is an emulator that runs that bytecode. And it's all in one
project. I'll put the link in the show notes to the link to the Git repository. Anyway, so Moshek's
describes how you clone this Git repository and compile the software and then run it.
And yeah, it's always one of the other things that I'm subscribed to to his channel, all three so far.
And yeah, it's fun. And it's something else, you know, then the standard, oh, this is Linux
stuff. And oh, this is Windows or this is I don't know. Anyway, mainframe is not really mainline
anymore, except for some small parts of the universe. But nevertheless, it's fun to listen to.
And the last one I would like to discuss is let's put this way. He's a hacker and this project
is certainly one that you would call worthy of the term hacking. But what did this guy do? Well,
he bought a missile base in the US. And one that was scrapped when there was this this sort of
I don't know what the English English term for this, but at some point in the 80s or the 90s,
the Russia and the US decided that they would cut down on all the nukes they had.
And they all had both sides had to demolish parts of the infrastructure of their defensive nuclear
infrastructure to show the other side that they were serious with it. And so he this guy he bought
a piece of land from the government from knowing that that piece of land beneath all the grass
would would contain a complete missile base, of course, without the rocket.
And he starts to dig, he starts to, well, he starts to locate where the probable entrances he
starts to dig. There used to be a sort of elevator shaft that was completely filled with debris
from the demolition of the topside building. It was a small topside building going to the elevator.
So he excavates that then there is a really big blast door weighing tons of, well, weighing tons
anyway. And he gets in and he films a lot of the whole adventure, I know, and at the end
of this all, I believe it's going to be his man cave or to sit and relax with drinking bodies.
I don't know, but the whole journey from having just a piece of land and somewhere beneath that
is a nuclear facility, defense facility is pretty amazing. And the fun thing is the channel,
the name of that channel is Death Where's Bunny Slippers. Yeah, it's Death Where's Bunny Slippers.
Now, why would it be called Death Where's Bunny Slippers? It seems pretty unrelated. You know,
Bunny Slippers, Death, what has that to do? Well, Death is clearly, of course, with the nuclear
rocket, but Bunny Slippers, really? Well, if you think about it, those facilities were
meant 24-7 for years. So you went to your work for, I don't know, an 8 or 12-hour shift. I don't know
how much, maybe 24-hour shift could also be, but if it's a 24-hour shift, at some point you're going
to sleep. And if you go to sleep, at some point during the night, you'll probably wake up and
wanted to go to the toilet. So you put on your slippers. Yeah, that's right. You're Bunny Slippers.
And you hop on over to the toilet, do your thing and get back to bed. But at the same time,
you're also responsible for a pretty hefty amount of death and destruction.
Talking about death and destruction, you know, you've probably heard of those launch
codes and that they're really secret. Well, I once was at, and I was looking, it was in a museum,
it was a nuclear submarine museum. And it had 12 tubes to launch nuclear missiles. And on every
tube there was this keypad where you could enter the launch code to really unlock the missile.
And there was a small note there saying that up until the mid-80s, so 85, 86, 90, 85, 96,
there was some concern that when it ever would come to the moment that they really had to
launch those missiles, you really don't want people to be unable to enter any launch code.
So, and it was 12 digits, but believe it or not, it was 12, 12 times zero. That's right, 12 times
zero would be enough to launch a nuclear missile. Back until the 85, and then somehow I think they
thought that they could wise up a little and do something else. Well, anyway, that's my short
note for today. If you have any comments, any questions, just hop over to the show notes,
give some comments, give some feedback, I love to read them, I really do. And till we meet again,
bye-bye.
How easy it really is. Nekka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicant computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binref.com. If you have
comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record
a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative
comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
