Episode: 2466
Title: HPR2466: ShareX is awesome
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2466/hpr2466.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:43:25

---

This in HPR episode 2,466 entitled Cherx Immortem, it is posted by Note and in about 7 minutes
long and currently in a clean flag, the summary is Cherx for all your screenshots needs and more.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
This is Zoak and today I want to talk about Cherx, a wonderful as they call it Screen Capture,
Final Sharing and Productivity Tool. It's quite fantastic little application.
What it does is screenshots and that is a gross simplification, but the main thing of
it is to take a screenshot. I have it running here, so this is going to be a little interesting,
but if I hit the print screen button, I can have it do whatever in this case, I have it
selecting a section of the screen, I get little cross hairs, I get a little zoom in
window and I can select it if I move over something, for example the Cherx window, it recognizes
the window when I actually highlight that by default, so I can just click and take just
that window. Once I've done that, I can then do more windows as well, I can take different
sections and add it into one big screen. I can also do different things, I can take a
rectangle region or ellipse or freehand, that's very useful if I want to get several different
areas that don't necessarily line up. I can draw rectangles, ellipses on there, I can
just freehand scribble, I can do lines or arrows, that's very helpful, so I can actually
have an arrow pointing towards where someone needs to click, here's the screenshot, here's
where you need to click, I can do text on there, of course, the standard, I can do little
speech bubbles with texting, if I wanted, I can also do steps, so one, two, three red circles
with numbers inside it, click here, then click here, that's very helpful as well, I can
also blur and pick slate, if I want to redact things, I can highlight in various colours
and that's the simplistic version of what you can do for a screenshot. However, Share
X actually does a ton more, I will actually be able to capture other things as well, so
if I click on capture here, the options are full screen, window and then it selects the
window, monitor, I have two monitors, I can pick which one, region, last region which is
helpful if you want a lot of screenshots that look the same, screen recording and screen
recording GIF, the screen recording I think does an MP4, the screen recording GIF actually
then makes it a GIF, you can have a little animated GIF, it's GIF not GIF, I'm not going
to go there, an animated GIF of whatever you want to do, which is really cool if you want
to click here, click here, click here, you can actually have that as a GIF, you can do scrolling
captures, web page captures, things like that, you can do text capture with OCR, which is
also very, very cool, so you can take the screenshot of something, pull the text out and
then it lets you copy that text. Once you've taken the picture, you can then actually do
other things, so you can upload them to, and if I pull the list up, so after I take the
picture or the screenshot, I have a bunch of options I can add, a watermark or an image
effect, I can open it in the editor, what I do is I copy it to the clipboard so I can
paste it, I can also then save the image to a file, there's a bunch of other things,
what you can also do is you can then say I want to upload it, and I can select where
I actually upload it to, all right, so I can upload the images to, image check, tiny
pic flicker, photobuff, photobuckets, Google photos, Twitter, Chevroleto, whatever that is,
Vigemy, vgy.me, or a custom image uploader, or I can upload the file to Dropbox FTP, one
drive, Google drive, push with like three used box, mega, Amazon S3, Azure storage, GIFI
like our own cloud, media fire, pushable at sendspace, GE.TT, Hosta, Jira, Lambda, video
bin, pump, ugo, drop file, C file, streamable, s-ul, whatever that is, Lithio, transfer
a dot, s-h, pic, shared folder, email, or custom file uploader, all right, you can then
do text uploaders to various places, pastebin, paste2slexy, pasty.org, paste.e, github, gist,
viewpaste, hastbin, one time secret, pasty, or a custom text uploader, I can then do
a URL shortener of that image, or movie file, or GIF, or whatever I want, to bitlygood.dl,
is good, vgid, tiny URL, but a bunch of them, adfly if you want. I can then share that
URL to email Twitter, Facebook, Google plus Reddit, Pinterest, Tumblr, LinkedIn,
and stumble upon Dlishers, VK, Pushbullet, Google image search, or a custom URL sharing
service, which I can set up. Right, so that is very, very complicated, but you can set
this all up, so when I do this, I want to take screenshots, I hit print screen, I want
it to take screenshot of whatever the current region is, and you can change these settings.
I then want, after I've captured it, I want to upload the image to a host, and then you
select where, I want to copy it to the clipboard, or I want to copy the URL to the clipboard,
or I want to automatically print the image, or edit it, or recognize text, or show file
and explore, there are so many different options you can do, and I use very little of it.
What I generally do is I will copy the image to a clipboard, I'll save the image to a file,
and then I will upload the image to box, and that's pretty good, because then I have a
local copy and off-site copy if I need it, and I've got my clipboard, so if I'm writing
documentation, I have multiple monitors, I have it set up, I will then open one monitor
with the document, the word document, or one note, or whatever the documentation I'm
doing. I generally use one note, I will then take the program I'm trying to take screenshots
of in the other window, and I will take pictures, drop them into the one note, and then move
on, and then from the one note, I can then say send email, and email the whole thing
when I'm done. It's very, very simple, and it makes it very, very easy to make documentation,
which means I'm now like the only guy at work that does documentation in my department,
the IT team, basically whenever they need documentation, I get the privilege of doing
it, so feel free to use this program, but be warned you may end up being the documentation
guy. It also amuses me that as an Englishman living in America, they're getting the
foreigner to write the documentation, but that's just it, I'm fairly good at doing spell
check and making sure I spell color without a U, and similar things like that, although
I do have someone check my documentation before I send it out, because sometimes I do
use English colloquialisms, which completely confuse Americans. Anyway, that is it Share
X, it is at get share X dot com, so that's golf, echo, tango, Sierra, hotel, alpha, Romeo,
echo x-ray dot com, that is it. I highly recommend you use Share X, you also have a portable
version, which is very useful. The only downside is they use the dot net framework, so they
are Windows only, there is not a Linux or Mac version unfortunately. So if anyone has
a full cross platform version of something like Share X, where I can do a bunch of things
very quickly, please let me know. As always, it's been so cute, find me on Twitter, on email,
and all these standard things.
You've been listening to EchoPublic Radio at EchoPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all
our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. EchoPublic
Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is
part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please
email the host directly, leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode
yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
