Episode: 2200
Title: HPR2200: Episode one of the future of free software series
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2200/hpr2200.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:39:54

---

This in HPR episode 2,200 entitled Episode 1 on the Future on Free Software Series.
It is hosted by Spaceman and in about 3 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is introduction to the series.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Well hello world, Monday December 26th and I am making this series, I think five podcasts
about free software, what about it, where is it going, what's my take on it, and this
is the first podcast representation so hello I am Spaceman.
I have been using new Linux for over nine years, four years as a everyday user, just using
an interface, running programs, doing my everyday life stuff, and five years as a programmer.
So basically I am creating this series and I really hope the free software foundation
is going to listen to it.
I do believe I have some inputs to give as a user and as an advanced user as a programmer.
The first thing I want to say here is that in 1983 when you are just almost started
writing free software, a new project, there was a software problem, there were actually
no holy free system out there.
And now today we have free software for virtually anything, with processor, Skype replacement
web browsers, you name it, whatever software you want, there's this free software for
it.
So the issue that I am going to be talking about through all of those podcasts is how do
we reach the user, and when I say user what I am going to be referring is the everyday
user, your mom, your dad, your grandparents, my grandfather uses new Linux, how do these
people can start using free software because this is the issue of today.
How do we get everyone to use it?
How do we get everyone to stop going on Windows and Apple and how do we get them to just
switch over to new Linux, don't get me wrong, free software is still need to be developed.
It's just normal, but that being said I really believe that the main focus of today should
be how can we attract more users and not develop more free software because we can function
now with free software, yeah this is only to be developed, yes, but you get my point.
So hopefully you listen to all of those, this is a series and they are going to be uploaded
to the hacker public radio website.
So make sure you check it up or whatever you can always find me on a load average.org
slash the basement one.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated, today's show
is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, free dot org license.
