Episode: 2037
Title: HPR2037: Alpha32's Pinhead Oats
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2037/hpr2037.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:34:03

---

This is HPR episode 2037 entitled Alpha 32's Bint & Notes.
It is hosted by Alpha 32 and is about 5 minutes long.
The summary is, I talk about how I cook steel cut oats and ask you all to please share your favorite recipes.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello hacker puppets radio, this is Alpha 32 coming to you from St. Louis, Missouri.
That's right, I've moved.
That's the reason I haven't submitted a show in a while.
Today I want to talk to you about oatmeal.
Yeah, we're going to make this series guys.
We're going to have an oatmeal series.
Anyway, I am doing...
Well, today I cooked steel cut oats, also known as pinhead oats to you folks across the pond.
Here in America that sounds like you're kind of insulting the oats though.
Calling them a pinhead oat.
I don't know what those poor little oats ever did to you Dave Morris, but...
Anyway, so I cooked oats.
I cooked them on a stovetop, unlike Mr. Colt down there in Louisiana.
The way I do it, get a little pot.
Boil two cups of water with a bit of sugar, not sugar, salt.
A bit of salt.
Bring it to a boil.
Turn your heat down to medium, stir in the oats.
When I stir in the oats, I added cinnamon, all spice and nutmeg.
A little bit of flavor, I don't want plain oats.
It wouldn't taste very good.
I'll put that in there, stir them up a bit.
I added two thirds of a cup.
I don't know what that is in grams.
Sorry guys, that's what Google's for.
Yeah, two thirds of a cup of oats.
Stir them in.
It says stir occasionally, but...
I keep stirring them, stirring, stirring, stirring, because I want them to absorb as much water as that can.
After that, after stirring in the oats, I added...
I'd guess maybe an eighth of a cup, maybe a quarter cup, I don't know, of sugar.
Sugar makes everything taste better, right?
At least for Americans.
I used a Demerara sugar, it's kind of halfway between regular sugar and brown sugar.
I guess it's got a little bit of molasses in it.
Cook that about five or six minutes, stirring, stirring, stirring.
I take it off the heat, and add...
I guess about a half cup of raisins.
I don't want to add them while the oats are cooking, because they'll puff up and become grapes again.
Don't that, and it was less than awesome.
So, there's that.
Anyway, it turned out awesome.
I'm eating it right now.
Mmmmm.
Hoody goodness.
So anyhow, yeah.
I think if we can keep this cooking series going, that would be pretty awesome.
I will definitely submit a show on making marinara, lasagna, anything like that.
Mr. Morris, I'd like to hear some Scottish food recipes.
I think that would be really interesting.
Maybe we can get folks to do some local things from wherever they're at.
That would be pretty neat to have on HPR.
So, I think that's about all I've got.
I'm going to keep eating my oatmeal, and I will talk to you guys again soon.
And don't forget to submit a show.
Seriously, I might do it now.
There are apps for your phone that you can record a show with.
So, if you don't want HPR to die, do it now.
Please.
Okay, guys.
Laters.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
