Episode: 2456
Title: HPR2456: HPR Community News for December 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2456/hpr2456.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:31:25

---

This is HBR episode 2456 entitled HBR Community News for December 2017, and is part of the series, HBR Community News.
It is posted by HBR volunteers, and is about 87 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows released, and comment posted in December 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today, it's HBR Community News for December 2017, and joining me as ever is Dave. How are you Dave?
Hi Ken, I'm fine yourself.
I am surviving here, very well, thank you very much.
So, HBR is an internet pod radio show, a podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
And for the time being, HBR from other podcasts is that we are a crowdsourced from the community,
fellow listeners like you. There's no restriction on how long the shows can be,
or on the topics that they cover, so long as they're not spam, and are of interest to hackers.
Every so often, we better do that, Dave, just to remind new people what we are, and to remind old people
that it's time to send in a show.
In hint? Exactly. This year has been full, Dave. It's all full up, and we're ready into the new year.
And as we've had no host this month, no new host this month, I thought it would be a good opportunity
for us to go through the list of people who have taken their time to contribute in the last year.
And starting alphabetically, let's list them in groups of four, Dave.
Almost as if we haven't rehearsed this before.
Yeah, yeah, we rehearsed the preparation, but we didn't rehearse the doing.
So, as there's many a slip going to happen, I'm sure, but anyway, do you want to go first?
Or shall I? I'll start, if you like. So, we have, in the first four, we have, and it's alphabetically
sorted. So, the first one begins with an at sign, at Ainabina. We have Ahuka, Andrew Conway,
and Bee Yeezy. Then we have Beezer, Bill, NFMZ1 Miller, Bitbox, and BJB. Bob, John Mann, Brian,
another Brian in Ohio, and Christopher M. Hobbs. Then we have Placke, Claudio Miranda, Clinton Roy,
and Cobra II. Next is Curtis Hattkins, who goes by C. Prompt with an up arrow at the end,
and some guy called Dave Morris, Dave Yates, and David Whitman.
We have a deep, deep, geek door, the, the, the, the, Omi, troops, and Epicanos.
And we have Eric, Duhammer, 5150, Frank Bell, and FTH.
We have Geddes, Hannah of Tara of Sol, the HPR volunteers, and the HPR audiobook club teams.
We have, excuse me, we have Aronix Sodium, Jezra, John Culp, Jay Rulo, JWP,
we're doing him Ken Fallon, Clatoon, and Nox.
Lane Deer, Lost in Bronx, Mirror Shades, name always throws me, sorry, Mirror Shades,
Matt King, USA, Murry, Mongol, Misdrex, and Enmei Bill. Only half the time, operator,
Kuvmo, and Reg A. Shane Shannon, Sigflub, Space Man, and Steve Seder, Swift 110, 110, I think,
the Taj Sara, the Alien Brothers Podcast, ABP, and the Dude.
The Love Bug, Tony News, aka TonyH1212, Various Hosts, and Venom, and last two, Windigo, and Zook.
And those are the people who made HPR possible this year. Thank you to each and everyone of those
people for helping out, because without them, there would not have been the 260 shows that
met up this year's podcast. Thank you to each and every one of you.
Absolutely, I applaud everybody here who contributes it.
It's awesome, it's not. Again, another year, we've gone through another year.
How can this thing, yes, why doesn't it sink and dissipate, and it keeps going in,
it's a wonderful thing. I really love it. Because people sent in shows, Dave,
that is the only reason it keeps going. People sent in shows, very, very simple.
There will always be some sucker here who will do the background stuff, but so long as we have
people sent in in shows, we'll be grand. Anyway, this show goes through the shows that were put on
last month, and there was a fine selection, a fine selection of shows starting with server basics
102 by Clatu. Is that a US thing? The 101 class 101 is the very first class, and you start with
the year 1 and then 0 and the first class? I do know, I have no idea. The 102 thing has occurred
lots of times, but I've never actually bothered to go and find out why. Why is it starting at 100?
Why is it going, yeah, what happened to the other ones? If there was only a professor out there
who worked in the, in fact, a director, perhaps, in a university institution that could answer
this burning question for us. Yes, yes, that's too much to ask for. I don't know who in
Earth were calling, but please, please pop up and tell us. Anyway, Clatu was talking about
SSH, changing SSH, port using SSH keys, etc, etc, etc, and 0XF10E said,
yum, what provides? Hi, Clatu. What's more bothersome about sudo yum, what provides,
asterix bin, SEM, N-A-G-E, or SE manage, then searching for all the SE Linux packages and
installing them to maybe get the right tools installed? That's a feature a really like about yum.
So no need to jump through hoops like installing apt file and updating its necessary database.
I must say I was quite impressed with yum and no, do you? Yeah, well, yes. I don't know if
apt has the same thing. I used to be an RPM user way back in the midst of time. So yeah, the what
provides stuff was back in the RPM command as well, wasn't it? I'm not sure if apt does the same.
There's a DPG, DPG minus L and stuff where you can poke around with the guts of the database bit.
Yeah, more complex. Yeah, I think probably the later versions of apt have improved enough.
Maybe aptitude does it? I don't know. There's so many layers on apt.
Now, they're pretty leopards apt itself, so it includes apt search, so you don't have to go apt
dash, guess apt cache search. So it's all wrapped up in the one program called apt now.
Okay, let's go. Okay, following day here to be our volunteers to talk about community use. We
mustn't have said anything mind-boggling because nobody commented. We didn't say enough for people
to disagree with or ask you exactly. Just trying to avoid these things. We're going to have to come up with some
sort of a fictitious sort of thing for people to get ruffled about. The next day we had
interviews zero played through part three and there were four comments on this. This is the
tattoo, lobat, entage, played through the RPG session. And the first comment was from
me where I say no, what the bananas? Not again with the let's stop here. This is HPR where there are no
limits to how long a show can be. Want to read the next one? I'm just wondering if I maybe need
to have a have a have a break of some sort at the end of it. But yeah, this guy Ken Valentine says
ignore him. Keep sending in loads of shows. And Juryla says, is there a link to the free guide you
mentioned? I was listening to the show when you talked about the free guide. I was expecting a link
to the North's where would I find it? It sounds useful. Clature replies free guide J. Rulo, I'm not sure
which free guide you were talking we were talking about, but there are two that come to mind.
Voucher for a free copy of Pathfinder rules, which I was offering as a special HPR promotion,
as of this writing I've given them all out so the giveaway is over. It's all is not lost however.
Number two is Pathfinder is published under the open gaming license so the rules are online for free.
The official reference document for Pathfinder is here and he gives a link. There's another one which
has a different interface and integrates more third party stuff here and he gives another link.
And I had to scroll down there which meant I had to take my finger off the
anyway. You don't want to know this. Note anyone reading this, if anyone reading this comment is
brand new to RBG though, I do highly recommend a beginner set for either D&D or Pathfinder because
the beginner sets make character creation really easy and they use a reduced set of rules and
just generally help you ease in. You should be able to find a beginner box at your local game store
or an online bookseller. It's worth it, I promise. Nice. Trust you, yeah, very cool.
So the next day we had GNU OC more about loops from Dave the Man Marces-Sus-Sus-Sus.
Yes and there were two comments one of which was mine. Shall I read it on then? One comment.
OC part eight. Is it strange that people pick up, is it strange for people pick up in a tutorial?
Tutorial. For instance, I'd never run a program using echo nnpipe.forward slash program.ac.
It's a very handy little construction. I even popped the divisor program into my bin and
named it is prime just so I can ask echo one nine one three pipe is prime and get the answer.
It's awful. It's awful. The little obstacle details that catch attention. Thanks.
So I said thanks Rowan, I'm glad you found something interesting in the episode.
This is really a unique thing. The echo command writes to STD out by default.
Which is standard out for those of you. Standard out? Yes.
We're not going down to a clinic. Yes. But it all reads and and all reads from
No, no, no, no, ST. Standard in OK, OK. Unless you tell it otherwise. So joining the two like that
in a pipeline is it's called to choose a useful result very simply. So thank you for all the time.
It's so when I worked on VMS, we had VMS as our main system and we had a few Unix boxes.
It's so frustrating to go to the command line on VMS where you did not have that sort of
pocket. You had to save stuff in a file and then pick it up from the file and so on.
They added it later because most have been nagged so much. But it's they're about the same age
VMS and Unix, but they never thought to do that sort of thing. And it's wonderful. Anyway.
The following day was Lost in Bronx with internal logic of stories. Talk about stories and story
consistency. Two of the examples you give was start tracks, warp drive and start jump concept.
I wasn't thrilled with this episode. Yes, yes. And he's really the guy to talk about this sort of
stuff. And yeah, it's it's obvious when he says, says what he said, but it's, you know, it's
not necessarily a thing you would think about too much. Unless you were considering the structure
of stories that you wanted to write something yourself, I guess. Yeah, now I've been struggling
with a few ideas for a science fiction story. One of them I threw out because Lost in Bronx
went and did his own show that was older times better than mine. Thank you very much.
But when you start thinking about it and you go and this internal consistency, I was thinking,
right, I want to write a story where they were very little changes. Like everything has to be
plausible. Everything has to be, you know, it has to be actual physics. So how do you how do you deal
with that? And I was thinking, okay, genetically splicing in that thing from the toads where you
can freeze people. So making long term space travel, actually a thing. But then how would that work
in your story? And then I was thinking, okay, well, if everybody goes to sleep for a hundred years
and then you exchange, you come awake for a day and then you go to sleep again for a hundred years
and then you wake for a day, then you have yesterday's messages coming in from ships that are going
different distances and stuff. So you could maybe do long term travel there. But then I just
get a headache and more and more awake instead of trying. The old purpose was to try and get me to
sleep. But I was thinking, God, how do you actually write out these stories? That would actually be
a good show just to get more of this type of thing. Long story short, love the show. Wish Lost
in Bronx could do more about that. Yeah, yeah, it's fascinating having an insight into these
sort of concepts. And as I said, he's somebody who's thought a lot about this. And you have to of
course maintain consistency in every story that you do or every series. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Even though you might want to embellish what you've thought of earlier when you come up with a
better idea, you've got to be quite careful about doing that or how you do it or not doing it to
all. Exactly, exactly. Okay, the following day, how to save bad beans or the French pass. And it was
by Cobra too. And I use a French pass all the time. And he makes a perfect cup of coffee.
And that was the day as well that we had the memorial sent in by Claudio M for Lord D who had
passed away a year before. It's hard to think it was just a year. It doesn't seem like like a whole
year has gone by. No, very very poignant. But the episode itself was quite good. I'll use a coffee
beans or I use a French press all the time. Well, I was listening to this. And I certainly,
I use French press a lot. I've got a, a letter one, which is metal and is, you know, sort of,
keeps, keeps coffee hot after. And I'm not sure I agree that free grand coffee is inherently poor,
which is what I thought he was saying. However, in the, since I listened to that, I was thinking
more about it. I've got my son's bow grinder here because he's away at the moment. And I thought,
oh, I've not bothered to, to open it or use it or anything. So I thought I'll give it a shot.
And having made coffee with free grand stuff and then did that and Cobra too is completely
right. It proved his point wonderfully, I thought. So the next day we had server basics 103 and
firewalls filled. Did we not have a, a comment or two on that one? Oh, we did too, natural fact,
sorry about that. Clatu says coffee, of course, it would be Clatu. Coffee, I have to admit,
most coffee I come across in New Zealand is so amazingly good that there's a part of me that
risks the really bad coffee of my youth. Dripping coffee that's been sitting on the burner for two
hours are the percolated coffee that's steeped in itself for 45 minutes. The bad petrol station
coffee that you have to dump all kinds of flavor into it to manage to drink it. The plunger
makes a big difference though. For the record, I do not use a plastic plunger. I found a nice
metal one and it's super durable and really good. Go off and make some good coffee.
Cobra too replies, coffee, I enjoy that cup. I myself am steeping some coffees. I write this on a
tiny screen, me a feet away from a real keyboard. I've found over the years that once you move to a
French press, it's really hard to go back to a drip coffee maker. I never had the stomach for
diner coffee. And in all fairness, I never appreciate your coffee until leaving the deep south of
the great white, not for the great white north. Mostly due to everything being bad coffee.
Everything being bad coffee in the seltzer in the north. South, I would imagine, he meant.
They're talking about the sort of thing where you put coffee in a filter and let water drip through
it and catch the bottle. And keep it hot on a plate forever. Because we had one of those at work.
And people would leave the coffee in there for an hour or two. By God, it was incredibly awful
at the time. It stood for a while. And then you don't really know the bottom thing and you just put
in more at the top. That's the key there. And it's baked on the bottom of the bar. And you just
throw more water in the back, squeeze out more. I can taste it now. Okay, server basics will not
go through. It's almost like we've been here before. Firewalls and failed to ban.
X1101 says, tattoo, I'm moving my comments to the comment thread so people can see respond as well.
Thank you for your continued effort in demystifying the mystic arts. I feel like this set will
be a good resource for onboarding people interested in going from I use Linux to I manage Linux servers.
Yeah, cool. It is quite right. Yes, the only thing about fail to ban is that it's a good idea.
And I think he also mentioned that it takes a half an hour or so to pick up on the fact that you're
being bombarded by which time half an hour has gone past. Yeah, yeah. We ran it at my work for a
little while, but I think we we moved on to more expensive and sophisticated things to do that type
of stuff. But ideal for the home enthusiast. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If you're running just your own
smelt over there, that's a great solution. So the sound of Woodbrook Quaker Study Center in the
spring. This will be in our SoundSkips series day if we ever had one. We should make one.
Oh, and we also have that request to make one for
a hooker meta suggestion as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, to do to do to do.
STL Sean says, peaceful. I have the habit of studying in the backroom of my house with the only
home of a fan and some music in the background. I enjoy putting this on loop while I was trying to
judge to a very book and learning very dry book and learning Linux. That reminds me I should do an
episode on more mature adults seeking their first degree. Maybe I don't know. I've never done anything
like recording audio recording, but I have never attended a college before last year either. Yeah,
that translates as a all-me-assure one. I'm looking forward to it. Yes, yes, yes, yes. Shall I
make the account now? It does sound like something that would be very, very interesting to listen to
though. I have to say it's so it's good to know how people deal with learning things because
anything is wonderful as you get older too. And you know, that would be fascinating. I'm sure
there'd be many of us that would be most interested in hearing his journey. Absolutely. Tony
Hughes replies to Sean saying, thanks for the comment. I'm glad you found it helpful in your studying.
Linux books can be quite dry and daunting with all the unfamiliar language when you're first
starting, but worth persevering with. You don't need any special skills to record a show,
just the digital audio recorder or PC, phone tablet, etc. And the ability to send that audio
file to HBR via the net. All the rest can be taken care of by the wonderful team of volunteers
who do such a great job with little recognition. As Ken and Dave often say, you know, what was a show
lol. Thank you Tony, thank you. Actually, you can also physically put it on the USB stick and
mail it to me if you want. And I would like to thank Kibnu, who sent me a postcard. Oh nice,
all the way from my, I know, absolutely awesome. And I'll be sending him back a postcard
as well from beautiful, wherever it is that I am. All you hackers out there, see if you can send me
a postcard. Ah, yes, there's a challenge. Not a really very difficult challenge to be told,
but yeah. Anyway, the following day we had PD menu. I have been using this tool for over a year
now and I really like it. I love this, Dave. And I was looking for this. I used to do loads of these
in, in bash. I had a Ken's multi-purpose super disk, which is right up there that you put into a
dust computer, put a dust menu up, and then you follow the things and technicians could basically
blow machines away at the weekend, load them from the network, pixie boot and all the rest before
there was stuff like that. So yeah, awesome. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's, it's on school, but good stuff,
I do believe. I'm sure many people would find it, find it useful. Because I was thinking,
right, on the Raspberry Pi display, you know, one of those three line jobs and have that menu come up
and the potentiometer with a clicky thing and you can scroll down, click, scroll down, click,
right there you've got the, the, the, the, the basis for a audio, you know, a player or something
or an internet radio station or something. Oh, I like that. I like that. Yeah. I think. Yeah.
And that's the thing about, that's the thing about working or you know, when you get interested
in Linux, you know, all these programs that are like from 20 years ago and people, oh, no, we've
moved on. Everybody's got a 4G graphic card with a, you know, Flaming Timotron on us. And then
all of a sudden, you know, you've got these small little screens and small PCs and you can dust off
one of these programs. And suddenly you've got an interface that's kind of cool. Yeah, yeah. I just
bought a very, very tiny screen to go with the Raspberry Pi. It's about the size of a pie zero.
And I don't know. I've not powered it up yet. Not soldered the headers on it yet, but it's,
it's on these persistent white ones. So it'd be great for that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
You've given me a good idea in that. It's definitely going to get done. That's a show, Dave.
I've ever heard of. Well, as you said, you need to give this a try. Grit yours always. I have a few,
for me, definitely, I have a few command line access and programs I've written using Yad that would
be great to group together into a menu. I'll check out PD menu for this. Thanks. Yeah. Excellent. Thank
you. Be easy. I should have answered in the comments, actually. But I completely forgot. But
yeah, well, good luck. I hope you've, hope you do get to use it and enjoy it. Then we had
interviews zero playthrough part four. And the following day after that, we had information
on the ground backward capitalism to which Frank says and you can do this. It's too quick for me,
Ken. I'm too slow. If you didn't say anything from saying silence, would it get this out?
Nobody would know the difference. No, I know, I know, I know. Let yourself down. I just don't
care. But anyway, yes, Frank says, well done. They're fascinating and timely discussion.
So yes, it was an interesting, interesting discussion. It was nice. I'm liking, I'm liking
discussions like this. You know, the whole point of HBO originally when they were
discussing it back in Radio Freak America days was exactly this around table discussing
political, you know, political topics. So true to our roots, this is what this is. I've been
thinking about the universal social income as a concept recently. They've been trying it out
here in the Netherlands as well. I'm interested to see how that would pan out and how human nature
would probably turn it into something different than people think. Is that a sort of guaranteed
income? Yeah, exactly. Regardless of who you are, your status, no means test. Everybody gets a
flattery income, you know, sufficient to put a roof over your head and food on the table.
So regardless of who you are, so then there's no applying for this benefit or that benefit or
the next benefit or whatever. And there's no danger that if you do go into work for additional
money, that your benefits will be taken away from you. So that you actually end up, you know,
bringing in less than you would have if you were claiming all the benefits. So the
state enhanced. Yeah, it is. I mean, it actually costs savings from governmental control because
there's less, there's less bureaucracy involved in it. And they also see that people tend to work
10% less, which is basically half a day a week less, but people still do go into work. But it
pays, you know, people, if you're artistic or whatever, that you can, you know, just take the time
off and you're not going to starve. You know, you're not going to have a great life on that,
on that sort of income, but you can continue to do whatever it is that you want to do.
Well, be an interesting one. You've got a springboard to move on to to better things as well,
haven't you? No, I'm indeed springboarders. Yeah. Wow. I never thought I'd see that happen.
You read Corey Doctrose down and out in the Magic Kingdom. No, no, I have not. He's sort of putting
forward the view that the future will consist of something like that, where the thing that people
work for is not money, but it's sort of queued us. Yes, woofies is called. But yeah, but that seems
to be a start of that road in some respect. I would hope so. However, looking back at the history,
which we should always do, you know, and surf them and all the rest. One, I'm not as happy
at predicting how well it could turn out. No, no, no, no. I need better minds in mind to understand
how it will ramify the future, but it's amazing. It's amazing thought. I think I've got a
move actually. I'm in the wrong country. Well, actually, I think it's been running in Finland for a while,
so there are pilots around the around the low, but the minute to see, but we'll see, see what happens.
Anyway, get server and get hooks. This one is very interesting to me, especially Dave,
because of our current approach to publishing shows. Yes, yes, yes. I better tell people what it
was about. When you check in stuff into a branch, you'll engage or a particular thing, you can have
that that act triggered something else happening, and that might be sending an email or running
such a test tools or something else. So simple act of checking something in can start a chain
reaction. And that could in fact be how we do quite a lot of things, Dave, how we could we could
actually drive a lot of the workflow on HPR by something as simple as that.
True, true, true. Yes, a sort of trigger based mechanism. Yes, it sounds good. Yeah, I knew about
this, but I've never really delved into it. I did one of those things several years ago that
somebody was mentioning earlier on this evening, but reading dry books and I were sat down trying
to read the the Git manual. Oh, somebody please do a few series and get pleased. It's so hard
to read. I cannot, my mind just cannot get it, but I have four commands that are run one after
the other, and that seems to work. But I have no idea what about branching and about whatever.
And Katu talks about it, but it's still not coming through. Anyway, the following day. Now
the full picture is hard to have to get. Yeah, a great show. I wanted to say that. I'd found it
very, very interesting indeed and motivated to dig deep in that. Okay, and Kevin O'Brien has
just emailed me now to say we still have the same or uploading, which is not good. Okay.
It is not good. Hi Kevin. Hi. Speak of the hacker and they will appear. Yes, I didn't think
about that. I didn't think that issue would be fixed by changing the permissions because I had
already uploaded before, but I'll have a look and see what it is. Is it related to the file size
or is it related to something else? Yeah, I didn't think the file size was unusual. I mean,
I upload flak, you know, I don't know what it is. I really don't. Anya, but I'll I have all day
tomorrow on the on the new year show to to play with it. Happy new year. You too. You gonna stick
around? Yeah. Okay, you know where the links are. I'll post them into the chat. Hold on one second.
There you go. And we're talking about HPR2447, server basics 104, open VPN. And I asked
Latu, does he have any show notes to go along with that? Because as it happens, I've
Guy on work has asked me about setting that up and that would be cool to have. Yes, yes.
Can I read Clive2's comment? He says these show notes. I do intend to write some notes on this topic.
I have no useful links. This episode exists because I can't find a how-to online that's any good.
They all presume the reader is familiar with how a certificate infrastructure works.
Well, they assume the reader knows all about the network, all about network routing and so forth.
So for now, the audio versions show notes are embedded in the org file.
Eventually, I'll write something up. Ideally, I'll write down the entire server series.
So that would be good. Is that the all the versions of the show notes are embedded in the org file?
Does that mean go listen to the show and write the show notes yourself?
It did feel like it feels a little bit like that. Tiny bit of circumlocution to say,
just listen. Fair enough, fair enough.
So following day 2448, useful bash functions, part three, this time it's personal.
And STL Sean says, fascinating. I worked with DOS. By the way, this is your show where you were
going, read value, check value, read and check value. Some interesting and there are, as always,
with all your shows to be told, Dave, you have excellent show notes with excellent examples to work
through. Thank you. So some of these are what actually use. Well, that was the goal, really.
These are things I've wrote for written for myself. And I just thought, well, share them and talk
about them. And maybe somebody will get some benefit from them, hopefully they will.
That set space minus X is quite useful, actually. Yes, you get cascade of
stuff when you do it, but it's really powerful and useful stuff. You know, you can also run that
on the command line, going bash space dash X and then the name where you're scripted,
and that are on the same as all. Yes, yes, there's all sorts of different ways of
setting those options. In fact, there's loads and loads of them and hesitating whether I want to dig deep
into them. Might do one day when I've run out of show ideas. Yes, exactly when that happy
day to rise. STL Sean says I've been working, I've worked with Dawson Windows for 25 years now.
The only unix experience was with a phone system and hotel system, which I administration through
a step by step procedure. I am now starting to learn a bit more command line Linux as I have
started playing with Raspberry Pi computer and switched a couple of laptops to X Ubuntu and
Mint XIV CE. As you probably guessed, a lot of the show went over my head, but it's fascinating
to hear the possibilities for automation that are available if you could, if I could learn more
bash commands. This series has been very helpful to me in developing a desire to learn more
and find things I could try to automate. Thank you very much for your hard work, Sean.
And I said thanks, Sean. I'm glad you found it interesting and hope this series proves to be
useful to you. I plan to do more shows on bash functions and bash features in general in the future.
Do you want to read some Kevin or do you want to play along or are you just sitting in for the
I'll do the next one? Mike Ray says bash shows. Keep it coming, Dave. I do a lot of bash
program mostly because I work on the assumption that if I need to type the same complex command line
more than twice, it should be a script to cut down on typing, try and remember stuff and to cut
out errors. I don't enjoy bash programming very much mostly because I hate not being able to do
use a normal language constructs like results equal function, open bracket arguments, close
closed brackets. So the more tips and ideas from somebody else who faces the same question,
the better. So I said thanks, Mike. Glad these are turning out to be useful. I've always been
fascinated by what I guess can be called command languages. I've worked with the George operating
system. I had a fairly basic one, VMS, which had DCL digital command language, which grew to be
fairly sophisticated during my time using it. However, in comparison, I find bash to be considerably
more sophisticated, still not a true language of features like those you describe, but nevertheless
worth working with, I think. It's this that motivates me to describe what can be done with bash,
and I'm using myself trying to do things that stretch my imagination a bit smiley face.
And I replied bash underscore rematch. How about some shows about the various built-in variables?
I have made use of bash underscore rematch dollar sign excluded because I assume it'll break
something, but I assumed that there are more that I have missed. My reply was a great suggestion.
On my list of future bash topics, I have regular expressions quite near the top. That episode
would include bash rematch, of course. I've mentioned one or two of the other bash variables in
passing such as funk name, FUNC name, but there are many more. Thanks for the feedback. By the way,
with our new command system, we strip HTML, but take measures to try and show all other
ASCII characters passed through unhindered. So dollar signs, and I included a dollar just to prove it,
shouldn't be a problem. Yes, it's actually, I know it was a pin in the buttocks to do, but I'm
quite happy with the way the bash are with the command system as it's turned out.
Yes, we sweat blood a little bit yet now together, but it seems to be pretty robust,
he says, touching wood. Looking good. Indeed. And I should actually put at the bottom of the
command section just before it says leave a comment, a repeat of the first previous and next button bar,
what do you think? That would be nice, because it would be easier to navigate once you'd scroll
through the comments. Yeah, exactly. Sure. Yeah. Org mode mobile solution. My search for taking
org org mode on the road, Brian and Ohio, a very, very nice little show pie top pocket chip,
never, never considered that. Raspberry pie tablet and an Android phone, and eventually settles on
an Android phone, I think. Yes, yes, he's an impressive guy. He goes to considerable length to
get where he wants to be. Yeah, he's documented it well too. Excellent show.
And I went and installed hackers keyboard as I was listening to that show. And it is much better.
Oh my god, you should not be using anything else on an Android phone. Then hackers keyboard,
it is brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. I think my son told me that. I don't think I've got it
on this particular phone, but yeah, yeah, I did try to use it for a while. It's going to be the
first thing I install on any phone. It's just so much better. Turn into landscape and you've got
tab and obaro and it's awesome. And even in portrait, it's reasonable. Yeah, yeah, good.
Well, we certainly learned a lot from Brian in Ohio's show here. I was tempted to get one of those
pocket chips, but yeah, bit expensive, but still. And then the pie top, all there seems,
yeah, tempted, tempted, you know. Yeah, yeah, I wanted to get one of those docking things that
look like a laptop, but you can actually put a Raspberry Pi, doggar Raspberry Pi into it,
putting some other portable device in it. I can't remember. They're so expensive on ebay now.
Yeah, yeah, 100 plus plus fans now because people want them. So yeah, exactly. And then,
so 104 and Viper 4 Android magics by operator. Yes, this was to improve audio by methods that
didn't fully understand. I didn't quite get this. So yeah, it's interesting, but it required
all sorts of route. And yeah, to be honest, I think my ears are gone so bad that I couldn't
couldn't be bothered with this. Yeah, I'm sure this is one of the, that only applies to me now,
but I'm sure there's somebody out there going, yes, thank you very much. But it was down to
that under windows, it played fine, but under Android, it was crippled. Was that the deal with this?
Because I followed one of the links into this, and there was a chap had a video about it,
and went through doing all the coding that they did to get this actually work.
I didn't dig that deeply. I did follow the links, but I didn't get that deep with it. So,
I'm not sure. Server Basics 105 was open VPN client. Also without show notes,
tattoo, the show notes were in the way file. Thanks very much for that. So,
some damn board, I'll write down the show notes for that. But I actually need to do this as well,
so yeah, and the reason I need to do it is because my, because of a bug, which I might do a show on,
but we will carry on possibly. So, the following day, we had a hydraulic heavy scale project,
episode 2452, a hydraulic Jack mod DIY travel trailer balance, never have thought of this as a
show that we would have, but I'm exceedingly glad that we did get it.
Yes, I was telling. Yes, it was most interesting, I thought. Go on, Kevin.
Well, my wife and I are looking in a few years to retire, and we were thinking of getting some kind
of a recreational vehicle trailer, what had you. As I dig into it, a lot of revolves around
understanding the weight,ribution, and things that David was talking about. It was very useful
for me. So, there were two comments on that episode. The first was from me, retriever dog training.
He met a comment in the show that the reason that they were doing this was that they were retriever
dog training, but quote, nobody on HPR would be interested in the show on retriever dog training,
to which I replied, seriously, I don't think anyone will be interested in retriever dog training.
I guess we'll not be doing a show about that. Seriously, words fail me. Also, happy birthday.
Estelle Sean said, with love dog training, the show on retriever training, that would be so
interesting. I think diversity is needed a bit. I mean, people are submitting great and wonderful
tech gaming and discussion shows, but some rather off the wall stuff would be wonderful,
dog wall, but yeah, off the wall. And he's absolutely great. I think that would be
wonderful to hear other insights into what people are doing. Has the popularity of
persons swimming down the river in France not inspired you to do the show? Come on, guys.
Seriously. Yeah, yeah. We need somewhere where it's easy to find a list of all the
weird and wonderful topics you had on HPR in the past. Is that the soundscape on? Yeah, I guess.
Yeah. I do remember that one. Oh, yeah, yeah. It clipped, he put a sands of clip into his
woolly hat and he was swimming wearing a wetsuit or something swimming down the river, wasn't it?
Yeah, absolutely. But we also, with the car hydraulic thing and all the show's junk
culpers done in this car, we could be doing a motor, you know, a vehicle thing. And did you
know that our own polkae is a autumn mechanic? So I expect a lot of shows from them, possibly
a year late, but yeah, well, I think it would be brilliant. Brilliant subject to have more of.
It's interesting to it's all about problem solving and stuff, isn't it? Absolutely. I was fascinated
by this one because I didn't realize how accessible a bottle jack would be. I thought it would
just be one sort of welded shut unit, not a thing that could be dismantled. And did you look at
the YouTube? Of course I did. It wasn't that interesting. Yeah, so I'd like to know how the LU tap
the thread in the bit that you've drilled into the the sort of cylinder area. I'd like to see
self-stunned screw in a screw. And then there's, have you ever seen a self-tap device at all?
Well, apart from self-tapping screws, no. Well, if you think of like it's a bolt, yeah. And on the
north-south east and west pole, you cut water out so that there's a little pieces. So there's
four pieces that have still got thread on it and four pieces that they're going to be made up.
I know what you mean. And then you you have a like a socket that you put over the top and you screw
that in. So there are various different sizes. So you you drill a hole maybe six millimeter or
something just to imperial as applied. So your six millimeter on the first one that you go in is
almost six millimeters, but it's just the bare hint of a thread. So you screw that in and it has
the bare hint of a thread going in. And that's enough to put in the next one, which has more
cutting tooth on the blade. And as you as you put that in, that cuts into the metal. And you
go increasingly from more aggressive ones to from smaller ones to more aggressive ones. And you need
to make sure to lubricate it as well with you can get you know aerosol cans of lubrication spray
or there's lubrication grease. And you've got to be careful of the swath that comes off as you cut
as well. Absolutely. And the worst part the most difficult part is keeping it straight for that
initial. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I've used a tap. We would talk how you use taps and
dies at school, but they were the sort of long tape at style, which I couldn't imagine how you could
use something like that in with very little clearance. So yeah. Yeah. Now I think you can even rent
tap sets from you know the big DIY short stores, at least you can't hear I think. Yeah.
Cool. So yes mechanical engineering back in the day, being a mechanical engineer myself.
I left the trade because I still want to maintain the number of digits I have on my hand.
There's many a line of words. It's very important to know your your limits and boundaries.
It's one thing to reboot a server accidentally. It's another thing to leave your digits
some behind you. Yes. Having cut the end of my finger nearly two years ago, three years ago,
kind of a sweet potato. Yeah. Any line of work could could potentially threaten them. And
little pinkies. The following day, various ways of deleting an on deleting on the command line
using GNU Readline. I didn't. GNU Readline seems to me like a very odd it's like a program,
but it's actually just the thing built into bash. Well, it's a it's a library that you can build
into all sorts of stuff. But it is definitely built into bash. I think I said in that the talk,
it's in if you're sitting there chatting to my SQL, then the thing you're talking through is
is a readline. So there's history, there's all of the case sequences work, etc.
So the alien brother podcast season one episode 02, strictly hacking Casper and Ruthher
discussed the Uber hacks and the Intel me known and unknown vulnerabilities.
And there was one comment on this from a trucker rich delivery and content.
The two of you come across as arrogant and I feel you tried to hijack the HBOR audience.
I'm not quote your listener, quote, I'm a regular HBOR listener and it's pretty apparent that
neither of you have listened for any length of time. If you had, then you would have heard
a hundred times or more. You would understand what is meant by open source and free software for
this community. And you would have realized that most hosts are just f asterix asterix smart
or smarter than you claim to be. That being said, I'd appreciate some of the topics that you have
touched upon. You could do a whole show on the valley a astrocade instead of just a brief
diversion. And the Hawaii background and info could be another show. Thanks. Anyway, thanks for
contributing. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sam. Well, I think I need to close Metallica here. You know,
who's the first time here? Yeah. And everybody goes boo. And he always goes well. They're here.
Something in the podcast that indicated that they had no idea who clad too well. Yeah. Well,
makes me think, okay, you don't listen to hacker. Well, not in the last month. I need because
tattoos been carrying the show for the last two months here. Yeah. But they weren't sure where
the clad too was a man or a woman. Okay. Yeah. But there is no requirement that the people who host
on the network listen to the network guys. Yeah. It's there is no requirement on that whatsoever.
And I wouldn't have phrased my comment the way trucker rich, but I was thinking of posting stuff
being said, Hey, you know, if you want to get to know clad too, just listen to Acro Public Radio
and you will. Yep. To be to give them to give them their due though, they did. I assume they recorded
this in chunks or something because they did come back later on and say that they checked him out
and had listened to or at least looked at his new world order website and stuff. So, you know,
they seem to be learning on the job. Yes, but you have to also remember that these guys could
very well be pulling your leg here that they have been listening to for the last 12 years and then
these personas that are doing the show, it would not, I wouldn't bother past either of them to be
to be pulling our legs guys. So, and the fact is they're here now. They're doing very interesting
shows and yeah, I enjoyed it. Yeah, I enjoyed it. Yeah, I enjoyed it too. It was long. I thought,
oh, no, I can't listen to all this, but I did and I enjoyed it. So, yeah, thanks guys.
The following day, we had interview zero, RPG part five, the finale to which I replied,
guys, you're wasting shows, you could have split this into
you. You can't please everyone. Yes, yes, the way it follows on from the previous comment about,
are you stopped too early? It was very good. Well done. Glad to says he forgot a link and
handed in the link through the comments. I just replied to him today because I thought he deserved
something if he didn't notice that. Put the link into the show with an editor's note
and did point out that he could send it in through Admin at Packup Audio. Yeah, we can do that
as all of you. Yeah, whichever, whichever. But it's, it's, it's, if he was thinking in the comments
would be, would get to people. I was just pointing out that on archive.org, we're not propagating
the comments. Yeah, that's why I did say that. Yeah, yeah. So that's, that's going to be an interesting
challenge. Yeah, and there's more because I'm now looking at when I search for Hacker Public Radio
on Bing and other search engines, archive.org is coming up first, but Hacker Public Radio is not
coming up first. There are other sites like Media Cloud or something that are taking the feed and
just publishing it. So I think a lot of people might be missing the sources, but yeah, fine. I mean,
it's the license allows that. I'm not, I'm not complaining about it, but I'm also saying like,
we're not getting, you might get the footfall on the, on the comments, which we may need to address
in the fullness of time. Indeed, indeed. Yeah, more, more to think about. And that day was it? Yes,
that was it. That was it for the year in actual fact. Quite a, quite a year. It was a good year.
We had your series on healthcare. What's, thank you for that. That was awesome. I just uploaded
one more in that suit. Well, try to whether we've made it as another question entirely. Well,
I have the links in the show notes to all of them. So I'll deal with that tomorrow, but I'm going to,
yeah, I'm going to do some investigation. Oh, yeah, let's go through the, um, you know,
the open issues. We've had a few open issues over the last month. Josh met, met a very valid point
that we should be using the GitLab more. Um, so instead of, uh, communicating Dave and I quite often
communicated on issues, just an email to ourselves or copy Josh in them, but, uh, tracking is on the
GitLab is actually proving quite, uh, useful, I think, for everything. Yes. Yeah, I agree, I agree.
I'm happy to use that as a vehicle. And it means you actually have things that are marked as open
and closed and stuff. So things and less likely to get forgotten. And also people can follow along.
So for example, uh, Kevin's one, I've opened a GitLab issue 35. You don't want a permission to
access upload form and Josh commented on that. So I'm going to do some more testing with the
uploading. So see, what is it about this show that is, um, yeah, but Josh was able to upload it.
It seems very strange. I'm trying to find some uniqueness in that, but, um, yeah,
then we have some sort of random interference type factor going on there. It seems like,
yeah, I don't know, because we've had that before with it seemed to be linked to the file size.
And then so, but with this show, I've uploaded a show without problems before, uh, you're smaller
and larger. And then I uploaded this and this thing go through. So I thought, okay, maybe it's
something to do with the file, but the change in permission on the upload form, that doesn't make
a lot of sense because we, I haven't changed it because I can see that in Git. And it's the same
amount of five patch. And it's always had that permissions and now it's not working, but it could be
permissions, perhaps to the upload folder. So I'm going to, uh, I'm going to take the two PHP files
and it basically just put in lots of comments and see exactly where it's breaking. But the problem is,
it's not consistently breaking for me. So, well, I can tell you that I'm not doing anything different
from what I was doing earlier in a year. Yeah, I didn't doubt it. So, yeah, I don't, I have no,
yeah, no, no, it's, it's just an interesting one. And it's another thing that we need to fix.
But, you know, again, if people are having problems uploading contact, I can
admin at hyperpublicradio.org and we will not see you, uh, see, we will get some of the way
you can always, uh, I know I have a copy of the, uh, the files from, uh, Kevin and I have the show
notes. So I can always just put them into the database and post them myself. So it's not a big deal,
but it is a big deal because I want to make sure that we do get shows uploaded. So, yeah, exactly,
don't let that stop you from continuing to record. No, no, I can always just, you know, record a show
working on them. Cool. Um, so other open issues, we have the internet archive media files are
missing their media tags, um, which we have now identified a workaround and that workaround is Dave.
Well, the situation is that we upload the, the WAV file to, um, the internet archive and we've
been doing this ever since we started doing this process and what happens once it gets there is
that the, their software turns it into what they call derived files. So it creates org and MP3
and flak and so forth. But in doing so, it does not propagate the tags. I wrote to them and said,
your thing's not propagating the tags and they said, no, we know that's, that's the way to see the
way they've designed it. Yes, they just said, no, it doesn't. So or something to that effect,
I put the put it into the log on the issue. So what we're going to do is we're going to create
all the necessary files ourselves, which means we're creating versions specifically for archive.org
because they've got the, the acknowledgement of archive.org in the audio and we're going to post
those ourselves. We did a little test to prove that that would work and it did. So that will mean
that they will all have the tags. So I've got the software ready to do it. So we just need to get
our workflow to, yeah. And I modified it. I've modified the workflow. So that it also produces,
yeah, the MP3 org and speaks and I'm also throwing all puts into the mix as well. So we can have
an opus file. Cool. Cool. Then there is the issue of perhaps going back through some or all
the stuff uploaded and doing the same with them. Yeah. And also was discussing with you,
should we also put up the original files also the unedited file in whatever format that happens
to be. Yeah. Yeah. Don't see why not. Because then that would actually be very handy for us because
if we go to another platform, we can just take down the original file and we will have it there
for ever in a day and it will be by definition the best version of the file that we had because
that's the one we derived everything from. Yes. Yes. Yes. Well, absolutely. If they allow us,
we should do it. We should do that if we're allowed to. I don't know that we would be stopped,
but maybe they have limits that they don't make public. I don't know, but we shall find them
like everything else. Push the boundaries. And I would just like to say here and now that it is
absolutely awesome to click on a link to the internet archive page and see how nicely
everything is laid out, Dave, largely to you, everything is consistent, everything looks great,
embedded images, links to full show notes, it's brilliant what you managed to do over there.
You really deserve a pat on the back for that brilliant work. Thank you very much. Thank you very
much. It's been something I've wanted to get working ever since I started doing this project,
but it's only within the past few months that I've actually managed to get the software to do
because it involves horrible things like reading through the notes to find it if they're
referred to any other notes and then finding them and uploading them and stuff like that. So
yeah exactly. It's good. And we will be needing to go through the workflow more, Dave,
because of this, but also because if we're going to move to a flat file structure on the website.
Okay, here is another thing in order to reduce the bandwidth we've moved to archive.org, but we also
want to reduce the over-emphasis on PHP and mySQL because every call to the page involves
hitting the database. So there's really no need for that and we can get benefit a lot from
caching. So we can't really do a lot of front-end caching now as a result of every page while we
could, but it would be just simpler to have a database in the background that we populate and
whenever something changes, it would trigger a change of a static page on the website. It makes
everything a lot easier and those pages could be cached into git or sent out via rsync so that
a lot of the community members could have their own entire copy of the HPR website so that if the
project ever goes away or whatever we have all the media and all the databases and everything that
we need just a simple git pull away from us. And in order to do that, I'm thinking you've been
working on the pull-scress database and then we have that as the main one and then when you check
that in, that triggers blah, blah, blah, blah, which updates the main database on the HPR website
and then we move to a lot of static files. So long story even longer is a request to people out there
if they have, if people have recommendations for systems that do this and I know we've had
chosen past of different Python based and Ruby based ways of doing this type of thing, I would love
to hear a show about it and not just a fanboy girl version of it but here's my actual experiences,
here's the things you need to look out for, it's expensive, it's cheap, it's processingly expensive,
it's complicated, it's too simple, it's that sort of stuff just to give us an idea of what direction
we should go. Obviously before we pick a direction this will be discussed on the mailing list but
just know how if people have thoughts about this to record some shows and send them in and talk to us
about that. Yeah, I was thinking this sounds like it could be a show, the start of series.
Absolutely, everything can be a series. So I will start reencoding the shows going back
to episode one actually Dave, how are you doing day older shows that you don't have the source files
for? Well, we agreed when we started to move into that territory that the process would grab
the MP3 and would send that to archive.org and then let it derive from that. I think we agreed
that that was the best we could do given that we only had the MP3, not the original. Exactly,
that's all we had, yeah. Yeah, so that's what it's doing at the moment. That's going to be more
of an issue though obviously we could derive the other ones ourselves with the tags if we wish.
Yeah, I'm going to all new shows come and through. We'll have the shows, we'll have the derived
content. So I'll probably start with the ones that have been posted in the last 10 days,
our last 10, 20 days that are in the queue active now and get those transported and sent to you.
So you'll need to push them in and then I'll just start by pulling down the files.
Any web files that there are there and then if there's not a web file on archive.org,
I'll just take the MP3 file from the HBR site and chug through each of them.
Yes, yes. Well, one thought was that since I have this workflow for doing the
the internet archive stuff, really, it's possible that one could pull the MP3 and then do the
transcoding of everything as part of that workflow. So let me just talk about how, because that
would be something that you or I could run as we were uploading stuff, older stuff to the archive.
So I'll get that. And there's also, no, it's going to say we've been through more or less all
of the any other business stuff, but there was the hosting and donations issue that we were going
to talk about. Yeah, but you haven't finished. Had you finished? No, because I was thinking,
something I've been thinking about as well as increasing the distribution. So there's hello
stiller. Yep. Yeah, there's a there are other platforms that we could send to like soundcloud,
allows you to put so many days so we could post up to there and then the ones would drop off.
And we could also one thing that I've been wanting to do has been post videos to YouTube and
Facebook and I think Twitter we're doing videos now as well, you know, those other places because
there's a large audience over there that would be would be into that. So when I was rewriting
the workflow, I was looking at some options for how would you make our essentially boring audio
into an interesting show that would have a visual element towards it. And one of the options
that I had was we would start with a flash banner that Richard Queerin did for us, you know,
the HPR logo with a splash of color. And then we would have a, you know, the text-to-speech
intro thing would do would also be just translated onto a burnt in slide, you know, the show and what
it's about in the summary. The icon of the picture of the host that's doing it that sort of thing.
And then some stuff about HPR, the intro. And then for the show itself, I was thinking of just a
static HPR logo with an oscilloscope and in the oscilloscope was the frequency distribution
of the person talking in the show. And then leave space at the bottom for the turn annotations on
so that Google can do its text-to-speech thing. And then we get the transcripts of the show,
which, you know, we could get people to go back and help out with. The other option I was thinking
of was, so that actually works quite well, that's fine, but it's quite a lot of encoding involved
in it, but okay, fine. The other option was I have a frame buffer thing where I can take a print
off of the website and then scroll down the web, scroll down the website during the show
at the same speed of the show. So I'm not sure about that either, but you are contextually aware
of the content, aren't you? In the show notes. But then I was thinking after spending hours
actually doing that and having FFM peg pan from the top right down to the bottom, then it struck me,
well, YouTube has the YouTube and Facebook both have the facility to put it in the show notes.
So what's the point in having the show notes burnt into the images even? Yes, yes, yes.
Okay, okay. Well, obviously, no, you know more about this than I do.
Well, actually, if anyone has any ideas about ways to do this, to, you know, if you've got
an audio file, what should we put as playing on the video file? Is it just enough to have the
HDR logo there? Or should we try and put the show notes up in some form or another? That's
essentially it. And on YouTube, which I'm most familiar, do know of their logo on the image,
but YouTube let you post a show notes under. Yeah, exactly. So while it's cool and all to have
an oscilloscope with the frequency distribution, is it just a waste of time when, you know, a one
image video will be just a lot easier. Anyway, if people have comments, that would be awesome.
Let me see. Are we finished with the open issues? GitLab not sending email? I don't know if that's
still sorted. I don't believe there are any, any problems. I'm certainly getting an email from
GitLab every time there's an issue change. When you create an account, though, or you get an email,
I tried that. It didn't seem to work. I thought it was a universal issue of GitLab not sending
mail, but maybe there are still some corner issues there. And I'm safely redirecting episodes
to archive.org. We had an issue reported by Hammer on. And about iTunes not working.
Now I've checked. I've contacted him or her again. And I asked a colleague to check in iTunes
on the Mac. And that place find it redirects. And it plays the archive.org thing. And I checked
in a virtual Windows virtual image. And iTunes also worked as well redirected without issue.
So I'm trying to see in both cases, this was new additions to the feed. So I'm just trying to
get confirmation from him as to or her what, what sort of OS or version of iTunes or what feed,
maybe they're using an older feed or something. So just trying to get more information, basically.
All right. If anybody listening has iTunes or has an old PC with iTunes on it and that has
subscribed, can you turn it back on and see if there's any issues with feed? Would appreciate that.
That'd be cool. And then the last one was how best to make donations to HPR. So the
suggestions was PayPal address, Patreon, a hidden product link, which he put up donations plug-in.
And this for Josh, who's given us a fairly extensive amount of bandwidth and stuff.
So the last one I asked him to do was Libra Pay as well, which is since the Patreon thing has
become a quite interesting option. It's all Libra software and works on the it's I've actually gone
through. I've emailed the guys to see if there's anybody available for an interview, but they
haven't got back to me, but that's kind of obvious at this time of year. So Patreon, they realize
they made a huge mistake and have reversed course. Yes, but as Tattoo says in the press release,
they only put a pause in it. They didn't reverse course. They just didn't go forward. There's no
there's no guarantee that they will. Whereas with this Libra Pay thing, at least this all the
software is open. And if they go away, well, we can take this offer and continue.
But now, yeah, I wanted to mention it because I was one of a number of people that went and
canceled all of my Patreoners did that. Yeah, as did I. And I have put them back because my
understanding is that many of the creators on support, that's how they get there. So I assumed
to Libra Pay, the creator would have to go and set up. Yeah, as well. So what I've done is
I've canceled and I think I'll do, as you said, reopen again, but I'm going to, I've also asked
the content people that I support asked them to set up an account in Libra Pay. I mean,
you set up an account and you can have your money there and you can just check it out and you
get hit with fees. How often you, how often it takes out. So no harm to have the backup.
No, no. But if Josh sets that up, I may go over to you. I did make a one off donation
few days back. Happy to, which Libra. He, he allows a, he set up a secure as an analyst host.com
forward, such cart, the PHP question mark, GID equals 17. And that brings up a page where you can
donate $10 one time or $10 on a monthly basis, $20 one time, $20 monthly.
Or $5 one time or $5 monthly. So yeah, we need to do that as well. It'll be just handy to
support his hosting calls of HPR and you're supporting the other Ben Red projects as well.
Excellent idea. Yeah. And then there's there are other fees associated with HPR as well. So
like domain registration and paying for the mobile server and stuff. So we'd like to thank
the person who allows us to do that. That's stankpaysforthe.com. My wife graciously allows me to pay
for the other ones and the mobile server. So there you go. I'm looking at her here now.
Well, as you should. So switch to E.A module taglib no longer support. So I think we're
up to date on the issues, anything else that we had in any other business.
There was the issue of we're now using archive.org to a much larger extent since we're redirecting
all our audio that way or our feeds that way. So and they're currently having a funding drive
where if you if you contribute, they have a generous supporter as they put it who will
match donations three to one. So if you give them $5, it becomes 20. So cool. Yeah, I'll do that now.
If anybody would be I put it in the put the links in the any other business part of the show notes
for this show. Cool. So great. And I'll mention that tomorrow on the HPR 24 hour 26 hour show,
the extravaganza that is my excuse to be out in the backroom,
pottering around the whole day. Oops, my wife's here and has just seen this. I love you too, dear.
Okay, I'll also be doing family time. Yes, yes, dear. I'll be asking Kevin. I just did an archive
donation while we were online here. Excellent. Yes. Yes, good. Wonderful.
Good. So the only other way do you want to go to now then can we should do the comments that we
missed? Oh, we should have done the comments first, Dave. Well, we don't have to stick the same order.
So I thought you were being you know, if you're being inventive and and and spotted this.
Spontaneous. Yeah. Well, so we go to one discovered Dave's show from last year.
Yes, yes indeed. That's right. Actually, yes, last, last November.
Yes. So I'll start, shall I? Yep. Show two and six three, which is me doing one of the York
series Ron Stralecki, who we've heard from as well elsewhere said about that episode.
I'd love the episode and the series. I think that in your hello world example that demonstrates
the FS built in variable. That's the field separator. The character you should not be a comma,
but rather something distinct like a pipe or some other character that does not have a different
context in language. I understand that typically FS will be switched to a comma if anything.
But as the print statement uses a comma for different function, it can be confusing.
And he gives the instance of the example I used and how to do it might be a good idea to alter it.
So I might as well do my comment. Yeah, sorry. Now I was launched. So I said thanks for the comment.
And when I wrote this example, it never occurred to me that completely confusing.
Now you pointed out, yes, it is. I think I was keen to show that the minus F on the
command line is the variable F as in the script. I mean, just shown an example of
minus F with quotes around it, just continued a comma with quotes around it, just continue to use it.
I was also keen to make it clear that the comma in the print statement is where
or puts the contents of OFS, put field separator. So I guess I lost sight of the example
in my enthusiasm, smiley face. I will consider modifying these notes in the light of your suggestion.
So do you want to do his reply? Yep. He says, I think if you put that as your suggestion and notes
that inside a print statement, or interprets a comma as OFS, then that will be perfect.
When learning any language, context variation is a consistent bugaboo. Wait, why does a semicolon
mean one thing here and something entirely, something else entirely there? So doing it deliberately
and then pointing it out is definitely beneficial and point out the internal workings of the
language. Yeah, got a very good point. Yeah, yeah, it's good. That's very constructive feedback.
Haven't changed it yet, but I will, and we'll do that when I get a second. Yeah, but do you
reference it in the show though? Because then if you make reference to it in the show and the
show notes don't reflect us, then that could be a problem. I'll need to check that, but
I could always put it in as an addendum to say this might be confusing. So this is what it means
just to enlarge on it a little bit. I put something on that. Yep. Do you want to do the next one?
So this was up 284. It's going to work part 5 by BZ. And we had ZZ or ZZ, perhaps,
saying, please do something about your sound quality. It's just painful to listen to
constant pops, clicks, squeaks, and booms, etc. And I replied with a lecture. Hi ZZ, I had a
listen to this show again and the context came through loud and clear. Sure, there are some
artifacts in this show, but if you listen to other shows from BZ, you'll see that is not
typical for his setup. We all have a bad audio day, but I would prefer to get the audio
for to get shows that are imperfect over not getting perfect shows. Our golden rule is
any audio is better than no audio. Thanks for listening. Thanks for taking the time to comment,
but we are always interested in hearing from our listeners. Perhaps you should do a show and tell
us about your tech history and any other story like as long as it is of interest to hackers.
So the old guy I did have a listen to the show on, but we have a golden rule here, as you know.
Yes, he'd had a problem using a particular microphone in the end,
realized it was quite so bad when it came through. As you say, so the next one was a comment on
another of the shows I was involved with, 2297 more magnitude in favourites, which I did with
Andrew Conway McNallow and RTSN added a comment, good stuff. Just wanted to say thanks for this.
I really enjoyed the episode and some of the music. I find it kind of hard to find new music,
so this is pretty great. So I pointed Andrew to this and he was pretty tough, so we got a comment
so it's such a several months after the event. Yeah, but it's that's the thing about HPR and
we touched last year, but it is so different doing this HPR compared to what I do in my
age of that everything is, you know, modern and it's going to be fast and we need to turn through
stuff. Here you need to be prepared for your stuff being available 12 years after the fact.
You know, it's we're still getting comments, you know, from 12 years ago and you go,
yeah, cool, turn off. It's the old archive problem. It's a slow,
that's just what we are. A slow net, but yeah, I'm very pleased that it still exists.
Yes, it's cool. And all comments, all comments cheer up your day. It's always great to get feedback.
And my bill says it's live. Well, it's been a long time, but I thought I'd just pop in here to
give you a little closure. The motherboard sat in the shelf here for months and I realized it
probably would I would never probably use it. This is the one where he took a motherboard and he
got from his friend, he fixed all the caps and then was missing something and then left it and
then I was ended the show and we never found out. And at the time, at the time, Moses,
John Colp says he wanted to know what would happen, I think.
Anyway, carrying on, so I brought the motherboard and CPU over to the lug and give it to a
body rusty one. Today, I got this message from him. It's a lot. Excellent. And John Colp says,
do you want to read that one? Yes, so the last bit of that was there you go, the cat repair
work. John can stop staying up nights wondering and John Colp replied in some year, who thanks Bill,
I still have trouble sleeping, but at least it's not because of that motherboard smiley face.
Nice. And on the last episode I commented to my bill, I'm all set, as in I got a I got the PCB
for doing his thingy. And unfortunately, there are three surface mounted components on it.
And my gosh, are they small? But that said, since I posted this, I found a video of somebody
doing a big cloud type build on one of these. And the only thing that I needed was some really
thin solder, which I managed to find. So tomorrow, I am planning on doing this.
Oh, good luck. Good luck. Live on the 24 hour show, which you will have heard by
videos. It'll be YouTube. That'll be wonderful. I also have a surface mount component device
sitting here that I've been slightly reluctant to to set the soldering on to.
We can do it together, Dave. I'll nip over your end. This is small. Yeah, this board, I think,
cost me around my wife, thankfully, is listening to some music. She just taken over her headphones.
To do this, I decided that I get a new soldering iron because the soldering iron I had was
crap. So that was 25 euros. And then I was thinking, I can't even see some of these things. So I bought
three different magnifying glasses. I got them from my birthday. So this is turning out to be the
most expensive component tester ever. I'm still connected. You'll use them more. You'll use them more.
Yeah. Well, that soldering iron is such a joy to use. Oh my god. Which one have you got?
You know, the one that we got commented, yeah. Oh, very good. Yeah. It's beautiful. It's
an expensive one. And it's also fast. Yeah. You just put on the solder. It touches it and it
boom, instantaneously. Oh, really, the last soldering iron I had was absolutely terrible. This
temperature control one, it's only around 25 dollars. If you're buying a soldering iron at all,
get one of these. It's absolutely cool. And I got loads of nibs and stuff as well. So
we'll be trying out some of them tomorrow as I try and solder this thing.
Cool. Well, I said it was going to do tomorrow many, many times. But okay, moving on.
So amateur round table number three, various holes comment by Ken Fallon. This is the visualisation
of waves. The freeclubs have a thingy to show you how what waves look like. And that's really
cool for I was struggling in that episode to visualise what a wave looked like and how it went
through. And they have some very good animations. So when I collect these, I'm putting them as
addendments to that show note to that show so that there will be a collection of this information
over time. Very good. I have to say, I haven't checked that one yet, but I certainly will do. It
looks like it could be good. So the next comment was to 2417 Transmetre Crusoe, which was JWP's
show. And it was from Busy Busy, he said a different time. You brought back a lot of old memories
when you mentioned Transmetre. I thought it was a unique potential game changer in the CPU
market, but it no push to be what? It didn't achieve what was expected to break into the
monolithic market forces at the time. Burma says, thanks for sharing your find, the story,
and that it still works, smiley face. I think a lot of it is down to timing, sometimes innovative
things that come through, like the N900 for example. It's just not the time for it, and it takes
a while. And then the AMD processor comes along and essentially does, well, it doesn't do the same,
but it is a lower power. It's tapping into the same sort of need or purpose selling point,
I guess. And then it goes off. Yeah, it's a shame. It's a shame that there's many, many very
interesting things that have gone by the wayside for no good reason other than the winders in the
wrong direction, I guess. Yeah, the next one. There's a lot of comments this month, Dave.
New comment system, I'm guessing. Well, now we're encouraging people to do comments as before,
we're always like the comments here. Nets books, keeping an old friend alive by Bizarre,
and this is by Gumnos, netbooks and lightweight OSs. I've got a couple of netbooks and I've found
that the B and BSD is particularly open BSD, but also for BSD and net BSD run quite nicely on them.
I also run Debian stable on one, and it's pretty uneventful experience.
Cool. Which is what you want?
Well, I don't know. So the next one was on the Kickstarter post-mortem by Clare 2, 2 4, 2, 2. Busy,
busy again, Kickstarter revisited, he says. I noticed that you mentioned that you're not a salesman,
and described a person who was a great creating hype about a product which may go against your
personality, but I would say that to get best results from other people's stories about any kickstarter
like service is to have a prototype ready to go. It shows that you have something besides an idea
and some direction, which is why you need the money to bring it into production. I don't like selling
either, but if you believe in the game idea, had a prototype, rules, card layouts, etc,
then the idea will sell itself. People will see value in the what you are trying to achieve,
thus you're not selling anything, but creating something people want to bring to fruition,
because it intrigues them as much as you. I just wanted to bring another perspective.
Ideas sell themselves because people see value in it. Good point.
Yeah, good point. That one has been quite an interesting, the feedback.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's quite an art to get a kickstarter to work, and if you don't fully
appreciate that art, then I guess you could easily fail. But yeah, I do sympathise with Clat 2's
stance on this. I don't think I would really know how to play it and be reluctant to do the salesman
type thing personally, but interesting. That's the last comment, by the way, from the previous
month shows earlier, earlier shows. So, what are these other two information underground control
thing? They have them. They're from last month. Yeah, yeah. If you look at the
what we've already done. People have already done them, yes. People are going to be so amazed that
we talk about this every week, every month. It's a thing. It's traditional. Do something
every time the role becomes a tradition. Because we're using a text form, whereas on the website,
I coloured them in green as with a note saying, don't read this in the text version. I didn't do that.
Anyway, it was fun. It was an interesting interlude. Okay, I think we're done here, Fox.
I need to, I need to up the number of people on the mumble server and change the links on the
website before I go. Okay. All right. Junent, tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public. Right way. Join us now. You'll be free. Hackers. You'll be free. Thanks, Kevin.
All righty. See you tomorrow. Bye. See you later.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released
under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLive, 3.0 license.
