Episode: 2323
Title: HPR2323: How to Configure Mumble in Real Time
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2323/hpr2323.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:19:20

---

This is HPR episode 2,323 and titled How to Configure Mumble in real-time.
It is hosted by Sahara and in about 6 minutes long and Karina next visit flag.
The summary is the cast of the random podcast help a guest troubleshoot their mumble set up in real-time.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
What's good aggro public radio this is Taj and just had a little incident happen on a podcast that I'm on.
You random podcast, kachink kachang, just a little reference there.
This is just a podcast with me and a couple of my buddies also from the HPR community.
I've got Poki and Lyle which is also known as X1101.
And we had an episode that we just recently recorded where we brought in the guest.
And the guest was actually evotera if you don't know who that is.
He's an author and he's also the was the purveyor of podiobooks.com which if you remember us from the audiobook club,
you'll know that a lot of our content came from there.
And we were interviewing him about the transition from podio books to a new service he has called scribble or he's evolved it.
I don't think it's his specifically, but getting him on the show was a little difficult.
We got him connected through mumble, but mumble wasn't set up exactly the right way.
So what you're going to get in this episode is a real time live troubleshooting session of mumble.
And Poki being the genius that he is was able to lead evo through this almost perfectly the first time with no trouble.
So we thought that this would be fun to offer up to the HPR community in case you're doing something similar and you wind up in one of these.
Oh no, what do we do moments that you can kind of remember back to this and use this as sort of a reference to help get you on your way.
So with all that in mind, here we go.
I would say a long time, but even medium time listeners of the show, you might recall that we talked about the podio books dot com to scribble transition.
And we got some feedback from evo who wanted to come on to talk with us about it.
So go ahead introduce yourself and let's let's have a chat.
Evil might need help setting up his mumble.
Can you can you type in the text chat? We can't hear you. Can you type in the text thing?
Okay, so he's on text. So he probably you probably just need help setting up your microphone.
Did you do the wizard?
And do you have it set to push to talk?
How tall is this is because you can't just admin.
I guarantee it's because I can't just admin.
No, no, no, it's because mumble is not all that intuitive.
Okay, so either if you go up to the configure button at the top of the screen and hit settings.
You should totally cut this part out and use it as like an episode of HPR like have a simple.
All right, so the configure button and then settings down at the bottom left.
There's a little thing that says advanced you have to check that box to get it to do anything at all really.
By advanced what it means is useful.
Yeah, really.
And then up towards the top after you click advanced a bunch of options will show up.
Down the left are your kind of tabs. You want to be in the audio input tab, which you probably already.
And that will say transmission.
And under transmit you want to switch that to push to talk.
Then.
Okay, then you have to go to the shortcuts tab.
Sorry, I was looking for it.
Go to the shortcuts tab.
And under functions, it'll say push to talk.
And you just click on.
Click on that and then select your push to talk key or key combination.
Also use a combo so that we don't activate the mic while we're talking or while we're typing.
I mean, so like I use control left control left shift at the same time.
Other people use other buttons, whatever you like.
Then when you push those buttons, the lips next to your name should light up red.
And that means we can hear you or should be able to hear you anyway.
So if I hit control, does it work now?
Yes, sir, we can hear you.
And I definitely see why you use this system and not something like Zencaster or anything else.
Normal podcasters use.
Ouch.
To be fair, we just added like at least eight minutes of content to our show.
So that was fantastic.
Yeah, judging by weight, welcome gentlemen.
Hi.
There you go.
Short and sweet.
Just a nice little tidbit and a little bite of information that might help you in your time of need.
We just thought we'd go ahead and offer that out there because that's just kind of the guys we are.
If you're at all interested in the random shenanigans that we get up to,
you could always check out the podcast.
It's at you random, the letter you random, dashpodcast.info for the podcast.
If not, just hang around HPR.
We'll be back eventually.
And with that being said, I'm out of here.
Everybody do an HPR episode.
We really need them.
Bye.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
