Episode: 2450
Title: HPR2450: Android Audio with viper 4 android and magisk
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2450/hpr2450.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:16:31

---

This in HPR episode 2450 entitled Android Audio with Miper for Android and Magisk.
It is hosted by Opera Nero R and in about 10 minutes long and carrying an explicit flag.
The summary is I go over some ways to help manage audio with Android.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Support universal access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access to all knowledge and access
This is Robert Carter with another episode of Pack of Public Radio.
So I wanted to go over another little Android rabbit hole I've been down recently around Android and Audio.
So the reason I kind of started this hole in DEVOR is because I purchased a headset or a
Sony earbuds that have dual drivers and I think the sound coming out of my Sony, I have a Sony compact Z5 and I think the sound coming out of there is kind of weak and then on top of that, the dual driver basically means that you have two speakers essentially to drive the audio then instead of one.
So meaning that you kind of need a little bit more power to drive the dual drivers or ones that had three drivers than a traditional pair of headphones only have one driver.
So you get a little bit better sound quality with two and of course there's ones out there with three and then you get full bone monitors and all that stuff.
So that's what it all ended up as is I had some nice Sony headphones but they weren't pushing out enough power or power or had the right sound to them.
So I wanted to look for some ways that I could manage my sound.
Now the default sound management stuff for my Android device never worked at all for my original build and also I have had since applied newer builds, marshmallow, etc.
and it is also not worked or been in spotty.
So I actually looked at an application called Viper for Android that's Viper and then the number sign for and then Android.
So this is a root application that needs root and it somehow hijacks the audio and installs.
I think it's own type of drivers there's there used to be another application that I use for this same type of setup
but it basically I think has its own drivers.
The reason I didn't use it is because it requires root and the root methods that I have were still detectable by the good enterprises client.
So I'm not using those types of applications.
So with that said, even if you install this Viper for Android as a system application it still asks for root which doesn't really make a whole lot of sense.
So I'm not 100% familiar on how applications request access but it's still, even as a system application, it still asks for root even though it has root which doesn't make a whole lot of sense.
So anyways, I found out that there's a new kind of root tool called Magisk, M-A-G-I-S-K, that's kind of the new hotness in the root world.
It's kind of a better, supposedly seamless interface, whatever new hotness and I'm hoping maybe that might be obfuscation enough to hide from good for enterprises.
I think kind of the whole approach is that it's modular in nature so instead of having something like the exposed framework which is kind of I think one of those projects that's not going to go past or it's not going to support Marshmallow or any of the new
architecture stuff. So I think the answer to that is this type of root tool where you can get a the Viper for Android has a a Magisk form of its install and its binary install or whatever.
So you get two different methods to install a traditional method and then you have this just Magisk method where it's kind of a module I think very early in the morning here.
So I drove in so I've got some time to recourse Magisk. So anyways, so I began to experiment and realized that that did work for me but again I had issues with the good clients.
So I would essentially have to find a way to bypass the good client or find some kind of plug-in that would would hide root from my system and most of the traditional anti-root checkers didn't work in the specific case.
I had to mix those modules that would that would actually work for older versions of good but none of the new harness.
So anyways around audio and in Android audio you want to get a nice pair of headphones or earbuds.
I'm an earbuds type of guy you can actually mix custom earplugs that it's a silicone like a silicone mix or a what I kind of this another word for it.
I think it's a silicone mix where you order these two it comes in a set it comes with two different types of essentially plastics you mix it together and you can google this it's like how to make your own custom earbuds.
So mix the mix it together and then you shove it in your ear and then you shove the earbuds in your ears and you might have to buy a couple of sets.
But shove them in your ears let them sit and set with your mouth open and there's there's videos online how to do
when they do the audio setup custom earbuds they'll have a kind of like a I don't know the size of the width of a spoon almost inside of your mouth.
They keep your mouth open because there's a little bit better seal when your mouth is open then then when it closes.
So when you close your mouth you'll have a better seal once it's all set.
Anyways, so you can have that custom earbud feel like a $300 earbud feel for you know $100 or $200
however you want to spend on the earbuds. But these particular ones these are the Sony dual drivers whatever the X2
they don't particularly there's not enough room there to put the plastic or the silicone in my ear.
So you just end up with like a piece of plastic that falls out of your ear so they don't
it's really set in there very well you can actually take the original ear bud rubber part off
and shove it in there and that will be your set instead of having the rubber in there obviously you want to just have
the the the actual earbud itself and again the tutorials and screenshots and hack-a-day online and I
will tell you how to do all that stuff right but I went through that whole process with these
didn't work so I went back to the original you know the factor the stock earbuds and I still kind
of have issues with them falling out because your ears aren't exactly all perfectly shaped the same
way on both sides so I still have issues with with that but what I will say is is that I will
kind of actually essentially just kind of gave up I was never able to get my audio to be
loud enough in some cases with other players I think D-sub might actually let me manipulate the audio
and EQ it but it would seem to only work some of the times and it would it would only seem to work
temporarily and then sometimes something else would take it over and it would actually be quieter
than it was if you if you had not applied the the EQ so there's definitely something going on
and with the audio setup of this this particular phone and there's often sometimes there's actually
root methods to get gain control so it's a little bit like a little bit like the Viper for Android
but you'll end up with a custom patch for like a update.zip that you apply to your specific phone
and build sometimes even and it will kind of update the drivers or force force the audio to be
louder than it really is or really should be so Sony has you know a big a big stench on this
particular type of phone where they keep the audio pretty pretty quiet so I do believe this phone
still has the ability to push the amount the right amount power without losing a whole lot of
of loss or fidelity but I have to find some kind of patch or something to for the for the drivers
or the EQ or the mixer within that because the mixer is not even working at all so
anyways I just wanted to dump my experiences out there with android and audio and having dual drivers
if you're not super audio file I would kind of shy away from dual driver headphones unless you
can have a make sure that you have plenty of power to push them and also you have a good EQ on the
other end they have flat players that are particularly expensive you can buy there's also
a ant ant drivers so you can get straight up a portable a portable battery powered amp for your
headphones that actually has tubes real tubes and it not just fake lamps or lights in it that
actually has real tubes in it and you can drive your your headphones that way so you're walking
around with a you know $800 phone and a $300 driver and you know $300 headphones and you know
walking around with you know $15500 worth of audio equipment just to listen to your podcasts
is probably not the best of ideas but if you're an audio file you definitely want to look into the
the actually two based amp drivers if you want to go all off the deep end but anyways I hope
that helps somebody else and if you can contribute to an episode just spend some time in the car
if you have to then have to be perfect quality and and contribute to AgriPublic Radio have a great
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is HackerPublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
