Episode: 2436
Title: HPR2436: HPR Community News for November 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2436/hpr2436.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:05:11

---

This is HBR episode 2436 entitled HBR Community News for November 2017 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 87 minutes long and can
remain an explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment
posted in November 2017. This episode of HBR is brought to you by
an honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio. This time it's Community News for November 2017. Joining me tonight is...
Hi, Steve Morris. That's usual of course.
Hi and for those of us who are new to this show, it's a monthly look at what's going on
in the HBR community and it's a regular show scheduled for the first Monday of the month.
So we recorded the Saturday before the first Monday of the month and at this point you
traditionally welcome the new host. Yes, I do do that and I just forgotten to check.
Shall I do it Dave as it's pronounceable this time? Okay, you go for it. The Alien Brothers
Podcasts, ABB Alpha Bravo P, have joined the network and you too can join the network.
It was a normal strange month just to let people know what this show is all about.
Dave and I are two of the volunteers that help out here on HBR and by no means leaders of this
community we just facilitated and one thing I have noticed Dave has been that there has been a
lack of shows from people this month. Have you noticed that? Yes, yes. We've had, we have some holes
in the queue which desperately need filling and thankfully Clatu has found lots of time to do
podcast. He's basically carried the network this month. So there are still a few thoughts left.
If you met a New Year's resolution this year 2016 that you were going to record a show for HBR,
we have a free slot in less than four days by the time you hear this. And then the next
one after that is another four days after that and another three days after that. So we could
definitely do with chills and this is the time of year where people are inside and an ideal, an
ideal opportunity to nip into the tech cave and record a show for us. So today is Puckis Avond,
Dave in, well actually it's Puckis, it's actually Puckis Avond on Tuesday but today was celebrated.
So you need to explain. That is when central class who came from Spain in a steamboat with
those helpers, politically incorrect helpers perhaps, and they deliver presents to the children
and the presents were Julie delivered. And one of those presents was a circuit board, Dave. Would
you believe that? A component tester circuit board. I have no idea how sent new that I was looking
for one of those. Well, there you go. That's just astonishing. How can it be? It's almost as if we live
in a modusher. It's a surveillance state. Yes. So shall we go through quickly the shows? So
giving some feedback so that people are aware that, yeah, people who listen to their shows. And
today I will be drinking a regular old Hartoch Jan, which is a beer that you find in the
supermarkets along with Heineken and Kroelser, something like that. It's taste okay but it gives
you a hangover. Yes. Yes. I have asked 5150 to give us a show on how to do a show about reviewing beer.
So that was my show. That's where I am now, 5150. So if you could bring me to talk about the
palatums, the smell and the aromas, that would be nice. Not about beer, but it gives you a hangover.
Okay. Yes. Which don't the ones I'd like to know about? The first show was by Bitbox.
It's personal healthcare wherein Bitbox discovers he is fat and can no longer find his feet.
And this was inspired by an earlier show that the information on the ground did on health.
What do you think of this on David? This is interesting. It's good. It takes some doing to come out
and talk about these things, I think. Bitbox is trying to give up smoking and losing weight and
do more exercise and all the sort of things that can be hard to get to to fight. So I
was very much sympathized with his challenge and his coming out in public with his intentions here.
Good luck to him, I say. Absolutely. Norrist says, fear and cold turkey. It took me a few tries to
quit smoking. I was only able to quit after I convinced myself I would get cancer if I continued
smoking. Fear and cold turkey work. Great episode. Can we hear more about life on the road?
Shane Shannon says, all the best. The episode was very engaging. Thank you for sharing. Would you
let us know in a month or two how it's going? And I would also like to say, yeah, smoking is easy.
I've done it hundreds of times to call it Mark Twain. But I have done a show on this
back in the twat days, actually. And it is basically cold turkey. You remember you are a
smoker every single day. So good luck with it. And don't be put down if you do if you do
fail, then just start again. Start stopping again. Yes. Yes. I managed to do it. I was a
smoker too. I managed to do it by having a bet with somebody else who was also trying to give
up smoking. So we sort of kept each other in check. Have did you smoke today? No, no, no.
Or yes, or I'm winning it. That sort of thing challenge for somebody else can help a lot.
Whatever works. It's one of the best things that you can do to improve your health. Indeed.
So next day we had Mr. X with a what's in my hamshack part one? I'd like to see more people
around those. As he said himself, I think your hamshack is, was it him or
that your hamshack is never complete? So it's always a good time to do a show.
Various different equipment. A lot of mobile handsets, actually, more than I would have expected.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was impressed by the number he had there. And they sent it very
sophisticated and stuff. Though the digital radio, I made a note, sounded strange, which he
did warn us about, but sort of strangely robotic effect with odd sort of side noises and stuff.
Yeah, it was cooler. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It was really nice to hear it too.
It sounds all technical and stuff, but yeah. We're spoiled by modern, some of the, you know,
mobile phones and that type of stuff, I guess. Still very interesting stuff. Yeah, great.
Great. Great. A bullet journal to org mode from Brian in Ohio. And he describes how he's used
bullet more, a bullet journal, which I had not heard about before, in migrated to org mode in
obviously Emacs. Yes. Well, I found this really interesting. Though I must say a bit of behind
the scenes, he sent his notes in out of org mode and boy, were they hard to wrestle into some
into proper HTML, but we got there. We communicated with him a few times about it. We got it there
in the end, but yeah, the bullet journal thing is fascinating because it's about sort of keeping
your stuff organized and, you know, keeping a record of what you're doing and what you plan to do
and stuff. Some people go to a huge length to make them really beautiful works of art, but
he was saying things like, well, it's, once you've written it down, it's static and you can't
then insert a bit, which is quite understandable. So I can see why he would have moved to Emacs
org mode. Though it's a little sad in some respects because the, you know, the artistic side and
the handwriting side and so forth is something I quite like, but I can see why you do this for
efficiency. I never have, unfortunately, don't have the motoric sincerity to be able to do those
artistic works, but I've always appreciated it when I've seen somebody else who can do it.
Corey says, you big tease. I'm very curious about your Android integration. I previously published
a show about using org mode to create presentation PDFs. Glad to says, org mode. This is really cool.
My girlfriend does some bullet journal stuff, but I never understood what it was all about.
Hearing about it in this context is elucidating, though. Also, I'm really happy to hear that my
Emacs episodes helped you learn to love Emacs. I am like Kroy, previous comment, eager to hear about
your Android integration. Yes, as am I. And I'm very impressed that you stuck with org mode for
as long as you did, because I tend to get excited about some organizational methodology and then move
on to something else and get into a point where I need an organization methodology to organize
the number of organization methodologies I have. Oh, I know, I know. I spent all my work in life
fiddling about with different ways to organize stuff. A very early primitive date, the base on a
PC under DOS, for example, to manage my work and my team's work and stuff. And it was,
it's been more time fiddling with it than actually getting anything done, you know.
All of that sort of thing. It's very, very tempted to get lost in the technicalities of it.
And I should imagine, though, the artistic side of the bullet journal as well.
Well, the next show was about the HBO community news, which we did last month. And Wendy
Gold mentioned straight through cable, just a quick bit of clarification. When Shane said he
was used as straight through cable, he was referred to the order of the wire inside the connection
connectors. A straight to also called patch cable is used to connect a device to a piece of
network equipment like a PC to a switch. For connecting two PCs, you can switch the transmission
to receive pairs and create a crossover cable. Very good, very good, nice and clearly, but I
commented on this because I felt I'd sort of let the ball drop in the episode itself saying,
thanks, wind to go, I did actually know that, but my brain refused to come up with anything useful
in the spur of the moment. I spent time over many years during my main brain days making
serial cables. That's RS-232 and RS-423, where this is pretty much the same. The varieties of
null modem cables with crossovers was something I knew well, but I've largely forgotten that.
I don't think I've ever used a crossover cap 5 or cap 6 cable, though, come to think of it.
Maybe we need more shows on the details of connecting devices together.
And I replied how I would have expected myself to reply by doing a correction show. And that was
it for your 2433. The next day, we had a show Transmeta Caruso Fujitsu Siemens 4-2s-210 thin client
and troubling shooting a Debian 9 install, where JWP did a basement cleanup and got his old Transmeta
CPU open running. This was fascinating, absolutely fascinating. And he's earned a lot of
geek points from me for going through this. Well, yeah, absolutely. JWP knows a lot about
all sorts of what I would class as obscure things. Boy does he know a lot about them? He's certainly
increased in my estimation in that regard. And that machine sounded like quite an interesting
interesting box, at least for its time it was. An emulation of an X86 device in a thin client,
which... Yep, it sounded pretty good. It sounded very good. And flat 2 said,
the first time I've ever heard of this. Thank you for this episode. I thought it was really
pretty cool for embracing risk, at least to the degree that I have since my iBook G4 finally died.
I've been mostly riskless lately. Arm notwithstanding. But this Transmeta thing sounds really
clever and very obscure. Thanks for the history lesson. And DRRTY says, wow, thanks for this JWP.
Upon further inspection, it was surprising to see that the Transmeta Crusoe powered both
the OQO model O1. It gives a reference, which I distinctly remember,
salivating over in 2004. Very good. This stuff completely passed me by, and I didn't think about
this. This was a big deal at the time, because Linus went off to work for these guys for one,
and it was a big... It was announced that he was going to do something, and it was going to be a
revolution, and it was going to change the pace of computing. So yeah, if we ever use any other
companies of over-hoping something, perhaps this would be an example that we could point back to.
But it was really cool that he was able to salvage these and get them up and running and functional.
Well, I thought it was very impressive. It sounds we had quite a struggle getting it to install
anything, with a DVD drive and stuff, but very impressive. He's certainly not a guy to be
daunted by this sort of stuff, obviously. Yeah, quite modest actually. When you talk to him in person,
he doesn't claim to be a techie at all, but, oh man, I don't know. You're going to have to go into it.
BS on that. And the following day, we had Watson, my handshack part, by Mr. X, where he continued his
walk through many meters and standing wave ratio generators and SWR power things.
And this makes me very afraid Dave, Tommy Lords and all sorts, makes me very afraid of doing any
hum radio stuff, mostly. Wow, there's a hell of a lot of stuff there. It was, yeah, it was sort of,
I was feeling I was bogging my head with this stuff I have to admit. It's interesting, but I'm
not sure I want to get that deep, but I imagine probably things that once you start, you get dragged
into this sort of stuff. Yeah, I imagine so too. And Latu says, great impulse. This is exactly the
kind of not-and-volved information I've been looking for in Ham related episode. Thanks. So
perfect. Couldn't have said it better myself. Funny how Latu seems to be able to do that.
He has a gift, gift of words. Alien Brothers podcast season one episode, one introduction,
meet the Alien Brothers Casper and look her two tech junkies that take nothing sacred,
that take nothing sacred. Okay. And Latu, I think doing a better job than either of us,
by commenting on this episode says, shows like these. Do you want to read this one?
It says shows like these. It's episodes like this one that make me want to quit podcasting because
I'll never reach this level of greatness. It's so disjointed and natural that I think it could
possibly have been planned. But it's so coherent and persistent that there's no way it could have
been scripted. The characters in it have mysterious backstories. You saved my life, Casper.
For example, they cut to empty commercial breaks. They come up with the name for the series in
the episodes itself. They talk about how they'll talk about movies, but then barely talk about movies.
They talk about video games, but can't decide on how to categorize them. The host barely even
know one another's handles. And yet they pull through. It's gripping and triumphant.
This is some amazing avant-garde audio. Well done, Alien Brothers. Well done.
That's a comment in a half. That is a comment in a half. Anybody who gets
wants to go to Latu or to podcasting is, yeah. And the guys had a second episode and they have had
some, well, there are generally some problems uploading to HPR at the minute. We're working on
that with Josh still. Yeah, yeah, it's very mysterious. Yeah, well, we're basically
under constant attack now. I don't know. Somebody has just decided to really start
using HPR resources 24-7. Yeah, I don't know. Whoever it is, if you listen to the show, can you
please stop? Because it's not cool. Human psychology is a strange thing. Yeah, fair enough.
Well, you know, it's an RSS feed, so in fairness, it means it doesn't, it's not going to do anything to
the people who who listen to the show because, yeah, if they don't get it at 6 o'clock and they end up
getting it at 7 o'clock, a big deal. If you don't get the show today, you'll get it tomorrow,
but it's just annoying for people who want to, who have taken the time to do something constructive,
recorded the show, want to upload it, and then it turns out they can't upload because somebody's
being juvenile and, yeah, using all the bandwidth or whatever. So, yeah, there you go.
Anyway, thanks guys. Keep trying. If this continues, we'll come up with a, we'll work around the
problem and they come up with an alternative means of uploading to HPR and an alternative means of
posting. So it just makes more work for us, and that's fine. Unfortunately, that means we
have less time to produce shows ourselves, which is a bit of a pain. So if you, people listening to
the, to this show, could record a few shows for ourselves, it would free us up so that we could
devote some time to fixing all these issues. Anyway, netbooks, keeping an old friend alive by Biza,
why netbooks are not necessarily obsolete and how to keep them alive. And this one I really
and so sad that my Acer Aspire one has, has died. It was the perfect form factor for in the train.
And you could just leave your own laptop running and grab this and bring it into meetings. It was an
ideal little form factor, but it, I'm actually missing a hard disk cable and I can't, can't get
a replacement. Well, I can, but it will cost more than the laptop. So it's got into that stage of,
yeah, the cost of parts and stuff. Yeah, I went on that. I don't know if I've told you this already.
It turns out that the cable and the hard disk are from the original, you can use the same one from
the original iPod and I went on to, you know, one of the Dutch equivalent of eBay and there's a guy
asking 68 euros for this thing, but you know, one that doesn't work and I go, but dude,
why are you asking this? It doesn't work. Yeah, but it's a collector's item. It doesn't work.
All right, Ferrell, that's the mentality. I still try and buy MP3 players when I can.
I've got alerts on eBay for for them and the prices and things that have obviously been
smashed around and smashed. They're twice the price of what they were originally to buy new.
Yes, clips and clips of 175 euros. Yeah, yeah, ridiculous. Yes, yes.
I know it's mad. I knew it. Yeah, go on. Yeah, go on. I was just going to say I loved this show.
It was brilliant. It was a, a visa has a great delivery. I love the way he does his shows. He
sort of sounds very off the cuff, you know, talking to him across the bar or something like that.
And his content was brilliant and I really enjoyed it. And I'm thinking of getting
resurrecting my triple EPC on the same basis using Rasmussen X86. So thanks to Beza and
to Tony for for raising this issue. My triple EPC, when I did consultancy work for a year or two,
that was the machine I used to take to my client. They only had two clients, but I used to take that.
And it was just perfect for setting up in a corner and hacking a bit of code for them, you know.
And yeah, yeah, it was just, it was just grabbed plug a monitor and maybe plug a keyboard into it as
well. It was brilliant. So anyway, do you want to do the comment? I do accept how about need to say
to those dummies, netting which I can never do. So let's keep over that. He says, would love to hear
you on the Libra Vox. Great episodes like to hear about keeping things alive, by the way,
have you considered reading for LubriVox and I think, I think, Pauke used to say that he sounds
he sounds good even if he was reading the telephone book. Some of you Hipper snappers wouldn't know
what a telephone book is. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's a... No, he's right, he's right, it's good. I would
like to hear more from being read or spoken by by Beezer, more episodes if he can get around to
them. Absolutely. The following day, Project Interest Lawson Brown wonders how some projects die
for lack of interest. And Tatoo says, attention, there are two types of people in the world.
Those who are attention getters and those who are not. The right combination of obnoxious,
overexcited, supremely nettered attention getter plus, given any given project results in
site geist, whether that site geist is justified or not, enter the equation. Site geists
procreate the more people stricken with it, the more it builds in volume and size, and the more it
grows and the more people get stick stricken by it. What I'm saying is that you need to be a popular
kid to jump in your calls. The problem is, you hate proper kids and proper kids probably don't know
you exist and by you, I mean me. Yes, it's a great comment writers. I love the classic is Tatoo.
Ah yes. Lawson Bronx says, popular kids merit will always be secondary to charisma when it comes
to the success of projects and individuals. Routinely, people in professional environments that
have no business being where they are, and they can't even do their jobs correctly, continue to
move upwards. It's the nature of attraction, the culture of personality. When the media is involved
and the media is involved in everyone's lives now to some extent. I don't think there's a solution
except to seduce or blackmail the popular kids over to you aside. That's a depressing thought.
Yeah, I do struggle with this one because you're working on this, the natural curious that
was helping out, and yeah, I don't know. I think there's so much stuff that came up in that
whole episode. I'm really just trying to let us think in so that we can yeah, great episode.
Lots of thoughts. Lots of thoughts. There is no easy answer. I mean, if there was an easy answer,
boom, we'd be done, but you know, getting people involved, getting people motivated,
you're going to be a happy money, are you going to do people get tired of that, you know,
watch your goal, or do you just plow your own furrow and see where you go?
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I'm probably the wrong generation to fully appreciate all
nuances of this. But the thing is the two people who are commenting there discussing us,
if those guys, whatever they do, I will support them. I've bought their books. I've both
supported tattoo and stuff. So no matter what these two dudes do, I happen to think they're,
I don't know what it says about me, if I think those are the most popular guys in my sphere of interest,
if you know what I mean. And that's that's not a case of flashiness and those other,
those other terms that were being kicked around. That's a razzle dazzle and so forth in
showmanship. That's about trying to judge true merit, I think, isn't it? Yeah, that's how I feel
about it anyway. So you read tattoos commons there and they, they, you know, they're artistic,
both of them are considered to be artists and what they do. And you know, the fact that I release
shows on the same network as them, sometimes when we wonder, you know, should I, should I put this
show up? You know, some, you know, the Arnon board ones, whatever, but, you know, other ones that I'm
serious about that have done a little bit of work on. And then the following day, you hear
tattoo doing a show and it's going to demotivate the ease at which he can come up and do a show or,
and you talk, you listen to lost and bronx now in this car and he's just leveling away and all
his works. You think there should be somebody, you know, dictating his works for posterity.
Thanks to him, which of course, HBR is doing, but yeah, they're just, I think these two guys
are operating on a different level. And to me, they are the rock stars of, of, yeah, I don't know.
Yes, yes. But I got their point. Yeah, they're never going to be, they're never going to be on,
I don't know, we're all the cool kids now. I don't know. Yeah, yeah. But the, the, the generational
comment that I was making was really to say, I've reached the point in my life, where I don't want
to be following the, the, the razzle dazzle and so never have been really. I've probably been
old on my life, but, you know, I don't care. I really don't care. I know it's a nature where you
can say, I don't care. I'm an old man. I go, yeah, leave me alone. That's right. That's right.
That's right. I definitely grumpy old man territory. Yeah. So get off my lawn, would you just
find out about it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Open source gaming number two, all lit by the dude. And Tato says,
cool discovery. After a while, one begins to think one has heard of all the open source games out
there, but obviously that's silly. Stan one runs out of place to look for new games until someone
like you brings them to light. So thanks. You just jumped to show that you throwing me totally.
Whoops. Sorry. Sorry. I'm just thinking my brain's melted totally. I don't know what the hell's going on.
Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. That's all right.
Thanks twice. This is Kickstarter Kickstarter post mortem, which I thought was quite depressing,
that love to Kickstarter didn't work out. One thing I think he missed in all the introspection was
the lack of time that he gave to people to support it. It takes quite a long time in order to
to get the news out beforehand. I'm going to be doing a Kickstarter. Are you ready to do the Kickstarter
and then have your people in place to do a little bit of publicity about it? When he launched
to show about intending to do the Kickstarter, he was already well into it before he
got on board. And then I would have expected him to be on all the other podcasts that are out there,
get the words out to other people that would have been interested to get on to the gaming podcasts.
So yeah, I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. I agree. He did say in his talk though that he
perhaps hadn't fully understood the way that Kickstarter works or the way that people respond
to it and so forth. So maybe that was part of the mistake in it in a way. Yeah, I think if you
look at the normal Kickstarter, the way it works is there's an initial burst and then it
tails off of it. And then it picks up again after a while. This is what usually happens.
And I think that's reflected in the fact that the person who's going to do the Kickstarter is all
their social media people ready and primed for the big launch. And then there's an initial
spurge. And then those people get the news out and then it takes a while for that to feed back in
to get the last to get the last, you know, pushed through. I also wonder why he went to Kickstarter,
not Indiegogo, who would allow him to the option to, you know, to keep the money that he already had.
So yet 85% of the total goal, you know, why not just set up an Indiegogo and then you got 85%
of your total goal. Yeah, it might not be all of it, but it's 85% of us.
Didn't he say missed it by 85%? I thought that many got 25%.
Yeah, still 25% of, yeah, sorry, missed. Yeah, but it says something, isn't it? It's something.
So my advice to tattoo would be to plan that in three months time that he tries this again and,
you know, have ducks in a row and get people involved so that people have blog posts ready to go
on the day of the thing. And that there's a hashtag trending on Twitter or on whatever the things are.
And that's, he's got interviews lined up on the other Linux podcasts and gaming shows and stuff like that.
Yeah, I agree. Yeah, yeah, good work.
Now indeed, indeed, I'm sure there's lots of outlets that would be quite happy to talk about it.
Absolutely. Yeah, talk about it or whatever, you know, so yeah, and even there like the he's he's already
of open source news and stuff like that. Yeah, seems like a cool.
Yeah, okay, following day, the open source gaming. Yeah, can we can we do that now?
Okay, so we had previously we had tattoos coming to both cool discoveries and then lost
and Bronx had the common jewellery that? Yes, indeed. Lots and broke says it must be me. I must
only be running junkers. I've never owned a machine that could play games like this. I'd like to
try it someday when I joined the 21st century gaming world. It's not to see lots of rocks. It's not
just you. Yeah, yeah, I've never aimed for a machine that could run things like that. My kids,
I can't do so, so I know it can be done. I don't know what what it requires, particularly.
We had a interface zero RPG play with tattoo, lobot, entage, playing interface zero.
And Claudio, I am had a comment. Wonderful intros to RPGs. Loved listening to this episode. My sons
and I wanted, wanted to start playing a tabletop RPG like D&D, children's and dragons,
but we're sure we weren't sure of how the gameplay would be like. My eldest and I have our characters
created already, which was fun to develop so that give us a head start. Since I've never played
anything like this, but I've always had an interest. I've had no idea how it would play on.
Even though the type of RPG was different in this episode, and yet enjoyable enough for me
to want to try interface zero as well, it made everything much clearer. This felt almost like playing
a text adventure on a computer, even though it is exactly that minus the computer. Lots of fun
to listen to as a spectator as well. Thanks for the episode and I look forward to more like this.
Yeah, nice comment, actually. I certainly got an insight into what a game like this would be like,
and not really fully appreciating it. I live in my own bubble, you know. I'm sure I thought it
would have put me right for the rest of it, because she's into D&D. But as I've probably said before,
but yeah, I found it quite fascinating to listen to. It was a good way of getting the message across
to people who might be interested in this type of stuff, I thought. Absolutely. I was at the end of this
show going, okay, what's going on? And then at the end of the next one, which we were also going to
be discussing, I was going, I was so into it, it was like listening to an audiobook, you know,
with even with the discussions, it was like, what are you going to do? And what's your character going to
do? And really put the whole role of Chlatu, the game master. Wow, what the amount of work that
that person has to do, they're really, you're really just privileged to be there because they've done
a lot of work reading up on all the rules and having their imagination and the discussions and stuff,
so fascinating. Loved it. I really go, no, you can't have been in an hour, you know, that was there,
we're at an hour and then no, it hasn't been an hour. It was just so, we went by so fast, it was so
cool. Yeah, yeah, I found myself a lot more fascinated than I thought it was going to be. And
yeah, it was quite looking forward to the next one. Yeah, what's going to happen? How's it going to end?
So the following day, nothing grounds people more than XSL and XSLT proc by Chlatu. And here's a,
how to convert XSL to XSLT. Do you want to read your comment? Oh, yes, I forgot, I comment. Yes,
so this was really interesting. I enjoyed it. So a lot was very clearly explained and the example
was helpful. I tried to understand XSL back in 2012 when I was writing bass scripts, let me download
music for magnitude. They held their catalog in XML at that time. Now it's an SQLite database.
And I used XSLT proc and XSL to extract stuff. I didn't find any very clear explanations
of what could be done in XSL at that time, though I winged it by copying examples and using trial
and error. Your links just seem to fill in many of the gaps in my understanding. So thanks for
them too. And to which Chlatu replies, glad you enjoyed us. Sorry, glad you enjoyed it. I just
can't wait for your Latin episode, although you will call us. Ah, tech. Oh, something. Yeah,
that's complex. Yeah, obviously, clinging on. It's caused some amusement. Obviously, we got
indoctrinated into this stuff. I think in the university I worked at, there was a group in the
maths department because math, mathematicians used, what's it called, math, tech, and whatever,
there's a mathematical version of it. And there you were very adamant about the, the rope
pronounce and stuff. And we ran it on our Vax cluster back in the 80s and stuff because we didn't
have anything. There was nothing better. There was no Microsoft Word and stuff. We're using
PVC microbes to do other stuff. So, yeah. So that must have stuck in my brain for some reason.
I said it before and I'll say it again, you can still tell the quality of a Latin document
over anything else. They just look so. It's something perfect. Yeah. Yeah. There's something very
beautiful about it, actually. Yeah. But you can, you're a restriction of what you can do in
Latin itself. If you're going to tech, which is the sort of the thing it's written in,
then you can do even more stuff and you can change your font and do all sorts of stuff.
It's a huge subject if you, if you ever want to get into it. But yeah, it's exciting stuff.
XSL and XSLT is on my list of stuff to do. But Dave, I happened on it because actually this entire
month has been very demotivating from the HBO point of view due to the number of issues that we're
having. It's basically every morning wondering what else is going on or going wrong. So. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know. It's been quite messy, hasn't it? Yeah. It's nothing down to Josh.
He's like you, we go, if we, it's nothing about the provider, it's nothing about anybody. It's
just constant stream of things going on. Yeah. Yeah. And it's just a little bit demotivating.
Yeah. I must just to digress a second. The notes here, which contain XML. Boy, did they cause
some problems with internet archive? It's like because they, they store their HTML as XML.
So HTML with XML in it, stored as XML, turns into a bit of a nightmare and getting it to behave
correctly. I found a bug in my in my code for doing this, but they also have bugs at their end,
which I had to work around. So we store it in my SQL and parse it through PHP, which converts it
as well. Oh, it's a mess. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, you know, I get it. I wake up in the morning
and get an email like that for you and I go, oh my god, what are we doing?
The e-pages on stuff where you go, oh, good. I was going out of my nut that evening. I was trying
to solve this problem. And I, the process of writing it down to say to somebody, even if I was writing
it to dev null, I think it's something that I don't really, unfortunately, you're dev null. Sometimes
you get these messages. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that morning, as well, what's not helping is I've,
I had lots of problems with my SSH keys to the HP or site. So I've had to copy and paste my
passwords in and all the scripts that I have to work anymore. So trivial things have become a
pain in the buttocks. And then for some reason, oh, yeah. So now the version of software on the
website is does not reflect what we haven't get. And I have no idea how that's happened because
I've been using Git to push it up to the website. So I am having to go through a merging process.
And the hardest that I have for that was over there and I wasn't working properly and I couldn't
find connectors. And it was just, it's just, you know, some days, some months, Dave, it's just one
thing after another. Oh, yeah. Oh, yes. It's out there. Anyway, it's, it's not. And then, you know,
you have the issues with some, we have enough issues as it is on daily life without some plunker
deciding to make our life misery because they're using up some voluntary resources that somebody
is paying for out of their own pockets. Thank you very much. You wonder, anyway, if they could do a
show explaining their motivation, that would be awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I think you know,
wait a long time for that one, but we can't but try. And by the way, we've had over the years,
lots of hackers who have found stuff on the site and have given us time to deal with it and moved on.
And we appreciate that. And that is, that is definitely something that makes you a hacker as
opposed to a plunker. There you go. The following day, Lost and Brunk shares some thoughts about
the need to talk about addiction. And yeah, this was a fantastic, fantastic episode. And he's right.
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, yes, it's, it's hard to summarize a fact. It's certainly true that
that the whole, the whole issue of mental health is something which is surrounded by
all manner of taboos. Yeah. And of course, the addiction being one element of that is
even more so in some respects. But yeah, we, the, the Victorian view of all this sort of stuff,
I think, has a legacy. And was this, this, and somebody, I think, in listening to a mental
health program on the BBC, the other day. And they were talking about how we're using terminology
from maybe my childhood about mental health issues and we're pointing out these are now, now,
no longer used because they're a Victorian legacy. And, you know, it's, I mean, in fairness,
at the time, they were doing their best, but, you know, things are moving. Yeah. Yeah, sure.
And the, the, the logical part of me goes, well, you know, if you get a photo from time to time,
you should, you get a pain in your foot every now and then, you should, you should not be surprised
that something in your head goes wrong from time to time. So you have just general mental health.
But I mean, his topic was about addiction. And I've seen this, I would argue, though, that
there is no such thing as alcoholism, you know, being able to deal with it. I've, I've seen
lots of families where it has, it has just eaten away like a cancer. Everybody else and the,
the person in question continues on and continues on and continues on and continues on. It's a
horrible, horrible, horrible disease, I think. No, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.
And gambling even, I've seen, yeah, horrible, horrible things. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And, and back to
the smoking thing as well. Yeah, that's it. That's also a deadly, deadly business. Yep. Cool.
Not all, obviously not cool. Just if you are a prediction does affect your life, that is
definitely fallen under the category of things of interest to hackers. Talk to us about
indeed. Following date, server basics 101, clatu endeavors to explain the basics of server
administration. Why? Why? Has this not been a series before? This is beyond me. Yeah, no, it's,
it's so obvious. Yeah, I've never cut to me to do anything like this. I know clatu has been
taking over the network this month, which is great, because I happen to do a call for shows,
but there is now a call for shows out. We need shows. We're on our shows by then the next week.
So yeah, she shows, we know her also have a look at your the about page. Yeah, go to your host page
on the about page, click on about and then on host. And if the number 2017 doesn't come next
to your name or worse, you can find your name on that. Then that will be an ideal time to send in
the show. And if you have any, if you get any errors or anything or if your file is greater than
probably a hundred megabytes, I think, if the file that you're uploading is a hundred megabytes,
just tick the option URL or something uploaded later. And then email the admin or myself,
Kenneth Valenda, and I will figure something out how you can get the show to us. Just plenty of
is an SEP get to my sort of my own server or something. Yeah, yeah, I got FTP to work, but
but it's it's it has its own issues switch off switch off passive mode. Oh, anyway, she has
she in she says, thanks, I made a connection. This is so silly, but I had not recently realized
the aptness of the term server and client, you explained so clearly that the server
computer serves a client computer. Thank you. Yeah, it's I remember the day I had that particular spark
of insight myself. And it wasn't my first day on the job either. It was well into it. Well,
I came from the background of mainframes where there was one computer that the university had one
computer. And you know, so the server client thing was nobody caught use those terms. And then
you know, things changed and people had computers on their desks and stuff in the center,
et cetera, et cetera. And those sort of concepts crept in in an insidious way without really being
all that well explained. And did you ever encounter the X system in the early days where the idea
of server and client was backwards? Yeah, and that's exactly in investigating that. I tweaked
that was exactly that particular day was when I when I first came across the X because I was going
the servers, what the server's running on my machine. Oh, bizarre, bizarre. Yes, yes. Anyway,
0 x f 1 0 e says Solaris. Nice. Nice start. Clare 2. I'll make sure to point
Junius's admins to this series. So was was the third option which isn't really around any more
Solaris? Because open Solaris fork Illumos is in fact six years after Brian Cantrell's fork. Yeah,
the rise and development of Illumos using X talk. Well, I'm having difficulty passing.
Yeah, and he refers to to link there still around. It's the base for distributions like
joint smart OS and the database appliance Delphix and upstream for open ZFS too. So yeah,
don't forget Solaris. Yeah. And we've had interviews with the Solaris
and the Illumos folks. Oh, it's first time actually. Yes, indeed. Then floater 2 said the open BSD
user, I've been running servers since before you were born. Sorry, I have to go back and do that
with an accent. I've been running servers since before you were born. And 1975. And I'm enjoying
this series. It's good to have a series on these taboo things, you know, dah, dah, dah, dah,
excellent. By the way, if anyone wants to do my accent or how you perceive my accent to be,
feel free to do so. Yes, yes. I sometimes do impressions of my own accent. Anyway,
there was a fake Ken Fallon. And his now vanished, I guess. It's a shame.
Get blobs. Klaatu talks about git media and git annex. This, the whole, I don't know, I haven't
a complete brain thing when it comes to git. I have a whole series of commands that I know how to do
but I really just do not get it. I don't understand it. I'm man enough to say it.
Yeah, yeah, I have, I just get on a daily basis really. But it is a case of just doing the
magic thing that you do that, that you've just done lots of times that don't necessarily understand.
It's like the three commands. It's the, it's the escape call on WQ exclamation mark.
I've been using that for years and having noteworthy in VIM, noteworthy did, except this was
the magic key thing that you needed to do to save your file and exit in VIM on tell you did your
series. So I guess we need a series in case guys. That's what we're saying. Yeah, it's a big
subject. It's a big, big subject. Yeah, it starts and we have lots and lots of slots, Dave. We have
216 nice fresh new slots coming up on the first of January, Dave. Yep, when taken. However,
that said, I do have needs to do this very, very, very, very same thing because I've got a
whole group of test scripts that involve ingesting large movies and 4K and AK movies and HD and SD
and I don't want them in git but I do want them somewhere where people who are running them
can get them if they need them. So I have absolutely need for that. Yeah, yeah, it's
not a thing I've encountered. We did not use git at my work or I did but nobody else did and
refused to accept that it was a way to do stuff. That place, university is a strange organisation.
Anyway, I can, I can, I can understand why it's necessary and appreciate its existence, etc. So
that was very good. So the following day we had the Interest 0 RPG play and all I can say about
this one is that why did they stop at this and this is exactly why I didn't want to get into
to this sort of role playing games because I just could not put it down after an hour. You know,
I, it would be an all nighter or nothing. I need to know how it ends. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
it's very much that, isn't it? You want, you want to know. It is like reading, reading that
interesting book. Yeah, you kind of, you just just want to go right to the end and then
and you realise it's four in the morning or something. Yeah, the only problem with that though is
if you've got an interesting book, you can do it yourself. Whereas this, you're keeping people
out of their beds, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know. Like I said, my daughter's into D&D and I think
some of her sessions can be, yeah, can be long. Yeah, the important word of those students.
Yeah, yeah, she's in the final year and I was so she dead. I hope she's not doing too much.
Yes, yeah, that's unhovering the floor. There's two things that you do before your exams.
When I go and when I visit my daughter, I always take it back in cleaner because, yeah, anyway,
no, I never do. I never had a house was always spicken span when it was exam time because, yeah,
I just, anything to avoid studying with me. Oh, clean the fridge. I wish. Yeah, yeah, it doesn't work
like that. It's simply to do less. Anyway, no, that's a good thing. So the following day we had
scanning books. I explained how and why I was scanning schoolbooks and, you know, this is
exactly my point. You put up a show like this after all the shows of Lost and Brong,
so Dave and all the people this month, Mr X and however, you go, oh, why did I bother? Oh, well,
I don't agree. I don't agree. I don't agree. Everybody's, everybody's show has its own merits and
I thought it was fascinating. So no, I don't think you should look at it lower. And I was delighted to
know that there was a thing called graphics magic as well as image magic. So I've done the show on
image magic at some point and graphics magic looks better and realized that image magic could sort
of stuck and and gone a bit moldy along the way. So good for that. Yeah, actually, I heard that
on as a, you know, one of the, I don't know if you listen to the, the podcasts with the guys who
they published the magazine and they're called and they misscapes me now. Oh, you full circle stuff
is no, not the other magazine. The one that did the open source collection on the next
source thing. And then you mean the next voice. Yeah, the next voice, of course. Thank you.
They had one of their segments on one of their, you know, finds of the week or whatever was,
was the graphics magic, somebody from graphics magic had gotten touched at them because they had
mentioned image magic and they had said no, the project is frozen and that they forked and
graphic magic is the, is the one to use. And then bam, and I looked and there was already installed.
So and a lot easier to use a lot clearer documentation. Yeah, very, very nice all round.
Yes, I wrote stuff in pearl using image, image magic library, which was strange and, but it works.
So so I'm interested, it's just to find out what the equivalent is in graphics magic.
Very good. That was great. Thank you for that. And 24 or 31 information underground local control
and I'm really glad information underground has come back. And wow, it's, it's this sort of thing
makes you realize, you know, the, the way Americans think about democracy. It's more so than,
you know, you see the, the two horse race that is the presidential elections. Yes, I know there
are lots of other candidates that don't get the word. But then you see the, the amount of democracy
there is in the local areas. It's fascinating, fascinating to see. Yeah, yeah. So there are local
aspects of British society as well that often get things done that wouldn't get done otherwise.
So that was how I was sort of interpreting what they were talking about. And also there was a lot
of mention of union activity and stuff. Yeah, I imagine unions are very different in the states.
I was quite an active union member when I was working. I've been on picket lines and been and
protested outside parliament and things of that sort. Not to any great effect, but you know,
it's hard to know. But if we hadn't done it, would we would, would we've achieved less? I don't know.
So, yeah, but I don't know. I can't map the one to the other very easily.
Fascinating topic. People do not be afraid to do shows like this. Do not do not be afraid to
to assume that people will know about things in your neighborhood. Do not be afraid to do a show
on how local democracy works in your own area or not. How, how, you know, if you happen to live in
a country that that frowns upon democracy and you feel that your system of government is a good
system or you want to tell us about it, then feel free to do so. That is what H. Burr is all about.
So Zen Flotor 2 says benevolent dictator of the magical forest. I was amused at the Debian
comment about not being transparent. I will accept that. I don't use Debian and the more since
cringe bang has ended, a tier in my own eye. Debian is a community run distro, so is free BST,
so is net BST, so is gen 2, so is void linux and archlinux. Both of the non-transparent
distributions such as open BST, which is run by a benevolent dictator known as Theo,
or slackware, which is run by benevolent dictator known as Patrick, to make really solid distros,
which are great many people love. But as an aged old man, it does make me smile at your comments
of the Floss youth who complain. They simply don't like non-transparent government. Yes,
they stand by their monarch's derived oasis. Not that in complaining that you're human.
Very doubtful. Two shades or two shades. Yes, yes. I had difficulty parsing when I first read it,
but yeah, I think you made it to the point. I was going to read that first. I was going,
why is he going with this? Yes. No, no, he's right. He's right. That's quite an interesting insight
there. Right. The following day, living with Nokia 6, an upgrade to which Dave Morris replied.
Well, Tony was directed one bit of this to me because I'd asked why he was moving on from his
one plus one, and he said it because he can't get 4G on gift gaff. And I said, cheers, Tony,
thanks for the clarification. I'm also on gift gaff, but wasn't aware of the 4G issue issue,
and the one plus one, I scarcely use my phone and I'm currently using a fraction of the data I pay
for each month. So I don't see this being a problem. So I'm really actually just digressing.
Beezer says he doesn't even have a smartphone, and I went, wow, I should do that because I don't
need a lemon smartphone. It's more of a nuisance than anything else. So have you seen the Raspberry Pi
one, the Raspberry Pi zero and there, I haven't, I've not looked into it in detail, but I've heard of it.
Yeah. Oh, I so want that. Especially good. Allow myself an extra six hours when I go through
customs. Oh, wow. It's my phone. Anyway, OWA says Nokia 6 update. I was wondering how the Snapdragon
430 processor is doing with the apps you run. The Nokia 6 interested me when it first appeared,
but I had concerns about the 430 processor. Everything else was a major plus for me, screen size,
fingerprint scanner, NFC, and metal build, any comments, especially compared to other mid-tier
phones like the Moto G5S Plus. It does sound like a nice phone. What do you need for a G?
Just get faster access to you. It's a better bandwidth here. It's pretty cool. I use a
quite a lot, even for certain hotspots and stuff around that the kids can connect.
Oh, right, right, right. My son is still away in the Borrowaway Parts. He's in New Zealand at the
moment. Internet there is pretty crappy where they're going anyway. Backpackers,
hostels, and stuff. They're using a phone to hotspot while they're there. I do appreciate that,
but I don't do that sort of thing. I'm too old. Yeah, I don't know. This is what interests me about
doing it on a Raspberry Pi Zero, because what I want to be able to do is tether my laptop.
Usually, although that said, now I am using my phone more and more and more, not because I really
want to. It's more that I'm forced to with the price of MP3 players. One of my MP3 players,
the battery blew up, and yeah, I can't get a battery. I'm not paying 175 for a used device.
That's, yeah. I know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I'd like a little phone that I could keep
in my pocket, you know, like a shirt pocket, something because one plus one is a great lump of a
thing. Yeah, technically. Tell me about it. Listen to things. It's a ridiculous size thing for me.
I had a, I had a, like, would be nice to have that little Raspberry Pi Zero Fold.
If the battery life was quite good, you could do tethering to like, is there a spire,
one or something, and then so there you have your external device with a keyboard that you could
do some real work, but yeah, I digress. And do you want to ring, read Tony's comment?
Sorry, we're, oh, yes, yes, sorry, Tony, I got, I got completely lost. I replied to,
replied to RWA re app performance. I've been using the phone now for over two months,
and the performance is better than the old one plus one. All the apps I use are snappy and
responsive with no lag that I can detect. I can't compare to any other phone as I've not used
anything else during this time. I'm not a mobile gamer or any type of, for fact. So I,
I cannot say what game performance is like on the phone, but I think it stands up to most mid-range
devices well. If it hadn't been for the 4G issue, I would probably have stuck with the OnePlus
one, just flashed it and saved myself 200 pound, 200 million pounds. That's a hell of a phone.
But I'm happy and my wife will get an upgrade to her Nexus 4 at some stage.
Cool phones, interesting one. Keep them come on about phones.
Yes, the whole only day, you were right, I was wrong. I can eat tumble pie,
where I correct the inaccuracies. I really, really don't like being wrong, Dave. Not that I don't,
I, but I'm so often wrong. That is why I don't like to be wrong. Just happens so often,
and all the time. I went to live with that person. No, I can't, I really can't, and I can't,
I trouble over things that I've said to people like 15, 20, 30 years ago now at this stage.
You know, I, well, I've just found a piece of information that I've proven like.
Oh, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I've been there. Yes, yes. That thing that you suddenly find that confirms
that you're, that you're an idiot, you know, you thought you were an idiot, but now you've got
confirmation. But, you know, slagging off one of the kids at the school that Noel Starski
and Hutch's car is not red with a white stripe. It's gray with a white stripe. Isn't it guys?
Yes, it is. Spot the one guy who had a color TV in class.
Oh, dear. Oh, so easy, so easy. Anyway, Shane, sorry, sorry, we're getting that wrong.
Thanks, Wendy. Go for it. We're getting it right for what we're going to be right.
Oh, there'll be more of these, don't worry. But it's quite, it's some quite interesting stuff.
I haven't read all your links yet. I haven't had a lot of time since that I reheard that one.
The whole twisted pair business has fascinating me because we ran to Supero all over the campus
when I first went to work at that unnamed university. Would you believe when I left there,
I got voluntary severance, which means they pay you to go away. And I had to sign the thing that
said I would never disparage them. So I'm always cautious about even mentioning them.
So, yeah, yeah, yeah, I probably do it. I doubt whether anybody listens to Hutch here.
But the head twisted pairs all over the campus. It was sort of run from lamppost.
So a guy sat on the far side of the campus typing on a terminal, that's just terminal,
so the mainframe over four core to spare RS232 would be very prone to atmospheric issues.
And the day we had a lightning storm on the campus, it just blew all of these
lines to smithereens. All the line drivers had all the chips had a little holes in them
and the lightning hit it and stuff. And the time when I won't go into stopping the second.
But the one where we spent months trying to debug one, only to find that the guy who'd set it up
had swapped the twisted pair. So it started out with the twisted pair. And then one why I went down
another twisted pair and the other one went down another twisted pair. And then they joined back
up again and somewhere else. So it went through cabinets and stuff and he just got lost or he was
having a bad day or something. And they couldn't work out why the signal was so crappy even with
line drivers and everything on it. So yeah, so twisted pairs made me twitch.
I put in a link to a video there on balanced audio and noise reduction. If anyone's ever
wondered why you would have a phantom power in a speaker or no, I'm not even going to say this
because I'm not sure about this. So I'm shitting the hell up now before I have to do another episode.
If anyone wants to do an episode on phantom power and microphones while you need them, please do
that. There's a balanced audio noise reduction video which is quite interesting. I linked to
in that show. It's interesting. So I read Frank's comment. Please do. Frank says best title ever.
See above. And is this the body of his comment? See the time. You're right. I have a
strong that one. There was a that comes from a there was a back in the day when DSM networks
were starting up in Ireland. There was like two a new provider. And their selling point was that
they had voicemail but nobody at a clue what voicemail was because nobody had answering machines either
in Ireland at the time. And they had this ad on the newspaper or on the on the radio. Yeah.
And the premise of it was, you know, this guy was obviously somebody might be guy who
could be a girl. I don't know. They were dialing in their voiceman. You have one new message.
Boop. Hi, John. Oh, I was okay. Hi, John. I'm really sorry about last night. You were right.
I was wrong. Doop. Hi, John. You have one new message. I just kept playing it over and over again.
You were right. I was wrong. You were right. I was wrong. Excellent. I think that one ad in
itself introduced the whole concept of voicemail for everybody. Yeah. Brilliant. That's rather
nice. I tried to several times to look for a copy of that on the internet, but I last can't find it.
Yes. Yes. There's a certain age where things when they reach a certain age that they don't
seem to be on the internet at all. Actually, I think the internet is such a fickle thing.
It maintains memories of things being on the internet, but the things themselves are actually gone
and gone forever and will never come back. Yes. XKCD has a very good cartoon about that,
a very good thing about that. So the library is pretty much the one constant that you have where
you can get access to information over time. It disappears. But we've seen that ourselves on
our shows, Dave, you know, part of the work that you do and that you don't get a half an
up praise for is the archive.org work. And a lot of that has gone back to older shows and they
domains that they were referring to have ceased to exist. The images of the audio has gone,
you know, a lot of the old podcasts that we used to listen to just come to. If it wasn't for
the work of, you know, the internet archive and the memories don't think of the way back.
Yeah, the way back machine and things like that. The archive is out there who are scanning
books and archiving this stuff. And, you know, I don't get me on my high horse about copyright,
just fine and dandy as well. But I think that the scales of balance too much there should be
a requirement that if you have copyright, if you're claiming copyright in a piece of work,
then that piece of work should be archived in three places. That's what the Trinity colleges
were for. That you've got a book, you put it into Cambridge, Oxford and Dublin, that if any of
the, any of those places were damaged in any way that you would have a full copy of the book.
And that happens during World War II, both libraries in Oxford and Cambridge were destroyed,
are were damaged. And quite a lot of the works only survived in Dublin because they were neutral at
the time. So I'm very important stuff. I don't think we have a lot of lost works as a result of
that, but they're not as I get off my high horse and continue talking about the audiobook club,
PC Harris, Cybrosis, say Dave, can I get a... Cybrosis, I think you're right. Yes.
Whoa, there's a first. The synthesizer didn't like it at all, but yes, Cybrosis is what they thought
it was as well. So it's pretty good. And quite a lot of these shows are in the queue. And I'd like to
thank very much these guys for coming back, the audiobook club and Pok and the guys over on
Uranum. I'm very sorry for that trick that they pulled the news. It was not nice. And so I think that
was it for all the shows. I was amazed. I hadn't realized these, these were so old, these
audiobook clubs, because they were talking about how they just heard my show on how I make coffee.
Yes, it's a lot of water. What's going on? They were concerned that putting them in a vacuum jar
would suck the life essence out of the coffee or something, but I don't think so.
That there's a whole load of shows that could follow on from that one, I'm sure.
And they've added a link to their book itself where you can follow on from that.
I do like the book clubs. I've always thought it would be cool to be a member of the book club,
and now I am if more standing outside in the front lawn looking in type of way than actively
participating. It's good. They do a great review. I do enjoy listening to them, but I can't say
I'm going to be rushing out to listen to this book though. It didn't sound that
desirable, but maybe I should give it a try. Give it a go.
Give it a go, and then go. It's going to make up my own mind, but fair enough, that's what reviews
are all about. Note two volunteers, comments marked in green were read in the last community
news show and should be ignored in this one. I don't know why you don't leave those in Dave, because
they were really, that's that's kind of cool. Very nice.
Okay, completely ruining the whole professionalism of this. You get the full
amount to hear, guys. Comments on this show, what I'm talking about is Dave has put in a comment
in the comments to tell us not to mention certain comments. It's been a long running thing,
but there are 44 comments in total, 18 or from nine previous shows. The first one was comment
number four, information underground 21st century superstar, and this was by flat two who commented
on the discussion. Hey, blind date, set frightening having a flying non-sounds probably occur
I found the album in a random kiwi upshop. Oh yeah, this is about, he mentioned a kiwi band and
blind date commented about where more with more information. Clatic continues. Shortly before
moving to New Zealand, I found a Chris Knox CD on the street literally. It was lying in the
gutter and absolutely fell in love with not only Chris's music, but also that general sound and feel.
I've been really enjoying discovering kiwi music and kiwi air in general.
Pretty iwiana. Could be, could be. More likely, probably is. General rule, my pronunciation is
probably wrong. Well, you don't mind me interjecting. No, it's my idea. So the next one was a comment,
comment nine on HPR2378YDocbook. It's got two script episode on Docbook where R2 is commenting
KWNPSA. I took a look at the page, Bob. Good stuff. One addition, there's a missing entry in your
text editor section, Gnu Emax. Probably just an oversight. Hardly hardy hardy hard. They can't leave
it, can they? Frank Bell's episode, free weights and a bicycle. BJB had a comment about a
5bx and a 10bx memory lane. When I was a preteen, my mom brought a 5bx booklet and 310bx
booklets, one for each member of the family. I was never good at being a regular exosyser, but my
mom has done her 10bx routine her whole life. She eventually lost her book, but she still does her
routine three times a week. She's not tapered off though, still stuck at the highest level she
got to, and she's not growing old and wildly. She's not growing old, waddling me smiley face.
What a great memory. Thanks for the show. Cool, eh? Yeah, yeah, yeah. The whole subject of
exercise and continuing it is an important one, I think. It's a good subject to discuss.
Yeah, could get a series any time soon. Or we need more people to send in shows, Dave.
Yeah, yeah, that's a good point, actually, yeah. Never, never, never mention that before.
Just came up. It's just amazing. Right, Pastor Generator by Zolk, Aaron had a comment about
Haystack Passer Generator. And this, what do you think about the Haystack Passer Generator
by GRC.com, who's got a Pastor Generator? It's all pretty cool. Yeah, I remember looking at that
at some stage. Is it not a JavaScript thing that you can access on these pages, aren't the one?
Yeah, I can't remember. Yeah, it looked pretty good, what I could tell. And he seemed to know
it, seems to know what he's doing is Mr. GRC, whose name is, escape me? Gibson. Yes, yes, thank you.
Gibson Research Corporation, or something. So two, three, nine, five is a comment number one,
which is a hookers show on ObamaCare, BJB says, thanks, thanks for your economic series. I find
it very interesting. That's just very difficult. Yeah, comment five to do do do do do do do me using
super glue to create landmarks and keyboards and replying to comments from the community episode.
I agree that I might be able to get permission to use work resources on my own time, assuming there
is information. I'm legally bound not to reveal and doesn't contain proprietary information,
but asking for that permission is more effort than I want to make. I'll see what I can
muster about work resources. Oh, yeah, this was him. We asked during his show, he was talking
about work stuff. And we were saying, oh, go on, get it and stuff. So I ask, you don't know,
the mic does. Yes, yes. I don't think we were suggesting that he broke any confidence or any
sort of that, but but his main frame experiences and so forth. I think there's a, there's a whole
fund of useful and interesting information there that absolutely one would like to hear more.
And you know, if you can't talk about his own experiences, he could talk about Bob's
experiences in the fictitious company working on mainframes. Absolutely. Bob's very handy
for his friend, Abina. So, how about that? Robin, comment six. Yes.
D-O-D-D dummy. That's the way I say it. Anyway, it says control versus function keys.
In the augcast planet ISE channel in free node, Glad to mention the use of this that more people
might have. I had it myself and didn't consider using this. The use is to distinguish between the
left control and function keys on laptops. For example, control is usually in the bottom left
most position on HP laptops, whereas those two keys are reversed on Lenovo's. I've decided,
I've used this method to mark the control on both. For what it's worth, I decided to use three
dots to superglue on a horizontal line on the key because sometimes my finger hits that key
in different places. I chose to mark the control instead of the function key because the control
is the one I need to use most often in the control keys, not the same position and relative
to the function key on different keyboards. That makes perfect sense to me.
It's a great idea. I do like this idea. It's really, really very clever. Oh, yes, you like this,
but my iron and board one, Dave. My iron and board one. Yeah. Oh, there's no superglue. I mean,
they'd be superglue. Yeah, sorry. Then that would have been a whole different ballgame.
Anyway, there was a big discussion on information underground co-op paradise where the guys were
discussing how to start your own server co-op and change channels as well done. This was a fun
episode because of the enthusiasm of the presenters, some intriguing ideas. And BJP,
comment three says indie hosting. Would you be willing to provide DNS secondary or backup email
services? I run my own DNS server and email server, but it's a challenge to find the second
to make my services a bit more robust. I don't really want close friends to do this. I'd like it to
be cast a little wider. It's even hard to convince the ISPs to do it, sadly, but it's hard to find
like-minded people. You guys stand about right, smiley face. And if you like, I can second read me
you as well. To which I replied, do a show on how to set it up on something like a Raspberry Pi,
and I'll be happy to join a pool as well. I have here a fixed IP address with no portal
restrictions, so that's something we can do. It's always something I've always wanted to do is
just mirror my own DNS. I have no idea how to do it, but I have plenty of smaller domains that I'm
happy to test it on. Yeah, yeah. The last comment five from Silver on the same show,
alternate web server. Engine X is a great alternative to Apache web server, so it's silver.
Yeah, a lot of people use it for static webpages and for cloud as well. So call of Clat 2,
HPR Audio Boot Club. Katulu. Yes, obviously. Just set that deliberately to others. You correct me?
D-O-D-D-D-O-Me says there is a link to the audio. Is there a link to the audio you listen to?
Is there a link in the audio cast on the show notes of the episode? If so, I didn't see it,
but I missed it a lot. I found it by looking in the last boot club episode. It is not,
it might be worth adding to the next one. It will be a good idea, actually. Yeah, yeah. I mean,
4L Mussol file unavailable. Plus one for D-O-D-D's dummies comment above, I'm getting lost in the
D's then. However, does I W get minus C on call of Clatulu and gets a 403 forbidden error back?
Yeah, I think I've just opened it in Firefox and it works. Okay. If W get is not working on there,
you might want to try and spoof your user agent, I would say. Okay. And if you want,
if you want, maybe you should do a show about stuff like that as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I don't
have time to, sorry, I really genuinely don't have time. I need to fix this git mess and stuff.
So the last comment in the old comments that we like to do is to episode 406 in 2009,
in shine by Clatulu, and it's Cobra too, who was actually being interviewed, if I remember correctly,
says show notes. Reference to UnixPawn.com needs to be updated to UnixPawn.pro. We have lost
the original domain and it now leads to not safer work content. Well, I did, I edited that show
and but a little editors note against it. I didn't comment it, but I assumed anybody seeing the
comment will also see the, yeah, the notes had been modified. So, so yeah. Link adjusted in
the accordance with the comment one. That's pretty clear, I think. Who is it? Another XKCD,
all eventually, all websites redirect to a porn site. Yes, it's the whole domain thing of
domains falling off. Yeah, the edge of the world is a total claim. It's, it is when you do a project
like this HBR, it's really a, it's really, it's been fascinating for me. The stuff that you think
helping out on a network like this would be about actually turns out most of your time to spend
thinking about, you know, really weird issues like how to give more people involved and the
ratios of people who contribute to stuff. So, you end up listening to, to shows on, you know,
crowdsourcing or whatever and the whole archivist problem because our shows were around so long.
It's just fascinating. It's a really fantastic opportunity. We've had day, I know I've been a bit
down and depressed, but that probably has a lot to do with the Northern hemisphere and the light
disappearing. It's a bit of an issue, it's just a problem here. But it really is fascinating. They,
they issues that we have, that we deal with here compared to like stuff that we deal in work,
in work about maximum availability and high thingy. You know, this is completely different
kettle of fish, you know, long term RSS feeds that are going to be pulled in the hours, in the,
in the magnitudes of 24 hours as opposed to like microseconds and you're dealing with years as
opposed to months. It's just a very unique, unique sort of project that's going on here and
it's absolutely fascinating to work on it. It is, it is. Yes, yes, the, the long longevity issue is,
is a fascinating one because I was interested to, I mean, I am interested to look at other people
in their relationship with the archive.org and quite a lot of people use it as a repository for their
audio, but they don't do what we're doing and put the entire, or attempt to, and it might
to put the entire episode up there. So, you know, you can, you can follow HBO on, on archive.org
pretty much. They can't see the comments, you know. So, I'm, I'm a great advocate of what we're
doing actually. So, yeah, it's tough. It's tough what we're doing. Well, you're doing
particularly. And it's disheartening that, that, you know, the resources that are being given to us
kindly and every time I have to fire off an email to Josh and we are not again, you're just,
he, he must also wake up. Oh, God, this guy's complaining again of us. And you know, if, I know for
myself that if I was paying for this and work, at the level of response, I get, not my, not necessarily
this work, but the amount of commitment that Josh has to really this anonymous toast. If you wanted
to recommend an honest toast to your company, I really would do it without a shadow, without a
problem. Absolutely, no problem. It's the level of service that you get from essentially if you
guys is fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. And it's, it's cool. Absolutely. When you look back, maybe on the
year and the number of different shows that we've got in about different topics, it has been
absolutely fascinating. But also, yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yes. Absolutely. We, yeah, we don't stop
and think about this often enough, perhaps. Yeah. I think we, I think we actually should do and
and speaking of a time when you can stick back, relax and talk about stuff that's coming up,
is the new year show by put on, put on this year again, like last year by Honky Mugu, who have
offered to look after Hitchbarr New Year's show event again this year. They say we plan on starting
on 2017 1231 T 10 0 0 0 so 21st of December as 5 AM Eastern Standard Time. We will stop the
recording and the stream as long as there is no one on as 2018 0 1 0 1 T 12 0 0 0 0 0 0 as 7 AM
Eastern Standard Time. If people are still on, we'll keep the stream and the recording going.
Full further details are available on the mailing list and on the linux logcast website. So we will,
I'll probably start the stream, I'll start the stream on when the first, well, at the time 10
and we will then continue on. Probably be up before that and probably after us and
thanks again for honky for taking this over and you know Kevin is involved in that and loads of other
people. So it's really cool that they're doing it that I don't need to worry about that because it's
it's basically now it last year was so much more relaxed for me that I could just take the time
with the kids and chill out and then actually coming up to the mic and then having a chat with people
it was just nice. So what I'd like is people to come on and amid all the talking and stuff just
tell us what your coolest show was for the year and what surprised you what you'd like to hear
more about and stuff like that and also please remember to type in links in the in the ether chatter
and they put them in the in the stream or somewhere so that makes it a lot easier for people to
get the show notes. Okay, cool. Yes, loads of that. No, it should be good. So while we're on the
any other business I just comment that as I like to do that we had a couple of contributions to the
Tag and Summary Update project from Windigo and BJB in the last month. So we're gradually
whittling away at that particular problem. So thanks to them. Cool, thanks Steve and thanks
for doing that. Do you want to check the mailing list at all? Yeah, there's no. Don't think there's
a loss this year. There isn't a huge lot. No, no. Goes like that sometimes. Ham Radio Round Table,
SteveSander.net. Let's put that on. The size is down, continuing issues with people. All I can say
is yeah, stick with those folks. It's HBR might not be here today but it will definitely be here
tomorrow. So yeah, I've wind on enough about that. Focus more on the positive. They really cool
stuff that people have done and if you have not submitted a show this year it would be an ideal
time to do it and there are 260 nice clean slots opening up on the first through January. So go
look forward to that coming up. Cool. Anything else? Nope, that's it. Okay,
tune in tomorrow folks for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
All start. Okay folks.
