Episode: 2785
Title: HPR2785: What is uCPE
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2785/hpr2785.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 16:48:10

---

This is HPR episode 2007-185 entitled, What in UCP, It is hosted by A.N.U.B. and in about
7 minutes long, and Karimanec's visit flag, the summary is a short talk on telco networking
standards.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
It's a web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good day.
My name is JWP, and today I want to talk to you about a topic that I found at the Linux
Open Networking Conference in Amsterdam.
Ken Fallon was nice enough to get me a press pass for this event.
I want to talk to you about UCPE and what is it?
It stands for Universal Customer Primus Equipment, little U, capital C, capital P, capital E.
It's getting a lot of tension, but what is it?
UCPE consists of a software virtual network functions, which are VNFs, which I covered
in a prior podcast, running on standard operating system hosted on a cloud server.
The ideal CPE deployment supports multi-vendor multi-component construction, such as U, CPE,
and brings the power of the cloud to the telco network, and is a gateway to innovation.
Service proprietors such as AT&T and Verizon use U, CPE as a way to gain full benefits of
the NFV.
These benefits include separation of network appliances to ensure hardware and software
components from multiple vendors.
Using off-the-shelf cots, capital C, capital O, capital T, capital S, servers to ride the
cost curves, using a mix of open source and commercial software components, and providing
partnership with customers and suppliers.
That's the short version.
There's several talks, so it looks like U, CPE is the after version of VCP, which was
virtual CPE gateway to NFX success, and UCP attributes, and there's a lot of benefits
for why service proprietors need to use universal CPE.
They're saying that it's just disruptive technology, and I clicked on the link, and it comes
up with some fidget-to-routers that use this technology, and it's here.
So again, the universal CPE or UCP is one of the most compelling use cases of the network
function virtualization or NVF, currently attracting interest of hosted service providers.
UCP provides a remotely manageable platform on which hosted service providers can easily
deploy, modify, or delete VNS over a wide area networks or wands.
Audio-COTUS UPC platform integrates, and Intel server module, which can run multiple
UCPs and conjunctions with embedded physical network functions or PNF required for both
hosted business and communications, and so basically you have a networking thing with
Intel CPU in it, and the benefits of it is that it's remotely manageable and simple
life operation and reduces op-PEX, and it's a single platform that holds multiple NFS.
So that's what these guys are selling, and so basically it's just a way to manage
your UNF is what I get from it.
If you look at the slides from the summit, it's sort of like you can have a company that
uses this technology and you sort of sell services or products to the host provider.
So this is sort of like a little micro industry, so again, UCP consists of software virtual
network functions, which VNS, if you talked about earlier, running on a standard operating
system hosted on an open server, an ideal UCP deployment supports multi-vendor, multi-book
component construction, such as UCP brings the power of the cloud to the telco network,
and is a gateway to innovation.
So it's basically the same thing on all the pages, on all the pages, so that's what it
is.
For me, it's something, of course, all of these technologies are really, really brand new,
and you only started seeing them in about 2017 in any of the articles, so mostly articles
are spring and summer of 2018 on the internet about it.
All right, hey, so this includes my UCP thing, and again, it sort of works on top of V
and F, and it's the UCP is the next generation of VCP.
All right, hey, thank you so much for your time.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binwave.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a light, digital license.
