Episode: 2578
Title: HPR2578: LinuxLUGcast 102 the lost episode
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2578/hpr2578.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:12:12

---

This is HPR Episode 2578 entitled Linux LG Cast 102 The Lost Episode.
It is hosted by Honki Magu and is about 233 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Linux Log Step Episode 102 The Lost Episode.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi, I'm Honki Magu.
So today what I have for you is Episode 102 with Linux Log Cast, which will probably
be here being known as the Lost Episode of the Linux Log Cast.
So we are an open podcast slash log that meets the first and third Friday of every month,
which sometimes leaves it open to basically anybody enjoying, which is exactly what we wanted.
And in the case of Episode 102, it kind of, well, it wasn't bad.
It was just that we try to keep, you know, the language to kind of a minimum and try to
save, we try to keep our episodes kind of safe for work.
And this person came on and it was kind of turned into a little less than safe for work
language wise.
I think the content was still there, but I really didn't want to take the time and effort
to kind of go through and censor it.
To be fair, I probably should have let the person know ahead of time that we try to keep
things a little low key language wise, but I didn't.
And I still think it was a good episode, but I do not want, I do not think it should
be published on the regular podcast post that I've, we're kind of going through a transition
when it comes to the website and whatnot.
So I still wanted to get Episode 102 out to the community for people to listen to.
And also kind of try to bring some people back to the Linux logcast because the big thing
is with the changing of the website, the org feed has changed.
The MP3 feed is still the same, but if people are subscribed to the org feed, they're going
to have to go to the website and re-subscribe to the new org feed.
I was able to get the MP3 migrated over to the new website, but the org did not, at least
I haven't been able to get it yet and I think I'm just going to commit using a new org
feed.
So yeah, just be prepared that this is a not necessarily safe for work episode, but I
still think it is an interesting episode of Linux logcasts.
And like I said, we're an open podcast log and we do invite anybody and everybody to join
us every 1st and 3rd Friday of the month because really 5150 net minor and myself sometimes
run out of things to talk about and it's nice to have fresh blood around to talk about
things.
Anyways, I'm done rambling, so without further ado, episode 102 of the Linux logcasts.
Yeah, yeah, LLC stream 1 stream will be live in a few MNutes, MNutes, huh?
Still have text to talk turned on, I better look at that.
I'm just really curious as what salary range they're looking at.
Are you taking your kid with you if you go?
Oh, you fucking know it.
That's what the rage fest was about earlier.
She was back home telling people that I pretty much blocked her access to her kid and
shit when she hasn't even tried contact with him since January 27th.
Yeah, she don't want to go down that fucking road with me, I promise you that, bro.
So how do you like on the server?
Like in what?
The server.
Oh, yeah, I like it.
It's pretty freaking badass.
Need to do, I need to get that somba thing figured out.
I think it could make it a little bit easier for transferring some files, but it's working
pretty slick.
Yeah, I just end up using SCP anymore.
I haven't set up a somba in a while.
I really didn't think it was that much work to mount a drive, but I suppose it is when
you're trying to mount a Linux drive in Windows.
Well, somba, if I remember correctly, originated from Windows.
Right on.
Speaking of Windows, did you listen to that podcast I sent you the other day about Microsoft
and Linux?
No, yeah, but I have been watching the news on that.
That's kind of fucked up, to be honest with you.
What was it?
Well, they've been buying.
Glad, Joe.
Well, I didn't say shit.
No, he asked you what the article was.
I don't remember the name.
I'm not sure.
I look good.
No, what was it about?
That's pretty much how Microsoft is buying influence into Linux.
They've actually got themselves a seat on the board of the directors, so it's kind of
fucked up, you know.
What the kernel?
What's that?
Well, there's no, besides basically the thing that would be considered Linux, I guess,
would be the Linux kernel.
So they have a seat at the table of the kernel, which I'm not sure you can.
I know they're contributors to the kernel, both financially, and I think they contribute
back with their Azure stuff, they think they've started contributing back to the kernel.
Yeah, they're platinum members, which being a platinum member allows you, I guess, access
or a possible seat on the board.
And of course, that's what they got is a nice seat.
I think they ended up having to pay a minimum of like $500,000 just to get on the board.
Right, but you know, it's still like, the Linux kernel from my understanding is just basically
the thing that controls everything.
So having a seat at the board of that isn't like, I don't know, I don't think of it the
same as if you had a seat at the table of Microsoft versus having a seat at the table of the
Linux kernel.
A little in the fact that as far as I know, everything still goes through Linux and unless
something happens to him, there's, you know, not anything really suspicious going to happen.
Or people worried that Microsoft being platinum members of the Linux kernel was going to change
the Linux kernel or change the way Linux is.
From what this sounds of it is, the guy was just making a comment that, you know, by
them being on the board, that it gives them, I guess, a little extra power and, you know,
can use it as manipulation.
And then they were saying something about what the hell was it can be just me and I'm
trying to go back to it.
And it's here so I don't know if I like this push to talk.
It keeps kicking me out of my app.
What are you using plubble?
Yeah, but I have this stupid thing set up on my phone for payments.
And when you swipe from the bottom, it comes up.
Well, every time I hit the push to talk, it like pops up this payment thing and kicks my plumble off.
So I think there are other settings in plumble where you can map the push to talk to other
buttons.
I believe that's true.
It's been a while since I've played around with the settings.
I never wanted to actually do that.
So I think you can map things like the volume button to control that or other buttons.
Ha ha.
I figured it out.
Did you find that the section be able to map push to talk to key?
Yep, got it mapped to the volume down now.
Right.
I was hoping to do it to the Bixby button, but they wouldn't accept it.
Even in that manner.
Good evening.
Good news.
Full house tonight.
Yeah, I don't think 5150 is coming tonight.
I think there might be a penguin come.
Boy, the bag's made it come on and then sits there and has this audio off.
What a dick.
So Joe, what do you do?
I'm a field technician from my own company here in Iowa.
What type of things are you talking about?
Sorry, wait, what's that?
Sorry, wait.
Go ahead.
Oh, I was just saying I'm actually in the middle of the job offer from this company on
a California.
They've been kind of begging me to come out there.
So kind of mulling that one over and trying to work out a good, a good pay rate.
What type of things are they looking for you to do?
They mainly do video conferencing.
I've done, I've done a little bit of video conferencing, but mainly I just do a little
networking, breakfix, work on how these kiosk for the jails, I do all kinds of crap.
Any work with any Linux systems or run any Linux test hubs?
Just learning Linux a little bit, Joe actually helped set up a server I got, actually scored
pretty big.
I did a site decommission and scored massively big server, pretty good size at least.
What is it you're planning to do with this server?
Right now I am just pretty much using it as a multimedia host or a server and then trying
to learn Linux with it, learn server admin with it, just kind of playing, I guess.
I have this saying I don't really want to, I mean, I want to sell it at first, but the
price of this thing new versus what I can sell it for, it's just like, man, am I ever
going to own a server of this value again?
Yeah, but the one thing with those is, I mean, is it like a big old rack like blade server?
I'm not, it's like a desktop on steroids pretty much, but I believe you can actually mount
this in a rack, although boy, that'd be pretty strong rack to mount this thing.
What are the specs on it?
Oh, I know it's got, I believe 48 gigs of RAM, it can have two CPUs and it only one
right now and it's a six core with hyper threading, it's a pro line at ML350, GEN9 server.
Damn.
Yeah, it's got eight, yeah, eight, 900 gigabyte hard drives in it.
You need to find something really, really, really cool to do with that because, I mean,
you could use, you could use a single board computer just for some regular, you know, media
server type things, but a giant ass honking machine like that, you got to find some good,
good thing to do with that.
Any suggestions?
Off-hands?
No, because running it in the house, I mean, as a learning machine for all sorts of heavy
duty type things, I'm sure you could, you know, spin up, you know, duty regular lampstacks
and, I don't know, other type of web server type stuff, that matter, you got a suggestion?
Yes, I have a suggestion that he, look at YouTube motions.
That machine could run a lot of emulators and systems in network, anything from a back
so on up.
I could run a lot of emulators, virtual machines, on top of virtual machines, all at the
same time, and not break a sweat, electricity applied via through the roof, but the machine
itself won't break a sweat.
Yeah, he's got to set up for thin clients to connect to it, spin off almost as many
desktops as he wants.
I'm sure.
It's a fun little toy for free.
Yeah, and you were talking about Samba earlier.
So the older version of Samba, I was able to set up, and the biggest pain in the butt
about Samba is setting up the configuration file, because they want the configuration
file to be very secure.
So by default, everything on there is very, very secure, the different permissions for
different clients and stuff like that.
So when I set up my Samba drive, I pretty much set it up as basically just wide open, because
the only person who is going to be accessing this, that Samba drive is me, like nobody
else in my house is probably ever going to touch that Samba drive until they're probably
much older.
My wife probably never will, and my kids maybe when they're older, we'll figure out how
to use it, or I'll show them how to use it.
I'm the only one using it, and I don't want to sit there and struggle with permissions
on things every time I want to try to access it.
So I just set it as full open permissions, and I pretty much set that thing up.
Like I tried setting up the old way, it didn't work, I had to fight to figure out exactly
what the hell I did wrong, and then I finally got it working right, and I pretty much just
left it.
So I don't remember how I did it.
I can probably go on to the server.
I have a little, I think it's B, Raspberry Pi B Plus, as my Samba server, it does, right
now it's doing just Samba and MediaTomb, and that's it, and it works fine, but I could
probably, I could probably go on there and try to figure out the config file, if you want
me to.
No, I used to have the same idea about Samba just leaving it wide open, anybody could connect,
and then my kids started getting older, I got a 14 and 15 year old, so I'm going to
set access restrictions.
Yeah, if you want to go back, well, probably won't want to go back, but in our previous
episodes, I did an episode on Samba about how I actually got this thing set up and set
it up as it's completely open, and I think I shared that config file, I don't know, I'd
have to search.
So, Kay Wischer set his up with permissions for, his kids were, we're still at home and
they were older, they were like high school age, so he set up permissions for himself and
his kids for accessing it, and there was all different types of permission levels, and
he had a decent config file.
Wonder how well that thing would work for mining coin.
Some of the coins that you can't mine with graphics cards or the ASICs, it would probably
do really well, the ones that require RAM and processor, so it should do well with, I
think, what Monero is set up that way.
That should be a fun little test.
Well, I can probably set it up later for you and we can see.
You might want to look around for that second CPU if you're going to make it a CPU server.
And if you set the settings really high for mining, you might as well just get used to
having a jet engine in your living room.
Oh yeah.
Wow, I'm not used to that at all.
It's actually quite nice because it really doesn't fire off very often unless, you know,
I mean, whatever OS it had on it before, it seemed like it fired off really hard with
that, but yeah, it just seems to be pretty quiet most of the time.
I can definitely tell when, you know, someone starts logging in on it or whatever.
Real speed up real quick, but then it just levels out and it's pretty quiet.
Which OS are you running on it?
Ubuntu server.
Ubuntu server made setting up X to go kind of fun.
How is X to go?
I love X to go.
I use it almost every day.
I mean, between my server, Joe's server, my main desktop, I have it set up on my laptop,
but I don't think I've ever actually logged into it from there or to there.
A really great way to spin off another desktop.
I mean, it's not like what desktop sharing or anything like that.
So I can't see what anybody else is doing, but if I want to spin off a desktop of my
own and act like I'm using my home computer or my server, then I can.
Okay.
So it's not really like a VNC, it's logging in as like a separate client onto the machine.
Yeah.
It's kind of like then just having a thin client anytime you want, just spin off another
desktop.
Yeah.
It sounds like a great thing to use on.
I have a couple of machines that have lots of nice big screens and then I have some
that don't have that much screenage and being able to use the big screen desktops as display
machines while everything else is just handled by the server side.
Sounds like a win to me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a great way to do it.
It's also a great way to access the pies if I don't want to just use, well, it used
to be.
I've had trouble setting it up on the most recent ones, um, X to go.
It used to be a great way to access the Raspberry Pi and still have the graphical interface
and not have to worry about SSH.
I would like to find a nice Android version of it.
There isn't one I've been looking for years.
There you go.
Get the right in that program.
The shame about the Raspberry Pi because if anyone needs a remote desktop solution, it's
the pie.
Right.
Especially with the, um, Gen three pluses, uh, getting POE support any day now.
They still don't have that hat out yet.
Well, I don't know.
I've seen hats, but I don't know whether they're, whether they're blessed or not.
I don't know.
I can't picture a single board computer as anything besides say a small single purpose
server.
Well, yeah, I work about every day on package lockers.
What's package locker?
You'll see them in these really fancy apartment buildings.
It's pretty much so the mailman will come there, drop a package into the locker they
actually go on.
They can request either a small medium or large locker, a door will pop open.
You know, it doesn't have a package in it.
They delivered into there than the, uh, the, the, the renter gets a message either on
their email or a text message that they have a package waiting for them.
And it's got a little code in there.
They go down to the locker.
They enter the code.
The locker pops open, take their package and go on about their business.
Are you saying you set up, uh, you've set up these before?
I set them up like probably weekly.
I am either repairing them or installing them.
That's pretty cool.
Amazon is also using something like that in a lot of places.
I mean, I got a 711 here who's got an Amazon, uh, drop box arrangement like that.
Yeah, I haven't seen any of those yet.
I've done both, uh, parcel pending and, uh, Luxor lockers, parcel pendings built a little
different.
I'm not sure what they use for a controller, but, um, with, uh, with Luxor, it's a Raspberry
Pie.
And then they have a, uh, kind of an adapter board on it to run each lockers, electric
lock, dumb as saying, I think with the Luxor ones, though, is that they use an iPad as their
control interface.
So what is, where are the Raspberry Pi is running?
In the lockers?
Yeah.
Um, I'm not really quite sure what they're running.
Um, I don't really get into the, I don't really have to ever access the Pi programming.
Um, I do most of it, uh, all of the settings we do from a app that's on the iPad.
It's, um, you know, proprietary app they have that controls the, uh, the Raspberry Pi.
It pretty much just acts as like a, uh, what do you want to call it, like a, uh, remote
access for, like, they can track everything with that thing.
They can remotely, uh, open the door, watch a package being delivered, picked up all that
with the Pi.
That's really cool.
It is, but at the same time, it's a pain in the ass.
Job security for sure.
That's funny.
It's been, they've came out with these new ones is these Gen, Gen fours.
And actually it's not funny, it actually really pisses me off.
They, they say that these things are, uh, uh, uh, made in the USA, right?
Well, sorry, that is totally bogus.
They're not made in the US.
They assembled in the US, but to me, those are two completely different things.
And you could definitely tell the quality of the work.
I mean, they're, the doors are showing up so janky and stuff that it like I'm having troubles
getting them lined up and, um, the, the whole thing using a Raspberry Pi to do it.
I mean, yeah, while the Pi is a great solution, there's, I think a whole lot better solutions
that would, uh, clean things up quite a bit, especially with the whole using a, uh, an
iPad as your, um, control screen or whatever.
That's just the stupid to me.
Right, cut costs by getting the Pi and then use an iPad.
Yeah, somebody wasn't thinking I'd, you know, and like they have a lot of problems with
it.
Um, you know, for one, you have to put that iPad in like single app mode.
Well, sometimes single app mode likes to, you know, mess with a person too when it tends
to, when it does a reboot, um, it won't always go back into single app mode, which is kind
of a problem, um, because you can't do shit if, uh, if it doesn't go back in because
the only way to access the home button is to actually get into the locker itself and
take out the screen and yada, yada, yada.
So it's, it's quite the pain in the butt.
So each individual locker is being, uh, controlled by an iPad.
So they, let's say you have a bank of them, like a bank of six lockers, uh, each bank
holds or has like 15 locker doors.
Each bank has a raspberry pie in it, um, to control those doors and then we run a network
cable from the pie to, um, a router and then of course a power cable goes to them.
So then there's one main locker, um, that has the, uh, the iPad that ends up controlling
all six banks.
The iPad works as a server.
Right.
Yep.
Oh my god, really?
Yeah.
It's see, so they use this, you know, proprietary app called, uh, just called Luxor Luxor
something and it's, um, yeah, pretty much you're just in there, you, uh, the only thing,
like admin you really do in there is you can set up the servers, um, you can, you know,
manly open up each locker stuff like that, but, uh, other than that, like all the other
control would be done, um, remotely from, from Luxor's servers.
So if I was designing something like this, I'd almost have like, I don't know, see, I
don't know if like an Arduino would be cheaper way to go or whether you'd have like an
Arduino that was basically run by a Raspberry Pi or have a bunch of Raspberry Pi's, have
it run by another Raspberry Pi.
I mean, I, I can understand the advantages of a, um, not necessarily an iPad, but like
a tablet because you have something that is, whether your application is, obviously this
one is meant for like Apple, but I mean, if the, uh, the thing running everything is,
like if you have it web based or even SSH based or something like that, you have, you
know, the, the screen and the machine all in one little thing that you can attach to
this to be able to control all of them, but I mean, uh, to have basically all of it run
on, you know, the Raspberry Pi, the Raspberry Pi is just as the controllers and then, uh,
there's got to be a cheaper way.
I mean, I, I don't know how much about Arduino's, but they always seem to be like the lower
end of things.
I don't know, has anyone else played with like Arduino's or, I mean, chips, I mean,
I, I figure like a chip computer is supposed to be what, $10.
That's got to be able to do the exact same thing as, as a Raspberry Pi in this situation,
right?
Yes, or a pi zero, which is five dollars.
Right.
I mean, it's, it seems like it's very basic stuff that the, that the controller is doing.
There's got to be a cheaper way to go.
Raspberry Pi, my, my opinion, Raspberry Pi, like I said before, is, is,
is use more as like a single-purpose server as opposed to other things, but that you could
probably get cheaper.
That would be used better for like controller boards.
Well, the question is, how much of that remote access stuff is handled by the iPad and how
much is handled by everything else?
Maybe the pi just controls the servos.
And again, if that's all that they're doing, I'm wondering whether something like an
Arduino, because that's, that was the basic idea of Arduino's.
They're pretty much just, you know,
controlling things like that.
But I don't know, like price-wise, where an Arduino would fit in that.
That's why I'm thinking like a, like a, like a Pi W or something like that would work.
It's probably been 10 years or so since I bought an Arduino, but they used to be about
$15.
I'm sure the prices come down and they've made smaller and cheaper Arduino's.
So, yeah, especially if you're buying them in bulk for something like that, you could get
them insanely cheap, especially since all the Arduino's, if I remember right, the hardware
is open source and you can build it yourself out of cheap Chinese parts.
And that would definitely make sense to do something like that and then have like a Raspberry Pi.
Even have like the Raspberry Pi as like the server controlling all of the other things and then
have something that go back up to whatever the home office is.
And then you can just kind of walk up and be able to lock it, log into whatever the
home office is to be able to control all the other things or like have a bring something
with you to be able to plug into the system.
I don't know.
There's, there's got to be a better way, but it seems to work well for them, I guess.
Well, it works how well is questionable.
Well, it sounds like the only reason that they have the iPad in there is that in single application
mode, they can eat the processing power with whatever crappy code that they throw at the unit.
Yeah, the iPad is like, like it's literally the interface for both the,
the, the resident and the, the mail carrier access.
And then of course, I do very, you know, troubleshooting from there.
I mean, I can fire off doors, things like that.
I'm pretty sure that's what they use to do their remote access to.
But at the same time, I'm not quite sure because, um, see, they also say that they have to
have the pie connected as well as the tablet.
I know they just have to have the pie connected.
Yeah.
So the pie actually does the remote connection as well.
So can you not like, um, instead of accessing the iPad, if you're, uh,
if you were going to pick up your package, be able to log into this service and be able to
connect directly into their servers, be able to say, like punch in a code or say,
I am here type of a thing and then have it open up or do you have to access that iPad?
You have to access iPad.
Um, there's a little on the screen, he is pretty much, you know, touch the start.
And then I'll ask you for a, uh, pick up or a drop off code.
So I think somehow Apple has been able to sell themselves as being the durable machine
for this type of purpose.
And I'm not sure, you know, how or why or, but they, but they've been able to do it.
They've been able to sell themselves as, um, they've been able to sell themselves to businesses
as the durable machine, as this is something that you could use for this interface for,
it's like an all-in-one interface for this. You're not going to need anything else.
Um, you know, so companies like I've seen vendors, uh, who work in like, um, do orders and stuff
in, uh, uh, let's say a chip vendor, you know, uh, why is potato chips or something like that?
We'll go into different store, retail outlet stores and to order their stuff.
They would use a lot of times they'll have like an iPad or, um, I know my mother's a sales rep
for a company and they have, they given her an iPad to be able to sit there and, uh,
put all of her purchase orders in. So somehow they've been able to, uh,
Apple's been able to market themselves as being this durable machine for this type of a purpose.
Well, it's the, it's a variation of the old, uh, nobody ever got fired by buying IBM.
And it's an awful, uh, over-priced solution. I mean, an iPad to literally
log in to, uh, I mean, it's, it's pulling remote data. I mean, it's, it's talking to their servers
simply to say, yes, open this locker. No, you know, don't open this locker, blah, blah, blah.
It's a pretty expensive, um, solution for that, I think. I mean, you know, when you have the
each individual, um, raspberry pie in there in each bank of lockers and you add in that iPad,
in the main, I mean, that becomes quite expensive when it can be done super cheap. I mean,
way cheaper than what they're doing. And, um, you know, I believe that, uh,
uh, parcel pending has kind of got it down. I'm not sure what they're using for controllers,
because literally when they come, um, there, uh, it looks like it's in a, a computer case, you
know, like their main door, like it slides open and then there's just like computer case thing.
All of the wires just plug into there. Um, we have no access to actually see the controller
board ever, um, unless, you know, there's something that fries inside and we have to replace it.
And most of the time they just send out a whole new, uh, controller and you never access the
inside of it. So out of curiosity, in your opinion, what would you use besides the iPad?
Well, the way, um, parcel pending does is they have a, just a touchscreen monitor,
um, and then it plugs into their little controller, um, and it's running nothing but some basic,
uh, um, you know, proprietary software. I mean, I don't think it has anything else loaded on it,
but it boots to this one software. That's it. Like, it's not even, you can usually tell when it's like,
uh, um, something where it's like in single app mode or whatever, you'll usually see some sort
of boot screen or whatever. And this literally like boots right up into this, uh, this application.
And that's it. So you're guessing that it's something like, I'm gonna guess and say, well, uh,
what type the, um, the, the other service that doesn't use the iPad is what type of
machine is that running. So in my experience with a lot of these, um, smaller machines are geared
towards one thing. I'm assuming, um, I find that some of them are running the, um, windows,
there's RSE. I'll figure out the hell it's called, but the, uh, the, the, the really cheap
single-purpose version of it. But then other ones, they've kind of given, they've, uh, kind of
gone away from that and actually gone into Linux based systems because it's a lot easier to do
it that way than having all the bloats of windows just to be able to run one application.
And you're right. That's, that's probably like the best way to go is to find a decent touch screen
that the price of a decent touch screen and then just have something simple running in the background.
Why even do that? Wouldn't it be better just to have the pie there as, you know, the smartest part
of the machine and then have a phone app that connects to a server that sends a signal to
the pie and then have the pie open stuff? It is, but that would require that all people have a phone
app. And I think it is a specific phone application. Right. And which would then exclude those people
who either don't have, uh, phones that have that can actually do applications or people who don't
actually have like smartphones. Well, you could also set it up to, um, accept text message codes
as long as it's the proper code from the proper number. That's actually a really good idea too.
Yeah, well, some of us don't have phones that can do texting. But that works on of the same idea.
So I've played with this long time ago and I don't remember which direction I can go with it.
I have played around with the ability to send an email that would, uh, even so,
he wouldn't be able to, he wouldn't have anything that could send the email in the lobby with you
with you unless you had like a smartphone. Did I say anything? Well, you could still do it even then
as long as you had a touch tone phone, a phone call and a specific series of touches.
Yeah, I've actually worked with building those interfaces. Uh, don't know if they're still
available or how, how available they are. Yeah, I think having some sort of a touch in your face
for just people to be able to, well, people who don't have phones to be able to do it.
Just a very simple one. He wouldn't even, it wouldn't even need to be that big of a screen.
It would just be able to have like either you were sent like what a pin number or you've given
your, uh, you're put in your name and a pin or how do, uh, how do people actually log into these
things? Do they do their name and a pin number or like their email address and a pin number or
just a pin number? All they get is a, uh, just a pin number, uh, sent to their email or their,
their phone and then they use just that number to get the, get the package and actually what
happens is when you, you use it, uh, you log in with, like I said, you just enter this number and
um, it'll recognize it as a pickup number. It will snap a picture of your face and then, uh,
you'll click continue and then the box, the, the locker will open and you grab your package out.
So really all you need is a keypad. Yeah, it doesn't really have to be a touch screen.
If you're just entering in like a four-digit number or even like four-digit number,
it's still all you need is a keypad, unless they add like, uh, you know, uh,
uh, alphabet to a two and then you just need a keyboard.
Yeah, it's just, uh, just numbers and, uh, actually just having a keypad would be better
anyways because, um, some of these things go outside so whether proofing touch screens is
probably not as easy as you think. Right? So you just need a keypad and then maybe like a
very small, uh, a very small screen just to be able to, uh, display what you're punching in because
as most people know, punching in a number sometimes, whether you feel like, oh, I just move my
finger over or I hit accidentally, hit two fingers at the same, uh, two fingers, two buttons at
the same time. It's nice to have something that actually shows what you're punching in. Agreed.
All right, so just so everyone knows tonight, um, I have absolutely zero topics for tonight and
I'm finding that, uh, just general conversation is, is probably the way that we're going to go.
So I'm going to forego the whole reading of an intro and stuff like that and just keep going
with what we're doing. Yes, the Linux lug cast, Uncho. So have you been enjoying Plex?
Who was that talking to me? Yeah, Joe. Yeah, I have actually, uh, I had him shut the cable off.
Now I'm on the, on the mission of trying to find an IP phone service that will work with these
Cisco phones. Um, have you done any searching on the various open source PBXs that are out there?
And I'll tell you, they, they're not all that easy to set up. No, I haven't done any that I've
found a couple of options. I mean, I'm, there's a ton of VOIP services out there and I really wish
I'm trying to go through my work orders. I've been, I've set up one that was in these PETA
huts and like it's super frickin easy like it comes with, um, it just comes with their little, you
know, their, uh, their little box that connects to, uh, their server. Um, and then you hook the
phones right up to the switch. Uh, it's like the smoothest install ever. Um, and, uh, I can't
think of the frickin name of it. I've been looking all over for them. The only VOIPs I see all want to
give you this, uh, this box that converts the data signal into, uh, to an analog phone signal.
I think Astrix is the, I'm seeing that. Sorry, Astrix I think is the, is the most popular, uh,
VOIPs on Linux or open source of that matter. Right, open source PBX. Right. But you still have to pay
for what the PBX part of it? Uh, no, um, usually if you're using Astrix, you're, uh, just paying for
the one line and then, uh, or the one number and then using the Astrix to separate everything out
inside the system. Part of things too, where people used, was Google voice with Astrix and we're
able to have their own number. Yeah, I've seen it where you could set that up in the past, but I've
also Google likes to change things randomly and it'll stop working and then you have to find a
new way to make it work. Right. So what is it? Is it the PBX that you pay for? What is it? The,
because I know you have to go out to a, another company to be able to get a phone number,
because then after you get that phone number, then you can do, you can spread it out between like
multiple numbers and stuff like that and set up your voice mails and everything. I don't know,
I've, I've really, really, really like just kind of give it a quick look before, but never really
actually spend the time at, uh, dive into it. It's been a long time since I've done it. Um,
but back in the day, when you were using Astrix and, uh, Google voice, everything was free. So,
but yeah, if you're just looking for one line at the house, I'd say just Google voice,
you don't have to worry about anything other than that. Hold cell phones. I just want to be
able to use these fancy frickin IP phones. Oh, oh, this is an intellectual endeavor. Yeah,
pretty much. I always consider getting IP phones and using them as an intercom system around the
house. I got about five of them here and a conference, IP conference phone. What is that one?
Those, uh, big old, basically, it's a, it's a microphone-sized speaker that's supposed to sit
in the middle of the table. Yeap, with the dial pad. Now, Joey, you said you played around with
them before. Did you ever actually, uh, besides with, well, did you ever set up a, uh, uh, uh,
VIP or, uh, SIPR PBX server? Me? No. Um, I've used a SIP server. Like I said, it's been a really
long time. I've set up Astrix, but it's been forever. What did you do with the Astrix? Have you set it
up? I, I just set it up the couple, uh, call a couple of phones around my house. That was it.
Well, let's first look at what I'm playing around with it. I, there is a, uh, Raspberry Pi image
called, um, if look it up, but there's Raspberry Pi image that basically has Astrix and like PBX
already installed on it. So basically, like, there was burning on 2 and SD card, put it in Raspberry
Pi and that's pretty much all set up and then you just have to configure it after that.
But I didn't know what the hell to configure. I never really made it to the past, uh, the
installing it and putting it, setting it up on the network and I didn't do any configuring after
that. I installed a app. There's an, there's an Android app for, uh, I don't know, it's SIPR,
or PBX, I think it's like for PBX and, um, I don't know, I had it installed. I tried playing around
with trying to get it connected to the server and didn't have much luck. Like I said, I didn't do
too much deep diving into it and kind of gave up on that kind of quickly. What I wanted to do,
like I said, um, was a, was use like an old cell phone type of a deal for my idea of the, um,
home intercom system, but I didn't, I don't know, I never, I never finished deep diving into that.
Yeah, I basically remember I had a Linux program that was a receiver for Astrix. So all my
Linux computers could act as phone receivers, but I don't remember what it was called.
Lin phone. That's what it was. L-I-N phone. I think that was the name of the app that I, uh,
the Android app I put on too. So you said you're using that giant hunking server to, uh,
serve up, um, to client machines with type of desktop. So you're serving out for the client
machines. There's no client machines set up yet. Oh, okay. I'm a client machine. So I've
used my ASUS transformer, T100 TA to spin off a desktop on a server. What type of desktop's?
They're Linux desktop. I mean, it's LXDE that, um, we set up on there. It's basically you put, uh,
Ubuntu, all the Ubuntu on there and then you're just basically using it as a server as well.
No, um, we took a Ubuntu server and then installed the LXDE desktop and X to go and
it does it all. You probably just could have probably put a, uh,
Ubuntu on there and installed X to go on top of that. It's basically the same idea of
nice. Yeah, pre-installed. Ubuntu probably has a bunch of applications that are pre-installed.
Like you'd get the, uh, Libra Office and Gimp and, you know, apply, uh, a web browser,
file browser and all that. Have a graph too. And a graphical software manager.
Right, right. Does it, does Ubuntu have a graphical software manager?
It should. Is it using, well, did, uh, did Ubuntu give up on the, uh, um, their graphical software
manager or are they just using, um, odd? Dang, I can't remember the name of the one. Uh,
that's pretty much everything. That's it, synaptic. They, but they had the, uh,
Ubuntu software center beforehand. And I wonder whether they, I thought that was
basically killed and, um, but a lot of people use synaptic. I think, uh, there's a lot of some kind
of software center in Ubuntu or various flavors. And then people who, uh, want to go higher,
go to synaptic. Yeah, so after last week's fiasco with, um, I'm guessing the whole, uh,
kernel panic issue I have was I hadn't updated Debian in a while. And then I was suddenly
updated it and it went through a couple of kernel updates, maybe, I don't know, I did, it did
something where it just froze up on me on the, uh, main machine that I use for, uh, podcasting,
recording. Actually, this, this is for usually the podcasting, recording of the podcasts and, uh,
I have handbrake on there. So I do any of my, um, DVD ripping and stuff like that on there.
Um, yeah, so I decided I wanted to go with something that was going to be long-term stable.
So I broke down and just put mint on it. And your mint will, mint usually doesn't update as often
as a rolling release Debian or rolling release ArchType system. And it'll, like,
it's basically, from the best of my knowledge, Linux Mint basically just kind of does a major update
anytime, uh, Ubuntu does a, uh, LTS update. So I think I'm pretty safe. But other than that,
it just kind of does, like, uh, app, you know, application updates and, um, uh, what's it called,
security updates. Yeah, the only time I have problems with, uh, mint and updating is whenever
Nvidia comes out with a different update. Yeah, I don't think I have to work out,
worry about that with this machine. Um, that's an ATI. So it's for, but no, other than video,
and I'm not really doing anything really crazy with it anyways, as long as I can get the image
to the monitor and stuff that I'm usually pretty good. Right, as long as you're using the
non for proprietary drivers, it should be fine. Yeah. Don't know the XFCE version. I'm debating on
whether I want to put, uh, enlightenment on this machine as well. I have heard that, um, XFCE
and X2Go play nice together. I can verify. I believe it works. Good. They work while together.
Um, I mean, I've also used Motte with X2Go, and I haven't been able to get sent them into work,
but like, you know, I understand that you can also use, um, custom commands for any desktop.
To say, my understanding was Martin Wimperes was very big on, uh, X2Go. So I'm pretty sure it
worked really well with, uh, my team. Yeah, it works. Just, um, with the less known desktops,
you can't get the optimizations that you can with XFCE and Mate and LXDE. So what's considered
less the less known, uh, desktop? I don't know, I'd have to look them up. Yeah. Cinnamon,
Bodie, you know, Bodie's enlightenment. Yeah, well, I'm just saying.
So everything I hear about KDE Connect, to me, to really want to try a KDE.
You don't need KDE to use KDE Connect. Really? It works pretty well. Really? I've run it in Linux,
mate. Well, what does, uh, what desktop using that with Mint? I'm using Cinnamon.
Is it just basically like a QtBase application or, um, I'm not sure. It's been, well,
I had it set up last year. But, um, the KDE Connect work just fine if I remember right.
And it allowed me total control of my phone from my computer. And let me get notifications
on my computer whenever I got a notification on my phone. As long as it was on the same network.
I'm going to look just, uh, I have to look into seeing to try and do that with, uh, enlightenment.
I don't see why you wouldn't be able to put it on any desktop. That's awesome.
By the way, anyone know, uh, about the status of LXQT?
I think it's still going. Have you tried out the KDE Plasma?
I have not. Um, so my opinion on KDE has always kind of been that KDE is a,
in the past, it always seemed like a heavy desktop that just, it really just didn't feel like it needed
to be a heavy desktop. You know, I always, I always equated it to, um, uh, what was the thing right
before Windows 7 XP? Vista. Vista. That's right. I always equated it to Windows Vista.
It basically had some, uh, cool features. It looked kind of pretty, but it was way too freaking heavy.
That's the way I always thought of, uh, KDE. It's, so I always used, um, you know, uh, like, like
known based things. And then I found, uh, enlightenment. And I've always, I've always just kind of
put enlightenment on everything because enlightenment was, uh, I've always ever used like XFC,
LXD, or enlightenment because they always seemed very, especially with me,
enlightenment seemed like I can put, I had a lot of control over the way the system is, uh,
set up and presented and stuff like that. And it was just very lightweight while KDE seemed
in the past to be very heavy. And it, like, it really didn't need to be, you know,
to answer your question, no, I haven't used KDE in a long time, a little on KDE, not me on or anything.
Yeah, I understand what you're saying about KDE. It's just there are very few of the desktops that
are, from what I understand, optimized for higher definition displays.
That's true, but I'm running all old systems here, so I don't think I have any, uh, higher definition
displays. It's to answer your question, that minor, uh, it looks like, uh, going on the
LXQT website. They have LXQT 0.12.0 was released or at least the blog post of the release was, uh,
Saturday, the 21st of October, 2017. So yes, it still seems to be running.
Well, I've got one machine that I'm going to, uh, the replacing pixel on,
and, uh, it may stay a single screen, so I don't need XFCE kind of flexibility.
You were running the pixel as your main desktop?
I was trying it on an old 32 better. How was that?
Okay, but, uh, you ran a ground a lot. It is a very minimal system and trying to civilize it
just didn't seem worth it for, for, for that machine. Gotcha. I mean, I can see why
for just kids doing, you know, scratch or what have you, it may be enough, but if you really
know what you're doing, it, you run into, there's a lot of drag from those training wheels.
So Joe, are you running any civil board computers?
Me or the other Joe? Yes.
Well, I do have a Raspberry Pi Zero W, but I thought I already talked about that on the show.
Currently, it's set up running, um, a jukebox program and hooked up to an old stereo.
I think you did bring up the fact that you were having problems with that before with, with, uh,
Bluetooth? Yeah, I haven't tried again, uh, work on the Bluetooth pass through on it.
Um, the Bluetooth pass through was working just fine when I had this all set up on a netbook,
but, um, evidently, some of the bluesy updates that have gone into the Raspberry Pi has kind of
bricked that functionality. Either that or the updates, the pulse audio or a mixture of the two,
but it still works for anything that, um, I either have on the USB stick hooked up to the zero
W or anything that I want to access from the internet. I have it set up for, um, access to my
Google Play accounts and my, um, while archive.org and the only other one that I wasn't able to get
properly set up was, um, Libersonic. I can't get it to access my Libersonic server correctly.
I think it's a bluesy thing or I think if it's just the, uh, the Bluetooth, uh, the Bluetooth
on the Pi W is just not up to snuff for what you're trying to do.
No, because they might be able to get a connection. Well, it says that I'm connected to it.
The problem I think is pulse audio because it says that it's connecting to the
ALSA mixer that's there and it should be going out to my speakers, but then it just goes into
idle mode and I get no sound from my phone to that. And I've turned off the idle timer so it should
never go title, but still no sound. Yeah, that sounds a lot like me last week trying to get one
of these computers to work right with mumble. Which one? Which computer? Um, at least tool. The, uh,
the, uh, I have a Sony Xperia Play that I have running Bodilinix on, uh, that it seemed like the
audio was just so freaking up and down and I couldn't get it to come out right. Uh, was it, uh,
NetMiner couldn't test what, when he actually was able to hear me, I sounded like I was,
what, under water for a while, then I was too high and like at one point I was too low and then I
tried to put it on one of the, the, uh, my little Dell Latitude 2100 and that was just, um, like,
I had like no sound whatsoever, no matter which program I use, I've used PAV, you control to try to,
uh, change the volume through it. I use also mixer to adjust the, uh, levels and things and I was
having zero luck with that. So yeah, because that might, my main rig here, um, which was a, uh,
compact, uh, desktop that was originally considered a, uh, I think it was like a Windows XP
media machine way, way back in the day. Um, it, it, it's kind of serves, it's kind of served always
as my main, uh, podcasting rig, uh, slash DVD ripping, uh, ripping rig and it ran into the problems
with the, the kernel problems and then I couldn't get anything else work. That's my last week,
I was on plumbled. Okay, so it's just the client side that you were having the issue with.
For a moment, what do you mean? Yeah. My point being, I couldn't, but through both, uh, PAV,
you control to try to, uh, adjust pull, audio and also mixer, I was never able to get, uh, like,
the Sony, um, the Sony laptop, the Sony bio, I wasn't able to get, um, any of the levels adjusted
right. And on a latitude, I wasn't able to get any of the, uh, levels adjusted, I mean, like any
sound out at all, I had all really. That sucks. It sure did, but the good thing is plumbled works
really nice. Yeah, I'm using it right now. I think the other Joe is too. I'm used to, by the way,
um, I'm good to 18, uh, oh four, it's supposed to have a new, uh, pulse audio mixed,
serious life interface of some kind. Cool. I, uh, just wonder, uh, it was going to be backported
or, or available for, for us that are running, uh, older or non-unbuddo systems.
Eventually. I'm sure somebody will put the leg work into it.
For my understanding, most KDE desktops seem to have a, uh, uh, apparently there's a lot of,
there's like settings on top of settings on top of settings. So you can go to like six different
places. Well, my, obviously not six different places. They're like three, uh, three different places
just to, uh, just to fix one problem. And I'm not sure if that's directed at all KDE desktops,
Ubuntu or KDE neon, that's what I've heard. And just because Ubuntu decided to forsake all
their 32-bit systems, I'll never run a straight-up Ubuntu system ever again. That makes sense too. I'm,
I mean, there are so many 32-bit machines still out there. I, I found it kind of surprising when
gave that up. Right? Well, actually, it's not given up. What in Ubuntu? It is not given up.
Can you still download, uh, Ubuntu 1804 and a 3432-bit system?
Yes, it's at the back of the bus. It's very much at the back of the bus, but it's not, uh,
according to the YouTube thing when I just saw this week, uh, it has not been abandoned.
I will do some Google food and see if I can get to the right page.
So on Ubuntu, say itself, um, if you go with the downloads and then go to alternate downloads,
you go to 1804, it just shows the, uh, 64-bit desktop and server,
1604 and 1404, both you can get, uh, the 32-bit for both desktop and server, but, uh,
1804, it's not showing. I put a link in the free node chat on KDE Connect for Ubuntu,
but it looks like the PPA doesn't work anymore. This is interesting. They have, I went to the, um,
uh, official Ubuntu flavors and they have Ubuntu Kylin, which is, it's described as the
Ubuntu Kylin project is tuned to the needs of the Chinese users, providing a thoughtful and
elegant Chinese experience out of the box. Not sure what that means.
You don't have to go to a website to get your information sold.
Oh, it's based on the Yuku desktop environment, UK UI, desktop environment.
Well, gentlemen, if you plow deep enough, you can get your Ubuntu flavors in 32-bit.
Okay, I just finished setting up KDE Connect on Linux Mint.
On 7? Yes. Cool, I'm gonna fucking add that.
Yeah, 32-bit on Ubuntu or their flavors is definitely at the back of the box, but it is available.
Yeah, it definitely seems like the flavors will, uh, still keep it around with the, um,
not what I just do. Uh, still keep it in the, uh, the 32-bit alive, but, uh, official Ubuntu is not.
Yeah, uh, the, uh, thing that I saw on YouTube, so I don't remember, uh, the link was at the
bottom of the page, and it says, sometimes, trustworthy link. That makes me feel good.
That was Ubuntu's official wiki link, so it was on a wiki page, but I haven't been able to dig
down to that page. Not that I'm going to use GNOME-based Ubuntu. Yes, I'm gonna try
um, having Ubuntu available as a dual boot on some of my machines.
I forgot all the cool stuff that you could do with KDE Connect. You can use it as a,
use your phone as a touchpad. That's cool. Will it work on a tablet?
Uh, I guess it depends on what the tablet's running for an OS.
How did you download it?
Hmm? How did you get KDE Connects? Was it in the repos?
Yeah, I, um, in the free-node chat, I did post a link to the site I used.
Uh, that's right. I got that open up in front of me. Uh, uh, the first link I sent didn't work,
the second one did. All right, so corner of this is PPA.
You do also have to install it on your phone. All right, that makes sense. Give me a second
I'll be right back. So I'm thinking of attending a lug. There's one coming up here in North,
in the North Dallas area on the 19th. See you else in the community is around here.
All the people I work with use Linux in some form every day, but none of them
use it at home. Hey, Joe. Yes, sir. You said that, uh, you were thinking about setting up, um,
steam? Yeah, I thought about doing a steam server, yeah.
What games you're playing on there? None as of yet, but I know a site that I can get steam codes
really, really cheap. You excited about Borderlands 3?
Uh, not a huge Borderlands fan. I mainly play Call of Duty.
That's pretty much what I play actually is like FPS games like that.
I really enjoy Borderlands 2, especially with some of the expansions like Tiny Teenus.
I unfortunately just don't seem to have the time to fucking game. I play a couple games with my kid
when, um, when we get home, but then it's, you know, just like maybe three or four rounds that we're
done. Give up sleep. Say what? Give up sleep. Talk to that. I did that too much as a young stupid
punk kid. I don't, I like sleep too much now. Well, it sounds like he's giving up a bit of sleep already.
Yeah, I, I have. I'm absolutely freaking exhausted.
I'm actually still doing work and it's 9.41 at night here.
In that minor, you East Coast? Yes. I'm in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
So it's like 11 o'clock there almost. Yeah, we're both in Massachusetts.
Now see, he doesn't sound like a, uh, the typical North East coaster.
That's because I'm a refugee from West Virginia and Maine.
That explains it. And many points in between.
One of my uncles comes at.
I, yeah, I just say that because I was just on a job with one of the package lockers the other day.
And the GC is from Boston or the Duke came in, you know, with the biggest attitude ever.
I've dealt with a lot of North East Coast people and I've learned real quick that they're the
types that you just don't stand in front of. You don't slow them down because holy Christ,
do they come unglued? Yeah, well, I deal with the East Coast liberal twice a week.
Be me up Scotty. Most people in New England kind of scare me. That lives here for almost 30 years now.
Well, they have got their own automatic assault weapons ban in high capacity magazine ban.
Where's that at, Cali? Massachusetts. Oh, Massachusetts. Yeah, they randomly started,
they randomly started banning weapons because they looked scary.
Because they may have a military purpose. Oh, yeah, the ban on assault weapons, the weapon that never
existed. Well, the, uh, the thing about it is we have experts in the, uh, Bureau of Alcohol,
uh, alcohol tobacco and firearms that are supposed to monitor that shit. Although, uh,
my, uh, non-gun person declares them unfair because they have too many bullets in the magazine
and they're too technical, too much technology there. It's not a fair fight with the hunting weapon.
Funny back in the day, one of the articles I can remember is somebody shooting crows with one of those
things. Yes, shooting crows with a rifle, not a shotgun. Well, if you ever in a fair fight,
somebody made a technical error. Yeah, the rate don't fricking fair and fight.
Well, well, um, no, my friend is all, well, the person I deal with is, uh, is also vegetarian.
Ha, hey, Joe, I remember when you dated a vegetarian, that worked out real well for a lot of
sure go down like a sack of taters in the middle of the high school, uh, walkway. Heather?
Was that her day of the red head? Oh, dude, that was a long, long time ago. You don't have to be
more specific. Uh, oh, oh, I was about to say something, but I didn't know if there was other
years. No, I still talked to her on Facebook. I still remember your ride back to the airport.
Yeah, I remember that one too. I'm sure we all do.
What? I can remember the question she asked you that just made everybody crack up.
No, I can't remember. You must have, uh, faked it a time or two because she was questioning it.
Ah, fun fucking times. Yeah.
That's harsh, man. Real harsh. Oh, two thirds sometimes.
Well, you know, after the Orlando incident, my logic got challenged to the point that I was
spent six months in PTSD Orlando incident, uh, the mass shooting in a gay club.
Ah, yeah. Okay. She wanted me to test my logic on how I could justify people having a legal gun
able to do that. I'm still waiting for the ban on white vans. Heck, after 9-11, they should be
bending get aircraft. Right. I just find it so comical how they're going after, you know,
the assault rifle. I mean, you know, to me, it's the weapon that never existed. There is,
in my eyes, there's no such thing as an assault rifle. Technically, by the definition of the
assault rifle, it would have to be fully automatic, which is already mostly illegal and extremely
highly regulated. Even then, a assault assault is an action. It's a verb. So you really can't
define the rifle as a verb. I mean, it doesn't assault anybody. Then can you define a sniper
rifle as a sniper rifle? Well, technically, it's not really a sniper rifle. I mean, it's
a long distance rifle, a long-year-old rifle. Yeah, well, just like California has banned rifles
using the 50 browning cartridge. I mean, it really, the cartridge is more deadly, you know,
than the rifle. I mean, you want to define anything as an assault. I mean, the projectile coming
at you, that's assaulting you, and that is actually, you know, the thing that they should regulate,
maybe if they're worried about anything type of ammunition that's being fired. If you have armor
piercing rounds out there, yeah, that might be something to worry about. Well, but what is armor?
Well, even the military is getting away with ballistic olive points, which is shaving the
Geneva Convention pretty close. Well, they shave that Geneva Convention all the time,
anyway, and I don't think that the U.S. actually signed the Geneva Convention. We just usually
go along with it, such as the, in the military, you're not allowed to shoot anybody with the 50 caliber
rifle, but you're allowed to shoot all the equipment that you want to. So if a person has a canteen
on them, you're allowed to shoot that, but you're not allowed to shoot the person. Yeah, I just saw
a video on the Barrett M82. It's not a sniper rifle. It's an anti-material rifle.
The 50-cal, you don't actually have to hit your target. You just got to get close enough so that,
you know, the air going around it cuts them in half. Well, actually, what was an interesting thing
after the ban of 50-cal in California, Barrett basically cancelled any government banned
the California government from buying their stuff. And they made a new cartridge, which is the
416 Barrett, which is, which will run in the same actions you need to do barrel. And it's
better, ballistically, out to 2500 yards. Is it a 49 caliber? It's a 416, 41 caliber.
And it does have pure sniping capability, although I don't know anyone who's actually shot a
sniper with it. When was the last time you went shootin' Joe? Oh, let it probably two years ago,
went out to a body's farm and just did some clay pigeon shootin' nothing too exciting.
I'm gonna have to head up the Iowa again soon. Jeez, I'm trying to escape the place and you're trying
to come here. Just for a visit. They'd never made me why. Oh hell no, no, no, not at all. And everybody, you
know, keeps trying to give me shit about wanting to go out to Cali, you know, like, oh my god,
so expensive out there, yada yada yada. Well, yeah, but right now, running my own show, you know,
I'm pulling between, I don't know, 55 and 68-year-ish, you know, and that's not work in a 40-hour
week at all. I mean, but I do a lot of my work as platform-based, which is kind of a joke anymore,
like there's too many texts out there that are willing to do the work for way cheaper than what
they should be. And, you know, essentially, the texts are the ones that drive the market price.
But anyways, you know, so like I make, you know, about 60 right now, but then I pay all my own
insurance, pay all my own gas, I pay, you know, everything comes out of pocket. Plus right now,
with rent here, I mean, it's a thousand bucks a month, plus my internet and all that shit,
so I'm at like 1200 bucks a month, you know. So for me to move out there for a two-bedroom,
it might cost me like three grand or so a month, but my income will go from 60 to like I'm assuming
around, you know, the six, six figure range. And, you know, I will have less expenses and overhead
than I do right now running my own shit. I think the biggest thing is health care. I mean, if like,
I've been lucky over the years that I've gone from paying nothing for health care to just paying
a very small amount like, like it's like 25 bucks a week or something like that for a family
parent in health care. And it's not a spectacular plan, but it's still relatively good. But I know,
like, both my parents have had to pay for their own. And you're talking about like, I'm not sure
what you're paying, but I know some people are paying like two grand a month for whatever plans
that they're on. And it's that that's just freaking miserable.
Well, I'm on to have to pay for mine right yet. Well, to be technical, see, I was before I started
my business. I had the state insurance for my son, which gave me the insurance. And then I started
it and apparently they caught wind of it and they dropped my insurance. Well, I'm doing just
Medicare when it's 550 a quarter, something like that, closing on 600. That's with Medicaid,
Medicare and Medicaid doing the heavy lifting. Yeah, the insurance rates are just
disgusting anymore, absolutely disgusting. Right, I keep on saying that I work for a crappy job
and that the second they start screwing around with the health care again, then I've got to go.
Then it's just not worth sticking around anymore. Kind of hoping that this company that I'm
considering working with has some pretty decent coverage. I mean, that's that's one thing,
you know, I mean, I've thought about it real hard. I mean, I'm sure I'm not going to get the
hourly rate that I charge right now. But if I would accept, you know, a little less hourly if they
had, you know, a good benefit package. Well, you still pay for your benefit package when it comes
to health care. True that, true that. It's considerably less when you go through a business
because they're getting discounts because of the number of people that they're bringing with them.
I don't know, I'm still trying to decide on a, I guess, a bottom line figure and kind of,
you know, a deal to get me out there. I mean, geez, for me to move out there is going to be
several several thousand dollars. I mean, shoot better part of 10 g's. Yeah, yeah, just the
moving truck will be five or six grand. It cost me a 1200 bucks for a 25 footer from Iowa to Colorado.
So take that about two, take that, yeah, about times two. So yeah, it probably cost about two thousand
dollars, three thousand. And in which that case, I'd probably just go with one of them pod systems
to where they drop off the little pod. You fill it up, trucker comes, picks it up and drives it
across the country and drops it off for you. It cost me five grand to go from El Paso to Alan.
Yeah, well, you have a huge family and a bunch of shit. It's just me and my kid.
Fair point. And you know, if that's, if I end up doing that, you know, there's probably
going to be a bunch of things that I downsize on. I mean, right now, I got like, for instance,
I got three TVs, two 50s and a 32. There's just, you know, there's no need for that.
You still got both of those 50 interest? Yeah, yeah, I'm using the 4K one right now.
Most of the movies I've been downloaded are 4K. And to be honest, I really don't know if it's worth
the extra, the extra data space. I mean, it's, yeah, it's, it's super good quality. But, you know,
1080p didn't seem too far off from 4K. At least not on this TV. Yeah, well, also, I don't know how old
you guys are getting, but just like super high definition stereo, sometimes it's awful,
easy to get more definition than you can actually use. Yeah, I agree, fully agree. You know,
and also with the high definition televisions, you know, you only see that up to a certain distance,
too. I mean, anything beyond a certain distance, you're not going to really notice the,
the higher quality image. Hell, to be honest, I've almost thought about selling half my crap,
and if I actually go out there selling half of it and buying like an RV and going and doing
monthly rentals on, you know, campground space, they're saving a few bucks, but
jeez, I looked at that and some of them spots out there for monthly rates are like a thousand bucks
a month, but jeez, it's outrageous. Yeah, but you could still sell most of your stuff and then
pick up new stuff. Probably second hand. Right. For sure. Yeah, I mean, there's always certain things
that like, I really, you know, don't want to get rid of, I mean, and to be honest, like,
the server is one of the things, but it's kind of awesome with them things. I'm like, man,
it is like a super overkill. I'm really ever going to use it all.
So just let me curious, what are you, what are you living in now? What do you plan on moving into
when you're over there? Because if you're going to like apartment living to a house or a house to
apartment living, I mean, I'm pretty sure you can probably downsize everything you have right now
and like maybe sell it and then adjust to your new surroundings at the new place that you're
moving into and then fit your bare necessities into like a U-Haul and then just rent the U-Haul
from Iowa to where you are in California. Yeah, I actually live in kind of a small place now.
It's sold as a two bedroom, but yeah, that's not. It's a one bedroom with an extra,
it's that the bedroom's extra long and it's got a wall, but it's an open wall. I mean,
it's a complete pass-through from one room to the other. So in my eyes, not a two bedroom,
but that's what they run it as. And I plan on probably moving out there to either, I don't know,
probably a two bedroom. And it just depends on the way or just go with a one bedroom and get some
sort of futon or whatever for the living room. I'll sleep on that and the kid can have the room.
Depending on how badly these people want you, I mean, you get through a little signing bonus in
there and, you know, enough for the first class in the positive on a place and then enough to get
like a couple of essential furniture and then just bring some of the other stuff with you and
enough that'll fit into a, you know, U-Haul. And then just drive that battery down to wherever you're
going. I mean, anything else that won't fit in the U-Haul, just try selling in the yard sale,
Craigslist, whatever. And definitely check out and see if the company has a moving bonus.
Right. Yeah, I'm going to have to check that out. I mean, you've seen the emails, Joe. I mean,
it sounds like they they want me bad enough that I think that I could work something out, hopefully.
Yeah, but you really got to figure out where you're going before you start trying to set a salary.
True that, true that. And, you know, like he said, he's got to figure out some more, but
I mean, the possibility is that it's open to my discretion. However, boy, I just, I don't know.
If it's open, I would almost, like I said before, like to see myself go and
probably to the Bay Area where the engineer that they were talking about is located and
you know, train under that guy. He's quite the cool dude and quite knowledgeable. You know,
he's the guy that wants me there. So I think it'd be an alright place.
And it's always good to have somebody, you know.
Right. Yeah, I mean, I don't like no, no, the guy, but I've worked with him on this project here in
town. They actually called me, found my ad on Yelp and pretty much begged me to go out to this
job because they're about to lose a pretty decent client. I mean, small, I'm sure in their eyes,
I mean, shit, they do like 500 million, I think, a year, but this company was about to rip $30,000
worth of video conferencing equipment right out their walls. They had it for shit like a month
and it hadn't been operational. Well, I spent several days fighting with things. I mean, everywhere,
everywhere, all the way from media comm service, which is, you know, just, oh my god, it's a
fucking joke. It all came down to after we got the whole network set up fine. Everything was
good to go. Boy, yet the video, which is flicker in and out. Well, I got down and started inspecting
some of the HDMI cables and sure shit, dude, and like the person that did all their low voltage
pulling is an absolute moron. I don't get why people do this, but it's it's common here to see
people pulling right straight into junction boxes from conduit. While, you know, you can pull right
into a junction, you really need have like a plastic fitting screwed into that junction box. So
you're not pulling and stripping the fricking cable against the the sharp knockouts of the
junctions and that's exactly what happened. They had pulled the HDMI through those junction boxes
and stripped the cable and it was grounding out in the conduit. Yeah, that's that bevy of
little cost text you were talking about. Yeah, exactly, you know, and it's so stupid too,
because it's like, man, guys, you know, like, why would you even consider working for that rate?
I mean, I know y'all have been in my shoes and probably in deeper situations. Is there any
fucking way that you'd work for 20 bucks an hour? You know, doing that work? Hell no. I mean,
it's not worth the stress. I'll go, you know, for for 15 bucks an hour, you can flip a burger now
I hear, you know, why the hell would I do any sort of networking or low voltage cabling for 20?
No way. Well, you'd really be surprised how many texts on these platforms. I mean,
how many of these guys will just do these jobs at like a stupid low rate like
very, very low. I mean, I had somebody try have me come in. They'll mark it as like, oh,
this is a site survey, you know, real quick and easy. Oh, yeah, okay. It's, there's a point where,
you know, I consider that just a basic site survey. And then there's a point I'm like, dude,
you're having me fire up analysis software. I just have checking, you know, Wi-Fi signal strengths
and essentially doing a Wi-Fi heat map for you. Sorry, but I'm not going to do that for, you know,
a $40 flat fee for an hour and a half, two hours, no way. Why do you charge so much for
virus removal? Yeah, why are the people so cheap not to buy in? I fire software.
I literally, you won't believe how many businesses and I'm talking like places that, you know,
y'all been to don't have any sort of security. Or like I was talking to Joe the other day, like,
how many of these network rooms I walk into that are like 90 degrees in there, no ventilation,
no air circulation, no AC, nothing. And then at the same time, everybody on the front end of the
store is bitching and complaining how their point of sales run slow all day long.
Yeah, even the computers like their AC. Yeah, they definitely don't like to be at the
verge of heat stroke status all day. That's for sure.
Hmm, played network, Kerio X5 player install. Oh, yeah.
Oh, not a chance. Spencer technologies. Many y'all ever come across those fools don't ever do a
job for them. What is Spencer technologies? Kind of like it's pretty much a BPO group. They
they're like the they do the kind of same stuff. I do just they have different clients. They go and
do like one of the jobs I actually worked with them on was installing digital many boards
for McDonald's. And yeah, they sent a tech up from Chicago that was supposed to be the lead.
The dude shows up late. He's twisted out of his mind. You know, just sitting there bitching
the whole time how he's got to go to Minnesota, you know, and this can't take forever, blah, blah, blah.
Right. Well, this is like I said, this is digital many boards. These are nothing but flat screen
fricking TVs with media players. And there was five of them in a row. He literally got five
brackets, not full sets, but five singular brackets installed in 10 hours.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, he and you know, then he got pissed off at me because I was on the ground and
he's up on the ladder. I mean, he installs a bracket upside down starts flipping out. Oh, you're
the ground guy. You should have caught it. I was like, no, dude, you're the dumb ass with it in
your hand. You should have caught it. Forty some days to pay. He had just horrible. Forty days to pay.
Yeah. And you know, I mean, so like a lot of a lot of business will go on like net 30 terms.
That's kind of an old standard, but you know, anything over that is ridiculous. And even most
nowadays tend to go net 15 or less. Wow. See, here's another prime example of these low, low price
jobs that are way underpriced. This company, I don't even know if they'll show me who it is,
on site, done a little bit of work for him, but a server and switch up green. Looks like a
full day project. So you're going to be there roughly six to eight hours, 160 bucks. Yeah, right.
Well, gentlemen, I think I'll say good night. And it's really been fascinating. I wish you
the very best in your various endeavors. Have a good night. Have a good night, man.
See you, man. Have you done any more with that overly obnoxious-sized tablet?
No, not yet. I got the, well, I have a best amount for it, or I can mount it on a wall.
I'm just trying to figure out where I should put it. The life won't stab me for.
What's an obnoxious, obnoxiously-sized tablet? What was it, 22 inches?
Nice. Nice. I guess it was supposed to be, what, for a doctor's office or something?
Yeah, it's what they're used for. Digital wall posters, they call them.
And it was already rooted. I guess it originally came from China. So
I just reset it up so it had some soft buttons on it. And I could access just a regular
Android interface on it instead of the point of sale system that was there. And it plays video
pretty well as long as it's not trying to stream. I don't know why it won't stream properly.
Via Wi-Fi or Hardbide? Both. I tried both.
What are the specs on it, you know? I'm not off top of my head. But like I said,
when it's got USB ports on it, so I moved a couple of movies of varying quality onto a USB
stick and slid it in there and they all play great. So I'm thinking that instead of streaming to it,
what I can do is set up something like Btsync on it. Although I am worried about heat issues
and just over the network, put the whole movie on and have it go straight to one of the USB
sticks that I have hooked up to it and just wait for the movie to get there and then play it.
There's got to be a fix for that. I don't know why it would stream slow unless it was like a really
shitty network card possibly. Have you ever done a speed test on it and see what kind of speed you're
getting? Well, I can still get 20 or 30, which another thing I don't understand, 20 or 30 MBPS.
So it should be more than enough to do any quality of movie, but it's not.
It's got to be some kind of processing issue.
Yeah, I'm sure they're not built to be processing beasts. Again, that's another thing that I almost
think is probably a little overpriced for what it does. That's not a bad idea. Sorry,
it's going to say that that's not a bad idea, but with like a BT sync or a sync thing and
it's just set up a folder and then just if you want to play a movie, just send it to the the
syncing folder. Yeah, I get it all done in advance and then I don't have to worry about streaming.
But I know, well, I might have to limit the speed for BT sync. I know I can do that too and maybe
that would keep it from heating up too quickly because my phone, I use BT sync on it all the time
to bring audiobooks over and stuff like that and it will just get incredibly hot and burn through
the battery. But hey, maybe it's because it'll be charging at the same time that it gets so hot
and this thing doesn't have a battery so that shouldn't be an issue.
Which would be an awesome addition to that thing, although it's kind of
excessively large to be a laptop tablet. Yeah, you put a battery in that thing and it's just
going to weigh way too much. I think it'd be a seriously cool home automation controller while
mounted home automation controller. Yeah, but finding or creating the
API in Android for something like that. I know it's got the USB ports there, but
it would be too difficult. There is a program. What the hell is it called? There's one that's
made to go on it and let me let me look. It's open. Give me a sec.
Can you control an Arduino from an Android over USB?
Depending. I think there's no red might be able to do it and what is the other one that I think
floating rich Gibson talking about is if this than that, that might. I don't know enough about
if this than that to be able to say anything like that. Googling it comes up with the instructions
like right away. Oh, nothing else. You could just use a front-end or Raspberry Pi.
OpenHab. I think that has to be on Linux, but OpenHab is the home automation software
I was talking about, and you can load that right on that tablet.
Isn't there a program called the home automation assistant that should be able to do it?
I have to take a look. Yeah, the wife wants me to buy another echo and another
connected wall plug. I got an echo here that I don't even use, an echo not.
Yeah, that's what she was going to have me look at. I mean, I ain't going to argue with you if
you're going to send it to me, Joe. That's possible. I don't ever use that stupid thing like
not something that I really care too much about. It's become a lot more. Yeah, it's become a lot
more useful since I got prime, you know, just for playing music around the house.
For sure. Yeah, it's nice for that. It's nice. I like it's a alarm options. I mean,
it's kind of handy if you, if you want them people that are lazy and like, you know,
you leave your phone plugged in on the desk or something, you know, you don't want to use it for an alarm,
so you just speak out loud for it to set up the alarm for you. It keeps drunk people and kids
occupied all day while asking it stupid-ass questions. Yeah, I would definitely look into
Node Red, though, for working with the automation type stuff. It says it works with like Raspberry
Pie, Beaglebone Black, interacting with Arduino and Android, so I'm thinking I might do what you
wanted to do. I'm not completely sure what I wanted to do yet. It seems like something like that.
I would probably try to figure out something to put in like the kitchen area as like a calendar,
plus like shopping list type thing. I don't know. I'm not sure if I then add any other type of
functionality. Like if you have home automation type stuff like the lights and whatnot,
then maybe add that into it as well, but try to have something like that. Like maybe I have
whiteboards like my head, but I'm not even sure if like whiteboard would be a viable thing.
You know, just something like that for the house as opposed to something like another TV with
to stream movies to. There's gotta be like regular TVs or, you know, roco boxes or, you know,
the fire sticks or something, or even just really Raspberry pies with the with Cody installed on it.
That would probably do that better than having a 23 inch touch screen Android television for.
True. No, because I was thinking about, um, I'm gonna get a new soldering station once I get my
garage re-adjusted this weekend and having that just set up on the wall and able to pull out.
And then if I need to know how to do something while I'm doing it, I could bring up YouTube or
something like that, but I would like to find something a bit more useful for bathroom porn TV.
I thought that was a phone. Who wants a seven-inch screen when you can have a 22-inch screen?
Why would I look at porn in my bathroom when I have a perfectly serviceable garage with two
large TVs as computer monitors? Hey, the guy's shit in time. There's also a time to be looking at porn.
I mean, it's just, you know, it's, it's just what happens. That's a horrible time for that.
What's that? I said, that's a horrible time for that.
I can, I can, well, it always seems like every time I'm taking this shit, I get all these like
fault. You know, you've seen them joke the forwards. I said, yeah, I ruin other people's days because
people got to send me all them dirty ass shit. And I always seem to check it when I'm in the bathroom
because I've learned not to check my Facebook messages at work. I've opened a few of those
at the wrong time. Yeah, I took Facebook off of my phone because of crap like that. I put
metal on there, which is a Facebook replacement, one because it's a lot better on battery and two
because I don't really get the notifications of stuff changing on Facebook. So I never look at it.
Oh, you're gonna have to tell me about this metal.
Well, it's like Facebook light, you know, I still can get the notifications if I want to. It's
just there are a lot less abrasive. And you know, the Facebook app itself is designed to send you
messages as much as possible to get you looking at it as much as possible. And metal doesn't do that.
And the battery usage is a lot better. And it's just an app in the place to are called metal.
All right, I have to look into that because the only time I use Facebook is basically so I can
kind of keep in touch with some of my family. And basically it's just not, I mean, I don't ever like,
I don't think I've ever liked something or responded to anything or made a comment to anything or
put a little smiley face or whatever the hell they have for it for anything. But at the same time,
I just kind of just quickly scroll through and see like what my family has been posting. And I am in
two Facebook groups that I've found to be one is very handy, one I'm hoping later on
upon the handy. One is a I own a 3D printer, the Tronxy X1. And the Tronxy Facebook group seems
to be pretty good. If you have any, they're a really nice group. So if you have any questions
or anything, you can post it to that to their page. And they're like three or four people who will
respond like right away. And we'll try it. Do their best to try to help you out with trying to get
things fixed in running and stuff. The other one I just joined a little while ago is the Pebble
Facebook page. Pebble was sold to, well, the people running Pebble were, the Pebble was bought
out by Fitbit, but the probably the devices are still out there and they still run. And I bought a
Pebble 2 SE a while ago. And it's it's really freaking handy. And I really like the fact that
every once in a while, you know, if I get a text message from my wife, I can just look down
on my watch as opposed to falling the phone on my pocket. And just do, you know, it's got the
canned messages where, you know, I can say, okay, yes, no, maybe yep, or whatever. And I can just
get a quick response back to her about something that, you know, because she likes to get responses
back, as opposed to not responding at all. And then she gets all pissed at me. But, you know,
give a quick response back that way. I can get my messages right away. If I get an email,
I can just kind of see that it's the what's come in. I, you know, you can't respond to the email
right away. But, you know, I can just see what's come in right away. It's nice. I've kind of come
to enjoy that. And it's, it's nice that there's still a community out there looking to keep these
devices up and going. But it'll be nice to have something that's a little less embraced. Because I
think that the Facebook app is way too big, way too heavy. It is the Windows Vista of Android
applications. It's too heavy that it doesn't need to be that heavy. It doesn't need to be that
abrasive. It's not that abrasive. I can't even tell my, like, I only notice occasions I ever
really get is if my wife links me into something. And then I get like the little number next to it.
But it's, if it can, if the application itself could be less, that would be freaking fantastic.
I actually, yeah, it's, yeah, it's definitely not as pretty. The regular book, but it's
much less abrasive, less battery. I've actually considered just going ahead and
disabling my, my personal Facebook and starting one strictly to join. Like, you know, the,
the groups that you're talking about, those types of groups are probably the only reasons that I
actually do not want to get rid of Facebook. I mean, yeah, it's nice to be able to stick and,
you know, stay in touch with family and stuff like that. But, you know, that to me is also what
cell phones are for, you know. But I just hate the, the privacy issues with Facebook. I mean,
the fact that you have facial recognition on there is just fucking bogus to me.
Then on top of that, you know, you talk about having the Facebook on your phone. You know,
you say it's abrasive, that should be invasive. I mean, I know there's been several times that,
I've, you know, been talking about something. It's not just with Facebook, it's Google,
everything. I mean, smartphones nowadays. I swear to God, these things listen to you more than what
you really know about and more than what you're giving it permission to. There's been tons of times
where I've, you know, been talking with somebody about a product or something and then you'll
will literally type in one single letter and all of a sudden a whole phrase will come out
related to what you were just talking about. I mean, the chances of that happening out of
randomness, yeah, right. Yeah, I mean, what's the old adage? If you're not paying for a product,
you are the product, something along those lines. So basically, if, if you're not paying for
something, then more than likely, you're the one who's your data, your information is what how
they're making their money. And that's exactly it. That's exactly how they make their money. And
old Zuckerberg even said, you know, well, he danced around the answer when he was questioned about it
because it was mentioned that if we want to block some of these, some of our information from being
shared and want a more secure Facebook, like the user itself wants this, then there's a possibility
that they're going to end up having to pay to use Facebook and not be served ads and everything
and not have their data sold. Like, really, I mean, in order for us to have our shit secure,
we're going to have to pay you a premium. Like, what the hell? Well, that's the thing. It's a service
and they're making their money off of you. So unless, unless, you know, if they can't make their
money off of you anymore, they got to make money somehow. So, but yeah, you have to know when
you're going into anything with either Google or Facebook that basically any information that
you give them, they're selling off as fast as possible, you know. No doubt about it. I mean,
and you know, they're not the only company that pulls crooked things like that. I mean,
GoDaddy. GoDaddy, a lot of people that buy domains, there's a lot of people that go to GoDaddy.
Well, when you're searching for a domain to see if it's available, GoDaddy is actually one of
the worst places for you to go because there's been, you know, times where GoDaddy has
like this domain will be available, but GoDaddy will actually suck that domain up and then
resell that thing as like a premium domain. So while it was available to you, you know,
five minutes ago, you left that page, you went on to do something else, you come back and all
of a sudden that's, you know, not there. Yes, it's possible that somebody else bought it, but there's
been proof that GoDaddy has essentially, you know, grabbed that up and recognized that as what
they would consider a premium domain. And then they stick a premium price. It goes from literally
like, what is it, like, $14.99 for a normal price domain, and it can be as high as, you know,
$20,000 or more for a domain name, and they use, you know, certain ways to look at a domain to
see if it's a, or not, but yeah, they've been known to suck up domains on people. So
there's actually other, you know, tons of different registrars that you can go to in different
search engines and people recommend using those versus, versus GoDaddy. Well, if there's
a charge in $14.99, one of like a year, I might be switch over to GoDaddy. I'm spending, I'm
paying like 30 bucks a month for on register.com for the lengths.cast.com domain. And that's, you
know, it's, I actually made the mistake a while ago a bit. Their interface is freaking horrible
when it comes to paying their, their yearly fees. It's 30, it's like 30 bucks a year.
So what I did one time was, it was last year, I paid the $30, and I still had like the email,
like they sent me another email saying, like, your domain is about ready to expire. So I'm like,
all right, what the hell is going on here? I went in there again, and it went up going through
the whole system, the whole thing again. And it basically said like, you haven't paid the,
the $30, the $30 for the year yet, because their system hasn't up, it didn't update yet.
So I went in, paid the $30 again, went through all of it, and it basically said to that again,
like the next day or like a little while later. And so I want to paying for three years,
people were paying $90 for three years, basically all in one shot. But you know what,
I'm okay with having the domain for three years, that's fine, not a big deal.
But it's just really crappy that the fact that it took them so freaking long to update their
information just to actually say that I actually paid it, the fact that it made me freaking
pay it for three years. Yes, well, messed up. I've never had that happen. I usually buy most,
yeah, most of my stuff through GoDaddy. I mean, in hosting, I usually go through like HostGator.
I'm feeling I have to switch my hosting soon. So I was wondering whether, you know,
if anybody had any ideas about hosting, I am open to ideas. The biggest thing I've seen so far
is just through like Digital Ocean. There's so many, it's the $5 a month hosting, and then
like you could probably, there's always, everybody has freaking codes for like $10. So you know,
your first two months are free. So that's, I think about going to Digital Ocean for the hosting
for Linux loadcast. I've never used them. I've always just, I guess, been partial to HostGator. I've
used a couple of other of the cheaper ones and their server uptime kind of sucked. So I guess
that's just mainly what I look for is what their server uptime percentage is. And you know,
what you're going to do with it, do you need to, or you're just going to host a WordPress site? I
mean, are you hosting Ecom? Yada, yada, yada. I mean, you know, certain hosting platforms work better
for others. I guess, you know, not necessarily work better, but have easier integration methods.
You know, more, more walk you through, you know, take your hand and walk you through type of stuff.
Yeah, I don't necessarily need anybody to walk me through with things. I just need like, what
are running right now is just a basic WordPress site. And the biggest, I mean, with a podcast,
the biggest thing that you need is just something to serve up the RSS. And besides that, I mean,
I'm fairly certain that nobody actually goes to a website for anything. They just go to our
website to sign up for the RSS feed to get this podcast. And then that's pretty much about it.
I mean, there's no reason to go, no other real reason to go to our website for anything.
I mean, we don't really, I don't really post anything else to website besides, I mean, all of the
show notes and stuff like that will be served up to the RSS feed podcast itself. So, I mean,
just get a WordPress site with the blueberry press, what we've been doing.
The audio files themselves are actually hosted on archive.org. And then, you know, we even use
what the hell is the Google thing for RSS feeds there. I know what I just can't think of it.
Anyways, that kind of helps with the RSS if there's any like with the RSS feeds. We post a new
show on BeBurner. That's it. So, he used registrar as your hosting to them.
No, we use register.com just for the domain. A friend of the shows has been working with,
has been very, very, very, very nice to give us hosting for the last like four years or so.
But so, I've run into a problem with the WordPress and I've been unable to get a hold of him.
So, we had put a recapture on the site for security purposes and recapture expired.
And I figured most of the time I know it wouldn't have expired. It was mostly just sitting there
going, well, now instead of actually putting in one of the funky words and the pictures, now
all you have to put in is wordcapture, blah, blah, blah. And I'm like, that's still in my opinion,
just regular. That's halfway decent security in my opinion for the WordPress site. So,
that's not really don't care. But didn't that win away completely? So, now I can't even sign
into WordPress. But I can't get a hold of the person that does our hosting. So, now I'm going to
have to find a way to migrate all of our hosting onto something else and something I have more control
over. And so, I'm thinking about using like a digital ocean and setting up a different WordPress
site and then either resetting out the RSS or like doing everything I can to get all of this guy
to be able to get my old, the old RSS feed migrated onto the news site hosting. I don't know, I just
think I need more control over the site if I can't get a hold of the person who has the actual
hosting. But he was very, very, very gracious to give us hosting when we first started this
podcast up. So, I definitely can't complain about it at all, but I feel like if I can't get a hold
of them, then I definitely need to get my set up our own hosting. How much was the digital ocean
plan you were looking at? I mean, with HostGator right now, they're running a deal that if you buy it in
three years together, it's 95 bucks. So, like two something a month, like two sixty or something
like that a month. But if you go through eBates, you get $30 back. I mean, so essentially for three
years, you'd only be paying $65 to host your website. That's not a horrible idea. With digital ocean,
it's like $5 a month, and you can probably find something with a $10 credit, so the first two
months are free. So, I mean, if you can get two something a month plus $30 back, that's not bad.
No, not at all. Yeah, it's like two sixty four a month right now for 36 months.
And yeah, then my eBates thing says, yeah, $30 cash back. I mean, yeah, that's only once a year,
but whatever. That's not bad. Hold on one second. I gotta be right back.
All right. All right. I think I'm going to die, bud. Hey, you got to check out YouTube. There's
Cobra Kai. It's a karate kid saga continues 30 years after.
Oh, that Hulu TV show. This is right on YouTube. If you just go to YouTube,
look on the top left corner. There is it says like either live or Cobra Kai.
Yeah, I thought I saw some previews for that. I'll have to check it out later.
Just turn it on. I'll have to let you know how it is.
The karate kid turned into a used car salesman.
Something, yeah, I don't know. I just just got her on. He's eating fucking fried baloney right now.
Can't tell you how many times I've been that broke eating fucking fried baloney.
Fried. Is it any good fried baloney? Well, it's better than regular baloney, I think.
I do love regular baloney. It's right up there on the list with ramen.
I do think of baloney as like a giant hot dog though. If you were to just take a giant hot dog
and slice it into like paper thin sheets, then that's basically baloney.
Yeah, pretty much. Okay, I'll talk to you guys in about two weeks.
Have a good night.
Later. Later. How long have you been doing this podcast?
Well, I think it's about four years now.
Oh, wow. It's quite a while.
Yeah, Joe's constantly asking me to get out here. I'm just always busy.
I raise my kid myself and run in the business plus I'm in school right now graduating just next month.
So it's just been nuts.
Yeah, I don't know if that much going on, but I think kids in general take up most of your life.
Oh, that's for sure, especially when the other parent has like nothing to do with them.
That's horrible. Yeah, pretty much.
I mean, in the way it makes things easier and in another way, it's absolutely horrible.
I can see that. Like, if this job offer comes through, I don't have to ask her nothing.
I just get up and go. Right.
Which you know, this whole this whole job, I don't know, it's still up in here.
I boys can be a really hard thing to to go work for somebody else, you know.
Yeah, but you know, at the same time, you got to think about that all of those stupid little things
that you've had to deal with in the past, whether it's just I'm not sure if you've been doing it,
but you know, when you're doing your own business, you have to file your taxes
with like every four months or whatever and stupid things like you were talking about with
like health insurance, like do you have to deal with all the health insurance yourself,
you know, do with that anymore and there's I'm sure there's so many little aspects that you
don't have to deal with anymore that somebody else is dealing with that all you have to do is
basically work and collect the paycheck that's going to make it worthwhile.
Yeah, I agree. There is a lot, but you know, people think that when you work for yourself,
you got it made and really you're actually work a lot more, a lot longer, and a lot harder
than everybody else who punches a clock. Right. Especially if you ever get to the point where you
have other people working for you, that's a whole other headache added onto it.
Yeah, and I've you know, I've hired a couple of guys, you know, it's just pretty much like
day-help and yeah, it's not something I enjoy. I'm pretty picky on how things are done, so
you know, for me to trust many people, to get it done the way I want it done, you know, it's
pretty hard to do. Yeah, one people don't work like they do. You're like they used to, you know,
there's a lot of lazy people that are cutting corners and, you know, letting standards go in the
garbage. Yeah, and I'm finding a lot of very self-entitled people like they deserve something as
opposed to earning it. Yeah, I think that's the way society's moving towards now. Everybody
thinks that they're owed something and it's like, wow, you know, like, you know, and part of it,
you can blame the schools. I mean, they, they kind of teach you, you know, that, oh, you want it,
you can have it, you want it, you can have it, you know, no, you want it, you know, you can earn it,
you can't have it, but you can earn it. Yeah, everything should be earned.
Agreed. You know, I, I barely buy my, you know, I buy my kid stuff, you know, but he's not,
he's not spoiled. I mean, if he's, if he's not acting right, he sure as shit ain't going to get,
you know, anything. I mean, I'm not going to go buy him some new toy if he doesn't deserve it,
but so many of these parents every time they walk into a store, they're buying their kid something.
Right. I've found over time though that my problem is I feel like, so I work, I don't actually
work in the tech field. I work in retail produce tech is always been more of a huge hobby thing for
me. It's been a hobby thing for me that I've freaking loved doing that and I'm hoping to at some
point like four years down the line when I don't require like a certain day off a week and stuff
like that with my son, my son will be in pretty, when my son will finally be in kindergarten,
I hope to actually be able to get a job where it isn't the crappy one that I've been doing for a long
time, which is retail food. But I, the biggest problem with me I think is I feel like those people
who are claiming to be my boss, I feel like they need to earn that. They need to actually
know something, do something, act accordingly. As opposed to you have the title, you feel entitled
to that, because you have that title, you're entitled to it. And I think that's been my problem over
the last couple of years is I don't give the people who feel they're entitled to their respect,
their respect that they feel like they're entitled to. Agreed. Yeah, I put these people in
in charge, you know, like you said, they give them this title and it's like all of a sudden I'm
somebody special and it's like, bro, you should even have that title if you don't know a damn thing
about, you know, the operations here. Right, you know, if you look, I will give you the respect,
if you know what the hell you're talking about, or at the very least you're willing to come down
here, do what I do, and you can actually say, hey, yes, I can do this better than you, or I can,
we can do this, but I can do this better because of this reason. As opposed to, hey, I have earned,
I've somehow gotten this title. And so you should show me respect. That's just, I can't, I have a
hard time with that. Yeah, same here. I guess that's that's one reason why I know that, you know,
one of the reasons why I think, man, do I really want to go work for somebody because now I got to
go in with all that corporate bullshit, too, you know, and right now I don't deal with that,
I do what I want, when I want, I work when I want, you know, for the most part, I mean, I'm
free to do whatever the hell I want, but I don't know, I mean, at the same time, there's a lot of
benefits to working for somebody. It's just, boy, I hope, if I do decide to do this, I'm not
stuck into a situation where it's just like that, you know, we're working for some, you know,
entitled asshole. Right. And that's the one big, tough thing is you never know when you might
actually wind up having to work for some entitled asshole. You know, it's, it's, you know,
there's so many things like, there's freaking nepotism in every job where, you know,
some dudes son all of a sudden becomes the boss of things and, you know, they don't have any idea
about anything besides the fact that they've been bribing their father's co-tails for so many
fricking years and, you know, they feel they're entitled to their position and stuff. And
there are so many fricking things where people who don't deserve a higher position, get thrown
into a higher position for whatever fricking reason. I mean, it feels like a lot of times,
and corporate things that, you know, it used to be that the smartest person or the most
person with the best knowledge rises to the top. Yeah, corporate positions, it seems like the
biggest asshole, right. So top for some reason. And that's, that's a big, tough thing. So you
have to sit there and weigh out, you know, am I going to deal with all of the things of running
my own business with healthcare and dealing with other people and dealing with, like,
I look at as a big deal, but my other people who might actually run their own business might
not think it's a big deal or who are self-employed. The doing your taxes every, every quarter and
stuff like that. I mean, that's, you know, as a person who doesn't have to do that, that seems
like a big deal to me. You know, all of those things, you know, and all of the stuff if you get
employed, if you have employees working for you and stuff like that, and all of that, that
yes involved with it is all of that worth it versus dealing with somebody, dealing with a company
who takes care of all this stuff, but running the risk of having some, you know, jackass in charge.
Right. Yeah, I totally, totally agree there. You know, and I think this, this company will be
all right. I actually can't believe they even want to, you know, offer me anything. I'm a pretty,
I guess, you know, rough around the edges guy, I guess, at times, if something, right, I'm not afraid
to point it out real quick. And, you know, these guys actually had taken a little while to pay me
too. They're supposed to pay me in two weeks and it ended up being 30 days, which, you know, whatever,
if you're going to pay me in 30 days, you need to tell me that's been 30 days, not in two weeks.
And then they, they also, you know, pulled some stuff with this in the amount of insurance I had to
have, you know, they wanted me to have like one million dollars in auto insurance. Like who the
health has a one million dollar auto in policy, you know, but, you know, so we kind of had some,
some rough words. And, you know, I literally threatened to go get a lawyer if they
due to the fact that I didn't have a million dollars worth of car insurance.
They, they ended up approving it anyways. And within a week, they're offering me a position. I mean,
of course, they've been offering me and begging me for a while, but, you know, they, they finally,
they got me paying. They're like, hey, how about moving? I think the smartest thing to do. And,
you know, obviously, I'm not you, but I think the smartest thing to do is to
take like a week or two, go down to the area, figure out like where you would live, how much
you would cost the live, try to find what you would you get for a place. And then maybe figure out
what they want contract-wise. Like you're talking about base pay and stuff like that, but also figure
out like if within a year, like if you're sending a year contract with these people, like if within
a year, like you guys don't see eye-to-eye or something goes awry, how many, like if try to figure
out what the at your skill level, what other types of jobs you can get in that area, but also try
to find, figure out an area that you actually want to live in. So, figure out a way of a place you
want to live, figure out what you want to be making, figure out how long, like if this situation
at this place doesn't work out how long for you to be able to get out, and could you do basically
what you're doing here, like if you wanted to start up your own business in that area, could you
do it, and could you be making the same amount of money, but just in a different area, you know,
so you're not working, you're not paying the expense of moving to a different area and then
trying to restart over again with all your old clients and stuff, could you find new clients
in that area, and do you have the ability to do that job and then maybe hold like one or two side
gigs with things and maybe try to set up some other side gigs of things, like if you do,
if you already have knowledge of the system of the different types of postal systems with
the boxes and stuff like that, and I'm sure there are similar type things in that area,
what you want to move into, if you were, you know, those systems or have some sort of relationship
with those companies, those systems in those areas and stuff where you can do something, maybe
maybe part time with them or whatever, so you still have a relationship with that company
that if things go sour with this company, you can still go back to some sort of a contract with
them and then have that as just your general base, you know, you have some sort of an income coming
in and then you can then from there create, you know, start getting other income if you do not,
you know, see eye to eye with this company that you want to set up that wants you to work for them.
Yeah, I agree, and you know, I can, I can actually move my company,
probably do just as good if not better, because a lot of the companies I contract with, they are,
you know, nationwide companies, so there's work all over the country, and you know, of course,
Cali's going to be more metropolitan than, you know, a bump fuck Iowa, so a lot more work out there.
And with this job, you know, I question like why they want me so bad for one, it's like, man,
you know, like, for what, I don't have any certifications, I actually just started this company,
just short of a year ago, it was in August last year, my A plus, nope, sure don't have that either,
but I do know my way around, you know, a network a little bit, I know, you know,
terminations and, you know, a little bit of diagnostics and, but the fact that they do
mainly video conferencing, you know, they, they feel that with my IT skills that combining that with
the AV, that it would be very beneficial to them, I guess. And it could be that just that you've
proven to them that you're some level of competency that, you know, you're not going to dig them around
or whatever, so you've shown that you know what the hell you're talking about, you care about
what the hell you're talking about, and that's more of what they're looking for, is somebody who
knows what they're talking about and cares what they're talking about, or if they don't know the
answer, you know, they're willing to go figure out what the answer is, and go learn more stuff,
and that's what they're looking for in their, their company.
For sure, and go, yeah, I, they know that I'm, I'm no joke, hell, I, I got into a pretty much
yelling match with the media com guy there, at this job we're on, I had the engineers on,
on the phone with me, and I had the, the client that I was there working on their stuff,
they were in the other room, and was the media com guy, he ended up launching like,
shit like five, six things off of the shelf, all the network equipment that I just hooked up,
and he just kept unplugging everything that I had just wired in, so, and on top of that,
he wanted to tell me that it was going to take 24 to 48 hours for him to,
add our MAC address into, to the system to allow us access and everything, and blah, blah, he's
always going to take us, you know, 24 hours of my dude, it just took you guys five freaking minutes
yesterday, like I, I just was on the phone with you guys the last time I was here, it took you
five minutes to assign this thing, five minutes, now you're going to tell me, you know, and then
he pulls all these corners, and yeah, I ended up like, just going off on the guy, like, yell at
him, like, you know, it's real funny, you guys constantly, it's, you know, oh, we got this great
gig of bits, speeds, and network, blah, blah, blah, it's like, but who can use it?
Because it never does it ever work. I was like, and always you guys come here and you push it
all on somebody else's stuff, all it's all, you know, and long story short, yeah, huge yelling
match, and that actually is one of the things that, you know, gained their respect was that, you
know, I'm there, defending, not only the company that is looking to hire me, but the client that
you know, has this service, and both the client and this company are just like, wow, really,
you know, this guy is going to literally fight for us. Yeah, that's probably the thing they see
that you, you're willing to fight for the right thing, and not fight for the BS, so that's why
why they want you. Yeah, I'm a no BS kind of guy. I absolutely hate, you know, the,
the guys that just, you don't want to fill you full of crap. I mean, it's constant. I see,
and I don't know what your guys' internet providers are out there, but, you know, Joe and I ran
in here with, and I keep going back to media companies. It's absolutely the worst service I've
had clear across the country. I've lived all over the place except for the East Coast,
and I'll tell you that these guys are the worst. I mean, you literally, you cannot have a
static IP with a wireless modem. You also can't SSH if you have a wireless modem, and what other
internet providers are going to do that to you? None. That's pretty crazy. Yeah, we sat there
forever, like, what is going on? You know, like, with the SSH thing, like, we got it all the way down,
we tested everything, and Joe and I were just like, what in the hell? I mean, it's working locally,
but he can't access it from Texas, and I'm like, dude, like, I've poured forward, and I've done
everything. Everything is set. But media comm installs this, um, their own, uh, kind of UI on
this, on the router or on the modem, I should say, um, and this UI is called a home Wi-Fi, and it's
kind of their way of controlling the, the limitation or the, the what you can do with the
port forward. You really can't truly port forward. Um, you don't get full access to everything,
and, uh, one of the things that's static IP and SSH can't get them with Wi-Fi.
That's why I've never used their modems, and I've never, like, I've Comcast, I've never used their
com, uh, modems, and I've never used any of their routers or anything. Yeah, it's, it's kind of
just to be honest with you. I, uh, what I did is I just had them, um, pretty much set my modem back
to just, uh, pretty much bridge mode. And, uh, within 30 seconds, some of them doing that,
everything's back up and running. SSH is working. And, uh, media comm is still denying that they
block SSH. That's freaking horrible. Oh, yeah. I mean, you know what's even worse is when you ask the, uh,
the, you can't even call them technicians, they're not. When you ask the, uh, the fake support on, uh,
on the phone, you know, what, do you know what SSH is? Uh, uh, uh, okay. Do you know what
telling that is? Are you old enough to know what telling that is? Uh, uh, uh, uh, you know,
maybe you better put me on with somebody else. I'd be like, how could you sit there and call
yourself a tech? You know, uh, and not know what the hell SSH is, not know what telling that is.
I mean, do you know what DHCP is? Or do you just know what the, you know, uh, the letters are
because you see them on your fucking screen? You know, they know how to read from the script and
that's about it. That is all support is I've actually worked for a couple of phone companies tech
support and it is literally a, uh, a program with scripted questions and, you know, it's, uh,
yes, no, you know, selection and then now guide you on to the next question. I mean, it's,
if it wasn't for the software, 90% of the people wouldn't know what the hell to do.
Yep, and it's freaking horrible. Right. It is horrible. But that's how I suppose that's how
these guys get away with hiring, uh, quote, unquote, technicians, you know, fake missions. We'll call
of, uh, for like 10 bucks an hour, you know. That's true. Level, what, what level one is pretty much
just, um, did you reset? Did you unplug your router for a minute and then plug it back in?
Are you sure that everything is plugged in properly? Uh, yeah, that's, that's level one. That's,
that's the tier one, uh, help right there. Yeah. And they might as well be called customer service.
Right. That was funny is that you go to ask for a tier two with media comm and, uh, some will tell
you, oh, yeah, hold on. We'll transfer you and then they'll get back on. Oh, yeah,
forgot. We can't, what do you mean you can't? Yeah, we could only email. Are you fucking serious?
You can only email your tier two's like, wow, you guys get right on fixing problems, don't you?
Yeah, they're used dealing with people who have no idea what the hell they're talking about. So
they just, they used to, uh, make sure it's plugged in, uh, reset it by unplugging it for, you know,
the minute, minute and a half, whatever. And that's pretty much about it. They don't know any
actual, you know, they can't actually diagnose the actual problems. They can resend out the,
the information, what is it that they call it? Uh, every time I've dealt with Comcast,
I'm like, oh, we'll resend out the packets or whatever. It's, um, balls. Yeah, I can't remember what
it is. Uh, we'll resend the signal or sub-stupid thing. Yeah, good for you. I mean, like,
that's your go-to every time. Exactly, exactly. I couldn't even get them to, okay, so they kept
telling me that I am IPv4. I'm like, okay, okay, you know, that's, that's normal. Okay, well then why
in the hell is my, you know, my, uh, uh, uh, uh, default gateway. It was showing up as essentially,
like, hexadecimal, but it was like, it was improper. It was, it almost looked like a MAC address,
but in improperly formatted MAC address. Um, and the reason it says improperly formatted,
it's a pretty sure MAC addresses don't have percentage symbols in them. So it was like, uh, IPv6
is, it also has, you know, that style of IP. So I asked and asked and asked. And nope, we have no,
no, can't figure it out. Don't know why. No, no. Well, lady, if I'm getting this, because at the time,
my internet wasn't running right. Now, like, if that's the case, it's like, this could be, you
know, a configuration issue, you know, I mean, if I should not have a bunch of random letters
and numbers as a default gateway, I just shouldn't, you know, it should be 192 16811, you know, whatever.
And she just, the lady could not get it. Well, come to find out, I apparently have IPv6 now.
And running IPv4 and six, I don't know if that's a thing now, but apparently because I'm pulling
both signals. They really just need to give them, I mean, if, if you're a colleague or yourself,
any sort of tech support you need to have, like, basic knowledge of shit, that's all I'm saying,
is you should have basic knowledge to go into it to be able to make competent responses to things.
Because, yeah, obviously, you're going to run into people who have no idea what the hell they're
talking about. And they're going to get the modems from their ISPs, whether it's Comcast or whatever.
And the only thing they know how to do is push the little button on the top of it. That's going to
send out whatever fricking signal. And they're going to go, oh, look, here we go. Now I can connect
my ISP and then they're all done. And then they're going to have people who actually I know what the
hell they're talking about. But they need to know how to talk to the people who actually have some
idea what they're talking about, not just the morons. Agreed. Yeah. I've started my conversations
out any time that I've needed their quote unquote support. I've just started out looking.
I'm a field tech. I do this stuff every day. Let's just go ahead and skip the first three,
four pages of your little fucking question here there because I am not going through it.
I've already turned the power off on on. I've already said everything. I've already checked
all of the connections and make sure that actually is plugged in. I've already done that. Trust me.
Let's move on to the next one. Yeah. And then they still ask you, you're like, oh my god,
are you serious? It's fricking miserable. Oh, yeah. And I think the reason you'll get the ones
that still ask you is because they're literally so stuck like they just wouldn't know what to do
without going step by step through the screen. It's like, oh my god. What are you doing? There's
got to be some way you can hire some competent people here. I don't get it. They read their script
and that's all they know. I mean, what I worked on it, doing tech support for these guys,
like, you know, when I first started doing that, I really didn't know all the different things either.
But, you know, the thing is, is that was part of your training was to learn some of that stuff.
And I kind of thought, you know, it was like most call centers. If you didn't learn it, you know,
you were just, you were released. You didn't make it through. Sorry. Go get another job.
You know, but it seems like certain companies are at the point nowadays were, oh, maybe they're
struggling to find people. So it's just like, ah, let any retards sit in the seat, I guess.
I think the major problem is there's so many people who don't want to actually learn what the
hell is going on in the first place. They don't want to actually bother to learn. So the things like
make sure it's plugged in right and make sure that, you know, it's reset for, you know,
unplug it for, you know, the minute, minute and a half or whatever the hell it is actually works
for them because they don't, nobody wants to actually take the time and effort to learn this crap.
It, it bugs the crap out of me that no one wants to actually learn what the hell is going on.
And this goes to a whole other level that I have a complaint about. I mean,
I've heard of people who, like, kids who will learn things about freaking programming,
but they don't understand the fundamentals of the operating system.
Kids who will learn programming, but they won't learn things like, you know,
multi-boot operating system, how an operating system works in the first place,
they don't have the fundamentals involved to actually learn what the hell is actually going on.
So if the people, if the base, you know, if the base script actually works for 90% of the people
because they actually, 90% of the people who are involved, who they deal with don't have
the technical knowledge to know that any of this stuff is going on, then, you know, they're not
going to go ahead and hire people that are, but they need to have something that, you know,
hey, look, I am a person who is beyond this point. I understand this. I need to be sensitive to,
because we need to have a, you and I need to have a conversation or me and the person doing the
support need to have a conversation that does not involve, make sure the plugs are plugged rights
and make sure that, you know, I have unplugged it for the minute or whatever and reset everything
properly. I need people, I want somebody to talk to me, who knows me as me, you know, as an IT
professional, as opposed to the people who, you know, there needs to be some sort of a barrier,
you know, where I can say, you know, hey, I know what I'm doing. Let's move on to the next level here.
And, but you have to go through all of that stupid BS first. I don't know.
You know, and I always saw that, you know, for a long time, I'm like, God, you know, it'd be nice to
have a business level of internet accounts. You know, maybe I won't have to go through this
shit. Yeah. Right. They treat the business customers the same exact way. And it's like,
yo, you realize that most of these business customers aren't the fricking, you know,
the owner of the business or the manager of the business that is calling you. Most of the time,
these major businesses, they have a fricking IT department and their IT department, you know,
might have to reach out to you and we might know what we're talking about. So don't you think we
should be able to have a conversation with somebody on the same intellectual level as we are?
Right. Nope. Right. Unplug it. Plug it back in. Oh, you want me to do a 30, 30, 30 already did a
30, 30, 30. What the fuck's a 30, 30, 30? Yeah, you're an idiot. You know, like, that's your minute
and a half right there. You just reset it. Dude, like, you know, like we've done all of this and
you guys just don't get it. Like, tier two, it should definitely be accessible, especially to
the, the business customers. I mean, it's like, wow, you won't even let us business guys talk
to a tier two. Are you serious? Like, I'm glad I didn't sign a three year contract to have
business net put in here. Like, I really am, you know, like, because I thought that would be the
one thing. I got a little bit better support. Oh, wow, you're here in four hours if I need you.
Wow. And four hours, I can probably call some other people and figure this shit out myself.
Yeah, it seems to be like Google, Google, Google. That's the only way you're going to do it.
You're just bust out your Google food and you're going to figure it out faster than the
freaking morons that you actually call. They're going to figure it out.
Oh, for sure, Google's friend. I swear to God, I spend so much time on there. I mean,
there's a lot of things that I've, a lot of situations that I've ran into. And I'm like, uh,
well, this is a first, you know, so I go to Google right away, YouTube. I freaking love YouTube.
I swear to God, I bought an Android stereo for my car. And it's got a big seven inch Android
touchscreen. And I bought that just so I can stream YouTube in my car while driving down the road.
And so I got like the YouTube red or whatever it's called. And I can start a show and then
actually go back to my navigation. So I just pretty much listened to it versus, uh, you know,
watching it while driving down the road. But yeah, I totally learned so much from YouTube that
it's, uh, it's that important for me to have access to it like everywhere.
Yeah, real quick. Termux, YouTube, DL, been my friend for like the last month and a half or so. But,
so my wife, my wife has, has recently become like, before I met her, she was, you know,
she was the basic like I taught her all the stuff about like, you know, unplug it and unplug it
let it reset and stuff like that for a minute and a half or whatever. I taught her all the basic stuff
and then at her work, she's become kind of like the PC freaking guru. She's just known how to do
things like, you know, when an update to something. So she works in a, a, a pediatric office.
So anytime and, um, the application that they use, I think, was based on
Silverlight originally. So anytime, like some of some things update, uh, uh, update and like,
it would broke, it would break, but she was working on. So she had to pull back the version of, um,
internet explorer or whatever, just so everything was still work right. But she's learned a lot of
that basic stuff, but uh, she's recently run into a problem where there was, uh, through active
directory, one of the, uh, prescription printers was, um, able to be seen, but not viewed through
things and whatnot. And I tried to explain her the whole idea of Google food. And she actually
thought that like, Google food was like a website or something. I'm like, no, no, no, no, no, no,
here's the thing. All IT people at some point gain their own personal skill and that skill is
called Google food. Google food is your ability to go use Google or whatever your search engine
probably, you know, your search engine is whether it's stuck to go or whatever and use your Google
food to figure out where the problem is because whatever problem you had, I'm going to guess
that 500 people before you probably had that exact same problem. So if you use your Google
food, go look printer, active directory, maybe even type of printer or whatever and just put in your,
your, your, your problems, find through your search out there. There's probably going to be a
freaking forum or, uh, uh, whatever, well, probably forum, most of these things are freaking forum
questions where somebody put this in there and there's like six different questions and you have
to go through those, uh, like the people who found different type of answers to things, your ability
to go through those and find out what the right answer is, that's your Google food. I explained
my wife what Google food is. I'm like, this is Google food. As soon as you go into any form of IT,
you got to learn and you got to harness your Google food. Oh, that is for sure. That is for sure.
And what do you say it's Google food? It is Google food. I mean, there is a difference between, uh,
um, you know, just normal searching and being like, uh, once you finally learn how to,
and you find fine tune your Google food, you will get how to search Google and search it properly
to really narrow down your results and get the answer you're looking for. That's right. You
have to narrow down your searches to exactly what you're looking for and then you got to search
through those forums or whatever because you might find out like you might get your, your question
right to exactly what you want it to be, but then you got to dig through those forums through
like the like, you can't go through the first couple of responses because those first couple of
responses might have worked for that person at that time, but then you got to go all the way down
to the end and dig, dig, dig and make sure that like the first response might have worked for him
then, but it might work for you later. And it's just you have to use your Google food. It is,
it is the IT. It is an IT and just skill. That's what it is. That's what I try to impart in her. I'm
like, look, I know you knew to this and you were been in your in your pediatric office. You have
been the IT ninja there because everybody else has basically, you know, their, their knowledge
about stuff has been limited to I know how to look, look on Facebook and I know how to look on
YouTube. And that's about it. And you have learned those skills, those skills that I've talked
that I've kind of, I like to say that I've taught, whether it's true or not, I like to say that I
taught the ability that, hey, don't be defeated. The answer is out there. You just have to look, go,
hey, if I just kind of dig down a little bit deeper, I know that this is out here that the
answers are out there. That's the beginnings of Google food. Google foods, you had to go out there
into Google, dig through those forums, dig through the things and answer and ask the right questions.
That's the big thing is you have to ask the right questions, dig through the right forums to
find that answer that's going to match exactly what you need. Try it out because you're going to try
a lot of things out. You're going to try a lot of things out before you hit that right answer.
Try them out, try everything out and then you're going to hit the right answer. That's your Google
food. It's a skill. It's a martial arts. It's a skill. First time I told the tour, she thought it
was a website. No, no, no, no, no, no. It is a skill that every IT person learns. It's your food.
Yeah, there's almost be a certification for it. Hell yeah. I just hit my vape and that thing went
right to the wrong spot. Like one of the best things I've ever done is quit smoking cigarettes.
What's this damn vape thing? So I quit smoking about six years ago and that was about the beginning of
the whole vaping craze. The first vaping thing I tried was an e-cigarette that was like
mostly just the frickin... It made my lips fucking numb afterwards. It tasted like a Mustang cigarette
and then made my lips numb. That's what it was. So I'm like, yeah, this is no good. But at that
point I had already quit for like a frickin' month anyways before I even tried that. So it was
that early in the stages of vaping and e-cigarettes and stuff. So I kind of feel depressed because I'd
love to find something like an e-cigarette or something that gave me the taste. I love love and
miss the taste of cigarettes because it's a frickin' fantastic. I miss it so much. If I could get
that back, I would love it. But I don't want any of the... I don't want any of the tobacco or
anything else. I'm so past all the rest of that stuff where I don't need it but I miss the taste
of all of it. Like a real good cigarette. I miss the taste of a good cigarette. But I've gone,
I was... I quit way too early before the new adaptation of things into e-cigarettes and vaping. So
I missed out on all that. Yeah, I had tried the original vapes like you had said and they were
absolutely garbage. I tried quitting with those things and it was like, yeah, this isn't happening.
And I did it a few times. And finally, it was a matter of finding the right,
you know, I guess the right vape, the right juice and everything else. And
can't say it's really saved me a lot of money at all. I mean, it's not necessarily cheaper. But
I don't feel it shitty, you know, with it. So I mean, it helps. I eventually I kind of want to
wean off of that too, you know, and not really smoke anything. Yeah, I kind of like, I quit because
I knew we were at this point, at that point in my life, we were trying to have a kid. We weren't
necessarily going to have one anytime real soon. We were trying to have a kid. And my wife and I,
and so we were. And so I knew I was going to have to probably quit. But at the same time, I was just,
I was feeling crappy all the time. And I'm one of those people where like seasonal allergies just
kicked my butt constantly. And like all that stuff just kicked my butt. So you know, I wasn't feeling
right every time I did, but I always loved, loved, like half the reason why I started smoking in the
first place is I'd be running into my brother's car. And my brother was a big smoker. And he
smoked these camel reds. And the car would just smell fucking heavenly. It was just this awesome,
awesome smell. And I just, that's what sold me on is I love the fucking smell of it. I loved like,
I love cigars. I love, I love the smell of like cigar. Like honestly, even more than that is,
I love the smell of fucking pipe tobacco. I have never smoked a pipe in my life. But I love the
smell of fucking pipe tobacco. Oh, it's so fucking, oh, it's so fucking beautiful. But I, you know,
I've never smoked a pipe before. I've seen so many people with their freaking face and freaking
paralysis or whatever from smoking pipes and stuff like that. And there's so many horrible side
effects, but I love that like we had, so I worked like food retail. We had a person who like one
of the vendors would always go outside and smoke a pipe. And I love the smell of pipe tobacco.
It's freaking fantastic. But I can, I've never done it. I never could do it. And I want to,
you know, I quit. But if I could get something that didn't have any of the negative effects,
but still gave me that taste because it's a taste. Like I could like tobacco and coffee together.
Oh, there's a fucking taste right there. Tobacco and coffee. First thing in the morning,
that's freaking fantastic. I missed a cigarette and coffee first thing in the morning.
I'm a horrible quitter when it comes to tobacco. I'm horrible. I missed stuff like that.
If you can make that without the side effects, I'd be a happy boy. Let's put that way.
And it's funny because actually that is my morning vape right there is a caramel macchiato
ejuice that's kind of got a very slight undertones of tobacco. And it is heavenly. I do hear
they've made an e-pipe now, but it is funny. You say that about pipe tobacco because that is one
of my favorite smells. It actually reminds me of my grandpa. One of my only memories of him was
sitting on a porch. He was in his rocking chair. I was sitting on the ottoman and he'd smoke a pipe
and I just loved the smell of that pipe. And every time I smell a pipe, now that's exactly what I
think of. Pipe tobacco to pipe tobacco has such a great freaking smell to it. I love cigars.
Cigars are fantastic. The hardest thing with cigars was after so long of smoking cigarettes was
not inhaling cigar smoke. And I mean, we had a place up here on the Cape where like everybody
else, right on the time where everybody at all the restaurants and every place was going completely
tobacco-free. There was a place called Puff the Magic Dragon where they sold like cigars and
cigarettes and like pipe tobacco and stuff like that. But they also had like a little bit of a
lounge where they would give you like you can get like coffee or tea they had like chest tables
set up and a television set up and where you can just buy like a nice cigar, sit down,
play a game of like chest or something or play a game and just sit there and like a nice
recliner and relax and like smoke of freaking I love cigars. I love pipe. I've never smoked a pipe
a pipe so we got pipe always pipe cigars pipe tobacco always small degrees and then cigar tobacco
always always freaking small. I love pipe tobacco and cigar tobacco. But I was you know I one of
I started off with the like jewel sweets. The first things I've ever smoked were like these
jewel sweets type cigars which were the cigars that had the wooden kind of filter as thing to it
and then from there I went to lucky strikes which the lucky strike non-filtered tobacco and then
I went into like cigarettes with occasional cigars and like really really freaking enjoyed the
occasional cigar and went into like I love freaking cigar smoke. I missed it so much.
God damn it now I'm gonna worry a lot about it. I start talking about it and I really want to
like like reel tobacco again but yeah I know my wife probably several other people would kill me
if I ever freaking smoke anything ever again. I would really wish someone would come out with like an
e-cigarette or like a vape type thing where I can actually get the experience of like a cigar or
a pipe tobacco and not have all the problems. I'm pretty sure they got a e-pipe thing and an e-cigar
even I don't know what the flavors are but I mean I see that they you know blow clouds on
on you know much like you would a normal pipe or a cigar and that's always been the downfall
of those little you know little tiny original e-cigs that they had was that you would never really
get a true drag off of that thing. I mean it was like you blow the tiniest little cloud and
the shittiest flavor. Yeah the biggest thing is the flavor. You gotta have that flavor to it.
That's that's that's something that always drove that drove me to it and was the flavor.
I bet you if you would have if you would have got into the vaping this this stuff this caramel
macchiato town. If you like a good coffee I guess this one you know the caramel macchiato that's
what is you know all the fancy coffees much like a Starbucks one. Well then I have a double shot
one and that's just more of your uh more of your stronger coffee I mean it's got a little bit of a
sweet taste and a little bit of a tobacco undertone too so um very good uh morning vape.
Oh second I need back in two seconds I've been drinking beer and all this and uh yeah not like a
make sure I'm drinking a whole lot and uh fuck has been.
Sorry sorry that's very good. So all throughout the podcast I've been doing this uh
this uh yeah and about a tropical uh torpedo and then and then since then I've been
drinking my home uh homemade mead. I'm just gonna kick like you. I'm just gonna kick like a
mule. I love and miss mead. Not sure how well it balances out with like any real mead.
But uh make it homemade that up like uh homemade that up like uh honey and stuff so it's I guess
it falls in the sink. I guess it falls in the sink. Calculate is made and it's stronger.
Yeah it's stronger shit but I'm not sure how I'm taste level however but it falls with mead.
Yeah I don't know I I remember having it. Oh shit I bet yeah yeah that's gotta be
15 years ago man like I was like 16 17 years old uh they had it twice actually uh one of my
bodies he made it and should I remember that stuff was so expensive to make then another one of
my buddies uh and I went up to the Renaissance festival and they had some up there.
God that shit's so good. Yeah I'm not sure my ship will fall in the same category
but um it definitely falls in the same category as uh probably ABV levels because it'll
definitely do a job. I am about three down um do you drink at all? I actually don't drink a lot but I
I make my own Kaluah my own coffee liquor. I have no problem with that that's coffee liquor is
freaking fantastic. I've gotten more recently into IPAs. I'm more of a stout or a porter man
but um so I've gotten into like the Sierra Nevada torpedo IPAs and then I a while back got into
making my own stuff like through uh Mr. Beer and things like that and I've decided I wanted to make
my own meat and so I bought a freaking buttload of honey. I put it in a pot boil that shit up and uh
I got some uh from one of the local breweries so one of the local breweries used to deal more
in home brewery stuff and then more recently they've gotten more into being more of
they're more of like I don't know I don't know how to describe it they wouldn't do like brewery
tours they do like farmer's markets and like the local uh local um uh my wife went there when they
did a local creamery so like ice cream and beer and stuff like that type of things but it used to be
more just like uh local brewery and like home brewers and stuff like that so they'd have like a lot
of home brewers supply stuff and I got some I got a like champagne used from there and so I put uh
I did a bought a buttload of honey did some champagne used and made my own homemade meat
and I find that it's stronger shit and if you mix it with some OJ it's stronger shit and palatable
but if uh you're already three beers in it's stronger shit and already palatables because you're
in the bag anyway so yeah that's awesome yeah yeah I like uh I could stout beer too I'm not
a huge on IPAs but um I do like a few of them my my go-to drink is definitely a white rush and
though um my deal with the whole colloua thing is is that or coffee liquor whatever you want to
call it like you go to the store that's all it is it's just coffee liquor there's nothing more
nothing less it's just losing coffee um me I kind of like to throw a little twist on it you know
do like uh white chocolate raspberry or a caramel truffle or you know just uh go a little bit fancy with
it now not with you um I mean I would I for the longest time I loved straight up freaking uh I
mean I I did screw drivers for a while I did white Russian black Russian didn't matter
colloua is freaking great anything coffee related is freaking fantastic I could never ever argue with
anything coffee related at all ever yeah um so when it comes to things like porters and porters
and stouts like if you can get like a good like coffee porter coffee stout those are always fantastic
but I don't know what the hell it is that like recently I've gotten into IPAs to the point where
but the only I really like is like citrusy IPAs so this is searing avadas tropical torpedo IPA
and I think like other like more citrusy IPAs are going to be a little bit better like I'm going
to enjoy a little bit better than so now the ones that are what I like to call my stout my um my
hops can beat up your hops type IPAs which are just kind of funky yeah like I hate the super
hobby beers I mean it's just uh bitter oh exactly like I I first started off with like
Guinness and stuff and then I got into like more of the um the fancy freaking uh stout some
orders and whatnot and I found that there's a lot of them that are good and there's a lot of
no bad they like a lot of this um oh I want to call home brew but it's not home brew uh I figured
the whole thing with it is but it's it's so freaking hit or miss with things where it's out there
going to be just awesome or it's going to be freaking horrible but it's kind of fun to kind of
just go through the motions to calculate the micro brews exactly that's that's probably
what I'm going for is it's it's it's all the micro brews it's it's you know so many you know you have
so many local things um like around here we have so many uh local breweries um like one of the
main people who do this podcast is 5150 up in uh which talk Kansas he's he's he talks about
there's so many uh breweries around there that are uh local and whatnot so that every every
locale seems to have their like local micro brew breweries that are huge in their area and they all
seem to have their own versions of things like IPAs, Porter's regular frigginales and whatnot and
it's it's it's a lot of fun to kind of figure out where they are which which ones you want to
choose you know which which which ones are nice which ones are not which ones you know oh it's
it's I really enjoy the whole micro brewery thing that's going on versus like beforehand where
people had just like Budweiser course you know corona uh if you're cheap you go to the natural
ice and stuff like that once you hit a certain I feel like it's once you hit a certain age where
you can actually chew you can actually have discrimination with um what you choose for choice
for beer and whatnot there the broad freaking range of things that are out there that you can choose
from whether it's local or whether it's just a craft brewery that's that's become mainstream I'm like
I think severe Sierra Nevada has become a craft brewery that's just kind of mainstream at this
point so there's so many things out there that you can try that are just freaking awesome you know
that the fall in that category of you know do you want to drink just get drunk or do you want to
drink because there is actually some freaking flavor flavor out there you need to try oh I totally
agree I uh you know there's I literally hate the quintessential American beer whatever you
want to call it like you know the the Budweiser the natural ice or freaking hams I mean that should
just like it's water I mean it's essentially it's pure freaking water with a little bit of spice
I mean it's gross uh once these microbes started you know becoming really popular you know it's like
it's just a amount of different flavors you can get you know you're talking about the the whole ice cream
thing you know that's actually something you know we would have never thought of as kids you know
let's jump our let's let's make a beer float you know like we would have never made beer floats as a
kid I mean you know a gross I would have been having a beer float made out of anhyzer bush yuck nowadays
though that's just good stuff yeah you think a good porter ice cream with like a good coffee or
good chocolate ice cream that's probably pretty damn good it's really good I've had it a couple of
times that uh some of the breweries in Colorado there's like shit tons there it's really surprising
how many like local breweries are starting to pop up uh just on this area because I live in uh
kick out Massachusetts whether if you're if you're looking at a map of the uh america or Massachusetts
it's that little arm that sticks out of uh Massachusetts that's us so we've had like so many
little breweries start to pop up here and there to the point where we can probably run like our own
brewery tour during the summertime um and it's like the local one like kick out brewery like one of
the more bigger ones around the the bigger ones around here it has just like they've completely
they've they've been so friggin smart they've worked with one of the local creameries which is
four seas ice cream so kick out ice cream and like like so many other places and like the MSPCA
they'll work with the MSPCA they'll work with like they'll work with like the um they'll work with
um like some of the farmers markets and whatnot and they'll they'll do everything they can to try to
get themselves out there as being like their local brewery type of deal and it's just so friggin smart
they do like the things that they've sitting out to all of the um like they've they've been almost
chastised from the snobs in the area as they'll find a niche and they'll just kind of stick to that
niche so they'll find like they're red they're you know friggin al they're frying their their
porter and they'll just kind of stick with that but that's the stuff that they just send to like
the liquid local liquor stores or whatever but like if you go to the brewery or some of the stuff
that they send out to like they'll experiment with the stuff that they'll send out to like some of
the uh local restaurants that they'll they'll send like their kegs out to the local restaurants and
whatnot so they'll they'll they'll try like funky porters and stuff like that but the base
porter that they have they'll send out to their uh they'll the local liquor stores and whatnot so
i don't know i'm i'm i'm i'm a i love uh i love a good alcohol i love i love the idea of
making your own beer i love the idea of other people making their own beer i think it's a
friggin great idea i love drinking uh i b a's porters doubts and stuff like that i think this
fricking fan-tastic so i'm i'm i'm i'm completely into all that stuff so you know you you do all
that stuff locally it's just it's it's it's a fricking great idea for me there's there's ones that
run on um like i said there's the Cape Cod beer ones there's the Cisco brewery that's named
Tucket which is the islands right off of Massachusetts the uh off of Cape Cod um there's uh like
Barnesville brewery just started up which is a local brewery uh run right in the Barnesville area
there's so many look freaking local brewery it's it's fricking fantastic around here that
you know and i'm sure a lot of the local areas have this and i feel like i've just started
rambling on and i've forgotten where the hell i've gotten into in the first place
i'm sure i had a point i don't remember what it was anymore i'm sorry
no it's all good no i i how many local breweries are actually starting nowadays because
like in Colorado it's like 10 grand to get uh just the licensing to uh to brew your own beer
let alone all the money and the brewing equipment
and the i don't think it's that much around here because like i said there's there's so many
small breweries that are just starting to pop up there's like uh i guess it's Cisco i think is
part of one of the islands so we are browned Cape Cod so if you look at the uh if you look at a
map of Massachusetts it's got a little arm and then it's got two major islands sticking off of it
and what is Martha's Vineyard one is Dan's Tucket i think it's one of the islands that
Discovery is man Tucket maybe i don't know but it's one it's awful one of the main islands there
and then you have Kikot Brewery which is right there in high-endous you have Garnesville Brewery
which just started up which is right out of high-endous there it's right actually right off of
28 high-endous there's one of the main roads in the high-endous and it's there's there's just like
so many things are just starting to pop up that it's just it's fricking fantastic i love it
it's and if you want to even tie it back to the whole like open-source idea of things
so they people talk about free as in beer so they they talk about free as in beer as because
the whole concept of beer is the recipe is completely freaking open for beer but what you do with
it after that is your own secret sauce so you take something like let's say a buntu is your free
as a beer and then you put your own secret sauce on top of that like let's say Linux Mint where you
take Linux Mint is known for all of the like MP3 codex is in all the codex is in
maybe even like the Wi-Fi the Broadcom stuff that is not necessarily as open and a lot of the other
stuff make that open in in their version so they take that open version and they make that open
version of things and that's how the whole concept of free as in beer is and i think i might have
lost it in my mind my mind my way because i lost my train of thought because once again three
tropical torpedo IPAs and one of my own homemade meats and here i am well apparently some good
strong shit huh at the very least it's a lot of really good strong shit
well that's always good it's nice to be able to to relax live i would actually have a beer tonight
but i have to work tomorrow morning yay me too but the first and third Friday month i kind of
why normally i'm i usually get off by like midnight anyways but you know i made a section exception
this week but i really hope you come back i mean normally we try to you know stick more to the idea
of talking about Linux type topics but we usually try to we do a lot of bsing as well
so i really do hope you do come back because i like talking to you oh yeah i probably will come back
i mean it's just uh it gets nuts um i'm hoping like i said i got uh like a week left of school
as long as i pass everything but you know with everything else that's going on it's been awful
hard to do school but i'm sliding along uh but yeah i do enjoy it and you know being one that's
just getting into Linux i mean i've been a windows guy my whole life and so it's quite the uh
quite the learning curve i'll tell you that so i was a windows guy for freaking ages and the
biggest thing that sort of me away from Linux was right around xp when windows decided it was
going to go freaking crazy with it's um licensing of things so i played around that you know i used
like window like uh DOS file panel where somebody would have you know my father had a copy of DOS
and we just i would use it he would use it he'd give it you know if he worked on somebody else's
computer he would use it as well same thing with 3.1 3.1 was that way um
2008 and 2000 was still kind of that way and then you went into xp and xp got a little way to
intense and let's stuff xp all of a sudden it became that you know you had to have license
you know that you were certain license or xp would just kind of shut down on me it was around
about that time that i also started taking classes to uh so i wanted to switch my careers to
something more it based and so i took the a plus certs which is the um comtea certification
computer appearance of like that was the a plus certs and i went into that and i failed
miserably and so i decided i made me might need some actual like training involved as opposed to
just my you know usual bs i've just kind of take these computers and do with them with them
so i took some actual training at the local community college they had a uh pc repair course
and one of parts of the courses was just you know comtea a plus prep and so during that taking
that that class um the teacher there taught us about like dual booting and stuff like that
like part of it was uh actually building a pc from the ground up he bought some like uh from
new egg or whatever so bare road systems so we both got a case i'm on the board and a cpu
and we were we were supposed to basically build it from from uh the ground up and doing that he's
like look we can put windows on this and then we can also put these other operating systems i found
this um magazine called a boom two and it had different versions of a boom two and other versions
of Linux on it and one of them being like free spire and free spire was this uh kd version that was
based on lens fire and like had its own uh new version to like application repository and stuff
like that and like i had this own app store and whatnot and it was new and interesting and it didn't
require a um like at the right around that time xp started getting very very very very very tight
on their um licensing so i had no problem i bought a license an xp license i was like a failing
license so i was able to put it on like different machines or whatever and my wife was in college
at the time i even went up buying at some point for her a uh microsoft office
family license which let me put it on several different machines and but it it just it bugged
me that the licensing was there you know and it it got to a point where i was so used to the
past where we'd buy version of like dots or windows 3.1 or 98 like i didn't like windows 2,000
windows 2,000 was i don't know i didn't like windows 2,000 i stayed with 98 until xp
excuse me and um it felt like you know i spent so many years with just you know if you had a
version of it you could spread it around and give it to friends and whatever it was the operating
system the operating system is the base system that the thing is you know you just run applications
and if that became a struggle to be able to get that operating system and then these guys were
giving it away for free and they gave in what they gave me and i got to see the one the biggest
selling points was the versions of at the time it was leap office it was open office was doing all
the things that you know um DOCX was just starting out so you know DOCX and whatever
for their spreadsheet programs or whatnot i think just whatever the spreadsheet program plus x
was what they were doing to try to conform to things but i was using free spire and free spire
had a version of open office that had the ability to open all of those programs as well and that
just freaking sold me on monics because i had this free version of things where i had
complete control and it would do all the things that i needed to do for school and whatnot
yeah i i think the biggest thing for me why i haven't really been into Linux much is i mean i'm
trying it a couple of times i've always veered away was because of the lack i guess of available
software that was easily compatible with it and i guess it depends on what what type of software
you're looking for because like i said this the the operating system was called free spire it came
with open office installed with DOCX compatibility right out of the bat and this is probably going
back uh now it's probably about nine eight nine years ago if i do thousand i was in school so
2008-2009 when i would uh i went back into uh a little community college to do all this
and it had all the available availability to do all this stuff into edit all these you know DOCX and
whatever the spreadsheet file version plus x version this and it had the ability to edit these
to you know take in these programs and edit them without any problems without paying for the operating
system anyway i dealt some along in the past where DOCX and wherever was DOC uh you know when it was
3.1 when it was 98 was never that strict when it came to the operating system you know when you
would spread it out as much as you want this is the operating system you know if you wanted
if you wanted to pay for something pay for the application the operating system was a freaking
operating system you know and so i was able to do all the things in a free operating system
and then i went and i got a little creative i'm like look uh this is free spire it's based on
kde i went into the um i don't think it was a new config file that i just wouldn't renamed
a bunch of the dot png files so that the little uh it used to bounce around uh if you ever use kde
kde has this little k gear type thing um free spire had like every time you click on something it
it have a like this little squash and stretch of the kde gear image and i switched that to a
renamed everything so that the um tox which is just that penguin that the uh linux uh you know
the linux um images is just this little low penguin so i changed it to from the kitty gear to
the penguin and i did that just by renaming some files i'm like well that's freaking cool where
this much control over things where i can change where the start menu is all of a sudden it's
no longer a little k gear it's a tux penguin plus every single time that i click on an application
to start it is this little tux penguin going uh you know doing this little squash and stretch
as opposed to whatever else plus i have the ability through open office to open and configure
these files that was supposed to be proprietary for windows and it works fine so why am i going to
bash my head against the wall and spend this money with windows when i can do all this for free
and have this amount of configurability so i just stopped using windows i got to a point where i
was dual booting for a while and one of the only dual boots i had was for um i used to rip DVDs
and when i found things like handbrake it all just went away right didn't need to have this other
dual version of um you know you know this dual boot of windows and linux and be able to use their
office programs and rip the DVDs that i wanted and whatever else i mean a lot of people say that
you know i use windows still because of windows games and whatnot i was never a computer pc gamer
i had such a hard time with pc gaming because pc gaming meant that my pc had to be at the level
of the games and the games would come out for different consoles and stuff that was just
too quick and high so games would come out and like the requirements for uh GPU levels
was too high than whenever i had but they were still available for like consoles so i just bought
consoles because if you buy like an xbox 360 most of the games that came out were available
for the xbox 360 but if you try to buy them for the pc you had to have a certain level of
piece of a GPU to be able to get that that game to run right so i never really got into the whole
gaming on pc because gaming on pc always required me to buy a GPU that was way higher and way
more expensive than what i wanted to do so i was oh excuse me i was always in the console gaming
over uh computer pc gaming so once pc got to level between gimp and open office and everything else
that i needed to do i switched straight to Linux and then for any sort of gaming i went to console
gaming because i don't want to spend the money on pc gaming and gpu's to do pc gaming
i agree i've never really been much into gaming a whole on the pc because you know like it just
requires way too much money invested to do that um and you know pionist who wants the game on a tiny
little you know like laptop or whatever but uh i don't know there's there's certain like programs
i run you know um uh for instance i uh do some you know testing and marketing and building e-commerce
sort of profiles and so some of the software i used for them you know it uh it's a windows software
so i really need to learn like you know wine or whatever and and try to get some of these
programs that are you know specifically for windows to try uh to to work with Linux and
you know i find i'm using less and less uh that are uh programs that are strictly for windows
um you know another one i used to is like uh sony vagus pro i use that uh uh to tinker
around with and do video editing um and that's uh windows um i think mac but i don't think they
have a Linux version yeah video editing on one x has just been kind of pyrames over time um it's
you can do it and there are a lot of tools out there where you can do it
and different levels of uh like what your knowledge is when it comes to some of this stuff
like technically you can you know edit video and stuff on blender and um we have a friend and
a friend of the show uh Jason van gumster or fweeb who is quite literally the he wrote the book
quite literally wrote the book of dummies to uh blender but you can do blend you can
do like video editing with blender but there are other um video editing software out there um
um that aren't necessarily as good or as intuitive as other things so i can never say that like
video editing software is at the level where it should be when it comes to other things out there
if you want to do like picture editing and stuff then i can definitely say that between gimp
and blender you should be able to get to where you want to go when i come to a lot of that
and even like dark room and other stuff so if you take it like a picture and you want to do
whatever with it um like i i i can even like again the guy who wrote like he is he is our freaking
rock when it comes to um open source uh image editing because he can do he is the guy who wrote
the book called idiots to uh blender i mean but the idiots for blender he wrote the book to it
is Jason van gumster or fweeb he is a member of our community so he can he if i had any sort of
image problems he is the guy i know to go to but outside of that realm like like like video editing
video editing is like uh open shot open shot is a really good program that crashes a lot
but we'll do the job is there other programs for windows and mac that'll probably do it better
yeah there's a lot of programs that fight well and there's a couple of um open source ones that
will probably do it as well but it's it's at a point where if you really want to do video editing
you're probably better off in windows or mac anyways and as much i love i love i love lilyx i love it
because of just the openness and i'm not talking about the openness in the um the source code and
because there's a lot of people out there who know source code who appreciate the fact that
the source code is out there and i appreciate them but i appreciate the fact that i'm not spending
hundred dollars on my freaking operating system i'm not spending hundred dollars on
Photoshop when i can spend nothing on gimp when i can probably do the exact same thing
for the most part of what i want to do you know and and there's lots of of similar applications i'm
i'm so glad i i'm i'm not spending a hundred dollars or so on you know Microsoft office or office
360 to be able to do what i could do with like open office libra office or whatever you know it's
there's there's so many tools out there that'll come close to what it is and video editing is
probably one big big big biggest struggles when it comes to open source versus close source versions
of things but i've used open saw open office in the past and i've been able to another
open office um i forget what that all it's called now but i've been able to make
videos in the past and edit videos in the past and it's not been great it's not been super but you
know what i enough to pay for it and i'm not sure i can't tell you at this point right now
what is because i'm a cheap or whether i'm poor but out of the way i appreciate the fact that i
did not pay for it and the amount of configurability between like uh if you heard me talk earlier about
lightning i love lightning because there's so much configurability to the way i want to run my desktop
when it comes to simple things like always on top and if you've never had always on top you take one
like let's say you're let me tell you where i use always on top the podcast
cry updated i put this up this podcast i will later on use a bash script that i use to come
push altogether sometimes i'll use it so that any of the talk before the actual show will get put
on at the end of the show and put the bumpers on you know the music in between and whatnot
and i'll truncate silence and whatnot and then i'll update or archive that or
and then i will um take it and then i'll take all everything and upgrade it to WordPress but i mean
uh fuck i lost my point
grab a little smoke i'm sorry i'm sorry i've rambled to the point where i would don't more where i was
anymore um i know it was about uh you uh why you always you are why you like to use the always
on top which by the way why did windows get rid of that because that was an awesome feature
yes when i archive when i but when i post things are archive.org archive.org always ask for
a ton of information and i have most of information on a just general txt file which i leave always
on top so when i'm posting all that stuff to archive.org i'll leave the web browser open
and then i'll leave this text file open and whatever text file program will open
doesn't matter doesn't matter what it is and i'll always leave it always on top so i can
you know copy and paste paste copy and paste copy paste copy paste just directly i'll have this
thing of this this text file always on top so i can copy it all of that default information into
the um archive that or word information because archive that will ask for like a bunch of
data information about things to know like when the like when i when i post this podcast it'll be
like uh when this podcast when we record it um you know who recorded will put like lugcast.com
and lugcast you know the data was recorded and um metadata stuff was like lug was like lugcast
and stuff like that and so but to have that that txt file opened and have it always on top it's just
it's it's a huge thing that is not available on like on like windows anymore or on like windows
unless you have like the certain plug-in that you pay for or whatever the ability to be able to
change all of that and the ability to have things that are just like always on top is for
fantastic which is why i don't understand why other people don't use Linux desktops because of
the can just configure ability the amount of things that you can do with a Linux desktop versus
just like a regular Linux windows desktop is just fricking phenomenal but you know i'm not
going to complain you know the amount of people who use like games you said you like uh
call duty i love call duty but like i said before i am a huge idea of the console game because
i've noticed i had to pay the money for uh for you know graphics cards and whatnot i love the
call duty whatnot so uh you know i understand people who want to use windows systems for gaming
and whatnot i don't understand that but it comes with simple things like you know office
browser and whatnot why not use something that they can connect you can figure and use and pipe
and whatnot just it baffles me i've rambled on way too long i uh i agree i do like uh i i'm probably
always going to have to use windows at some point you know i mean there's just certain things
i'm going to end up having to use it for but uh i do like using the Linux uh i got it by
me i have two laptops one when Linux one without uh eventually they're both going to be probably
dual boots um and i'll just go right to my uh right to either oh probably like king win i get some of
the um what do you want to call them product keys or whatever from them uh i can't stand paying
a hundred dollars for an operating system either so um i tried to go and find like somebody that
uh that's reselling oem licenses and you can usually get them cheap fact i just bought windows 10
for like i think five bucks windows 10 looks so miserable so miserable i mean i
so my mother-in-law just got a laptop my father-in-law just bought my mother-in-law laptop that was
like it was like a core i7 with like 16 user ram and stuff like that i'm like yeah you really can't
go wrong with this hardware because this hardware looks fucking phenomenal that you're not going
to need anything you're not going to need like any upgrades or anything for like a long time
pretty much especially for what you're doing this is like the best thing for you just get the
freaking laptop she really wanted like a desktop type thing i'm like look you can make the
freaking laptop like almost like a desktop anyways just you you can almost like use the laptop
as your monitor and just use it like a freaking desktop anyways it's not that big of a deal
this thing is a core i7 with like eight or like a gigs of ram or something like that i'm like
that's more than you're ever ever going to need for what you need have for like web browser and
like office and but windows 10 is so so ugly that i'm like i really i really want to put linux
on this but i'm just going to leave it alone because i know that probably more than likely
windows 10 is going to server right it's going to do what she wants it to do i put that i actually
put libra office on there just go like look i don't want you to ever pay for my nose office
libra office is going to be free it's going to work with all of the doc x versions or whatever
the two have that you're going to need it's going to work fine i'm just going to put the reversion
libra office you know maybe down the line i'll make sure that you have like firefox or something
installed that you know decent browser but you know that when those tennis so horrible looking
looking it's so horrible it's not as bad as eight that whole metro info metro interface but it's
pretty close oh i can't stand eight that was the biggest mistake ever um well yeah that was the
biggest mistake right along with vista you know a close second i was it was worse viscer or eight
it seems to be like xp good vista crap seven good you know eight crap ten i don't know we're
ten pulls and all this but it's not eight and it's not vista so there you go i don't mind ten i mean it's
i i'm partial you know personally i i i do miss um i like seven seven wasn't bad but she
needed to be honest i think one of my favorite operating systems of all time was windows 98
maybe it's just because that's what i'm rocked for years i mean i almost hated going to xp
as like what you know but uh i don't know i i kind of almost missed 98 days 98 i didn't like uh
2000 i thought actually xp i thought it was saying on the same level as 98 so i was able to accept
xp um but i'm with you i didn't i i never i i did 98 i never did 2000 i had this and suffer
it for 2000 i'm like no 2000 is freaking horrible so i stayed with 98 until xp and then i did xp
a lot of there's a lot of like my wife's machine was uh vista and she cut there's a couple of
features of vista that you'd like and tree maybe actually at one point kick it back to vista
and vista i don't like vista but i i don't mind seven so xp to seven seven's not that big of a deal
but i don't like i don't like eight and i don't like what i've seen with ten i think ten is about
the same way as i don't think ten is that far off from eight it's like uh a little cleaner version
of eight maybe yeah eight without the tiles exactly but it's not that far off from the tiles because
it puts the tiles in what it's it's start far and that's about the start menu yeah and i think
you can get rid of them oh i think so but it's definitely not as uh you know easily
editable as like uh linux would be that's for sure and it's definitely not as clean as like seven
and you know xp was um but as far as everything working with it you know i haven't had the headaches
as i have had with like you know vista vista was horrible when that dropped i was actually working
for gateway talk about a fucking nightmare yeah vista was just a freaking lightweight that's what
it was it was just it was way too much it didn't i feel like every other version of windows
they just didn't know what they were doing like i said 98 great i stayed with 98 until xp and then
when xp came around i like skipped over two thousand i skipped so two thousand and the m e version
i skipped over them completely and went straight to xp i did xp up until uh wino 7 i did uh i actually
did wino 7 rc the release candidate and then up until the point the release the release of uh wino 7
and around at that time i got into linux and i'm like why am i gonna put crown with this when i
have the openness of linux and i can do things like i was in college you know but it's a kidney
college but i was in college and i was doing and then one of the oc x and you know open office was
doing the oc x and libra and um you open office why am i gonna bother with that why bother paying
money for open office if it's there you know oh i agree i i use open office a lot while
i do i use a lot but i also i guess now as of recently i've been using um microsoft base simply
because i got it free for being a college student which reminds me why the fuck don't they give away
windows anymore they used to give that away to college kids nowadays nope i have no idea um
give me two minutes again me starting to catch up the catch up with me yeah i kind of hope that
kind of hate that fact that that half the reason why i feel like i am involved in open source is
because the fact of i really do not want to pay for my operating system or other applications
but it almost feels like i can see other applications but i don't feel like i should pay for my
operating system you know yeah i agree i mean you can't use your computer without the os so why
should i have to pay for the os right and i feel like back in the day when i was running like
dos five my father had a version of dos five and he put it on my machine his machine
and like if he helped out of the people other people's machines as well and it wasn't that big of a
deal but with once xp hit it was xp you know you had to have your licensing version and i like
xp but to have that licensing version you had to pay what ninety dollars or something like that and
you know it's it became a giant freaking pain in the ass just to have your version of the operating
system with was the base system that the you know you have to do anything with
yeah i agree i i uh i do miss the fact like we said earlier how you used to be able to just buy
buy the software put on you know multiple computers nowadays you buy a windows key unless
you spend a whole shit load of money that thing's only good for like one or two possible
tops two computers so i bought when i was in college the license for microsoft office for
whatever version of office it was for three machines and i kept it like my wife's machine
her mother's machine and somebody else's machine or whatever and it was just they were okay like
past that i think they were a little more flexible when i came to office when i came like xp
they were a little a little bit tighter on like that i had to call up microsoft support and they're like
oh so what you wanted to tell me was that you switched uh you changed your um
motherboard and that because you changed your motherboard it seems like a whole other computer
that you're using and you know i'm then like yes that's exactly it so i have three different
versions on these three different machines as opposed to these three different machines
which was actually pretty good to come uh compared to all the uh we were talking about before
about the tier one support and whatnot dealing with microsoft was a great deal easier than dealing
with any isp you have ever dealt with oh yeah for sure and you know as long as you can get over
the fact that you're probably going to be talking to somebody with a very strong accent that you
can hardly understand so as you can get the past at that point the people were at least very
educated and knew what the hell they were talking about and you know quite helpful
yeah i think the um video editing i think is one of those things that
what seems to have a hard time that uh Linux has a hard time creating getting towards
so i think uh gimp has done a good job of replacing Photoshop i think audacity can do any if you
want to do between audacity and socks if you want to do any sort of audio editing you can do it
in Linux with that any problem whatsoever and with like you can do whatever you want with it
audacity is beautiful beautiful so if you if you want to do audio editing if you look at audacity yet
you're doing yourself a great disservice because audacity is such such an awesome awesome tool for
that video editing it seems like we have not figured it the open source community has not
figured it out yet open shot is pretty good it crashes a lot but it's pretty good i actually have
me personally i have one video on youtube that i did it's under the category of Linux basics
and qem you do those those two searches you'll probably find it and you'll probably find what
i did and it's not great but you know what i did it and it worked and i was able to edit it
and you know it's okay but you're not going to find any great tools out there for it uh
we're struggling the door one source community is so struggling when it comes to video editing
audio editing on the inside we have freaking i think i said we've mastered audacity in between
audacity and socks socks i can use the command line so i can write and spray some scripts
the scripts and audacity if you want a GUI to edit audio with it is freaking beautiful for
but video forget about it um i don't know i just i i i want to go back to the whole idea of after so
so many years of just working with windows and then later paying for windows and i just i'm like
i found this thing called free spire i can edit do cx i can edit files that i want i have
on it and then i can then uh change it to do whatever i want to do it was just fantastic
and so i just went well why am i using windows in the first place i use it for the one program that was
you know uh i was ripping basically video files i was using it to copy
i forget the problem it was called but i used to copy uh DVDs so i copy DVDs
make a copy of DVDs and it wasn't until later on then i found the program a handbrake
handbrake is by the way if you're not a jazz handbrake is fantastic for ripping DVDs and stuff
like that i'll rip it to i cut in a habit of um we go tomorrow local library i'd get my daughter
Scooby-Doo and so we'd get Scooby-Doo movies and videos or whatever and i would rip them
and put them on my sombre share which was also my media tomb media share and my DVD player
one thing where we'd pick up media tomb and i was able to share that folder and choose
you able to watch anything that we picked up from the local library when it comes to
Scooby-Doo because she loves Scooby-Doo it was fantastic it was freaking great and i didn't have to pay
anything and i've just rambled on for a while and i don't remember why oh too much beer and meat
that happens to me when i get tired i start like rambling and like hardly make any sense
i think i've just hold on the button i just started talking and i don't know where i went from there
oh shit i suppose but i better get to bed i gotta be up at like freaking six in the morning
six i gotta be up at like four or four thirty
what the hell you stood up then it's like two hours of sleep i don't know i can just get
it's it's a podcasting night i usually clutch to close down around the midnight but i start
rambling you're gonna have one hell of a long day tomorrow yeah it happens hey thanks for showing
up thanks for listening to my bs that's all i can say not a problem that was actually a good time
i'll uh i'll join in next time probably cool um do we fear try something out with the super
that you're the server that you have i don't care if his Linux related or not just try
something out with that massive i can be server that you have and then come back next week and
tell me what you did all right yeah that's a deal we'll do that all right man i really enjoyed
i really enjoyed talking with you this past night all right yeah you too so we record every
first and third Friday night of the month uh try to join us if you can okay yeah we'll do that
every night you too bye
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was founded
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a like three dot org license
