Episode: 2972
Title: HPR2972: The foot of the ski slope
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2972/hpr2972.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:06:31

---

This is HPR episode 2,972 for Tuesday 24 December 2019. Today's show is entitled The First of the Ski Slope.
It is hosted by Dave Morris
and is about 45 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is
MRX and Dave Morris chat about nerdy things near a ski slope.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
email saying, an email saying that he cited sign as being the biggest threat to Microsoft.
It's a tiny bit as company that he thought was going to crush Microsoft.
I might suggest that the opposite happens as you can imagine that sign isn't available
today.
It's, you've got crush to do so, but yeah, I've still got a sign 3C and it sits next to
my bed and it makes a great alarm clock.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Those are some great things.
There was a whole range of devices, wasn't it?
Yeah, the ones with the keyboard, it was the sort of held, things looked like a phone.
Funny you should say that.
It's actually, if anyone watched the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and they used to pull
out the don't panic things from the Hitchhiker's side, the Galaxy, and it looked very much
like a sign, a site of the fast sign 2, sort of, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They used it for data logging in warehouses and such like, and well, I bought an Atari
portfolio back in the day and it ran an early version of DOS and it was always, it was
of course a lot of money at the time, it was fantastic, and I filled the database with
entries with phone numbers and all that, took me a long time to type it out of these
numbers and I had a week or so, it went, crash, I lost all the entries.
So they did the same thing a second time, and it went, crash a second time, it was
bad for Hitchh.
So I sold that and it was a lot of money and I think on Ebay, it was a sign 2, which by
that point was really old hat, it didn't even have a quirky keyboard, it was like A, B,
C, D, E, you know, in rows, and it was like square dot matrix, you can display, there's
a very rubbishy display and all that, and I didn't expect very much of it, I was just
going to be rubbish, you know, and I got it and I discovered, yeah, okay, this player's
rubbish, it doesn't have as much memory, it's a slow process, but it's being very carefully
crafted in design, it never ever crashed, never ever crashed, it's stored huge amounts
of information, it just worked flawlessly, it's a difference between buying something,
it's all gimmicking, it looks apart, when it ends up being rubbish, there's this thing
which actually longs rubbish, but it's actually really well done, yeah, that's sexy, but
actually, and the bigger signs were the same, my sign 3 C, until recently, I don't have
it here or so ago, what basically happened was the component specifications I think in
the device drifted, and now the back-up battery has reported as being flat all the time,
so what happens is when the main battery fails, the sign and then lose it all of its information,
but prior to that point in time, the sign has never ever crashed, so at all, 10 plus years
or something, that's like Adam, it never really did, never crashed, never lost a single
bite of information, how many computers can you say that's the case, so yeah, clever
design, and I bet you, I don't want to see machine, that would not be the case, but
people don't, I don't know, but there you go, yeah, there's a lot of mileage in looking
back at some of those bits of kit, I was just remembering as you were saying that, it was
a guy at work years ago now, who had one of these small handheld devices, can't remember
what it was, but it didn't have a keyboard, although there was an accessory you could buy
for it, where you effectively stood it on the keyboard or in front of it, I'm not sure
what it was, but you could write things on this, it had a screen, you had to write in
its own funny little scripting and languages, what was that then, I know how well it was,
I'll tell you why, because I had a server called our compact iPAC, and every time I see
iPAC people think I'm talking about a PDA, and it's an iPAC, that's what it is, but
they also did a mini server that looks a bit like a fan heater, and he used it as my
whole server, but not as my iPAC PDA, but yeah, there's been a stay less than you wrote,
yeah, and they're special, there were, you could represent whole words with some, you
could learn some simple symbols, but you could actually write quite quickly with this, in
a strange, higher-difficult way, yeah, remember those, I never had one, but I was always
jealous of this guy Colin, he used to go and take meeting minutes, using that thing,
wow, that's impressive, you don't need to take minutes with this on Colin's doing it,
hey Colin, how are you doing, I'll be positive, how well it worked up, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, I know, very good, very good stuff, reminiscence, so topic number two, oh great,
well that, I still will ask for it, I haven't had the difficulty with audacity recently,
and of course I use it in a Boone tune, snaps and whatnot, and of course this newer version
of a Boone tune, was it using snaps, you get the very latest version of audacity, obviously
it takes a bit of time to switch on when you click the icon, obviously snaps doing its
thing before it powers up, but I think, I think what's happening is, and I haven't looked
into it because I haven't got the time when I'm too lazy, so just in fact the other day
I was recording an episode which I completely marked up a bit at by the by, and I found
it, clicking the icon didn't launch audacity at all, no matter how long I waited, and I
think that's happened previously in an uninstalled and reinstalled, and I was actually kind of
getting rid of the snap package and just using it from the repository, because I don't
get it's the latest one, but I think what's happening is, it's association with the link
changes, I think what happens is that the, the, the audacity behind the scenes and in the
links not working, because if I open up a terminal and take the audacity, bang it works,
so it's no big deal, so that's just what I'm going to do, use a terminal.
Yeah, yeah, I run Debian testing, so I'm used to occasionally some package gets an update
and it's, it destroys it, I've lost Calibra at the moment, and it's really frustrating
because I made ePub notes from the last show I submitted, and I can't read them, I can
if I move to my laptop, but it's just one of those really niggly things, and it's, the
other one that really got me annoyed this past week or so, so I use Clementine as my music
player.
All right, that's, that's, that's, that's, it's, it's, it came from KDE originally, what
is it, it's a clone of, what's it called, I've got it, it's gone up my head now, there
was a music player on KDE, which Amarok, it was called, Amarok, yes, I've tied that
along.
It's similar, I used to use Amarok all the time, and then they messed it up totally,
right, and then Clementine came along to fill the gap, so I've, I've stuck with that
for the moment, but it's got this really strange feature, the UI comes up and you use it,
and then it's, you tend to go to the corner and click the, the close button in the, in
the top corner of the window, and it closes down, but it doesn't, it doesn't close, it's
just the UI goes away, right, and you end up with a, you still got a little thing in the,
in the, the tray, just to, yeah, that's running, yeah.
If you go to that and quit it, then it goes away, when you start it up again, it comes
back in the same state, and there's no means of getting from that little thing in the
tray to the UI, so seeing you have to go to the config file, find a line that says hidden
is true, and change that to hidden equals false, and then it comes back on, I can, there's
no, there's nothing seen, how would you want that?
I think an upgrade in quotes, I'm waiting on my hands in the air, has, has, has done this,
because you used to be able to just click on the, the thing in the tray, and it would bring
up the UI, but it doesn't work anymore, so yeah, frustration, there you go, ah, I can
see that without a problem, related to that, there was, I had an issue with them, they're
HDI, with the jacks, and, you know, I've got an Intel board, and, you know, it assigns
the wrong type of device, when you plug it in, it says, oh, you're plugging it in, head
upwards, no, it's a, I'm on a microphone, you know, it's, it's, ah, it's, it's, it's,
it's, ah, it's, it's, it's, ah, it's, it's, it's, ah, it's, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's,
it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's,
ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah,
it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah,
ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah
it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it
ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah
it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it
ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah
it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it
's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's
ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah
it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it
's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's
ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah, it's, ah
what was it called now, eh, wiki dot I think it's called, and I think, sure there was a polis chap that, or, and I could get this, like, I get this wrong, but he, he gave it to the community for, for sort of thing to use, and there was no charge, and I think it got bought by a corporate company or something, and, and, but they allowed the old members to stay free, I think, I might still be free, I'm not sure, but, the point is I still, I'm still with, eh, wiki dot, and, eh, I think I used, eh, I could all consider,
that, that, that sort of tight to convert, I use the word, try, tight to convert, the, the map down from, eh, wiki dot to, I think it was media wiki or what we were always, and, eh, it was, fairly successful, but then I, after I, to spend a lot of time, clicking the scripts, and converting my text, I never actually used it, so, yeah, I've, I've said been a bit waste of time, really, but, I think one day I'll get back to using the media wiki, I think I'm, I'm running on my own pie rather than, I think, I might, I might be wrong, but I think that,
PanDoc, which is a document convergence, understands media wiki markdown in either in input or more in output or both.
But they won't let people understand the wiki dot, I don't think.
No, no problem, you see.
That's right, that's why I'm trying to be so green with you effectively, you know, moving to media wiki.
Because I think you could write a bit of markdown stuff and then generate media wiki stuff out as an output.
I need to check this to be, to be absolutely certain, but I'm pretty certain that the wiki markdown markup confusing is one of the options.
So, you know, there's all sorts of possibilities.
Yeah, absolutely.
I also use a, I use Ubuntu and Raspberry and obviously, but I also use OSMC open source media centre.
Yeah, and I run that on a pie downstairs.
And I've got a plus, very, plus, very, plus, plus, very pie.
It's basically a box.
And it's got a, you know, it was for the earlier pies, I think only had two USB sockets.
So, it's got a powered, kind of, hubby thing inside there.
So, it gives you four USBs out.
And there's a space for a fan.
And it also, you can put hard drive in it as well, although I never actually did that.
I had a plan to do it.
But I found it actually in wiki meet, having a external one, because we start with unplugging it and take it away.
You put it in the box, it's difficult to get this.
Yeah.
But it was quite, quite expensive case, because it was a limited number that, you know, was to kickstart a type thing.
And then, of course, I think I'm not sure, I'm fairly sure it won't support the very latest pie.
Yeah.
So, I've got a pie 3B, which I was planning to use for media,
but I'm not sure I can.
And I've probably need to rebuild it, because I don't think the WSMC that's on there.
I wouldn't work on the 3B.
And it's a finding in time and then creation.
So, I've worked the 3B that I use for hard-eastern upstairs.
It's my most powerful pie.
And I've worked all their pie, and I think as a media set, I've worked the wrong way around.
But when I get time, you know, one of these days, of course.
That's always the same, yeah.
That's not a thing, I've gone away from media totally.
I don't watch tele or movies or anything like that.
So, I find it.
I'd survive with that.
Yeah, I'd write scripts.
I'd move the time.
Yeah, yeah.
I think if I was, if I was, if I had more free time, I'd be doing the same.
But I don't so well.
But, yeah.
That's just me.
That's just me.
That's just me.
So, did you, I think you run Debian, I think you mentioned Debian at one point,
was that you're just saying effectively that Debian is under, is Ubuntu is.
Yeah.
One of your shows recently, you said on Debian, you would type get blah blah blah.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
It's a Debian.
Obviously, I've been to the Debian based in quotes.
The distribution of an app and whatnot.
You call that app to the point of the package manager.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But I think I did run, they've been a wee bit at one point.
But yeah, you know, had Debian on an app talk, that's right.
Yeah.
I did.
But I think, as Alex has said, I'm a bit of a pragmatist.
You know, I just want something that's going to be convenient.
I absolutely appreciate that, you know, Debian is more pure than, like, I've been to a suppose.
And there's one more pure than Debian.
But I just want something to work.
No, no, I'm sorry.
So, I just, I did install Debian on a machine at one point.
And thought, oh, yes, it's great.
It's going to be stable forever.
And I realized, hang on, there's a new version of this, a new version of that.
And it's not available.
Yeah.
It's not in the repository.
So that's not good.
That's why I moved to Debian testing.
Yeah.
So it's slightly frustrating.
I used to run a bun to a lot, out of run fedora, quite a lot in the past.
But at the moment, I've got Debian testing on my desktop, which is my main machine.
And I've got laptop, which has got KDE Neon on it, which is actually very good.
Which is basically a bun too, with tons of KDE hands on it.
I've never really got, well, I think very, very good.
And funny, I think we back, we were back in the day.
I had a play with Linux.
But I never really went very far.
And it was all just kind of gooey stuff.
I didn't do any of that.
And all of you know, they configured it.
It was just when I was just a dual booted.
And I was amazed at the computer at the time.
So it was a way, way better.
And then what would it be?
Red heart, 5.1 or something.
A way from way back.
So, and then I just, a lot was amazed.
I didn't know what to do with it.
And that was as far as I went.
And then I really got into Linux properly.
And what was it now?
It was a HF.
I'm going through all the Bruntu names.
So it's a D, D, E, HF.
Yeah, HF, I think HF is the first one.
Well, that was 16.0, 6.0 or something like that.
16.0.
It was something like that anyway,
which I first got into Linux properly.
And you know, it was, I think,
I think at that point I was finding one with boring.
I think that was it.
That was it.
I've got it.
I saw it's too easy.
It just works.
Which, so that, that was the thing.
And then I got a, I got a,
and I've been to,
I've been to, wasn't it,
it was an idiot's guide.
It was something like that.
It was, oh, fantastic.
I didn't cover the cover sort of thing.
And that, that, that was it.
Sort of thing.
I was just hooked, you know.
Yeah.
So it's mostly been,
I've been to, I've,
I've stuck with, I haven't,
I have played other,
other distributions on laptops and stuff.
And it was out.
Now, what was that one?
Kind of, it was dead being based.
That was,
the one that was quite common.
It was a,
we small distribution,
but I went by the wayside.
And,
like they were talking about just,
just in our podcast,
I was listening to the other day.
Like, I can't remember.
Yeah.
There's so many.
There's so many out there.
That's right.
Yeah.
You're talking about,
um,
other, other distributions.
I,
just remembering,
I was,
I've got a,
triple EPC,
you know,
those old days,
which still runs.
Sort of thing.
And I had installed crunch bang on that.
That's it.
I was thinking,
crunch bang,
and that was good on my,
I had,
uh,
another laptop,
HP,
a compact,
any,
a compact laptop,
any,
and it needed to be quite a low-power thing.
And it was,
it was great.
It was,
it was great.
It was really good, yeah.
So sad when,
yeah.
Right.
I met Mr,
crunch bang,
uh,
Phil,
Philip Nubra.
Wow.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's good to see him.
Yeah.
He's,
he's just wrote that kind of for himself.
And,
and I think he was quite surprised
the way he took off.
Yes, I think, you know,
I think it was a bit of a no,
a bit,
a bit of a burden for him.
I'm sure,
I'm sure,
I've never really talked him about
why he felt it was best to break away from him.
But, you know,
I'm sure there were good reasons.
But it's,
it's a shame.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I think,
I think,
let's say,
one of the other experiences I use is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
is,
it solved some of the shockcomings of the early pies but of course for the newer pies coming out
I think maybe the timing was unfortunately because he produced this and then not long after the
pies the higher-spec pies came out which made his hardware wasn't so appealing to Sarah but I mean
to get that to change not on a not on a create this really slick distribution but to also come
up with a bit of hardware as well you know that's a heck of an undertaking for us to have to do our
yes oh yeah yeah so yeah yeah yeah very impressive so yeah when I first started using learners it
was one of the early red hats I think it was four points all right yeah um we would we were
running Unix at work and one of my colleagues that he should try this Linux I think he would
do in a part-time job working on it in a cyber cafe and it's all Linux and
yeah we should try we should try and still in it on that I don't know I don't know I was pretty much
of the mindset that we're buying this kit we're getting the manufacturer's operating system and
that was the way to go but he managed to convince me yeah yeah yeah I was it took a little while
for me to be coming up as my colleague makes colleagues tell me well you were really slow in getting on
but but yeah eventually did yeah so it was red hat was red hat was was one of the main things at
that point and then that turned into Fedora yeah and which because the red hat were not doing a
a desktop version anymore at that point then and so I ran Fedora with KDE for quite a time and then
I went to Ubuntu with KDE so could one for a very long time and it is so easy to forget how
how much more difficult thing I remember back in on the red hat 5.1 and even the earlier
early versions of Ubuntu the things that you had to do you know to get things working you know tweaking
yeah yeah what was the called x media that's x was like yeah yeah you could blow your yeah you could
blow your yeah you got the frequency of the of the scan frequency or something and then getting
your your minus card to work up and make me as well or the more damn that oh absolutely yes yes
be like a lot of doing that I think my pal from work he said here's his way because we all had
access to old PCs at that time because because they would get chucked out of the student rooms
and upgraded and all the old machines just be given away yeah yeah and so we all had one or two of
these knocking around so I probably had a something like a Pentium 4 or those types of things
said here's a disc just plug in and boot off and then you have Linux and I did that and then
copied the disc content so I he'd done the config well the most of it and since they were standard
standardized machines with standardized monitors across the across the range it was a fedancy
was only like Ron when I upgraded it became I said oh no it's not as easy as I remember
yes get me an easy time to Simon who do yeah yeah so yeah I think I've actually run
Linux actually was able to time with it wasn't you if you've done it from what was it called
oh when he's tiny small distributions I was able to run I was actually able to run it at work
but I was able to do small re-bash testing you know it wasn't actually for work you know my
yeah but I mean yeah it seems to look down you can't do that sort of thing so yeah yeah yeah we
had a lot of Unix workstations due to some weird decision that'd been made by somebody senior
in the university so we had a lot of altrix workstations which we had to manage and so we were using
that version of Unix quite didn't have bash I think it was too early for bash we had
sh and sh and tcsh and then just a fair bit of scripting got done there because we were managing
these things and you often need to write a fair bit of tweaking at this sort of scripting level
so that sort of thing. There's not a bash terminal you can get from within a browser there's
not you can log into something that you just use em what's it it's emulating our what's it
use it uses flash yeah yeah can actually java that's it java that's it yeah javascript bash
terminal site which is quite interesting yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you can get quite a lot in
yeah yeah yeah and and and well there's of course there's online Python which you can that's
great fun as well because in fact that's you know for for my project there's that box thing
that I've talked about you know for control in my Raspberry Pi upstairs the I could I would sometimes
I'm a free bit free time or em work there's a there's a online Python that can be you can you
can obviously you can get account for them but you can try things out and you can't save it sort
of thing so it's surprising how featured replica it's called replica or something like that it's
online Python thing and so you can you can run the code and and tie be snippets and whatnot which is
good to tie it up here it's crazy yeah yeah it's quite powerful actually yeah okay I'll check that
I was saying to you as we would before we started recording I really trying to convince myself to
get into to Python though I have a stronger version to some aspects of it could it be tab
it's it's the damn indense really yeah of course we've discussed it all this I think
about the Python you almost have to use the exact same editor all the time you never change
because you know if you have a different number of species of different number of tabs you can
get it can easily pull down because yeah so I was I was telling Dave I use a strange editor I don't
think that many people use it but it's MC edit it comes with midnight commander and it's just
because it was handy and convenient and the only thing that was rubbish about it was the terrible
color scheme was like blue on something like blue and something like that yeah to read you know
that is meant to be the most visible I remember when windows were pushing that as a big thing
was I edit it was called I think it was a kind of dust yeah I think it probably was a dust thing
yeah yeah and they also also within things like word that they were encouraging you to go for a
white on what perfect was that all that color yeah I've never got on too well with that and to say
but yeah there must be some ergonomics behind it somewhere I don't know but yeah but you can change
a class scheme and it's here it's it's it's it's funny actually I was trying another editor
just recently I work a while back somebody had recommended notepad++ and then I thought of course
there's nothing like that on Linux and then I heard somebody talking about I think about HPR
I'm talking about notepad QQ which I play on notepad++ so I installed it just the other day and
it's it's quite nice it's I still got all the features of a noepad++ but again yeah and it could
maybe it's a way to install the room too but when you highlight it you know highlighting stuff
it's dreadful the colors are awfully catchy what's behind the glass awful you know yeah it's
nothing worse so it's funny some of the I'm not some of the Ubuntu stuff with the newer Ubuntu
GUI I don't necessarily get on with it the file manager is is so basic you know it seems to be
that you know for example I've actually got a frustration installed Nemo that was that that was
the old Nautilus type file manager which doesn't work there's niggles with it sometimes and sometimes
it can do thing I don't know that crashes are some so I'm not totally trusting it so if it's
simple stuff I use a standard Ubuntu file manager but often I've got to drop to this Nemo
one because off for example you can't do left and right split pains you know right right now tabs
are fine for for simple this to that but if you're taking from this to that and something else to
that and something else to that then you're all over the place was with the two pounds you've got
the destination staying there you go to your source multiple sources I couldn't live without that
I use Dolphid the the KDE yeah it's it's it's so nice that you can split the screen and
and move things about and you get a multiple tabs each of which you split yeah you can do all
that with not Nemo that's a Ubuntu file manager I couldn't see I could be wrong but I couldn't
see how to it doesn't show you I've got a Windows partition it doesn't see it so I can't mount it
I've got to go to this Nemo thing oh there it is here I can now click on it and and the other thing
is if you're scrolling through the window the way that the window is displayed you lose the last line
so and it test with the last file at the very bottom what date stamp is that what size is it
I can't see it that's off screen yeah there's so many things like that you know you're a tape yeah
the the dolphin thing is just seems to get better in better it does things like highlighting
files and directories that are under the control of Git and I think it shows some sort of status
information in there too and things like a side panel which in which you can have directories
that you often go to you just click on them and go there but also in there there's a list of
remote systems like a lot of my Pfizer on so you click on that and it SSH just do it and you get
a panel that shows the contents of the of the very good without that life would be absolutely
abysmal the Nemo family gives you a wee you get a wee orange line underneath it which gives you
a glance all that's half full if you watch full so that's quite a lot of nice wee touches in
in in Nemo but I say it's slightly flaky under I've been to so I don't totally totally trust it
it's all but it's often it's been my experience throughout using computers in the past sort of
thirty years ago yeah anyway um it's that that people come up with brilliant ideas and then a
sea change and water they throw all these ideas away yeah a bunch of crappy ideas I
say and in fact the another thing with the the the issues trying to get my my audio working
properly with acidity and and I just discovered just the other day that when I pushed the I think
it was a speaker icon they've now included which I think I had before or it was quite awkward to
get it wasn't too bad to get to but it was it was but they made it even more difficult to get to
the mic mic gain on on the letter of into his bum fuck of what was he been cleaning about that
because just by magic I've actually got it's appeared from nowhere I've got two
sliders I've got a volume and a mic gain just my single click on the stage so that's really nice
so that that that was very handy I thought oh where did that come from Mr Pute from nowhere
so I don't actually record in audacity I used to I used to get problems with it though
I must give that another shot I record all my podcasts on my zoom uh which is which is what
we're recording and then I a download off the SD card and then put it on or desk
while I was using the others Mr time but I've got a microphone which I couldn't go straight
to audacity with so maybe give that a shot actually now you say that I've to before I use
a chorus hit we're not cut gamers headphones with a boom mic and I find it it keeps the microphones
same position and I work cheap scabby things and I don't want to do it but the problem I have
I've mentioned before again is everything's too big the fault my face it's like
pretty neat was like and I titled it I just it's way too big yeah you think I'd be more adjustable
yeah actually because it's so big the cups curl round so they're almost like under my chin you know
so I've got to have one year one year on and other one off to the side and that's just quite
keen meaning because it means I can hear things moving on in the room or whatever yeah that had
some advantage in there yeah but it was it they were cheap and they seemed to like create
it came to work quite well so I had a good a good tip cheap solution if somebody's looking for
a wee recording and everyone's got well maybe not never these ones because everyone's got a computer
watch for just a phone and that was they so yeah yeah yeah I've got a Samsung microphone on a
boom which is mounted over my desk so that's that's what I used to record the community news and
that's all so and it's really so good it's a usb mic but but it's service it's really good quality
wise I should really record more now though this this one is pretty good yeah yeah and it has
a tunic right you can pick up sound from where you want it to or you tell me it's got huge I
mean having to make a phone just like I've got five microphones in it my god fire number right
and a good level of all different kids and modes but definitely yeah yeah you can switch it into
different different configurations you can record meetings or just have a sort of chat with
with somebody and record just that I think there's a whole a whole deep topic that you can dive into
just with microphones and I mean different configurations and I'm sure I bet they're coming
on mine they're coming on mine yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it took me while I find out how to
do something I was trying to listen back to what we recorded last time on it which you can do but
it's not obvious at all yeah we were sort of struggling in there yeah after we'd recorded did
that all work and yes it's just there's a lot of a lot of hidden features in there and it's good
okay so shall we yeah I think that's probably shall we call it we're coming up to 40
oh it'll be less once we've trimmed but yeah and I've also hopefully I didn't ramble at a
massively high speed like I did last time I'm consciously trying to speak nice and slowly
people actually we find it's my cool Scottish accent yeah it's good that's fun it's fun to do
it's fun to do it we really say we I was the same time we've met and and and chat it and it sounds
like there's about an an infinitive something that we can get into yeah yeah yeah yeah it's
yeah it's it's got to be filled with scrambled egg and toast yeah yeah we had late breakfast
yeah yeah that's all right yeah long long long long chat absolutely absolutely and we must come back
here actually because this is a nice but yeah I like it's a it's a pub isn't it yeah but yeah
and it's but it's also a little restaurant the the bag yeah think isn't it yeah did it have
did they have a room since I'm not quite sure I'm sure no we know I'm not sure I'm not sure
I'm not sure I find it but it because it's dog friendly so yeah I thought it was like a companion
so it's kind of yeah yeah well that's we're quite close to a sort of walking area yeah because
that's hill and ski ski slope it's just above us and yeah there's a lot of people just take the
trail up there you can do and walk along you know all that yeah I'm just saying all of us for
some reason I mean I don't come here that often but I was I've heard this this weekend last
weekend there was a radio meeting I read the radio meetup and then actually it was a weekend before
we went I came in here to take take was the me and me and Mrs X and and a furry companion and
after the meal I've eaten too much but maybe go for we walk sort of thing and there's a wee
footpath as you say takes up the car but yeah and we're walking up all our way so it's
you know it's quite dark and of course it's said then we use a footpath I'm going to look
about muckier we'll know you use a footpath so we would look so we can see the oncoming traffic
because we're walking the right hand side so you can see the oncoming traffic so that's
what we think because I would say people walking the right hand side if you're driving left of course
in the UK and I love talking too quickly and so we've got to the top and we're walking back down
and then we've got halfway down and we heard this kind of noise and what the heck's going on
and so we're sort of turned down and we could see these kind of it's like a whole cluster of
illuminations that were kind of bobbing up and down and we asked that and we couldn't
because it's pitch dark it couldn't work it what it was and then the dogs look and ask
I'm really looking at it and looking at what the hell's going on here you know and they're getting
closer and closer and closer and it turned out it was people who'd been jogging up at the side of
hell end and the audio I was hello here hello they just see a of light on on the forehead
they were the bastards yeah yeah yeah this is this is quite an area for exercising stuff
but that was everything a lot of them were the obviously jogged up the top of this hill back down
again and some of them were jogging home with you you know the others were getting on bikes and
wow I've had the really seriously fat you've never been there no we've got to go to walk
out the hell on my feet I have my kids both done skiing lessons here and when they had their
lessons I used to hang hang about and I would walk up the the side of the ski slope and round
the top back down the other side and that sort of thing and that's quite a steep hill actually
so you need some good boots on there to be able to do it well it's a good place for a ski
ski slope stuff you don't do that on an icy day though because you'll be on your back side sliding
sliding fast yeah it's one of the nicest hills around this area and then there's all
pentlands on the way anyway enough of that enough of that what we're at now we're very much
five to six minutes yet yeah well it was silence the truncation health food of course
yeah absolutely anyway yeah so goodbye from Haka a public video
how are you good
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever
thoughts of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments attribution share
thread o leicin
