Episode: 2358
Title: HPR2358: Amateur radio round table #2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2358/hpr2358.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:41:39

---

This is HPR episode 2,358 entitled amateur radio round table hash 2.
It is hosted by MiWid and in about 46 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summer is two of us trying to explain stuff mostly off the cuff.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello Hacker Public Radio.
This is Michael, Delta Lima 4 mic calls Mike, or Mervy, with the second recording of the
amateur radio round table and with me is Steve Kilo Delta 0 India Jali Papa.
Yes, that's me. I'm glad to be here with you and hope maybe we can do this a little bit
more off.
Yeah, definitely and with more support from more people to make it more interesting.
So we had in the comments of our last round table some questions and we should try to answer
some of them.
There was a question I would like to ask for a detailed explanation of how the length
of a frequency is measured two meters.
What frequency is most powerful and how modulation works.
So shall we start with the wave length?
Yeah, we can actually Mr. X did a fairly decent job of covering that in one of his recent
episodes about the Balfame radio, but we can talk about it some more as well.
Yeah, I think we will come to that topic in addition later.
We did a very nice job in installing this series and blaming Ken for all of it, but
he did a great job there.
Yeah, I thought that was kind of funny.
This whole thing is Ken's fault.
He's the one that's been asking for it.
So anyway, regarding wave length, there's a couple of different ways to look at it.
So RF energy, radio frequency energy is oscillating at some frequency and so the faster
the frequency is or the higher the frequency, the least amount of time it takes to cover
one cycle.
And this energy is traveling at approximately the speed of light and so the amount of
distance that it travels for the duration of one cycle, that's your wave length basically.
And the relationship is such that if you multiply the frequency in cycles per second and
the wave length in meters, that should equal the velocity of the motion of the propagation
of the energy and that's about the speed of light.
And so from a mathematical point of view, if you take the speed of light and divide it
by the frequency, you get the wave length.
If you take the speed of light and divide it by the wavelength, you get the frequency.
Does that make sense?
Yes, totally.
And the point is the speed of light is valid for vacuum and in close approximation for our
air here on Earth, but not necessarily for all materials.
So if you have some deelectric non-conductive material where the wave has to travel through,
the wave lengths within this material may be different than in vacuum, especially it
will be shorter.
And if you have coaxial cable for conducting your RF energy, you will have a value for the
velocity factor, which is a measure for the slowdown of the wave within the material of
the coaxial cable and you have to take this into account if you calculate length of cable
for a certain wavelength, for the signal to travel a certain wavelength within the cable.
Yes, excellent point on that.
The other thing, I guess I was going to comment on this, is that we use these wavelength
designations kind of to label frequency ranges.
Obviously, there's only one frequency that is, say, two meters in length, but we refer
to an entire band as the two meter band.
And the band is like a range of frequencies.
And we do that just kind of for convenience.
And so all of the frequencies in, say, the two meter band, which, at least in the US,
here it goes from about 144 megahertz to 148 megahertz.
Those are all approximately two meters in length in a, you know, going to speed of light.
Oh, obviously, there's only one frequency that's exactly two meters.
The other thing is, we're not just terribly precise about it.
Like, for example, if I told you that there is an amateur radio band called the 20 meter
band, you might say, well, okay.
So the speed of light, which is 300 million meters per second, divide that by 20 meters.
That's going to give me about 15 or 150 million or 15 megahertz.
Well, the actual frequency range for the 20 meter band is like 14 megahertz to 14.35 megahertz.
And so we're not being terribly accurate about that.
It's not exactly 15 or anything like that.
But it's just sort of a convenient way to refer to the band as being approximately two meters.
And so if you hear us talk about the 20 meter band, the 80 meter band, we're not being
terribly precise about that, but it's just sort of that's approximately the way like
those frequencies.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And there is a two meter amateur radio band.
There is a two meter commercial radio band.
And they all refer to two meters or 70 centimeters or whatever, as the ballpark figure for the
frequency allocation close to that they have for the service.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, the bands may not even be identical, like even the amateur bands may not even
be all completely identical from country to country or region to region.
They tend to be pretty close, but maybe not exactly.
Yeah, for example, the two meter amateur radio band here in Europe is 144 megahertz to 146 megahertz.
And 70 centimeters goes from 330 to 340 megahertz.
Okay.
Yeah, that's a little different.
We have, we have a couple extra megahertz in the U.S. on the two meter bands.
So share, I guess I don't know just something I thought of right now since we talked about amateur
versus commercial and so on.
And it's not really related to wavelength, but it's kind of interesting.
And some of these allocations for amateur radio use are designated pretty much exclusively for amateur radio.
But then there's other bands where amateur radio is a secondary service.
And we actually overlap some other type of service.
And we're still allowed to use it, but we're not not supposed to interfere with the primary purpose of those frequencies.
So that's just sort of on the side that not everybody probably realizes.
Yes, and we may have to accept or cope with interference from this primary user and may not complain about it.
But the other way around, we should not interfere with them because they are entitled to complain.
Yep, that's exactly right.
So the commenter there asks, what is the most powerful frequency?
How would you respond to that?
It depends, it depends on the purpose and different frequencies have different propagation properties.
And depending on what you want to achieve, one can be extremely powerful and the other completely useless and the other way around.
I'm so less active on the shortwave frequency bands.
So I have not really a very, very good experience, which bands to use for what communication distances.
But the lower frequency bands say 80 meters 3.5 megahertz is more for closer, closer range communication because of the more steep angle for a reflection.
And the damping during daytime and middle frequencies, seven megahertz, 10 megahertz, maybe usable for longer range communication during days.
And the higher frequencies only in certain times of the year and so on.
Can you elaborate on this, Steve?
Well, yeah, I mean, that's basically exactly what I was going to say, too.
The whole issue of propagation is one that it's a very deep subject and it's something that you can really, really get detailed into.
But propagation is the propagation or how the energy travels through the atmosphere is dependent on many factors and frequency is one of those factors.
But also you have things like the time of day, the time of year, what all it all has to do with the type of ionization that is happening in the certain layers of the atmosphere called the troposphere, or the ionosphere, I guess it's right.
And so if conditions are right, a radio signal will go up into the ionosphere and it will then bend back down towards the earth.
And if it does that, then from where you are to where it comes back down to the earth, you can potentially communicate.
If it doesn't bend back down, if it gets absorbed or if it goes out into space, then you can't communicate on that frequency at that particular time.
And since the ionosphere is constantly in flux, there's no guarantee that at any given time, you'll be able to communicate on any given frequency.
But there are some rules of thumb. Generally speaking, 20 meters, for example, is good during the daytime, but not particularly good at night.
40 meters is kind of almost opposite to that. It tends to maybe be better at night than during the day, although there's some overlap.
Some of these are very highly influenced by the sunspot cycle. And because the sun is really what does a lot of, it's important for the activation of the ionosphere.
So at different points in the sunspot cycle, the ionosphere is going to be behaving differently.
And so during high sunspot cycles, you can often get to things like 10 meters, 12 meters, and 15 meters.
But in low sunspot times, like we are right now, it's pretty rare for those frequencies to work with.
And so to say, to ask which is the most powerful frequency, it just depends on what you're trying to do, how far you're trying to communicate.
And what time of the year, what time of the day, how the sunspots are, all of those things.
So I don't know, that's my rambling answer to the question.
Yeah, it was pretty, pretty inclusive. And there is a maximum usable frequency and also a lowest usable frequency, which is the frequency with the highest frequency, which is a scattered back at the ionosphere to the Earth or the lowest frequency where this back scattering works.
And these frequencies change over daytime, over insulation, and so on.
And they are continuously monitored and tested by certain observatories.
And you can find graphs on the internet showing for the current situation the maximum and minimum usable frequencies for the propagation path over the ionosphere.
Yep, that's correct. And then of course, when you get into the higher frequencies up into what we call the VHF and UHF range, those frequencies really, except for in very, very rare cases, don't ever bounce back from the ionosphere.
And so like for two meters and 70 centimeters and some of those bands, they're really almost only good for a line of sight communication.
So the transmitting antenna and the receiving antenna have to basically in line of sight of each other was not terribly much obstruction in between.
And so because of the curvature of the Earth, that limits how far you can communicate because if you start to go over the horizon, you no longer can communicate using those frequencies, we sometimes enhance that by setting up a repeater.
And so you're talking, you're actually talking to a repeater, which you are line of sight with.
And somebody else can listen to that repeater because they're in line of sight that the talker and the listener themselves make on your site from each other.
Now occasionally something really weird will happen in the ionosphere or other parts of the atmosphere that will allow some of these higher frequencies to travel much, much further distances, but that's rare and it's pretty much unpredictable.
Yeah, and the property that VHF, UHF and higher frequencies can penetrate the ionosphere allows us to use them for satellite communication and such.
And yeah, these rare propagation conditions, there are times of the year where those are more frequent or where they can can happen.
And there is something called sporadic E, there's the E layer in the ionosphere and in some, some certain conditions, it gets reflective for VHF for two meters frequencies, and then you can get 2000 kilometers distance stations to have signals like like your neighboring neighboring guy.
And I've experienced these myself and then it's really, really impressive. And you can communicate with a couple of what's output power doesn't matter if the conditions are there transmit power is not really the limiting factor and it's impressive.
Yeah, I remember a time when just all of a sudden out of the blue, I was able to hear on two meters or something, I think I was able to hear somebody from several states away, it's just normally you can't, but yeah, it's all this kind of interesting and everybody always kind of jumps on that and tries to get that long distance contact in because it's relatively rare.
And yeah, as far as power goes, I mean, in many cases, power is the secondary factor. I mean, it's possible to make communications thousands of miles with very low power.
Now if you have more power, you tend to have a better signal, better signal to noise ratio of that kind of thing, but it's not really the limiting factor.
The limiting factor is just how the propagation for that frequency is at that particular time. And if it's good propagation, it takes very little power to get a signal that's readable over a very, very long distance.
Okay, now shall we dive into modulation?
Yeah, that was the next part of that question. How do you want to handle that?
I hear can, can asking what modulation in the first place?
So let's try to get hold of that. So modulation basically is the, the act of putting some information on an RF, RF signal.
There are several kinds of modulation schemes, the most, most familiar for most people is amplitude modulation AM known from broadcast radio frequency modulation known from radio stations on the VHS frequencies.
And for amplitude modulation, you simply have a carrier wave, the RF signal, and you change the signal amplitude according to your modulation signal, which normally is, in our case, voice signal.
So if the voltage representing your voice goes up, you increase the amplitude of the of the carrier wave.
If the voltage goes down, you reduce the amplitude, and on the receiver side, you do a demodulation step where you recover these changes in amplitude, convert them back to a changing voltage, amplify and filter it.
And you have your voice back. And for frequency modulation, the basic idea is you have a carrier wave and wiggle the frequency of this wave according to your modulation signal.
So if the voltage goes up in your, in your voice signal, you change the frequency towards one direction, and if the voltage goes down, you change the frequency in the other direction.
And on the receiver side, you can just detect those changes in frequency and convert them back to a voltage signal, which will be representing your voice signal.
And there are many, many more more complex modulation schemes, but these are the most, most familiar ones and then the most simple ones to understand.
Yeah, that's pretty good description as far as I'm concerned. Just to clarify, the carrier that you're talking about is basically a signal,
the carrier starts out as a signal that is a single frequency and a uniform voltage basically. So it's just a very pure signal and then you're just modifying that based on some information.
And if that information is, is voice, then you are modifying the carrier relative to that voice fluctuation and voltage and stuff.
If the information you want to pass is digital, then you then you modify that carrier based on the ones and zeros that you're trying to transfer.
And then the receiver just is able to identify and those modifications to the carrier and pull that information back up.
And like you say, there's a ton of different schemes for how you modify a carrier to carry information, whether it's voice or digital or whatever.
And that's basically how it works. Obviously, the transmitter and the receiver have to be in agreement in terms of, I'm modulating this using an AM amplitude modulation techniques.
So you have to be listening using an AM technique demodulation. It doesn't work to do AM to FM or FM to AM or anything like that. You have to be in agreement.
But it's really kind of magical that it works. But it does quite reliably.
Yeah, of course. And we probably should be mentioning also single sideband because it's the most important voice modulation on shortwave frequencies.
Although it's more complicated to explain. So if you have a carrier wave and mix it in an RF frequency mixer with an audio signal.
You will get the carrier wave, the audio and the difference in some of the audio frequency to the carrier wave.
So if you have 10 megahertz carrier and 1 kilohertz audio signal, you will have after the mixer 10 megahertz, 1 kilohertz and 10 megahertz minus 1 kilohertz as signals.
And depending on the type of mixer, the 10 megahertz signal itself will be suppressed somewhat.
And then if the frequency is changing, you will have the change in both sidebands, the 10 megahertz plus the audio frequency and 10 megahertz minus the audio frequency.
You will have this frequency change of the audio signal in both sides of the carrier.
And as both carriers sidebands carry the same information, one is redundant and is cut off by a filter.
So you just take the signal wiggling on one sideband, you cut off the carrier, you cut off the second sideband and only transmit the information from one sideband, which is much more energy efficient.
And on the receiver side, you have to add this carrier, which is tuned in by your radio.
And you will get back the audio signal and can amplify and filter it.
And you have the information back you're used for transmission.
I was wondering if you're going to try to describe single sideband, it is a little bit tough to describe, especially without like a whiteboard or something to draw it out.
But you did a pretty good job. I mean, basically a standard AM amplitude modulation scheme contains the resulting signal of amplitude modulation contains redundant information.
And if you transmit that, you have to use quite a bit more bandwidth to transmit the redundant information.
So single sideband attempts to remove the parts of the signal that aren't needed for demodulation.
So you don't lose up as much bandwidth and transmitting, but still can get the signal.
Now it has a little bit of a different sound. It sounds different kind of than regular AM does, but it's much more efficient type of modulation than AM.
And so it's very popular in amateur radio communications as well as some other types of communications as well.
Yeah, I think the sound is basically due to the band limitation, the frequency limitations you use for having a narrow channel on the frequency spectrum for transmission.
If you modulate single sideband without the sideband filter very narrow, you can achieve good audio quality or better audio quality than normal.
But you will of course require more bandwidth on the RF band and normally receivers will not be accommodating this signal because they are just tuned for for the narrow band.
And going back to amplitude modulation, it's also not so efficient in power wise because for having room to react to increasing voltage of the modulation signal and decreasing voltage, you have to have a set point at half the amplitude.
So if your modulation signal is completely quiet, you're transmitting half the output power of your transmitter just to have the bias level in your receiver.
And you're just increasing the power to double the power if you have full 100% modulation for the maximum voltage you can can modulate or transmit.
You're having full power and for the minimum voltage, you can transmit you have almost no power. You reduce it almost to zero.
But for any quiet signal, you're transmitting half the RF output power just to have the bias level there, which is not very efficient.
And for a sideband, single sideband, the loudness of your signal is in the power you put into this signal and if it's quiet, there's no output power.
Ah, very good point. I had kind of forgotten about that from a PowerPoint. It's been quite a while actually since I studied the single sideband in detail, but now that you say that, yeah, you're absolutely right about that.
And I think we should elaborate a little bit more on a sideband in a future show or someone can do a show about this with audio examples and how to tune in a station and so on.
I think it would be best suited for this format.
Yep, I agree with that. Sounds good to me.
Okay, another idea about doing shows is why not just record tuning around the band and explaining what you're here.
I was once listening to a QSO and then I thought I wish I recorded this QSO. It was some European and the US station signal quality was good.
And they had we're having just a nice chit chat and would have been so great for just recording this and explaining what they do, what they talk about and all the proceedings they follow.
Yeah, that'd be a good idea. You could do that for lots of different types of communications. You could, I mean, lots of different kinds of amateur communications.
You could potentially record maybe a net type of communication as well as just a rag chew.
It also might be kind of interesting to record what some of the digital modes sound like.
Yeah, okay, maybe we can deviate from from this schedule right here and now I talk about ideas about ideas how to do shows.
When I think about explaining stuff, I encounter those rabbit holes like Mr. X called them and he had the same problem explaining something and then there are terms which needed to be explained first or at least in connection with that.
And identifying those those points and giving them their own show, maybe a short one, you can elaborate on a certain fact and explain them to in particular.
I'm thinking about this one about the maiden head grid locator system, which will be basically reading out the Wikipedia title because it's so so good and one about the RST report system and estimators and explaining some of those aspects in a separate show.
So we can can just reference them later.
Yeah, it's a good idea. Would it be helpful maybe on our etherpad show notes here that if we maybe maintain a list of some of those topics and if somebody feels like making a show and don't really know what to talk about, take a look at that list and you elaborate a little bit on one of those things with that be helpful.
I think it would be a great idea because I'm not not short of ideas what to talk about but getting it done.
Well, yes, that's for sure. And since we're talking about show ideas, you had, I believe, brought up the idea on the email list.
Hams may be doing what's in my shack, what's in my ham shack type episode. And I will let you know that I have an episode on that topic almost complete. I haven't uploaded it yet. I actually haven't recorded it yet, but I've done some show notes.
So I am planning to do that one and I hope some others will do that as well.
Yeah, that's great. I'm looking forward to that and I will not be the only one.
All right, well, is there anything more on that subject or should we talk a little bit about the Doppler effect?
Yeah, we can go on the Doppler effect.
All right, so there was a comment that related to the amateur sat up an amateur radio satellite. And this was a show that Christopher did.
And I hope that he was going to be on this round table, but apparently he wasn't able to make it.
And one of the things he mentioned is that when talking to a satellite, you need to take into effect into the Doppler effect.
And so what is that? And I'll take a crack at describing it. And then I'll see what you have to say about it as well.
When you have the source of transmission, so in this case, the satellite is transmitting. You're listening.
Well, in addition to transmitting, that satellite is also moving into, you know, at rather rather rapidly.
And so as that satellite is coming towards you, as it sends out the RF energy toward that you're going to pick up,
it's kind of catching up with that as it's transmitting, it's also partially catching up to where that energy is at.
And what that does is it has a tendency to compress the radio waves, if you will, which make them go up and frequency.
So the frequency that you have to listen on is, it needs to be just a little bit higher than the frequency that the satellite is actually transmitting in order to receive it properly, because the frequency is going up because of kind of the compression of those radio waves.
And then the same thing happens in reverse when the satellite is going away from you, it's separating itself from the energy that it's transmitting.
And so you actually have to tune down and see a little bit in order to properly pick it up. So how is that? You have a better way of describing it.
Not really was a nice explanation. And the point is the effective speed of the satellite is the component towards you.
So if the satellite is approaching close to the horizon, it has a high component of speed towards you. And if the satellite is exactly above you, the movement is perpendicular to your position.
And the speed change relative in your direction is small. So the Doppler effect for this frequency shift is minimal and is increasing in the negative direction if the satellite is going away from your side.
And I lost my thought right there.
Yeah, that's exactly correct. Now a lot of times when people talk about Doppler effect, they're thinking about sound waves.
And the most common example of that is you have a train going by and the train is blowing its horn or its whistle.
As the train is coming towards you, the sound of that of the horn is a higher pitch because of the Doppler effect.
And as the train is going away from you, the pitch goes down because of the frequency of the audio waves as they get to you has decreased.
Now, of course, sound waves travel a much lower frequency than radio waves do.
And so in radio, it takes a lot of motion and you have to be moving really fast for that Doppler effect to actually play a role.
Now, satellite is moving pretty fast. So it does play a role. Whereas if you're driving in a car and you're transmitting to somebody that's at a fixed station, that level of motion is not going to make any difference in terms of the perceptive frequency.
You're just not going to notice the difference of that speed since the frequencies are so much higher than the speed of travel has to be a lot higher to play a role.
But it's basically the same concept in those cases.
Yeah, we will put a link to the Wikipedia article on Doppler effect in the show notes.
They have a lot of animated illustrations and the great explanations there.
The point I wanted to make Christopher was wondering in his episode for some satellites, the Doppler effect was bigger than for others.
And the reason is some satellites have transponders that convert an input signal on VHF on 145 megahertz something to a UHF output signal on 435 megahertz.
And some satellites have transponders working the other way around converting 435 megahertz to 145 megahertz.
And the Doppler effect for a given speed of the satellite scales with frequency.
So if you're looking at 145 megahertz, the Doppler effect has a certain frequency shift.
And if you're looking at 435 megahertz, which is about three times the frequency, the Doppler effect is three times as much in frequency shift for the same speed of the satellite.
So if you have a satellite that has an output on 435 megahertz, the Doppler effect on this output signal will be higher than then on the on the other transponder.
And if you have a frequency modulation transponder, this Doppler effect is not so critical, you can compensate for it in slow steps.
But if you have a single sideband transponder where the frequency shift also impacts the audio frequency tone you're hearing directly, it's much more difficult to keep up with retuning your radio to keep the frequencies right.
And some transponders have inverting mode where the input frequency is one sideband direction and the output frequency is the other sideband direction.
So the Doppler effect on the input and output frequency of the satellite will partially compensate. So the overall effect is less.
Alright, those are some good points. So the magnitude of the Doppler effect is changes with different frequencies. So that's worth knowing.
And then yes, the modulation also affects how much the Doppler effect is going to affect you and how you go about compensating for that.
Yeah, those are good points and not ones that I have quite thought through myself. So that's great.
And if you're telling rubbish, please correct us, record a show on this at this comment.
Yeah, absolutely. And some of these topics you can get really in depth. I mean, the Doppler effect modulation, all of those kind of things, velocity of propagation,
all the things that we were talking about, you can get into great detail and understanding.
But I suppose it's also worth pointing out that you don't have to be an expert in these things in order to be an amateur radio operator.
Yeah, some of the basics that we've talked about are on the test. You kind of have to know in order to get your license.
But the good thing is, is if you are a ham and you are, you know, transmitting and operating, you have a better context in which you can learn about and study some of the intricacies of these things.
Whereas if you don't have that, then it's more just academic. And so that's just one of the advantages of being a ham.
You have some sort of context for looking into these details, a little bit more in depth.
Yeah, right. The point I'm so inactive on shortwave that I don't know what propagation is best in what direction at what time.
But if you are a regular operator on those frequencies, you will just know if I want to talk to my friend in that country at that time, I better use this frequency band or the other one.
And yes, you have to learn some things for the test to prove that you're willing to learn and you're able to get gather that knowledge.
But then you just have to operate and work with it and learn by doing and dive into what you're interested in.
And that's the beauty of it.
Yep, that's exactly right. Just don't think you have to know at all in order to get started. Learn the basics, get started, and then learn those things that are interesting to you.
And as you decide what types of operations you're more interested in doing and the available things are incredibly wide.
No matter who you are, you can find something of interest in the office. It's a great place to start and learn more about these details.
Yeah, I think the amateur radio is the broadest hobby you can ever ever have because you can have three, four, five people meeting and they all are hams, but they all have virtually not overlapping areas of interest and only maybe meeting up on the VHS local frequency for for local chat and for for experience exchange and so on.
Yep, that's exactly right. All right, so was that kind of all of the notes that we had?
One of the people that was going to be here was going to report maybe from their experience at the Dayton Hamvention, but that person's not here.
Hamvention, that's one of those things that I'd love to go to some time and I'm not just terribly far away from it.
That happens in Ohio near the town of Dayton and it's like the world's largest ham fest basically.
And I live in Kansas and so it's like, you know, a good days drive, but I've never taken the opportunity to go someday.
Someday I'm going to, but I guess that's probably probably how to say that.
Yeah, that's the 30s half and I'm ham radio fair here in Germany, which is Europe's biggest biggest amateur radio convention and then I'm usually participating each year.
And it's always great, great fun with the camping at the parking area beside the fairground and meeting people.
And yeah, I'm looking forward to go there this year.
Actually, that's probably another one of these good rabbit hole topics is the idea of a ham fest in general.
What is a ham fest and what kind of things do you see when you get to a ham fest or that kind of thing?
And I suppose if somebody even wanted to do a show where they like walked around at a ham fest and interviewed some people and talked a lot.
A lot kind of live about what they were seeing that would be a really cool show to listen to as well.
Yeah, I intended to do some recording last year, but it didn't happen and I'm not making any promises.
Well, sounds like a great idea if you can do it in sort of a related topic for those of us in the US and Canada North America area.
We have kind of a pretty big event coming up here in the next week and a half and that is the ARL field day.
So the ARL is the US organization for amateur radio and a national organization and every year the fourth weekend of the month of June, there is this thing called field day.
And it's a 24 hour period of time when clubs and individuals go out and kind of practice setting up in the as you might for like doing emergency communications and you talk to other stations.
It's kind of a contest. It's kind of a social activity.
It's a wide range of things.
Anyways, I'm planning to participate in field day this year and I'm not promising exactly, but I was thinking it might be kind of fun to do some recordings out of field day and make a show out of that as well.
Sounds great, yes. We should stop this list of ideas. It shows we might do one day because we can just throw all the ideas in there and maybe inspire people to do it.
Yeah, I think that'd be a good idea. I have a list of that for over my own and I will probably never include that list. Having sort of a central list on this general topic might be helpful to some people that would like to like to do a show and maybe not know quite what to do.
Yeah, those lists, but maybe maybe it's helpful for getting shows.
All right. So is there anything else that we need to talk about this time around?
I think we covered all the questions so far and we do not need to to drag it out too long.
One question about having this riddle we wrote about in the on the mailing list. I didn't prepare anything for today, but do we want to have it in the future to say every round table have some riddle with a digital modulated or any modulated signal where people can
decode some text or something and enter it in the page to get confirmation that they are right.
I guess that'd be all right. I had really thought too much about it. I'm not sure how many people would find that interesting.
I suppose if you would find that interesting, make a comment to this show and indicate that that would be interesting to you.
I'm not familiar enough with some of those things that I'd have a hard time figuring out a riddle of that sort.
I think myself, you know, I have a little experience with it.
So it might be a little bit beyond what most of the listeners ship would be interested in.
But if I'm wrong about that comment and something we could do.
It doesn't have to be very, very complicated. I'm just thinking maybe maybe just in most code or radio teletype encoding or whatever PSK 31 or something more strange, but still still decodable with the common software tools.
This one this way. And then you can can have an HPR on the HPR side entry form where you say him radio, round table episode, something and I decoded these two words.
And then it says congratulations. You have the fifth person to decode the text or something around along with these lines.
So if you're interested in doing something like this, please let us know. And I hope that we will have an extra round table sooner than this one.
Yeah, I agree. I'm I'm open to doing more of these at a little bit more frequent timeframe.
If we can get other people involved, that'd be great. I mean, and if you're not a ham and you just are interested in the subject, we'd love to have you be part of the round table as well.
Because you could ask us some questions that, you know, we might not necessarily think of. So anybody's welcome to join these round tables.
And communication is to win and how we're going to do it seems to be happening on the HPR email list. So if you're not already on that list, you probably want to get on that list and then just join in when we do another one.
Yeah, for the general topic, shall we just schedule the next recording in about two months and think about releasing this show as soon as we get it edited and and normally at least one month, month after recording to have it released.
And then there's four weeks time for questions and comments and then have already scheduled the next recording.
So that would be sometime in August. That would be fine for me.
Okay, then let's try to get it sorted out earlier. So I hope listeners will still enjoy this in spite of just us to rambling more or less.
But I enjoyed it was a nice show and I hope for for the next one.
I agree. Sounds good. And we'll see you next time. This is Steve, Katie, zero, IJP, say in seven, three and have a good day.
Yeah, bye bye, Cheerio from Delta Lima, four Michael, Michael.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club and is part of the binary revolution at BingRef.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
Thank you.
