Episode: 2025
Title: HPR2025: Using a Smartphone as a microphone
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2025/hpr2025.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:27:56

---

This is an HPR episode 2020, if I'm entitled, using a smartphone and a microphone.
It is posted my first time posting Julian and is about one minute long.
The summary is, I talk about an app that I post the audio input of my smartphone into
my computer to record this show.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code, HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello citizen of the internet, my name is Julian and in my first show for HPR, I want to talk
about an app called Microphone.
This app is available for Android in the F3 repository, link is in the show notes.
All it does is sending the audio input from the microphone directly into the audio output.
This causes horrible feedback loops if the audio output happens to be the phone speakers.
But if you plug a mail to mail 3.5mm cable into your phone, and the other end into your
computer, you can use your smartphone as a microphone.
Actually, I'm using this right now to record this show with a velocity on my laptop.
The reasons for that are pretty simple.
I don't have enough free space on my phone to record a show with you record, and the
other is that I was curious if this app really works.
Well, actually there's not much more I could tell about this app.
It has no menu, no way to customize it, and as you can hear, no noise suppression or
whatsoever.
That's about it, thanks for listening.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HackerPublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution,
share a light 3.0 license.
