Episode: 2722
Title: HPR2722: RAID 6 a short description
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2722/hpr2722.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 15:37:44

---

This in HPR episode 2007-122 entitled, RAID-6 a short description, it is hosted by NAWP
and in about 3 minutes long, and Karimaneck's visit flag, the summary is, how RAID-6 works.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR-15, that's HPR-15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An Honesthost.com.
Good day, I would like to talk to you about RAID-6, and so RAID-6 the minimum is 4 disk,
and just like RAID-5, this does block level striping.
So that means it strives across all disk in the array or in the loan, and picture a diagram with 4 cylinders in it,
and each disk is labeled this one, this two, this three, this four, and so each block has an alpha-numeric thing.
And so you have five blocks, so it's A, B, C, D, E, F, and these blocks are spread out over these four disks.
And then the parity disk, there's two parities for each one.
So it's a dual parity solution, so the parity blocks are P1, P2, and P3.
And these are spread out over the disk, and so then you would have the second parity would, of course, be 4, P4, P5, and P6.
And this, when you do this, again, it's two parity blocks for each data block written.
And the reason this is so great is that it can handle two disk failures.
And this RAID configuration is complex to implement in a RAID controller, so because it has to calculate two parity data for each block.
And so, for instance, when a drive does fail and you pull it out, well then you put in a new one, and then the controller has to process the parity, and this takes quite a while.
And so this is why in enterprise arrays, you always look at how many cores each controller has in order to make that work.
Okay, so this is, that's about it, for RAID 6, block striped, two distributed parity solution.
All right, you'll have a fantastic time, and take care. Bye.
You've been listening to HekaPublic Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HekaPublic Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
