Episode: 2354
Title: HPR2354: Night Sounds in Rural Tennessee
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2354/hpr2354.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:36:51

---

This in HPR episode 2,354 entitled Night Sound in Royal Tennessee.
It is hosted by John Culp and in about 4 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is a recording of the Night Sound outside Telafoma, Tennessee.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hey everybody, this is John Culp from Lafayette, Louisiana, but I'm not there right now.
I'm actually at my parents' place in Tennessee and I wanted to make a recording of something
really special that happens up here that doesn't happen where I live right now in the house.
I'm going to walk out.
They live kind of out in the woods in a Royal Tennessee.
So I'm outside now.
It's absolutely pitch dark out here.
And I'm assuming you can hear very well the chorus of wildlife.
It's really, really loud.
It's so wonderful.
You look up, man, the stars are so bright way out here in the country.
The sky is dark.
It's got a little bit of a lightness to it, enough where you can see that the trees kind of in contrast to them against the sky.
The trees are very tall in there because they built their house in the middle of the woods.
They bought 12 or 13 acres of woods out here and cleared a spot in the middle and put a house.
And there's a lot of wildlife out here and right now we're hearing the nightlife.
I'm going to walk around the circular driveway.
It's so dark.
I can't even see them from my face right now.
I can kind of see where I'm going but it is very dark.
There are no street lights out here where they live.
I could easily walk right into something right in front of me because I just couldn't see it.
And now I can come back toward the house.
I can see the lights coming from out of the house windows so I can see a little better now.
My mom said these are cicadas.
It's a kind of locust.
And some birds, crickets.
Who knows what all kind of insects but man they are singing tonight.
And they do every night.
It's something I always forget about until I come back here and I hear it and it's practically deafening when I walk out.
It's so wonderful to hear.
So I thought I would share it with you guys on HPR.
All right.
I hope you guys enjoyed that very short episode from TeleHome at Tennessee.
This has been John Colp for Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
