Episode: 2239
Title: HPR2239: making jerky
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2239/hpr2239.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 23:30:20

---

This is HPR episode 2,239 entitled Making Jerk It, It is hosted by Genre and is about 12 minutes long and carrying an explicit flag.
The summary is, Genre don't talk about his process for making Jerk It while making Jerk It.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An honesthost.com.
Hello, my name is Jezra and it's a damn fine day to make some beef jerky.
This episode is recorded on a Nexus 5X running cyanogen mod using U record software and that is available in Eftroid.
Today at the grocery store I picked up a 2.5 pound cut of London broil.
It's called London broil in my area, a lot of other places it is called top round I believe and that is what I will be using to make beef jerky.
This cut of meat is fairly lean, it doesn't have a lot of fat on it and that is desirable when making beef jerky because the dehydration process pushes out all the moisture or pulls out all the moisture and fatty meats get really greasy really quick.
Now this piece that I have is fairly large and so I'm going to cut it down into smaller pieces that are about maybe 2 inch by 4 inch or that's what, like 10 centimeters by 3 centimeters.
Now I have these large chunks that I want to cut against the grain to be less than a quarter inch thick, probably 4 millimeters.
Most places that sell meat, that would be the butcher's or the meat counter, your local grocery store perhaps, will cut it for you.
When the person asked if they could cut the meat for me I said no thank you, I will take it home and ruin it there.
It's not that I really prefer to cut it home but why not keep the cutting skills up to snuff if you will.
Man, I really should have had someone else cut this.
As I'm cutting my pieces I put them in a large mixing bowl and I'm going to save a little piece for the cat and a little piece for the puppy.
Woohoo! Well we, one trick I've learned for cutting meat thin is to partially freeze it first and as it is thin, very solid, is much easier to get a very fine thin slice.
It works wonderful for chicken breast when making chicken soup.
Alright, I now have a bowl full of thinly sliced meat.
Four to five millimeter thick slices of meat is the constant in any beef jerky.
It is the marinating the bath, the added flavors that add all the pizzazz and desirable flavor to the beef jerky.
Not just the plain beef jerky is bad but we all want pizzazz so I need to make a bath for this beef.
One of my go-to flavorings for beef jerky is ginger. I've just finished skinning a piece of ginger that fits in my hand.
I'm not going to measure it. Ginger is extremely fibrous and because I want to have this ginger not only add flavor to the bath but I also want to use it to sort of encrust my beef when it's on the dehydrator, I'm going to slice this ginger against the grain fairly thin.
By fairly thin I mean a miller too.
That doesn't need to be great because that is going into the blender.
Also going into the blender is an apple, also a wonderful flavor and it adds a nice sweet hint to complement the bite of the ginger.
We've got the bite of the ginger, some sweet from the apple, about some salt from some soy sauce, dump that in there.
Let's see, oh yeah. Flash of vinegars is always a good one.
Oh and of course the extra special super duper secret ingredients splash of beer.
All my ingredients are now in a blender.
I'll blend it up and being poured into the bowl full of sliced beef.
And I'm just going to mix this up by hand so that the bath gets in between everything and all the flavor can soak into this beef.
And then I'm going to set it into the fridge for a while.
Alright, it is the next morning.
I'm back in the kitchen, I have removed the bowl full of meat that's been soaking in the flavor bath overnight and I am getting ready to put it into my food dehydrator.
There's probably a way to make beef jerky in an oven or a toaster oven but I have a electric food dehydrator for this very specific purpose.
My electric food dehydrator has multiple trays that I place the meat upon and then I put the heating unit in the top, turn it on, wait about four or five hours and all of the meat inside the dehydrator has turned into jerky.
When I take the meat out of the bath to place on the dehydrator, I make sure I scoop out some of the extra chunky bits and lay them on top of the cuts of meat.
Although plenty of flavor soaks in overnight, I prefer to have quite a bit of the flavor laid out right on top of my cuts of beef.
To be honest, I could probably skip the soaking of the meat overnight and simply make an extra thick bath that I slop on top of the meat in the dehydrator.
Alright, I'm putting on another tray, the bottom tray has been filled, adding some more slices.
When I am finished adding all of these slices of beef into the dehydrator, I will have room left over and extra trays.
Not wanting to waste those trays, I'm going to slice up some apples and put them in the food dehydrator as well.
Aside from making beef jerky, I will also be making some wonderful dried apple snacks.
I'm num num num.
These are filling up quick.
Oh, maybe I won't have room when I am finished.
Another tray.
Unfortunately for me, it is a very rainy day here, which means I will be inside for most of the day.
Because I will be inside, I will be forced to smell this delicious beef jerky being made.
And I'm going to try very hard not to eat any of it until it is all done and I can wait to find out exactly how much I made.
Starting with two and a half pounds of beef and dehydrating it into beef jerky will result in, oh geez, I have no idea.
I've never found out just how much moisture is removed in the process of making beef jerky.
Because I've never made a full batch of beef jerky without eating a whole bunch of it while it is being made.
Oh, it looks like I'm going to have room left over for only one apple.
The flavor bath doesn't have very much left over in the mixing bowl, but what is left over is all going to be added to my crock pot as a soup base.
All right, it would appear that my work here is done.
Oh, no, there is no room for a sliced apple. What a shame.
So, heavens to Mercury.
The heating unit has been added to the dehydrator, plugged in, powered on, and now I wait.
It's been just under four hours and I'm going to check on the beef jerky in the dehydrator.
And I can see that the thick pieces are still tender, a little soft, so I'm not going to stop it all.
I'm just going to let it keep on going.
At this point, I would like to let the one know that the scent inside my workshop where I am making this beef jerky is amazing.
And I can't stand it.
And I'm finding reasons to go outside in the rain and do anything outside, so I've repaired some fencing.
I've had some beer, and I've just been walking around a whole bunch.
It has now been just over eight hours since I started the electric food dehydrator.
And I can't take it anymore.
I'm turning off the dehydrator.
I'm going to finish this experiment and see how much weight I actually got in jerky.
And then I'm going to eat probably all of the jerky.
Yeah, that's about how it's going to go.
Let's see what happens.
Apparently, I came up with 20.22 ounces, which is 573 grams.
Let's see, so 16 ounces to a pound, so pound in a little bit, so my two and a half pounds came down to like a pound and a quarter.
Not bad.
I'm going to eat some now.
Yes, I am.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
