Episode: 2826
Title: HPR2826: HPR Community News for May 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2826/hpr2826.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:24:34

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's Ananasthos.com.
Good evening everybody and welcome to another edition of Hacker Public Radio Community News.
Joining me this evening is from Sitzaland, and this is Jerome Beton from the Netherlands, the Dutch guy from the Netherlands.
And this is HBR Community News from May 2019. We here in the great find that Dave is having audio issues.
So we wait in silent anticipation for him. This is a show. HBR is a community new community podcast network where the shows are contributed by listeners exactly like you.
And I mean exactly like you as in if you often contribute to the show and you're listening to HBR, then it's about time you did submit a show.
The initial spring burst of shows is more or less coming to an end and we're looking forward to the Northern Hemisphere dry season as we go into the summer months.
So sending your shows in for the summer months would be absolutely an ideal thing to do.
This show is a summary of the shows that have occurred in the last month plus any interesting news or topics that have come up in the preceding month.
And as always we start by welcoming our new hosts today read by as soon as I find where they are.
Dave goes to all this trouble of what the show knows together.
You click the link.
I click the link.
Oh yes.
It goes to new hosts right at the top of the pages.
So welcome.
Welcome to the Zen Flutter 2.
Excellent. Thank you very much for joining the network.
So first of all, let's mosey through some of the shows that we had last month.
Yes, so on the first of May updates on my Raspberry Pi 3B OpenMediaVolt and NextCloud Instances by JWP.
The work on how my little home servers are working on it.
Yes, this was an excellent little summary of how you would get.
OpenMediaVolt running an Pi.
Very interesting.
Yeah.
Well, everything that runs on a Pi is interesting.
Yeah, there was a...
He talks about NextCloud, I see.
But there was a talk about the NextCloud guy who initiated the project.
And that was in the Netherlands two weeks ago.
It's an amazing product, what it can do.
It's really up there with a lot of functionality, amazing stuff.
And we interviewed him on the Fostem at some point as well, the Fostem series.
OpenMediaVolt is the next generation of network-detect storage solutions based on Debian Linux,
giving you SSH, SFTP, SIFS and DAP, Music, R-Sync, BitTorrent, etc., modular design and framework.
Pretty cool.
So the following day we had, Ok13, fixed with field processing.
Oh, thank you. Be easy for this.
Thank you so much.
Those of us who suffer text.
Well, thank you for this.
A very clear, short and simple show by BeeEasy.
Yeah, it's amazing how many files you can get with fixed-colon,
even though CSV tends to be the norm, even though it's a horrible format.
But still have some fixed-colon files to manage and that show was really helpful.
Yeah, I bookmarked this on because every software comes out.
My go-to thing up and down now has been replaced multiple spaces with some sort of
delimiter character and it was kind of ugly or split the files, splitting them off into various different chunks.
But this is how it should be done.
Thank you very much BeeEasy.
I don't know, does he especially realize how much health his shows are to people?
Well, I guess you never realize how helpful a show can be until you post it there
and people comment about that.
Yeah, maybe it's just I happen to be processing doing the same sort of stuff that he's doing
and all the shows will be equally as interesting to other people.
Then the following day we had my 50th show.
This is an excellent idea by Tony Hughes.
I thought 50 shows Tony is well done.
Congratulations.
We should actually do something about this.
Dave, make a note.
Dave, where are you Dave?
Send a bottle of champagne, please.
Absolutely.
We should be possible to our biomebeer at our camp.
How about that?
We can all biomebeer at our camp.
We can all be there.
Beverage of choice.
We all biomebeers and after that we record everything he says and make a show out of it.
Well, that's pretty much all camp for us on you.
Exactly.
And then we had the HBO community news show whereupon there were two comments.
The first but clacky.
Oh God.
Jagdarsil and Hollywood.
You didn't mention Hugo Weaving because a superhero movie is a credible source for accuracy.
But for reference because he happened to be accurate.
Okay, fair enough.
I have no idea what we were talking about.
I can barely remember what happened yesterday to be honest.
Anyone want to do a second comment?
Or shall I continue butchering his?
Let me give it a try for once.
Okay, so the next one was by...
Hi.
I'm Oskon.
I'm Oskon.
Hi.
Oskon 2019.
Anyway, he says I'm aware of the conference but frankly I haven't seen anything in a schedule
that would draw me there.
It's a mix of corporate promotion, blockchain and random student projects.
Nothing about languages or development frameworks or services, which is what interests me the most.
I don't feel a free software pulse there.
No work toward building a Hong Kong free software community.
Okay.
Yeah.
Oskon was pushed by a Riley Book Association and is...
Yeah.
I've always found it a bit strange.
It's as he summarizes.
It was in... started in the US.
But again, yeah.
Tim O'Reilly has always been a big proponent of the open source way of business and community
and business models, but also the community stuff.
So if it's an O'Reilly event, in a way I would try to give him the benefit of the doubt.
Although I can't imagine that people say, well, you know, it's not grass roots enough for me to be interested.
I can imagine that.
Well, it's very expensive for a start.
Wow.
It's expensive.
Oh, well, that's dead too.
So the following day we had our bash shell, bash local variables local by Tlaque.
And this is in the bash scripting series.
And he wrote a very nice little short bash script that bash scripts, actually,
you can use to find out what the actual behavior of variables in bash is.
This has caught me out on more than one occasion.
Yeah.
It's, I always, you know, when I use a variable, I always have to try two or three different versions to finally get the result I want.
But yeah, that feels very interesting in your episode too.
And then we have, I presume.
Let me see.
Yeah.
To do with Haskell function types, which was an interesting background into the various different types and functions,
while function types that you can have in Haskell.
And that clarified a lot of the notation of his previous shows.
So more of these type of things would be awesome.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I should never refer to him.
Or is that paid into this?
No, better not copyright holders.
Don't go there.
So the blue old model license and it's one big gotcha.
And I was thinking to myself, oh dear, another license.
I'd love to hear what the OSI have to say about this.
Because I think their general stance is stop inventing licenses.
But it seemed to be your replacement for a license.
Yeah, I, I, this one, you know, flew a bit over my head.
So I'm not really an expert in licenses.
And I tend to let other people deal with that when I work when we need to release something.
I personally always release my job under either an Apache license or a ticket and do whatever you want with it license.
Yeah.
In this though, he does mention the deprecation notice of MIT and BST, which is a bit of a misnomer.
I don't know if that's correct word, but that actually is just the reference to somebody's blog article on the personal opinion as opposed to those two licenses have been deprecated.
If you're under the impression after listening to the show that the blue open licenses officially replacing those two with the cooperation of the MIT and the approval of the BST community, then I don't think that is the case.
So it's yet another license.
But anyway, the comments are but a very interesting show.
All I had not heard about it and I can see how it would serve other people's needs.
Norris says the show was fun.
This was a great episode.
Lots of listeners, including myself, are interested in the legal aspects of Hanking.
Thanks for the deep dive.
My other favorite podcast is related to this episode, free as in freedom.us.
Yeah.
And there was a second comment by Joel D regarding Norris.
Thanks for the feedback and the podcast recommendation.
I'll definitely be adding it to my cue.
Might be worth Joel.
Might be worth picking Karen and Bradley.
Bradley, who I've been emailing the week.
Karen and Bradley and ask them to do a show about this.
At least mention this blue or license model.
Should be kind of cool to get there.
I'd like to hear their opinion.
And next we had someone called can find something who did a show about Wi-Fi on Android.
I've heard that name before.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Can fix is an Android firewalled Wi-Fi connection that reports no internet and won't connect.
Yes.
Nobody commented.
So obviously of no interest to anybody.
Yeah.
Because I didn't know that once connected it would like being some random servers.
Yes.
I know iPhones do ping something that's with connect.apple.com or something like that.
That's not random.
That's one specific server that they're trying to reach to determine if they have internet connectivity or not.
I didn't know that Android would, you know, randomly try to reach some some dirty servers on the internet.
That's freaky.
Well, there you go.
That's why we got a firewall on there.
Yeah.
I'm not particularly.
I don't particularly think that that's a send it out to you to be packet to a server of mobile provider is necessarily an
seriously bad thing, you know, just to see that you take the voices up, but on the other end.
And we have less.
Oh.
Hello, hello.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing what they're trying to do, but yeah.
No, no.
It's not important to do it.
Not necessarily bad, but I mean, if they had like one server, you know, connected Android.com or Google.com or whatever,
and I would understand, but apparently it's some kind of not related servers.
It's worth while just turning on putting on a firewall and just looking at everything that goes out even just apps from the
eftroid store.
It's just begun.
Wow.
The amount of traffic going out.
Yeah.
It's a more modern surveillance device in a way, isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Speaking of superheroes in the community, we had Janic interviewing Alan Pope.
And now you have to figure out who is the superhero there.
Snaps, snaps craft and all things related.
I really just liked this because it was such a professional interview, even with the music and all sorts,
made my interviews sound crap.
Thank you very much, sir.
Well, you know, I hit record and then we talk with Alan and he's so passionate about that.
And he knows that subject so well that it was a really really delighted to interview Alan Alan.
It was actually an eye opener for me.
It was, I mean, if you're on board with their whole concept of, you know, adding those little repos to themselves, you know, personal repos,
then I get flat, flat packages or snapped images are a step up from that, at least,
that they're automatically updated by the maintainers of the packages.
That was a great interview.
Thank you.
Yeah. And the confinement too.
I mean, flat packs are great because you also have like every, every dependency is inside a flat pack.
But snaps are confined.
So as Alan said, by default, your snap doesn't cannot access your system.
You have to specifically, as a developer, give the snaps the authorisation to access some part of the system.
And then, as a user, you can say, no, I don't want this snap to access my internet connection, for example.
Yeah, pretty cool.
Cool.
Okay, let me, let me think, I might have a look at this versus the flat pack because platoon was on about the flat pack and didn't see the difference between snaps and flat pack.
But in actual fact, there seems to be advantages.
There you go. The confinement is the big difference.
Yeah.
In a couple of weeks, I will make my own snap for certain package.
So I will definitely have a listen to this one more time.
This is important.
Yes.
Nobody ever tells Poki that we agree with them or to go to a set.
The following day is 5G mobile data danger to your health by tracking.
I didn't even for an instant think that it was or how it could be.
And his episode is excellent as I'm doing that.
And since then, Skeptoid have released an equivalent show.
Well, there is definitely some guys, people, not guys, some people in the Netherlands who are adamant and serious about what they call radio sensitivity.
So as in when there is a high frequency electromagnetic radiation in the neighborhood, they get headaches and all kinds of weird symptoms.
That's what they claim.
It doesn't have to be the truth. That's what they claim.
And that's one story about this guy really protesting the fact that there would be a telephone network antenna within a hundred meters of his house.
And so they put up this tower at some point.
And he immediately started the protest and went to the judge and all legal hassles.
And then one of the telecom firms went with him and showed him, yeah, it's a tower.
But there's no apparatus in it yet.
So it doesn't do anything. It's just a big thing.
And it doesn't work yet. But he was at the same time claiming already to be, you know, health would be degraded because of the fact that this thing was there.
And that also was the end of the whole legal battle, of course.
And who do you blame for cosmic radiation?
I mean, we all get tons of this cosmic radiation.
Yeah, but you know, there is, there's the anti-vax, there's the flat earth and there's the radio sensitivity.
I mean, they all have a grind to whatever.
But it's just a different subject, but that doesn't mean they're well censored.
Anyway, yeah.
So there were no comments on that, but only enough the war on the following episode should we dump the Linux desktop.
Oh, my.
Don't start me on that.
Yannick says, should we dump windows?
Hi, nightwise, while for the most part, I agree with your arguments about cross-platform applications.
I think the title of this comment is valid as the title of your episode.
I can run a dusty on my Linux desktop.
I can run Firefox, free mind, visual studio code.
So my question is, should we dump windows?
And the obvious answer is no, because both our questions are flawed.
Should I dump windows?
You don't do in this desktop.
Now, those are further questions.
I have personally made the choice to bang windows from my house, because I can do everything I need on a Linux desktop.
You said that you can't write documents or make presentations on Linux, and that's perfectly bad reason for you to dump the Linux desktop.
But as a general rule, rule, no, we should not dump any desktops before it be at macOS, windows, Linux, or any of the exotic ones.
As you said in the episode, it's all about choice.
Also, you mentioned OpenOffice in this episode.
I really hope you meant LibreOffice, because OpenOffice, well, need I say more.
By the way, LibreOffice warns on Mac, Windows, Linux, and Android.
Another great example of cross-platform software.
Anyway, thanks for sharing your thoughts, and even though I don't agree with them, I appreciate your point of view.
The next comment is read by?
Do we need Linux?
Yeah, sure.
Oh, go ahead.
Go ahead.
Oh, okay.
Thank you.
Do we need Linux?
There is a lot to agree on here.
Thank you for the podcast.
I certainly agree that this obsessiveness is absurd, and there should be more of a focus on applications.
And there is so much overlap and duplicated effort in every area of software in the open source world.
I tend to think that Microsoft's recent, how do you pronounce this one?
Can Deliance, Deliance?
Anyway, with openness is just a case of embrace extent exterminate.
Essentially, an attempt to get computer science students and programmers to think of the command line,
and Linux as an esoteric extension of Windows.
But who knows?
Thinking.
And that was made by Hipster.
And Nightwise commented, sorry, DV commented, response to Nightwise.
Nightwise, I respect your knowledge in computers, but I disagree on one point.
You said something like, when you need to get things done, only Windows and Mac can do it.
Maybe so for you.
But I can do many things in Linux, at least for my needs, using Linux for 21 years.
And DV follows up and says, the desktop is dead.
Love this cast and your own personal podcast of this network.
That being said, I wanted to say something again that I said in one of my podcasts,
and that is that the desktop is dead, not dead in the sense of no longer being developed.
But the whole concept of the desktop is outmoded.
For most people, their day-to-day is their personal tablet and or smartphone.
I know many people who no longer want a desktop or laptop.
For me, my company's computer techs have such a bad system setup
that most of the rank and file will use any phone app that they can get on their hands.
That they can get their hands on in order to avoid using the shared desktop machines our company provides.
I love my personal desktop environment.
And the lack of customization for Windows and Mac keeps me on Linux.
Every time I consider going back to Windows, I eventually end up withfully checking the status of things like
BB4Win and searching for alternative GUI shells.
If you care about your personal computing environment, you need Linux.
It's like this.
In America, a car enthusiast will probably want to be in California because California has a car culture.
If you want your environment to respond to what you think it should be for you, you have to do Linux.
And there was another comment, that's a comment festival on this episode.
By SnapDews, said Linux desktop.
The Linux desktop gives up and coming season me a week.
Let me try to start again.
The Linux desktop gives up and coming season means a playground to learn Linux.
And they will need to know for server administration.
And I will be replying to this by submitting a show.
So the following day, can you hear me?
Yes.
Okay.
Cool.
Thanks.
The following day, we had Spectre and Meltdown an open BSD in our future.
This was an interesting show, very, very scary.
ClaudioM says, hello, fellow Puffy Disciple.
Pretty good episode on speculative execution stuff that Intel and others are dealing with.
And don't feel alone, I also run open BSD as of late.
Being dabbling with the BSDs since about three years ago.
And for all of them, open BSD.
And we've just came.
It's not far.
Am I hearing it?
Yeah.
You're back.
Yep.
You're getting out.
One sec.
So, I would read the comment while Ken tries to resolve it.
No, I can do it.
Oh, okay.
Go ahead.
I'm just going to put the window where I can see it.
I think the keyboard is.
The push to talk is not working.
Where was I?
Edit point.
Okay.
I'm running open BSD, an old Toshiba protégé M400 convertible tablet PC.
As well as on the ThinkPad X230 at work.
Yeah, certain things like wireless or not the powers yet.
As they are on Linux or even free BSD, which I also run on the laptop at work.
But it's a great OS for security and support.
Another HPR contributes you by the name of Sigflop.
Also runs open BSD.
And to be honest, our use of it has picked my curiosity to the OS.
So rest assured, you're in good company here.
As an open BSD user on HPR.
Yeah, use free BSD at work.
Do you know?
Yeah, I do.
Well, they make me.
Well, the rest is all saying free BSD is the best Linux distribution.
Except it's not Linux.
Yeah, I know.
It's a half joke because it's an excellent system and it's Linux compatible.
So that's why anyway.
So the following day we had Kappa pasta,
copying and pasting on Linux X select Excel,
clipboard managers, GPM, screen and more.
And I was wondering why Klaatu was doing an episode that I intended to do.
And then I realized it because I asked on the mailing list.
And I actually had found out the answer here.
Prior to doing the show, but this was an excellent breakdown as to exactly what is happening.
And why the commands that I found to get what it is that I needed to work, working, worked.
So thank you very much.
Klaatu.
Thank you indeed.
The following day we had a new arc part 14.
Redirection input and output part.
And this is another in the episode on.
And was not aware this was even possible.
Everything is possible with oak.
Apparently, I just used this as one liner, but it's a full, full monthy programming language as can be seen.
But yeah, I also tend to use it in a, you know, as a pipe in another process.
Yeah, exactly.
You can do lots of, lots of things.
Yeah, it's a very, very handy tool indeed.
For particular use, but it's broad.
I've had times in the past where I've needed to create file limbs based on variables and ran into issues.
I don't know if I would have had those issues now with a little bit more experience, but this.
What he described in this show, and obviously his show notes are excellent as always.
What he described was exactly what I wanted to do at that time.
And I was told I shouldn't do it that way, yet.
Now, as if I ever invent the time machine, I can go back and say to that person, but Dave says we can do for.
We work part 40, which will be released in 10 years time.
So are you successful?
Click to find out more.
Yeah.
What did you think guys?
I'm trying to remember the show activity.
It was so short that probably didn't sink into my mind.
I actually didn't have the time to listen to all the podcasts to be honest.
So now, sorry.
Missed this one, but I will have a listen to it anyway, because I, it's for four minutes.
I can spare that in my busy life.
And the subject interests me.
So yeah.
Yeah, I think he's all the time going out.
Hey, there he is.
No, no, I'm back.
I'm back.
The show is about.
I remember I was in.
Bring my kid's stores writing at the time.
This show was about.
Do you need to be successful in a project or not?
And people in this project.
People come into the RSC and go, hey, your project could be a lot more successful.
It is that the next thing and the guy on the.
The head of the project goes, yeah, but we don't want to be successful.
We just want to do what we want to do.
And if there are a few people who want to do that, then that's great.
And if there are more people who don't, then, you know, we don't.
We're as successful as we want to be.
So that's essentially the essence of the show.
Okay.
Yeah, I remember now.
Yeah.
And it actually applies.
It applies to HBO in a lot of ways in that.
I particularly don't care how many listeners we have per se.
I'm more interested in getting more hosts.
The more hosts we have, the healthier the project is.
And if we get more hosts, then by definition, we're getting more listeners.
But I, you know, find all your respect.
Listeners are not contributing to the network in the same way that somebody who is a host is.
And even if that listener, and you've been listening for 10 years,
and you just come on and introduce yourself,
you then from that point on, have you done your bit for HBO?
You have contributed your show.
You have increased the, the amount of comments works that are out there.
So, yeah.
Yeah, on that note, just on that note, just a small thing.
So I made my first contribution to HBO.
I don't know a couple of months ago.
And I was a little anxious about the comments I would receive.
So the first comment I get started with the title.
Now this is embarrassing.
And you can imagine my response to reading their title.
And then it turns out he was embarrassed himself because he had been thinking about doing a show like the one I made for 10 years.
He has beat him to it by accident because I didn't know he was planning.
I didn't know the guy, of course.
And he was lucky, happy with the way I did it.
So everything was fine in the end.
But yeah, probably, I guess there are a lot of people out there thinking, oh, yeah, you know what?
Well, should I, shouldn't I?
All these guys, I listen to seem to be so much experts and knowledgeable.
And I will never fit in.
Look at it.
Just submit a show.
Go out there.
Share your thoughts with us.
Do something new.
Be adventurous.
You know, there is this, this, this, this thing called circle of confidence.
And the circle of confidence is where you feel happy, you know, and everything's fine.
And, but all personal progress is just outside that circle of confidence.
Just a little bit outside.
So do something new.
Submit a show.
It's easy.
Pick audacity.
Record something.
You're passionate about something.
You know something about whatever subject.
I mean, it's Hacker Public Radio.
So this is my, it's not a rant.
It's my, my, what's the word for it?
It's my, my, my, my shout out to the community.
Participate and give us your shows.
Come on, guys.
You can do it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was basically, I had to get it off my chest for a moment.
Well done.
I would just, I would just add you don't, you don't even need audacity.
Pick your phone.
Hit record.
Say hi.
I'm so and so.
And I'm going to talk about this.
And there you go.
Nobody's going to judge you.
We're all going to listen to you.
And listen.
If you're out there and you are just a, just a listener to HPR, you can, by pressing,
taking out your phone, pressing record and going, hi, I'm XYZ, whoever you are.
And I've been listening to the HPR for so long.
I do it on my work.
I have nothing to contribute, but at least here I am.
And I remember the community.
Nice to meet you all finally.
Yeah.
Then we know you exist.
And then you're part of the community.
Easy, easy, lemon, squeezy.
And if that's the only show we ever hear from you.
Great.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's the start.
And then of course I trick you in because you'll say something in the show and I'll go,
hey, I want you there.
But that's my thing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So let's just give you the first show.
Just introduce it.
Yeah.
It's like rock.
We give him, we give him something small and then we put our hooks into them and we drag it.
Yeah.
Now really, really, it's, it's, yeah.
Once you've done your first HPR episode, then it's going to be like, hey, this thing is great.
No.
Or not.
I mean, there are quite a lot of people who have done one show.
They just sent in some comments.
And then we never heard from them again.
And that's actually me because they've done a show.
We know they exist.
Fine.
So reply tonight, why is this podcast, which was not the podcast, which we are all listening to.
It was a wide, wide, wide, wide, wide.
Aren't we missing one to start at one of the 18?
Yes.
Oh, sorry.
Writing Web Game in Haskell Science Part One.
This was two, two, two, two, two again.
And it was about how he defined his database tables.
And again, I am left in awe of the man, I must say.
But this kind of meds some kind of sense about the basic levels that you would need to go to in order to design a Web Game.
In Haskell.
In Haskell.
Yes.
I think there's enough material here in all those episodes to actually write a book about writing Web Game in Haskell.
Hopefully it will form the basis of that.
That would be very cool.
The following day we had a reply tonight, why is this podcast by Kevin Wischer, also known as a hooker, also known as I'm retired.
No, no, no, no, no.
Congratulations to Kevin out there and his lovely wife who will be going or being across the U.S.
A living the dream, living the dream.
But this was about the pirates and individual corporations and his reply to that.
And it was, yeah, it was good actually.
So we do need both, but we don't need to keep ourselves.
I think the game has changed as well as mentioned.
Yeah, I personally think that a podcast can be released by individuals like Pirate Radio as he said.
But it can also be well produced.
I mean, those two things are not incompatible.
They're not mutually exclusive, no, exactly.
And it's quite easy room now.
As Jerome said, we can use Audacity.
It's a free software.
There are tons of free music and some defects that you can mix and match to build an identity to your show.
And so that brings just a little touch of semi-pro thing.
But still, you're still an individual in your basement recording a show in the middle of the night because you also have a day job.
And that's great.
And what radio networks do publish as podcasts nowadays?
The radio shows that they're doing live like every show.
But they're just releasing that as a podcast.
I don't consider that as a real podcast.
It's just a recording that they're publishing afterwards.
That's a lot of good stuff.
Yeah.
So yeah, congratulations to each and every independent podcast does in the world.
And yeah, let's keep producing independent and narrow casting.
As I said, because that's I think that's that's the way to do it.
Really?
Yeah, it's not to disparage anybody making a podcast.
I'm doing it myself, you know, and I love it to do it.
But just the other week I discovered I was it was brought to my attention that in the Netherlands, we have a public broadcasting system and there, you know, the broadcast on the radio.
But they also make podcasts that they don't broadcast.
And one of the series and I know it's Dutch.
So it's it's not for everybody.
But it's about the history of the radio because at the moment the radio is about a hundred years old public radio.
So they do a podcast about the history of the Dutch radio.
And several episodes are about the radio, how the radio worked during.
Before during and after the Second World War.
And they have this old archived recordings that I don't know how anybody ever recorded that at that time, but probably they did.
And it's, you know, the it's in Dutch, but the broadcast they made during the war.
It's it's you become as a person really, really cold the way this is done.
But at the same time after the first radio had liberation radio just after being liberated by the Americans or any English.
It's it's amazing what what what what kind of topics they they cover and and how they interview people about todayly stuff that's.
And that that's really.
That's really something that that needs to be out there.
So kudos on the Dutch public radio for making this.
Hello here.
Help some podcast series.
So I had to say that.
Sorry.
So I will be.
I'm not googling actually.
I'm doctor going as you know.
That would be of interest to me.
But I can give you the link if you want, but it's.
I'll I'll I'll I'll message you the title the exact title.
No worries.
Thanks, dude.
But I think as well.
Here the point that.
I was making is well founded in that.
I can now.
Subscribe to the local my local radio station at home where my parents are and listen to the obitry section of all the people who are passed away, which is a big.
In Ireland.
So you know stuff like that has.
As a distribution mechanism podcasting is meant that possible.
So yeah, it's good.
Bit of bold.
But I guess that's the point.
Interviewing some of the exhibition.
I get nervous.
No, you missed one.
What?
How is that possible?
Oh yeah, because I went to the next one.
Sorry.
I was lining up the next show because there was no comments.
Dave, Dave, where you know, episode 29, third home security tips.
And this was a privacy and security.
And this was just very basic tips that everybody should be doing.
Really awesome.
Yeah.
This into the network.
But what may is me is that.
This this the security tips that they should not be.
I mean, it should be illegal to sell a router with admin as the user name and admin as the password.
Yeah.
Those vendors should go to jail for that.
Well, I'm it's a situation.
But you know what I mean?
Any any other default password would be wrong.
I mean, there is this site that you can just look up the default password.
So even if they don't have admin, but something else.
The thing you know, the thing should not be working before the password is changed.
That's all.
That's all.
You know, that's just a little leaflet connect to your router and change the password.
That should be mandatory.
No, not even that.
We have here a router producer that ended the root password or the admin password is on the sticker on the device.
And it's it's some random twenty thirty character thing.
So it's hard.
Yeah, it works.
Definitely.
I hate to press supplier.
But I mean, I love the fact that they're doing that.
Yeah.
I'm doing it because they have had court cases where that was brought to their attention.
Well, and speaking about security.
So I just something I would like to run by you to.
I sometimes put my phone into access point mode.
So my laptop can connect to my phone and then via the phone to the the gz network for data.
And I renamed the access points to FBI mobile units three hundred and thirty five.
Am I am I bad?
Except now everybody knows your access point name.
Yeah.
We've tried to make it.
So if you're in the Netherlands, you see FBI access points.
I was wondering.
That's Wi-Fi network was.
It is a list of funny Wi-Fi network names.
One of it only it only hurts when IP and IP is then the letter I in a letter P.
But you get the point.
Yeah.
Are they one in the only apartment blockers that I can hear you upstairs?
It was a bit more explicit than doing the night.
I can hear you upstairs.
All right.
Anyway.
Next.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Interviewing some exhibitors at the 2019 vcfe.org event by someone called Jerome something.
We don't care about his name.
Jerome.
Jerome.
Jerome.
Yeah.
Emer 때문.
Michael.
Who's Drronne?
David.
Is it David.
I would die except for Ken.
Are you the unique Dutch representative from the l inton deck.
Well.
I was iba a little bit of you I mean it's enough.
Okay.
How you know the exhibitors at the recent vcfe.org event in
mson.
Is the home.
And for somebody who has never listened to
Has pier we know this because we brought you all.
This is your typical impression.
We know.
This is the typical HBR episode hallway track. You absolutely nailed this. Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Oh, well, thank you.
I'm going to shove the microphone in front of some of these nose and go, what's this?
Yeah, you need to give me the list of the gear you use because I kind of want to do something like that for,
uh, for, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh
uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh
Especially the Eastern European stuff, or Eastern Germany stuff, Eastern, Eastern Germany stuff, Eastern European stuff.
Yeah, they had their own world.
It's amazing.
Yeah.
And my bill of the following day tempted us, or yes, he did, with a show and what's in the box.
Part one, which obviously means that he...
Yeah, host us another show, part two.
He host us another show, there he does.
And he didn't get a working spoiler.
Yeah.
Which means he definitely host us a show.
And no, I'm not signing off in that invoice.
Am I bill for the microscope?
Thank you very much.
Alden P told us.
Talking about why.
Talking about what's in the box.
Yeah, sorry.
Yeah, talking about what's in the box.
I just opened the box that I have here to answer your question for the interview device.
I bought myself a Zoom ZWM.
That's the brand.
And the device is called the H4N Pro.
It's a handy recorder.
So it can do multitrack recording.
It can do four channel simultaneous mono recording.
It can do two parallel stereo encodings.
All on an SD card, maximum of 32 gigs.
And it has excellent sound quality.
Yeah.
Just to follow up on the topic we were just discussing.
I will need to sell my liver and probably my right arm for that.
Yeah.
You can get a H2.
It's not a show.
It's not a show.
Okay.
Okay.
I will look at that.
Let's move on with the shows.
Gentoo.
Why use it?
Another Gentoo listener.
Alden P thanked Norris for the comment on his episode.
Which tempted him to do a Gentoo show.
Yeah.
Is it an arch derivative?
Yeah.
Mostly.
It's one of those weird centric that nobody is using anymore.
Obviously there will be more shows about just hinting.
Stoke the fire flame.
It's nasty.
Yeah.
It's not.
Gentoo users are used of some batch.
No.
Actually, I know a lot of people who would swear by Gentoo.
Yeah.
I know several people who are really into Gentoo.
But you're right.
If they love it so much, let's put forward.
Make a show about it.
Sure.
Yep.
Next.
Can you arc?
Can you arc?
Part 15.
Part.
Part input and output.
Redirection.
Part 2.
Which is the second part of the show.
Which is required.
Reading if you're using arc.
I want to get up files.
This time using variables.
The show is getting so long that they're starting to...
Do they mean parts inside the series?
Well, if I understood correctly, it's going to be the last one.
And the final one this month was more text-to-speech trials.
Where I found two on Yerun's show.
He did on 2792 playing around with text-to-speech synthesis.
Which was a completely non-controversial show.
Now, I found additionally MinicMIMIC,
which is Microsoft's text-to-speech engine.
And also Google text-to-speech, which interfaces with Google's API.
And I included some...
The same string that Yerun was using in those.
So if you want to have a listen to that.
Yeah, I definitely would.
Yeah.
And I don't know.
Every time I do a topic, it's somehow...
I don't know.
There are some controversial stuff in there.
And I am reminded of this movie called Roger Rabbit.
And he has this wife.
And his wife always says,
I'm not bad.
I'm just drawn this way.
So that's my reply for the moment.
So we will now do the comments that were not already covered.
And the first one was...
But I'm going to have to leave.
I'm sorry.
So long.
Very well.
I will see you in a good night.
Yes.
See you.
Thanks again.
Thanks again.
HPR listeners and contributors.
And see you next time.
Bye-bye.
Bye-bye.
Okay, so we can't sing when he goes,
because it's a copyright infringement.
I can always think of a tune, but open-source song.
So like...
Oh, no.
Oh, don't.
Oh, don't.
I heard Richard Stallman once wrote or whatever,
and sang the open-source song.
And it's in a weird score type setting.
And no.
No.
Okay.
Shall we do the six comments?
The ones that are not green.
Shall you start?
Shall I start?
I'll start with the comments that I met to Klatu
on the introduction to Git with pen and paper.
Can someone please step forward and do a video
with the show as a soundtrack?
So that was the show where Klatu did user-imposted notes.
He described how Git works.
Yeah.
Okay.
And if somebody could listen to that,
and basically do a video of that,
of what he's describing on actual pen and paper,
and poster YouTube, that would be awesome.
And also, for those interested in Git,
there is learning gith branching.js.org.
Learn gith branching.js.org.
Speaking of Git, there is this site that I encountered yesterday
that I really like to share.
Its name is OSHITGIT.org or .com,
I don't know, but OSHITGIT.
And it's about how you can fix your screw-ups
that you made with Git.
And it's pretty advanced in the sense that
it's down to earth actual real problems that you can have.
And then it describes how to fix them and why that works.
So it's a brilliant site.
And it's .com.
Okay. OSHITGIT.com.
Yeah. And it's got a Twitter account.
Yeah.
Actually, this is amazing how many of these
are used since I started using Git from work.
Yeah.
I mean, everybody's so enthusiastic about Git.
And at the same time, we're all trying to,
we need to sometimes need to solve this,
this hassle that we're in.
But it's the best there is.
I mean, compared to all the other stuff.
Anyway, okay.
So then there is.
Yeah.
Clacky made a best co-proc the future.
2009 is here.
Comment number three.
By Clacky.
Regarding org co-processes.
I heard your comment again on the community news
and discovered that you were talking about org co-processes also.
Not just back ticks.
Smiley face.
I didn't know about them.
Looking forward to the episode.
Finding one wanting to read ahead of the class.
The document page is here.
And then, yes, a URL on Gnu.org, software, G.org,
manual HTML note, etc.
Comment number four.
By Dave Morris regarding org co-processes.
Hi, Clacky.
Yes, thanks for the link.
I thought I put that link in my notes.
Went and looked and found.
I'd messed it up.
So I just fixed it.
The show is number 15 in the series.
And is now on the site as HECK Public Radio
episode 2008-24.
And Janik in reply to Janik's show
interview with Martin Wimpress.
Clacky says this was a great interview.
This was most informative,
of the origin story of a distribution I've ever heard.
The little details like building the internal distro
in droplets on digital ocean based on the tender of our voucher
are fascinating and provided
a real insight into how some of these cool little projects
actually happen.
Thank you for this.
Janik, the French guy from Switzerland.
And next was by Nightwise.
Shoot Podcasts be Pirates by Nightwise.
And Clacky commented,
this is one of those episodes.
I'd love to have played on NPR
or some defective org radio station.
All the one end.
It's preaching to require here on HPR.
But then again, the topic is actually bigger
than just podcasting.
Where have all the blogs gone?
The little indie website and fan sites.
The internet in general is a lot more cookie cutter now
than I think it was ever meant to be.
As Dave Morris says in an earlier comment,
it's up to us to keep grassroots alive.
Thank you very much.
Very true.
Thank you for too.
So that was all the comments.
So we'll move you over to the mail list discussions,
which was a wrap up of this website.
This website generators,
which I haven't had a chance to look at,
cause yeah, life.
There was a large discussion on fair use copyrighted clips,
which I'm not going to go into,
because all the comments related to that
are going to be coming up in the feed in one of the shows.
So the remaining issue.
So that was all the comment discussions there.
And let's go over to the events counter.
Oh, yeah.
So June,
TMG Texas Linux Fest.
That's already on this week.
Picon in Illinois,
Samba X mini-depth conf is on the weekend after that Hong Kong.
Mini-depth conf self.
Southeast Linux Fest is on on the 16th.
That's going to be of interest to us.
Charlotte and C USA North Carolina.
I'm guessing.
OSS China,
which is KubeCon,
Cloud NativeCon,
and open summits in Shanghai.
In China, the following month.
We have Euro Python in Brazil's
and Summers.
Dubics never heard of us in Germany.
Euro Python,
OZCon,
DebConf will be in Brazil on the 21st.
And the call for papers is closing today.
So too late for you.
Let me see.
ONS open network summit in Antwerp.
You have two weeks to submit your papers.
Lisa,
which is the large installation system administration conference.
In Portland,
Oregon,
big thing for those who are into system administration.
That's shut some 18th.
Open Susie,
Austria,
Somers,
Asia Somers,
sorry.
That is closing and
Libokon and Postgres Conf.
If you have comments,
if you have papers that you want to submit for those shows,
you can go ahead and do that.
Tags and summaries.
There have been 10 shows added,
which didn't have them.
And if you would like to contribute,
comments,
then please report missing tags on the HPR page.
Dave maintains a page there.
There are now 607.
There are only 607 shows without comments.
571 without tags.
So this has come down to,
there's a lot more shows now with comments and summaries, etc.
Then there were previously.
So if you can contribute to those that would be absolutely awesome.
Especially if you go down and see your own name in there,
like I see my name in some of them,
I need to make sure and go back and listen to some of those
and clear them up.
So,
anything else you're doing?
No, that I can think of at the moment.
No.
Super duper.
I wanted to ask you,
that's,
that's shirt that you got from Vista Print.
What's the quality of it like?
The shirt from Vista Print.
With the HPR logo on it.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So it's so on.
It's not printed.
So it's very durable.
And I have several with,
with different logos on them printed by Vista Print.
And yeah, I can safely endorse that.
No worries there.
Okay.
Cool.
Well,
I think it's only fitting that we should end with the free software song.
So join me now.
Yeah.
And share the software.
You'll be free hackers.
You'll be free.
Join us now and share the software.
Okay.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Hacker.
Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
www.hacker.com
