Episode: 2101
Title: HPR2101: What's on my podcatcher
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2101/hpr2101.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:18:24

---

This is HPR Episode 2101 entitled, What's on my podcast and in part on the series, podcast
recommendations.
It is hosted by Tony Huma, Tony H1212 and is about 10 minutes long.
The summary is some of the podcast I listen to.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code, HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An honest host.com.
Hello, how can public radio listeners?
This is Tony Hughes again.
I've noticed on the website that these are shortage of shows coming up in the next few
weeks, so I thought I'd record another show.
I've seen what to record with a little bit difficult, but I've never done a What's in
my podcatcher podcast, so that's what today's episode is going to be about.
I've got quite a few things set up on my podcatcher, but the regular ones tend to be Linux-related.
I've got several Linux podcasts set up to record, so I shall go through some of them.
Obviously, Hacker Public Radio is on my podcatcher feed.
That's a regular one, although I don't listen to all the episodes.
I look at the titles and decide which ones I'm going to listen to.
The next one that I listen to is going Linux.
This is an American podcast, as it says, on the tenets about helping people to make
that transition over from another OS over to the Linux OS.
It tends to be, in some respects, quite basic.
They also do reviews of the latest OS and things like that, various bits of news.
They also have listening feedback.
Another Linux-related podcast that I listen to is Linux Voice Podcast.
This is the kind of co-podcast to the magazine that the Linux Voice Lads produce.
Tends to be humorous as well as informative, so if you've never listened to that one,
go over to Linux Voice Podcast and have a look at that, because it's quite a good one.
I use Linux Mint on a daily basis, so Mintcast is the next podcast that I listen to.
Again, it's kind of geared up to the Mint community, but they do discuss lots of other open source software,
including other distros, and quite often we'll do reviews of latest releases of distros and things like that.
Good presentation, good crew that, although it changes over a period of time,
there's a couple of regulars on the show, but it's a good podcast if you've not listened to that one,
and I take a look at it.
I'm just coming to look through my podcast here we go.
Linux Action Show is another show I listen to.
This is actually a video podcast, but they do an MP3 stream of the podcast, so I tend to pick up that.
It's a Jupyter Broadcasting podcast, Linux Show, and they also do another podcast that's kind of its stable make,
called the Linux Action Show.
The Linux Unplugged, which is really good, and I also have that on my podcast show.
Unfortunately, the next one that's on my podcast show is just about to die.
This is the PI podcast presented by Joe Restington and he's mate.
Unfortunately, due to pressures of work and that, they're laying down the podcast,
but the back shows are available on the website, so it might be worth going back and having to listen to some of the old shows
if you've not listened to them before, but it was a really good show,
and I'm really sorry that Joe and the crew have decided that they can't carry on any longer,
but that's life, I suppose.
There's no guarantees that these shows will go on forever.
Another English or British Linux-related podcast is the Ubuntu UK podcast with Alan.
Oh, I've just forgotten his name at the moment, but the crew from the Ubuntu podcast are really good,
Mark Allen, Laura, and the chap who manages the mate desktop,
I've just stopped the topic ahead, forgot his name, but again, good interviews, good news.
I really enjoy the show.
So, then if we're going to non-related tech podcasts,
I've got quite a few mainly from the BBC.
One of my favourite BBC programmes is the Infinite Monkey Cage.
This is on Radio 4 in the UK, and it's a light-hearted look at science presented by a comedian and a scientist.
Professor Brian Tox is the scientist on the show, and it's really, really funny.
They tend to do it in short bursts of six or eight episodes, and they do two or three seasons a year.
So, if you've never listened to that particularly if you're outside the UK,
hop along to the Infinite Monkey Cage on the BBC podcast page and have a listen,
because it's quite funny, but it's also very informative about some very, very heavy scientific stuff.
Also on the BBC, another scientific podcast I'll listen to is the Life Scientific,
and basically this is interviews with various scientists and their life in science
how they got into science and what their particular speciality is.
And those interviews loads of different scientists over the years,
and again that's available to download off the BBC podcast page.
A light-hearted podcast that I listen to related to food is the kitchen cabinet.
Again, BBC show, they tend to take the show around to various venues in the UK,
and they have a panel of food people.
It's hosted by J Rainer, who's a foodie, he's a restaurant critic,
and he's also very light-hearted, and it's a really good show.
It's fun, but again, quite informative if you're into food.
I'm just having a look down to see if I can see anything else that you might be interested in.
Oh, I missed another Linux podcast that I listen to or dip in and out of.
The Sunday morning Linux review, this is an American podcast.
They're doing quite well.
Again, it's a quite hearted look at Linux, but also very informative,
so that's quite a good one.
Looking here, I've got a Guardian podcast Science Weekly.
It gives reviews of the latest scientific findings over the previous week or so,
and that's quite good.
There's a couple of serious ones from the BBC that I listen to.
One's called The Moral Mays, and that's a look at current moral issues that are in the news.
They recently did one about the Brexit vote, but they do things around about crime, poverty,
also for different issues of the day.
That can be really interesting and informative.
Unfortunately, they only leave the podcast up for a couple of weeks.
They don't have a back catalogue to listen to that one.
But the other one that does have a back catalogue that I listen to is called In Our Time,
and that can be quite interesting.
It's a kind of historical podcast, but the other panel of experts about the subject of the week.
A few weeks ago, they did one about the Roman Empire.
They've done them about Joan of Arc, all sorts of different things.
There's a lot of stuff out there that's really interesting.
That's about it for this episode.
It's not going to be any show notes, because this is a down and dirty one,
to get it on the site in time for next week, when we're sure to show.
So there'll be no show notes, but thanks for listening to me,
and I'll be around again shortly. Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
