Episode: 2261
Title: HPR2261: HPR Community News for March 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2261/hpr2261.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:34:47

---

This is HBR episode 2,261 entitled HBR Community News for March 2017 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 70 minutes long and can
remain an explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment
posted in March 2017. This episode of HBR is brought to you by
an honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio
Community News. This time for March 2017. Joining me tonight is...
Hi everybody, I'm Steve Morris. Hi Dave, how are you? I'm great, thanks. You survived the
stupidity that is the summertime wintertime thing. I hate it. I really hate it, yeah. I'm adjusted
yet. Anyway, pick one. Pick summertime, I think, myself personally and stick with it, but only
I shan't go into that. If anyone wants to go in, do an episode on summertime, wintertime. Why,
it's a great idea. That would be awesome as it's pointless. The reckon Dave, four dollars either way
is the difference per household, four dollars. It's either one way or the other. Why bother? Why go
through all of this? I know, it's an arcade thing. It's about farmers going out in the fields and
no Dave, it's not. Farmers don't give a rat's ass. No, no, no, no. That's the excuse.
Well yeah, yeah. It's still trying to, that is the excuse, I've heard it. Yes, I know, but I know
from being a farmer, the cows, the cows don't have a clock in the barn, God. We'll use it this
morning, but it will hold up this smoke for an hour. No, they continue to expect you to arrive at
the same time. Thank you very much. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, no. I've said before my cat, my daughter
trained the cat to expect a treat at nine o'clock every evening, and she is totally messed up.
She knows what time it is, but she doesn't know about DST, obviously, but yeah, stupid, stupid.
Anyway, let's remind everybody what HPR is. Dave, tell us what HPR is.
It's a crab sauce podcast network. Yes, and if anyone wants to do a series of shows on
tell us what HPR is, that would be awesome. Yes, I agree, I agree, because it is a sort of
strange thing. It's hard to get it in a one minute, you know, a elevator pitch for what HPR is,
where the longest running community crowdsource podcast network in existence.
We're probably the only community crowdsource podcast network that's in existence.
Yes, yes, but we will talk about that later. Joining us this month were
right. We had Bob Junkman, I think he's, I think it's J-Rub and Junkman, yeah, yeah,
and we had Ainabina, which means what A-B, I believe. One B, yeah, but the sound of a J-Rub,
if it's anything like Dutch, I'm just finishing off a sandwich here, so sorry about that.
Oh, lucky you haven't started. I didn't. Anyway, the first show, anyway, this show,
HPR Community News, is a show that we put on once a month to basically go through all the
shows that have happened in the last month. Give everybody a little bit of feedback, because that's
one thing that we do know encourages people to do more shows. And it's also a way of bringing
people up to speed on what's going on on the mailing list and the comments and stuff, because not
everybody subscribed to those. So just to give you an idea, we have about 16,000 people who
subscribe to the daily feed, and there's less than 100 on the mailing list, and it's the mailing
list where we make decisions, anybody can join that. It's quiet most of the time until it's not
quiet, and then it's a bit busy for a while, and then it's quiet again. And the comment feed is
available under subscribe as well, where you can get feeds to feedback from the comment system,
especially if you're a holster, new host, you should subscribe to that one as well.
So the first show was GNU Arc Part 6, and this is a series, joint series that's been done by
Dave, and also by Be Easy. Yes, I was on the tip of my tongue, thanks Dave. And an excellent series.
I tried to get through this one, Dave, without referring to the notes, because I think it's
important to know, but I must say I did have a quick peek just to make sure that I was following
what was being said. Okay, okay. Yeah, well then the notes are there really as a pullback and as
a reference for the future, and that sort of stuff, that's what I like to make them fairly comprehensive.
Yeah, it's no harm. I always think it's no harm, especially with the, I could follow it, but some
of the explanations is no harm to go through these notes, because why not? It's hard to say, why not?
And also regular expressions read out to you don't necessarily latch into your brains. It's good
to see them if you can. Yep, exactly. So the following day was a show that I really needed to know,
but actually hadn't didn't know I needed to know it until afterwards. Hold on, let's just check
to see if there was any comments in your previous episode. No people, no comments on Dave's episodes.
Come on, leave comments. They're stunned. Yeah, they're stunning to silence.
Making jerky, Jezra goes about the process of making jerky, and I was really glad to see this,
because I have no idea what jerky is. So this forced me to actually figure out what jerky was.
Yes, yes, I did know what it was, but I've never, never been motivated to make it. So it's
quite interesting to hear that. I just knew it was like a cowboy thing. Let's get some jerky
and beans and ride them there are prairies and stuff. Yes, yes. I'm afraid that my reaction
was to question, well, how not hygienic, but meat contains parasites. And I'm always a bit
nervous about parasites. I'd like to know that the parasites that they could be in there were
all day, but I'm sure they were, but it just bothers me very slightly. It's just one of my
my foibles. But is the meat not cooked first? No, it's just dried. It's raw and dried. Yeah, I think
if you, the commercial ones, they, they do some sort of flash heating, very, very quick heating
in some, some mechanism, but I'm not really looked into it in detail. You want to go through the
comments, please? Yes, indeed. So we had one comment from Operator who says, yum, hacking meat.
I just got like four pounds of deer meat, teriyaki, oldton brown, he says, to which Jezea
replies, that sounds amazing. Do you know if it's a doe or a buck? I needed to reply to that,
yes. There's no answer now. And Ina Beena says, hmm, sounds great.
It's pure exceptional responsibility for anyone dying as a device from many of the shows blah blah blah.
Yeah, yeah, don't listen to me anyway. What do I know? Exactly. Amateur radio around here,
but oh, wow, was I waiting for this? And they delivered. Yes, they did. I have a few shows
lined up for it to go into this as well. What did they cover Dave? There was four, five different
people on how I'm going to go through the thingy. Brief description of how to get into
Ham Radio from an American's perspective. At least, do you need a license? Yes, you absolutely
do. If you want to join the round table as David Whitman says in the comments, Ham Radio Round Table,
nice show. I hope there are many more. I would like to ask you for a dedicated explanation of how
the length of a frequency is measured two meters. What frequency is most powerful? How modulation works
and of course, is ET trying to contact me? That's a good one, yes. Yeah, I thought this was great.
I'm not particularly motivated to try it, but it really hit the spot as far as understanding
what it's all about. I thought it was really well done show and extremely well managed and
choreographed as well. Absolutely, yes. I would like to know among other things.
Oh, let's start. Let's see. What was I thinking? Yeah, the frequencies versus the wavelength.
Focus on that. Focus on David Whitman's one for the next one. That's what I would suggest.
Try and help people because on visualise what's going on when you talk to a radio. You have this
energy wafting from somewhere. How does resonance work? How that whole radio itself works? How a spark
goes from one to the other? What happens there? Difficult. I'm kind of getting a grasp with that,
but it's been one of the most difficult things for me to understand that. Yes, yes, it's a radio,
radio frequencies and radio signals are a strange concept, especially for physicists comes along.
It's as well. It's all light, after all. Yes. How can the light be? Yeah, how can it be
literal, magnetic? Is it a beam? Is it a wave? Then if it's a wave, how can you have multiple waves
in the one place at the one time? Because a wave I've found is a very bad analogy because a wave
describes something moving as opposed to it being a thing itself. As a kid, you think a wave
at the sea and you draw a wave. But it's not that. It's talking about somebody. It's like the word
walking. It's not an actual thing. It's a description of movement. Hopefully people are going,
no, Ken, that's wrong. Well, then you can join on to the amateur radio roundtable, which will give
you more information about that later on in the show. Stay tuned. The following day was HPR
Community News with no common stave, or rather I don't think we did a whole lot that deserves
comments on that one. That's very fast. Yes, we're not in on controversial. Just the facts, man.
Following day, we had an interview with Colin J. Mills, organizer of KW Linux Fest. This was
by Bob Junkman. I had not heard about this fest. Very, very nice. Kitchener Waterloo Linux Fest,
2017. Yeah, sounded really good. I haven't quite appreciated it. It was fairly small.
7GRA, I think you said, but that's good. That's cozy. I don't sound as about good.
No, no, no, absolutely not. No, no. And it's around the the lug of that area as well, I think,
isn't it? Yeah, pretty cool. So yeah, it sounds like a great, great setup.
I appreciated that. Waterloo is Waterloo University, which is well thought of in the computer science
community, this thing. What was it? Waterloo Fortran, Waterloo Basic, Waterloo iMap, various other
things have come out of there. All right. Did not know this. I think so. Yes, I had to have a big name,
at least in my understanding of it. Somebody wants to do sure enough that they can in actual fact.
My quick tips, episode 01, which of course there means, you know, always the episode 02, which
means he owes me a show by my reckoning, our good friend operator, and a long time
participant here on HPR before that, today with a techie before that, binrib, for those of you who
don't know your history. So ad blocker, which is always a good thing, cash litter box tips,
very, very good, how to collect the leaves and other free stuff, electronic dumper diving,
and some shaving tips. I like this. I like this. It was quite hpuri, I thought. Yeah, yeah. I've
always liked this sort of thing. It's sort of a mixture of stuff I've discovered, or today I learned
and those sorts of things. It's always good to pass on these tips. Some of them can be real gems.
And what I particularly liked was the variants in audio. And you have to remember folks here.
And I'm not saying the audio was bad, but it wasn't recorded perfectly in a perfect studio with
people talking in perfect sounds. And now you're listening to a quick tip. No, it was just a quick
tip. You were there. You were getting a quick tip. That's what HPR is about. Our greatest
enemy here, Dave, is procrastination, as you well know. And the friend of procrastination is
perfection. So yeah, perfectionism is a bad thing. Yes. Yes. So if you're sitting there,
if you're sitting there, I was thinking, well, we talk about it later when the HPR New Year
Show was on about people passing on and stuff. And I was thinking to myself, folks, when you pass
away, as will happen, if you record shows for HPR, there will be available in perfection as long
as at least the archive.org is around. And I know that HPR's website has been around for quite
a long time. But there's probably more chance of archive.org sticking around. And you never know
there's aliens downloading the archive.org as we speak. So yes, if you want to mortality or as
close as we can get, then record the show for HPR. Maybe not catchy. That's a good one. That's a good
one. I could see that going on the list of why you should do it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, moving on
the following day, we had building a lineage OS by Brian of the clay pot thing and a very, very
nice little run through of a lineage OS, which I didn't get running myself. So I will try that
again, which is the following one from Sionogen mod. Yes. And it's a since I've looked at now,
it's a lot more stable. So you might want to give that a little look as well.
It was an interesting, yeah, I was particularly interested in this, that I was slightly
daunted at the prospect of building it myself, I have to say, but it's it's definitely something
to be looked into. I've got something called revolutionism, revolution remix, which is a
Sionogen version on mine, but my son did it for me, so. Yeah, jeez.
Okay, the following day, managing tags on HPR episodes, dash one, which comes out as episodes
one, which sounds improper when the text just speaks does it, but no, it's correct. And this is
about the tags and how the way we're currently doing tags, bugs, Dave so much that he's done
three shills all right, Dave, make your point, why don't you? What, what? You think they should
have been more shows, right? Okay, then I do actually, Dave. Yes, well done for volunteering.
I think, well, as I said in the in the show, we could do with some database shows actually.
We could actually, we could very much do with database shows, especially the difference between
the various types of database databases, assets versus base, SQL versus no SQL,
light little topics, a bit like what JWP did for file systems there, you know, light little topics,
take them and just sprinkle a bit of, you know, if you're doing nothing more than going to Wikipedia
and reading out the first paragraph, just enough to give people a flavor. Yes, yes, yes,
there were some comments on this one, Mike Gray said, he said, C show 1569, he said,
pointed to, that was his show, how to do many, to many, I wonder what I was doing to the show,
I was thinking, oh, oh, Dave, you're in trouble now. Yes, yes, well, it was the initial answer was,
well, it's in my answer, I think, did I say it in the, oh, I'll read it out, I said,
read your answer. Sorry, Mike, I hadn't forgotten your excellent show, it's been in my list of
references all along. However, since I started by designing a single show, which then got
split into three, references show 1569 got relegated to the last show in the series, I didn't quite
appreciate the effect that would have since the three shows were still one in my head. It's, as it
stands, it looks if I've disregarded your contribution, whereas what I'd wanted to do is to move
slowly towards it, looking at possible alternatives and showing their advantages and disadvantages
along the way. Show two is in the queue for the 31st of March and show three still in production,
right, since it's sort of in the queue now, in fact, it'll be the next show I upload. So,
Mike replied going, you are a cancer. No, he didn't. Listen to the entities, wherever possible,
all database design should be driven by what the entity relationship is telling you and Mr.
Codd should be obeyed. In the case, there are just two entities, show and tags and the relationships
are, show can have one or more tags, tag can appear attached to one or more show, which gives rise
to a many-manry relationship like show dashes, dashes, dashes, dashes, tags. They show underscore tag,
underscore FRX table has a compound unique key comprised of the key column of the two outside tables,
show tag. That's the pure analytics of the two entries concerned, entities concerned. I can't
think of any processing constraints like speed or storage that will compel that relationship
to be compromised. As you said in part one, this is a small bit of this. Indeed. I should just say
that Mike's diagram show and tag was supposed to have greater than or less than such on it, but the
comment system took them away. God, I see. So much. Just screws everything over. Anyway, I think we
come on to that later, do we? No, we don't. Oh, yeah, right. Do it now. The common system doesn't
understand HTTPS. We're serving HTTPS from the website, which we don't actually know anything about,
can turn it off because it's part of the control panel thing that's that we're given.
And because it doesn't understand HTTPS, we get all these PHP errors coming through, which
look ugly and horrible. So in order to get around that, we can't disable HTTPS, but now we have
disabled a special page that if you come through via a HTTPS, then you get redirected to a page
saying, no, we don't have a HTTPS version of the site. Of course, we do that. Then we get emailed
by Google to say, hey, did you know that now every single link on your website has turned out to be
a 404 or because we're Google and we decide everybody should use HTTPS, which I guess is correct,
but it's kind of pointless if your whole show is about spreading knowledge and making sure everybody
has access to it. But can don't you realize that some people might want to view some content via HTTPS
on the HPR website because they don't want anybody to know what subversive stuff they're reading.
And I suppose they have a point. Yes, yes, yes, it's just a mess.
It is. We're thinking, I'm actually listening to Dave's comment tag show to see how that turns out
because I'm like one straw away from breaking the camel's back type thing or one drop away from
overflowing the bucket on getting rid of the common system and doing something completely
different. Yeah, I think something commenting is important, but this particular implementation
anyway, moving on, my custom RSS and security feed, which is actually quite interesting by
operator again, and he has a RSS feed amalgamated down so that he can scrape some of the sites that
don't have the feeds on them, which is a good way to do it. And he gives us access to his scripts
on the website. Do you want to read the comment? Yes, yes, indeed. Yeah, Windigo says,
good idea. I've run to this with some of the RSS feeds I've subscribed to and have never
thought about creating a secondary re-feeder feed to fix it. Brilliant. So yeah, it's quite clever.
Yes, we have separate people on this network, Dave, present company excluded.
And then the following day, New Year's show episode one, 5150 talks about home network and
guns, which, yep, that'll be 5150, all right. Regie talks about early days of computing and here's
somebody who joined us as a regular host. And Karne, you, Karne, I think it is, it's from the word
Kaga, from Katalan, which means the nasty stuff that the people do in toilets and stuff.
Very good. So it's the same as in English, Kaka means the same thing. I was brought up with that as a
word to mean you wanted the toilet. And so it's the same route, I think. So that's the,
where the Kaka in South Africans is the word for a, yeah, poop or donny or something like that,
Kakao's, they say, yeah, I think it's common amongst many, many European derived languages.
Okay, the U.S. Air Force, Boose Food, CPIIS, CPF and Pew machines, earliest memories,
early days of computing, night-wise, the mobile computing and the, or W's, early days of computing
and Linux. And I will avoid any comments about all of these kudubin shows in their own
and move on to the next show, where we waste even more episodes on one of which we are show.
Katie, Neon, Steamship, Virginia, and that, that I've seen coming through in the feeds,
we should actually, an outcast planet, there, who is it that talks about that?
It stands in Pirate. Yeah, that's right. Handsome Pirate should, and actual fact, do a dedicated show
to that. Arthur Foss is another tugboat, a tubular computing, ham radio, ham radio, ham and the oven,
see what they did there. Boose, fraternities, Linux Fest, remembering Matthew Willem Williams,
Rob Youngburn mentions, they, oh, God, Kitchener, Waterloo, of Fest, yeah, which we had there.
Fixing audio with the computer with beats audio, open Linux community, Linux desktops,
more Linux desktops, mobile OS, Gordon, Loves Katie, oh, yes he did. And do all the
lingo. And Clinton Roy says some interesting stuff, but give up on the conversation turned
to rape on college campuses. Should have actually stick around for a little bit longer. And that,
that I've been thinking about that. And I think HPR, if you have experiences,
yourself, all of that, and would like to share that with the community, then that is definitely
something that would be of interest tackers. And we would, if you're, if you're not willing to
do it, the show yourself, or don't want to do the show yourself, and just want to write it out,
we'll have, we can always have somebody read the show up for you, or narrate it. And you can
always submit stuff to HPR anonymously. And if you want to share your experiences on that,
or any other topics around that sort of thing, or that you would not feel comfortable sharing,
or having other people know, we can always have people do it anonymously for you in your stead.
Cool. Yep. The following day was the new year show episode three,
Carrie Fisher, Vaughting Politics, Herches, Wikipedia for News, Pizza Gate.
I will love Linux, text editors, forum fund, coffee is great, making money from sea software,
free software, the workplace, single board computers. And there were two comments. Do you want
to do these? Yes, Clinton Royce says, and I gave up on this one about 20 minutes in when
birtherism came up. I really like the concept of the new year show, but it feels like it's gone
completely off the rails. Well, you give people free speech and they will freely speak, especially
after a few beers. Although the birtherism thing, I really did have to look up that. And I must say,
as an outsider, nobody go annoyed or anything. I mean, it's like the Fahrenheit Celsius thing,
right? I just don't understand it properly. Yeah. So if somebody could do me a show, why that's
important? Because for everybody else in the world outside of the US, nobody cares. You're a citizen
of the country. I don't see why you can't be president of the country. That's not me pulling
the piss. That's me asking the question, why if you're a citizen of a country, can you not be
president of the country if you're born outside of the country just by virtue of birth? That seems
to be in a democracy. That seems to be completely sort of monarchy thing to do. Well, low by virtue
of birth, you get to rule the country by virtue of place of birth, you don't get to rule the country.
It seems a bit strange. So somebody wants to do a show about that. That would be great.
Keeping politics out of it. That would be also great. Okay. I'd certainly like to hear a breakdown
of what the hell is, is being put forward there. I think the term conspiracy springs to mind,
but leave that there, I think. Well, I think it comes down to that he wasn't born on US oil.
So therefore he can't be president or or lied or whatever. So I don't see the magnitude of the
of the thing of the, I think it's, I don't know, somebody do a show on it. Shall we move on?
And the next comment on that show is fact check about Scotland Brexit. So this is a little bit
of a correction. And there were many things I would have liked to correct in that New Year's
show, but this one, Scotland voted in, and this is coming directly from the BBC Scotland politics
page, resulting in an article written immediately after a referendum. And I quote,
Scotland has voted in favor of the UK staying in the EU by 62% to 38% and all 32 council
areas backing to remain. So yes, 100% of Scotland's council areas are not back to remain. However,
I don't think that matters. It's the 62% to 38% that matters. Anyway, also turnout was 67%. So that
still leaves a lot of people who didn't vote and a lot of people who voted to leave the EU. So just
to clear that one up. Yes. Okay. And if you are listening to this and there was anything on any of
the HPR shows that you feel should be rectified, please feel free to record a show and do so.
Okay. The following day was New Year's Eve episode four, which was 0.64 laptop.
86 versus arm, arm devices and thus devices. Retropy. How should you consume your video content?
Jonathan Nadu has a book, New Year traditions, 3D printing phone,
car talk, fireworks and Disney exploring the US beer talk, black arch, old hard disks and old cars.
And there were no comments on this. Dave, do you have anything to say?
I don't really know. No, this says that there was a vast quantity of stuff there.
It's a bit like listening, sitting at a bar and just listening to people chat. This is
this is the New Year show you shouldn't really get too overly worked up. It's a different.
It's it's a social event. It ain't meant to be a typical HPR show. It's a it's a social event where
all where HPR and people who are into podcasting can get together and shoot the breeze for a while.
The pie. I was just going to say that I was slightly daunted by these things because they
look so huge as they were they were in the queue there. And I was thinking I was sort of semi-dreading
listening to them for them for them being long and rambling. I actually found them pretty much
all fascinating. So yes, that's really my main comment. I normally listen to every show
as they come out I come out of work and I go down the ramp and I go walking over to the bus.
And the first thing I do is look at my podcast pod catcher for HPR and then I play that and
these ones I just I just had to yeah. I don't know I was thinking okay it's going to be a HPR
community news now next week. I better start listening to them. But then it was just quite easy
following some of them. Some of the topics didn't float my boat so much but more of them more
were quite kind of cool. I did get a lot out of each of the episodes as Haster said. Yep. Yep.
So coffee and tea, screwy 50s ISP, home networking, Singapore computers which were all great
v-core 2, blacksmith banana pie, pine 64, crowdfunding fund, Linux Vest, Google, police stories
and more funding and single board computers. Then the next day was the last one and yet more
single board computers, spoken languages, programming languages, open source, creative
podcasts, synaptic drivers, search.code for sale.com, some enlightenment love, blender love,
the Ubuntu phone is to die in 2017. Question mark. Can we trust Google programming? Ubuntu
touch with Lazarus, GPD Win and CES and then there was one comment. I nearly made it all the way
through this one. There is some interesting content on Lazarus IDE project. It's probably
I agree with that one too. Lazarus is fun actually. I used it a few years ago when I was working.
That's the Pascal advertisement talk. Yeah, it's the free Pascal with a sort of front-end
IDE facility so you can generate some pretty nice code. I just wrote a little database thing in it
for the help desk at work and yeah, I'm a used Pascal for many many years. I used to teach it
a little bit at one time and so I thought it was great but I stopped using it. I'm almost tempted
to go back and start having a look at it again actually from the discussions that I heard on this
show. I have I rolled my thesis in on related to a Pascal program. Very tempted. It's just so
bad when I look at the code. Very tempted to redo it again. This is how you should have done it
30-year-olds myself from 200 minimums. I've not written thesis on it but it was the main language
that I used that we had to use. I was in charge of a VMS Bax cluster, Deck Bax cluster and Pascal
was the primary language at that time for doing anything of any great consequence on it.
You know, this you went into there assembler which we didn't have access to then Pascal. It seems
odd now but Pascal was the language they recommended. It was the one that was most completely
implemented on VMS back in the mid 80s. So there you go. I remember yeah I did a I had to
program into a some sort of ID card at the time. I was trying to do a simulator that would do
something on the screen as a computer was working at the same time. You know program it was a PLC
program a large controller simulator that you could simulate the programs on PLCs
on the computer first before you put them into a machine but it was kind of cool. It worked
and then we brought the downstairs from my presentation and then of course it never worked which
but anyway move it on with lots of comments about oh the next day was how to make a stencil
cutting and using a stencil made of thick foil hosted by Ain Bean and this was their first show
and I think I think yeah I think we should actually change that okay and how you cut out a stencil
very nice episode and how you make it how you use it and Linda Roy says thank you this is great
thank you for uploading you did the next and then Bob Youngburn said um said consultant
strangely but I think he filled in the wrong bit before. She says hi Ainna Beena and I should say
that she is a contributor on GNU social as is Bob um so so we sort of semi-know one and
another one already um so she says do you have a template for that anarchist carrot image
an SVG or XCF or an OGG or even a PDF thanks he says and when she to which she replied hey Bob
here is the German download page for political art stencils some pretty cool ones and there it
has to be said link in the show notes. Yes Brian says food not bombs that's one of the food not
bombs logos. Siro could dunk said pH and Beesey says welcome new host thanks for the new episode
it was well done and easy to follow the process you described reminded me of a silkscreening class
I took long ago I think I'll try this out sometime soon keep the episodes coming. Bob yet said
thanks for the link and I mean there's a lot of good design motifs on that page and Drupes says
very cool I'm doing this with the kids tonight my wife has a cricket but it's way more fun using knives
that's that's one of these cutting wheel things is it is that what it is? You can program the main
and it's like a little needle that goes across and cuts and it's like a printer printer or you
know a dot metric printer that goes over and back and there's a needle that cuts the things out
okay okay well that's where the cool that's cool in itself you should tell us that is that's
a show all by itself third droopy do El Druperino the Drupcy yeah it's very good very good show I just
wanted to say I thought this was a great show I never thought to use an OHP foil as a stencil
I'm currently making a stencil so I can label my bins with the number of my house and I'm
making it out of I've got a roll of mylar sheet from an old graph plotter being a hoarder
they somebody bought a roll of mylar for doing a really fancy plot on a on a drum plotter many many
many years ago and when they finished that they said just throw that in the bin with you and it
didn't go in the bin it went to my house and it's perfect for stencils it's really strong you can't
tear it or anything so okay that's just me excellent Dave excellent show well done the following day
we had a show about model rocketry by Steve Sainer what an excellent excellent episode I was thinking
to myself Dave when I was listening to this I first of all didn't think all I looked at the
duration and I thought to myself surely you cannot make a show 54 minutes long about a subject
of model model rocketry and how wrong I was proven this is possibly people should possibly refer
to this if you've been a lecturer in a college this is the show that you should refer to to say this
is how you should give a lecture lots of information very clear very concise and very logical
nice logical build up I really really enjoyed this show yes I I looked at the length that's
well I thought wow that's I don't know will I make it through it's a being one who does
longer shows as well I shouldn't do that but but I it just the time is whispered I thought it's
fascinating and I was thinking at the end no there's cut me yeah but he covered all the topics I
thought and very you know it's you have the feeling after the show that he's just skimmed the surface
of of the whole thing and that you could have gone on for several hours and I wish he did
on the history on on various different aspects that he covered in it but a very very good
introductory show if you wanted if you ever wanted an example of how to do an entry
introductory show to a topic this is it there's plenty of information in there got everybody interested
in it and I came away from that thinking oh gosh I would I the last thing I need is yet another
hobby however it would be cool if there was an open day somewhere here to be you know to take
the kids and go down and have a look at that I think we'll be awesome absolutely absolutely
and Christopher M Hobbes says as a comment excellent show and detailed show notes
this was exactly what I needed my son has been asking me about monon rockets for a long time
and I wasn't sure where to start looking for information unfortunately there doesn't seem to be a
club in my area but I may have some friends who would let me launch on their property it may be
time to look for a kit thanks for the show see what I mean see what I mean this is how you judge
sure Steve by the impact on the people not the number of downloads not the number of likes this
is how you judge a show the impact on people oh yes absolutely this is a gem absolutely
all righty the good ship HPR this is the one we've all been waiting for HPR is a wonderful yet
fragile project completely dependent on a steady floor of shores from horse we're in Dave
Morris describes it as a leaky bolt and how do we fix the problem and what we want is basically a
nice steady line that the number of shores gone out equals the number of shores coming in yep
let's do the do the comments shall I start with Tony who says hi Dave I enjoyed the show
about the history and working with HPR I did a slot about HPR at Manchester bar camp last year
and during the talk liking HPR to a bar camp of the airwaves as just like a bar camp as long as
it's legal and you can you make it clear if family friendly or not you can talk on any topic the
other passion for and you want to share with the listeners maybe that could be a new tagline HPR
the bar camp of the podcast world excellent love it and what I think what I would like to hear
from people is suggestions for those taglines because what we could do is maintain a list on the
HPR website that every time you go to it or every day at the top of feed we can replace it with
one or liners like that HPR the longest running podcast HPR the bar camp of the
podcast world HPR crowd sourcing podcast since before crowd sourcing was a word you know that's
sort of thing yeah that's that's a great idea it's a great idea and then that that could
that could those things would go well in a tm little ts I've got times a minute or whatever you
call it yep Dave you replied thanks Tony and thanks for telling Manchester bar camp about HPR
great cover it nightwise says how about a drop box folder one of the things you could do to make
the recording process similar as to have something like a drop box folder that people can send
their shows to straight from their phones when they're done that way you have a one button upload
without having to develop an app right now the second thing I would find cool is if there was a
telegram or moxer channel HPR listeners and hosts that way we could talk to each other and in a
pinch these audio conversations could also be used as a show interesting interesting thought
Merichard says a very interesting show I really enjoyed the history and statistics it would be
nice to have a page in the HPR site but let's you see a bunch of these stats as they change I also
think that a store would be great depending on the type of gear sold for example t shirts hoodies
are a must but the show also be cool things like raspberry pie kit supplies for building some of
the projects you were mentioning on the shows for those who were interested in experimenting and
duplicating works of others maybe something like hack five does with the hack shop.com it's just
an example but that kind of stuff would be cool as well I also think iOS and Android apps really
are needed to happen it would be great if there was a stream of episodes let you stream the episodes
as well as contribute them perhaps incorporating some data on the website into it as well such as
calendar sure lots of the episodes I don't know just spitballing these are some things that
I would love to see happen thanks for the show. Drips says new hosts I don't listen to all of the
episodes will keep up as much as I should but I'm very interested in the new hosts we should have a
page or a tag or email that just indicates when a brand new hosts released their first episode
this would enable me and others to keep track of when someone new posts then I can send them
encouragement or thank you or feedback thank you for this episode it was very cool hearing the stats
I remember the day when we didn't have an episode very good ideas all around and
do you want to just do your own replies to those? Yes yes I just wanted to have something on record
that I commented back rather than just do it on this this show I simply I said tonight
wise interesting ideas thanks how to control access to Dropbox though wouldn't it fill up with
spam and other junk so first thought I had mirror shades I said thanks some good thoughts to ponder
there and to droops I said yes the new host alert idea is a good one need some thought
so what I wanted to actually say Dave was that when people are thinking about this problem
that you stay focused on getting on Willis bring in more hosts and Willis make the hosts that we have
continue to try to continue to send in shows you know what I mean? Yes so I think I think the one for
me if I look back at all the new episodes that we've had and be very clinical about this when
you're thinking about it is stay focused on Willis thing that I'm doing encourage people directly
to be a host and I think we're missing quite a few topics here actually the majority would be
go around your workplace and ask your fellow colleagues and your fellow workers to do a show for
HPR ask your family and friends to do a show for HPR if you see somebody interesting in the street
interview them and ask them to do a show for HPR talk to people and this goes back to the bar
camp thing so I think you know you I'm not sure there's a correlation between the number of people
that listen to HPR and the number of people who contribute because you know by virtue of the fact
when we started nobody knew about HPR and we still had hosts coming in and over time the number
of people coming in has remained more or less steady but the number of listeners that we have
has dramatically increased over that time so I'm not 100% convinced that more listeners will
bring us more contributors okay what do you think about that yeah it's it's a it's a difficult one
to completely get your head around I find anyway I mean the awareness of HPR to the potential host
community if you like is is the key to getting people to contribute yeah um and partly listening
so you need to know that HPR exists in order to contribute on the first place is that what you
say and you also yes and you also need to know that you could be a host and that even though you
think you've got nothing to say you have got things to say because everybody is interesting
to somebody you know there's always the humanity at large has got many many stories to tell
to other other people and so you know getting that message across to people as you say whether it's
friends family colleagues saying well that's interesting maybe you should you should record that
and turn into an HPR show is the sort of thing that we need to be proselytized if you want
yeah I think Tony is on on the ball though because we dig there was a period of time when a few
years ago when we were going to every Linux festival we had a table at every Linux festival and
if we can do that if we can get people to sponsor people to be at those tables so if you're going
anyway that there will be people who will sponsor you know t-shirts and sponsor tables and give the
money that way I don't really want to be doing money here on on the HPR website because
if we do that then we need you know there's always a question of accounting and finances and
that then takes my time away and your time away from you know get more people to record podcasts so
it could actually have a negative effect but what we've always done in the past and I think we've
stopped doing it a little bit has been going to the shows and I think that's a great thing get HPR
as official media sponsors to a particular show so if there's a show coming up this year that
you're going to go to let's get us as an official media sponsor let's interview the people beforehand
promoting the show get more people in get a table have the booth kits going around and talk to people
there because people who are bothered to come to a Linux Fest or to hack Fest or to a whatever
Fest are people who are by definition interested in the sort of stuff that we're into what you reckon
yes I agree I agree and promotional materials that that you know we could we people could hand out
such things we'd also be an advantage yes and we do need the background videos we need a video
explain in HPR we need probals explain in HPR we need more banners we need business cards so
that people are armed with the swag that they need to go to these Linux Fest and I think that's
not necessarily Linux Fest but you know walk around and go here where HPR we're doing this do you
want to be interviewed or do you want to do it yourself promote your project talk to your local
mailing list if you're involved in a in a in a small computer project or even a big computer project
get them to do the release announcements as shows here in HPR you know we talk to people is
essentially they the best way one-to-one actual conversations anyway that's enough about that
we were joined by kdg how are you doing kdg he's muted now because I'm sorry about that we were
in the middle of a very easy conversation there and we're just going through the shows now we're
up to episode two two five six modular game scaling which was by Eric Dumel
and it was nice to get a short podcast after the long series of long podcasts yes yes I can't
disagree and it was an interesting approach to how to think about gaming actually that you need
how to pass that a game is actually three different things working in harmony with each other and
that's pretty cool pretty cool yeah more on this would certainly be be appreciated by me I can
tell you it's I liked it because it was a bit like a little chat to myself to get I have these
conversations with myself from time to time to get something clear in my own head and why not
record that and put it on to hpr as a show indeed and Tony Hughes who I'm hoping is feeling better
had a bit of a stroke apparently but still able to do a hpr show which is absolutely excellent
so all our best wishes are with you Tony and it's on the distro what OS for a spire laptop which I
have here in bits on my I bits of an isr aspire one laptop as well and I'm missing a hard disk and
a hard disk cable so if anybody has a hard disk and hard disk cable that they want to sell me
that would be awesome or if somebody wants a isr aspire one for spare parts then drop me a line
cool yeah it was my favorite laptop ever because you could just take it out plug it in it always
worked it was excellent yes so I enjoyed netbooks it's a great time so the next day we had
over there in commons on that show let me just check no no commons and either of those two
shows which is a bit sad and that is one thing that really encourages people is commenting on their
show that absolutely absolutely excellent idea I'm not 100% as in favor of likes and dislike buttons
because or even statistics as I've said before although we have committed to putting statistics
up on the website because you can't really measure a contribution of a hit virtual by statistics
alone no no no it's just just that numbers numbers people like numbers i like numbers it's just
nice to see a table of stuff some some some people like numbers David I don't
yeah well we're probably going to do something anyway no no we've committed to do and this is just
we haven't got around to cause it involves logging and that is not ideal at the minute how we
get those logs out um so the following day we had by bill november fox strat mic zulu one
miller and it's killer killbasa killbasa is that right that's right yep and I had to google what
killer killbasa was actually I ducked to code it but you can't say duck to google as easy as you can
google anyway yes it's like a sausage oh and fentanyl noise says I had to do a bit of googling but
killbasa some sort of polished sausage which can be of any sort of meat non-American
perspective and when you say jelly I think you mean some sort of jam or accept take all the fruit out
yes I don't know about that one but the killbass there is I'd heard of it um but
I had neighbors to polish neighbors so maybe it was from them but it just means just means sausage
in in there's many types of killbasa so never heard of it before there you go okay
and zork said little smoky is my family recipe we use a little smoky sausage uh cocktail
sausages from my English brother and a jar of grape jelly or grape jam and a bottle of barbecue sauce
and he's got a link to the recipe I think the confusion might be that in in the English English
then jelly does actually mean a jam um you know we boil fruit with sugar and stuff and you take
in all the bits out so it's a completely clear thing like like the americans jelly jelly
whereas I think americans mean any form of um of jam as we would call it so well there's a
show right there for somebody to do the intricacies of uh that would that would be fun
yep and then the next day John Colt did a show about htbr 2212 on response to sorry on response to
htbr show 2212 which was above mini discs and this was a nice uh trip down memory lane with John
DJ extraordinaire that he was is it was fascinating isn't it yet John's really done some interesting
things and yeah he's seen some stuff I wrote down here I think uh yeah I think there will be
there's three comments to the show but um I think it might be a series actually stuff I've done
podcast and eat so Drupes says do you want to know if I've heard it jump jumped in on top of you
there mini discs says the more I hear about these things the more I think I missed out yep
so Dave Morris says hey interesting this was a cool device you had and some interesting stories
do I really write like that yes David oh hey the new it's more like my son in the mini disc walkman
which still exists I was prompted to look that's how you sound in my head anyway Dave I was prompted
to look for it today and found it and found it discovered it was still working he just wanted
so I must see what can be used for what it can be used for I don't know why I'm doing your bits
okay that was me jumping in yeah to do the first one um Jonathan kelp says mini disc walkman
thanks for the comments guys sorry I've been so silent with shows and comments lately
it's really busy at work I bet he is yeah um I think the Sony walkman mini disc had a much
slimmer profile than my sharp md702 so it might work pretty well as an actual walkman when you're
carrying it with you while you walk around you could also record a show on it have fun oh see what
you did there Dave oh he did it he did it but oh yes I've y'all trimmed up and that's how
everybody else should be thinking get more horse in everything is an opportunity to get more
there's no excuse every android phone comes within the ability to record sound press
send an email record press share type an email type an admin at hackerpublicradio.org
job done I was thinking that really we could do with a better summary of what has been done you know
just a very very brief pick of some of the things that people have done the original things that
people have done the very to be honest just to to get the creative juices flowing when absolutely
you think about what to do you know this is the promotional material we should do more of that
absolutely yep and managing tags for htbr episode two no comments so this one you are you're
taking it more I want to probably wait until three before we go into this in more detail yeah
fair enough fair enough it's it's it's it's pretty detailed but yeah pretty cool I'm pretty
more data bit shows absolutely without a doubt we do we do yes yes yes so shall we then do the
other comments for the ones that happened on previous months indeed so I'm actually lined up
this time I think so what's happening done so fighting words there now let's see how you do so we
had two on seven eight the comment on that from 51 50 and the show was about it was a platoon's dice
mixer one where you build a corn to dice mixer yep yep yep it was a rather wonderful thing
and 51 it's slightly expensive thing to unfortunately yes yes I think we had the conversation I
would have liked to bought one but they're too expensive especially with shipping anyway the term
tin horn gambler refers to a tin and leather dice mixer carried by gentleman gamers in the old west
you are a really good salesman clout to even though I neither tabletop game nor participate in
dice based games of chance by sitting on your description I sort of want one of these now yeah
hey yeah he would be we would all be doomed if if platoon was a was a sales capitalist yes and the
etymology of tin horn is a fascinating one actually I didn't know yeah I'd love there to be a
nautomology show here love it even and if there's a crazy commons etymology podcast that somebody wants
for most do cordon introduction and send in a sample episode and so they next a comment was
on windigo who was commenting on building a soundboard android app with app inventor which was
done by droops and he says fantastic you had the advanced fart app I think yes yes quite a few
others perhaps as well and we do the next do you do the next one next one is on two to six podcasts
I listened to comment yes bookworm says thanks and sorry wretch thanks for the good shows I've
been looking for a podcast manager from my android phone and tried pod kicker I'm currently using
the free version I've been using it since about a week after your show ed I have every intention of
supporting the developer and buying the paid version what a great little app I'll also be checking
out some of the podcast you mentioned sorry the sorry is for my taking so long to reply now
don't worry about that HPR is timeless that's what we're saying and then we had a comment on
musings of another TV cord cutter this is by our red j and it was by Regina loved it thanks for all
the information and creative vice so the next one was next one was community news yeah
oh yeah this was we we we should have done this one last time I think we recorded on the fourth
and we somehow missed this one coming on the third but never mind this was I won't read it out
because it's very very detailed but basically it's crayon who who does who another boss from
yeah he's got this this bot is brilliant I leave it like that yeah yeah opbot runs on the on
IRC and it takes commands where you can do searches and things and and normally there are a
manner of other cool things so he demonstrates how it can be used to do a topic search
for the word raspberry so yeah it's it's it's it's very type of yeah so you type
ogbot ogbot so type og tab and then HPR space ti or ti dashi for probably case raspberry and then
it'll show you all the raspberry pi episodes and what I use it for is HPR dash eps
eps works as well and then it will show you if there are many episodes are in the queue
and it also by virtue of the fact it does that if there are any messages for me it'll
the ogbot or botly will come up saying oh can you're back online and give me my messages so I
kill two birds with one stone that's very good he does say he needs to do an episode on ogbot
oh yes definitely definitely recommend that he does do that so he'll be listening and alpha 32
left a left a comment on hoarding raspberry pies which measures all jealous and
his comment is this one's by be easy who had a like a stack of raspberry pies like a little mini
tar block great show bot it seems the HPR robot voice think you're all she raspberry piss
so i just made that i do it listening to the to the fact that it did that in the first place
but this remark was wonderful i just laughed out loud at this one brilliant cool cool cool
mind you from the pet pedantic point of view it does indicate that the use of apostrophes in
florals is a good thing sorry you're just strictly yes i must do a show on on this
it i did test it actually if you put an apostrophe in it does it right so that proves the point
sorry given some it help here in the background um yes you need to do a show on the
apostrophes and another one on the you sent me an email on wither weather on weather at one stage
which needs to be a show or was that a show i don't think i've ever done that it's it's in my
you have sent me an email dude people i have suffered i suffered from this
correct emails and i keep trying to find that and uh i can't find the email again and i have to
go google and then our go look up to go actually and try to find out exactly what it is so if you
could do a show on wither weather weather we'll find that email and you can just read it verbatim
so everybody can get a view into your mind yeah yeah we i thought you were trying to promote
yeah no no no no no it's it's crazy if if you're if you want to know stuff you know i don't want to be
deliberately using the wrong word i'm not as so annoyed about it that you would just like to see
you just realize at a particular point in time you're going to make mistakes but i don't actively
go out of the way to make mistakes so um yep i'll go show on that will be great i want to use an
repository when to use s that would also be cool it's it's something that i've tried to teach myself
because i don't like getting that sort of thing wrong so yeah be happy just happy to share
that you happy to do a show yeah just just i'm comfortable in that area i'm always well i've got
this database right yeah full of full of show ideas so um you're not going to shut me out you know
i'm just going to keep on doing them to let drop the only way to stop day is by getting more
people to record shows and then we can keep them out of the queue so if you don't actually want
to hear a show like that then you know the best thing you can do is record to show yourself
and send it into HPR yeah when you look at look at march you see that that bastard did three
yeah three shows i mean you want to shut him up surely you do yeah is it three or even yeah three
four or even uh where are they email are they they they they they they they they have you
mailing list there was no mailing list they were have you not refreshed the the notes like i have
Dave i have refreshed notes and there they are because i forgot to add them to the thing you know
you're on today but yeah okay then i remembered so we had the sad news that Frank Delaney who was
uh the host of the ulus rejoice podcast about james joys has passed away a microate sent us
in a message uh to relay that information yeah very sad he seemed as a great great fellow and
to listening to not i never listened to that particular show but some of his other ones i
listened to a lot cool oh i'm not cool but okay uh amateur radio roundtable how to proceed
so i'll read it verbatim as we need to first round table episode is out and since about two
weeks ago it seems to be good and we need to plan for the next steps i propose this is um this is
michael myri d elf delta lemma for mike golf mike talking here okay um the first round table
episode is out since about two weeks and it seems like a good time to plan the next steps i
propose keeping using the etherpad which is linked there uh for a call
ordination of show notes and preparations shall we delete the old content and make it official show
notes and just keep the link the intention was to have a more european friendly recording time for
the next one would any of the people willing to participate skiing come up with a suitable
proposal put it in the pad please in the addition just one second regarding the general schedule
with the current fill state of the show q hoping that the higher bias level can be maintained
the frequency of schedule recording finding a free slot waiting for feedback after it's
out scheduling the next recording light stretch things out unnecessarily the question is
are we yet prepared to make this a regular show are we willing to commit to more predictable
scheduling i'm thinking of reserving a show slot every two months targeting recording in the middle
in between that would leave no room for comments to trickle in until the next recording as well
as allow a some time to process uh as well as allow some processing time after that what do you think
just my notes here and continuing on how about occasional including a decoding challenge some
short text that is encoded in the digital mode or some other format listeners can have a take
on decoding it i have confirmation and support of hpur that's such a site for riddles
where the correct entry will be recorded and counted is basically possible so do we want that
in whatever way the roundtable will develop even if it becomes a very relaxed ragtune event i'd
like to see it a trigger for all sorts of individual shows on ham related topics i further suggest
that someone start a new series what's in my shack this could be a very uh it could be a cool entry
point for amateur radios to start contributing to hpr just tell us about your gear you have in your
shack what you do with it how to develop how it developed over time if there are any individual
home brews modified pieces their own story uh you have a follow up show right there now let's try
not to lose positive momentum uh i felt we had after the first recording and get the
wheels spinning further regards michael some excellent ideas there i love the what's in my shack
episode everybody should do that and even if you're not a ham but no a ham you can go round with
a microphone and record a show with them why do you think that sounds like a great idea actually
yes yes there's a lot of scope there and then there were some questions because not a lot of people
replied back to that um although did you get a spam message no problem uh this is uh Steve
replied no problem with the mail uh failed people failed to respond he's game for it and so forth
so if you want to get involved in the ham radio thing this is something i would really love to
see open running and have people contribute to yes absolutely i think we're done Dave i think we're
done yep yep i think i'm there's anything else no okay so tune in tomorrow for another exciting
episode oh hacker pop pop pop pop pop like radio gonna snow and share the self where you'll be
free hacker you'll be free seeing with me joyous now and share the software you'll be free hacker
you'll be free i said now joyous now and share the software oh you'll be free you'll be
free you know all right Dave good bye yeah oh no comment no comment bye bye can goodbye Dave
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio dot org we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hacker public radio was found
by the digital dot pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a
comment on the website or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's
show is released on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
