Episode: 2671
Title: HPR2671: Algae farming with Desearcher
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2671/hpr2671.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:18:08

---

This is HPR Episode 2671 entitled Algae Farming with Desserture.
It is hosted by Mira Shades and is about 40 minutes long and can in the next visit flag.
The summary is, Desserture review markets are all on the benefits of Algae Farming.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello world, I'm Mira Shades and today I've traveled 100 miles below the surface of the earth to the secret layer of Desserture.
And we're going to talk about weird stuff.
I'm guessing we're going to talk about the weird green fluids growing by your window.
And then I got to be more specific about weird green fluids.
A lot of this is nanopropsis, an ocean.
It's kind of like a some called pomsome, but it's actually no help to ocean your greens sometimes.
That's pretty as proper as to it.
They use it to extract carbon dioxide from the air.
It's a plant, you know, put us inside this.
It's a green cord and all that.
But you can actually grow it for fishing.
And it seems to grow.
You use F2 fertilizer.
That's just what it's called.
It's something of these weird grow that kind of raises questions of walls in it.
One of this stuff is kind of balanced just for algae.
They didn't use it for 60-something years through colleges and stuff.
And you kind of research talking about algae.
It's going to talk about that too.
You can get it to like fish supply stores, Amazon.
This particular one is the Fritz Prue aquatics two-part solution.
They keep the organic and non-organic compounds separate.
But mix it up, be cutin' in, and stir it up.
Throw some starter in, and bubble some hair through.
So how does the F2 cost?
Like, what does that run you for?
I can't remember 20 bucks, but the amount that you use is still minuscule.
That will last a year if not more.
Because, let's see, these are checking the size.
16 fluid ounces per part of 32 ounces.
And the amount that you feed them is going to be a quarter milliliter per feeding.
And it's like once a week.
So, you've guessed the time.
I just use like sorenches.
You pick up that tractor supply, kind of pouring shelves.
And you just, maybe you're out with the tarned dibs.
The way I do it, I have the soda bottles, two liter soda bottles.
I'll rinse them out, make sure they're clean.
I actually went with the thought that they could generate ozone, they could sterilize it.
And then when I'm ready to split the culture, I'll take my starter.
Originally, I got like a 12 ounce starter from another distributor.
And, you know, it's real dark green.
And then what you do is you put it into two different batches.
You split half and half, and then you add salt and water, saving.
And add a little bit of F2, leave it in sunlight, and bubble air into it.
And then it'll darken over a quarter to about a week.
So in my two liters, it starts out, you know, kind of lower towards the bottom.
And then I'll double the amounts in there.
I just add more water, and you can start with your, you know, double it in.
So after about two or three doubles, it's full two liter.
And then I'll split it off into another one.
So when it's half and half.
And you can do that, and I've got five going right now.
They're, let's see, two ohms, mostly full, and I've got other stems.
The thought is, instead of doubling them up, adding more water, I'm just going to go for a darker color.
So that when I do split it later on, it'll have more culture to kind of start off strong.
So, like, to get started like this, what do you take the initial investment cost is?
It says like 20, about 20 bucks.
Yeah, kindergarten dollars for the fertilizer.
And that's going to last you a long time.
Stoda bottles, something else.
Yeah, we drink soda and anything.
We'll just bring some out real good.
A mixture of university or anything.
Probably the clear ones.
You don't want to go for like green, or actually green might work because it'll block out the green line.
Which they'll be in.
And what's green line?
Why doesn't green?
You do me an air bubbler, which you go down to, you know,
shopping center, that sells like pets supplies.
If they sell a great and stuff, they're going to have essentially aerotoms out of just a lumball of green fish tanks.
And you just get one of those.
You get the, the tubing that goes with it.
I think 25, but a two with like maybe eight dollars.
And honestly, I'll probably use it only.
Maybe eight foot of that.
So I'll go back up to, you know, to get two very others.
Change up to new ones, new problem.
I do have a splitter attached with the valves on it so I can, you know,
select which one gets more or less bubbles as it needs.
Forget how much that was.
But I mean, none of this is super expensive.
Then just be back soft.
To ballpark, maybe 50 bucks or something.
Ballpark, I'm going to say.
Reddit.
Between 40 and 50.
Shock around, check online.
A lot of this came from, you know, Amazon.
And other parts that we've found in this TV are like either Walmart or there's a fish shop
that I'm actually having.
Some of the parts you'll achieve.
But what you want to do is get a tube that will fit to the bottom of the tube later.
And so that's about foot to foot.
Somewhere into there.
Catch a tube section for that.
Make sure it hits the bottom.
You don't have to put an air stone or anything.
You're looking for a bunch of orange bubbles.
Small bubbles will stir it up a few more days.
They don't seem to like that.
And then you want to put cotton or some kind of, some kind of water.
So additional air doesn't get in.
You don't get any dust particles going into the solution.
Yeah.
So people will drill out holes in the cap that normally goes with it.
And they'll feed it through there and they'll do a sealant with it.
That's fine.
I've never needed that.
I do like the convenience of just being able to take the top off conveniently with just a bit of water.
And then you're going to have to do something because once a week I think feed them just with a syringe.
And every once in a while, certain ones, they'll start to separate out.
They'll start turning clear and they'll give you some particles on the bottom.
Those you just shake up and give it a bit more sunlight.
It usually happens right after feeding.
They'll kind of shock them when you first feed them.
You have to make sure you're not just putting it right in one spot and not shaking up.
It's actually been to put it in a separate container and kind of dilute it and add it.
So if you're splitting them, you want to actually put the fertilizer in the secondary batch before you add the algae to it.
But yeah, as long as you've got the tubes going in and bubbling through, you're looking at about three bubbles a second.
You can do more or less, just kind of play with it.
You don't want to throw off onto it.
Just as long as you're getting the CO2 bubbling through, just air or fertilizer.
Like once a week and plenty of sunlight, they just do well.
They throw it.
They want the fertilizer to get clear.
Why would somebody want to do so?
What is your purpose?
It's not just like some homemade science experiment.
Well, I mean, largely, I do like it as a science experiment.
So people have house plants.
I just have a beautiful green, yellow algae.
It's kind of peaceful to sit out here and eat my breakfast syrup instead of watching.
Ask them how their day is.
But no, there actually is a commercial use for it.
Mainly, you can sell them back to fish stores because algae is essentially fish food.
And depending on what kind of things they have, like if I specifically run for salt water tanks,
so this, being vital pointed, is used to be co-pods which are zooplanted.
And those in turn are used to be corals.
So by having a constant supply of vital pointed to be co-pods,
you can grow corals which are actually notoriously hard to grow,
which means that they're pretty expensive, which is good business.
As long as they get the food stock coming in, they don't grow corals and split it.
And some of these go for $1,000.
Between $50,000 and $1,000, depending on the type and variety.
But some people just do that as their source makeup.
They just grow coral.
I'm going to have to start growing coral.
I'm not going to let that for you.
I'm just going to do something right here.
Dead job, crap.
Yeah, I'm taking fire if I could go on.
Because you know, I started out on the cousin.
He's got a salt water aquarium.
So I'm just going to kill him.
And he's selling the excess to the fish one.
Like part of the problem is here and there.
And we're going to start growing co-pods here in a couple weeks.
in a couple of weeks, and then you know that's trying to add its own thing.
They're grown very much the same way, but you have to monitor different types of bacteria
because they need good bacteria from an actual aquarium.
So that process, from my perspective, you take rocks that you put in the aquarium,
you know, fish around. Over time, the rocks will just kind of soak up all the bacteria.
And you put those into co-pods, and it can create a more balanced ecosystem.
Both the algae, you start sterile, and then you split, you know,
starter-faxive algae in there, and then they grow, and you keep splitting and doubling them.
So that's more what I wanted, because as long as you don't have cross-candidation,
it's just a beautiful green, you know.
Also, the filter's the air.
It looks a bit like Mountain Dew.
Yeah.
It's flat Mountain Dew.
Except for over there, is that one's a little darker or darker?
Yeah, that one's been grown much longer.
That's the color you actually want. It's like that nice, dark hue to it.
The rest, they're pretty healthy, but they have been growing as long.
So they start out, you know, kind of like a lighter color.
Almost, how do you describe it?
Almost like a seven-hot, little darker.
We're out.
Yeah, about like Mountain Dew, and then it's darkened until I get out.
Almost like a caramelized wool gatorade.
It's used so-for-refences because of the end.
There is several of them.
Yeah.
And also, it tastes like it, and because you can fact, you're gonna get one.
It's actually fairly nutritious.
The prominent researchers help the time.
Yeah.
So it's in the southern realm.
No, it's actual good stuff.
It's non-toxic.
It's about like a key, you know, blue jet, which is like fermented tea.
It's about like that.
It's not bad.
I do run the same content a bit high.
You're looking at a specific gravity of about 120 or 1.2L or 1.20 or 1.2L.
It's the one that I tried to keep it, but I also go a bit high on it, because I can always...
I can always cut it down with additional water for when I take it over to my cousin,
and how to drop the saline down the mattress table, which is about...
It keeps it about 1.2L.
So, for me, it's easier to just add more water than it is to, you know, mix salt up and try to...
Try to measure it that way.
Another thing that helps us to have a hydrometer, which is just...
The one that I have just kind of measures is by...
The density as far as I can.
It's got like a flover in it.
So, as you add water with mid-sing, the noise and signal kind of shift.
Right where it's at.
And it was on, it mixed with it all.
And they sell those at home bar stores.
So, I've said the guy who mixes up beer from time to time.
I don't have a hydrometer, though, it's sad.
I don't care if it's alcohol.
I'd like to get those now in a big cartwheel.
What, cartwheels?
Cartwheels?
Oh, yeah, yeah, good glass.
Yeah, cartwheels, yeah.
Get those to...
Tigger, some firewood.
Because right now it's like each bottle is like two liters.
You can just rank up your amount, you're like...
Yeah.
And you get those...
You can buy those at home bar stores that sell a lot of your bottles for beer and wine, I think.
And they're like...
I don't remember.
I want to say they're like five gallons or something.
Yeah.
Yeah, five.
That's a thing.
So, I'm not going to go up to it.
Yeah, you can get different sizes at the point.
You can order all families on too, but I'll mention the shipping.
And that's going to be...
How?
Because they're heavy.
Yeah, also glass.
It might not be...
Partist bread will come in short.
But yeah, like from the monetary aspect, the starter...
For like 60 ounces, it's like 20 bucks.
For two ounces, I guess 32 or 12 or 16.
But yeah, I think like...
For 24 ounces, like 24 ounces, it's like 20 bucks.
Jesus.
But to buy them out a little bit, yeah.
The aquarium shop, you know, selling too.
They're selling like seven ounce bottles for like...
Between 17 and 30.
So, if you're looking like a dollar or something like that,
just pin on who you talk to and all that.
So, you can just sit in the next one with the droves
as long as you have plenty of lights.
And I'll take a few minutes.
If you don't care, I'll snap a picture of yourself.
And I'll stick that in the show notes.
Oh, yes.
And, you know, be sure to get the bowings of something to stuff.
But yeah, it doesn't take much of stuff.
They're just kind of beautiful to watch.
Is there specific keys for the gallery bottles?
Or they're just going to be...
Well, the thought is...
You know, because I've built all kinds of bottles just...
When you're growing stuff in bottles,
and then all of a sudden you can hang on to them, just in case.
That's not what I was going to have those like starters.
So, it's going to be like a four-off something
just to kind of keep them handy.
Because you want to keep a few small samples in the fridge,
just in case, for whatever reason,
you get what's called a culture crash.
Where it turns yellow and clear and separates out.
And it makes you just die somewhere.
That can happen.
It can happen for different reasons.
And that's come off the risk of all this to try to make sure
that everything's in balance.
But as long as you're not doing anything wrong,
crazy with it, it shouldn't find.
But for whatever reason, they do crash.
You've got backups in the fridge.
Because they'll keep.
They'll...
I've got someone there for the past month of May.
They start to clear up a bit,
but you just shake them off and they're going to go.
They're just kind of in hypervision.
But this one right here,
actually...
Well, actually both of these,
I added the fridge for about a week.
And then I put them back on to see if I could darken them off a bit.
Because once a...
Once a Southern one started getting real dark,
I kind of moved the go-post on how I want them.
Because the darker you begin them,
the easier it is to split them,
the more lucrative it is to some fish torches,
because they're not that dark in color.
It's more potent.
And the guy that I'm talking to now,
the other guy that you get this from,
is real clear.
They're not doing a good count.
They're pretty much diluting the product down to nothing.
And then try to pass it off.
So we're going for a better product.
So the essentially comes to us.
There's a bit of a cutthroat industry.
When you're selling those, do you,
like, I guess,
you just take them up to the aquarium store
in the soda bottle?
Yeah.
What I'll do is I'll take the two-liter of them
in the cousin's house,
and he's got a dinnerware.
He actually did empty bottles with a label.
And he'll re-bottle them, like,
smaller working soda.
He's just, like, 12-months bottles.
And we'll sell that to the store.
The two stores that we talked to,
one of them, they want the preached labels on it.
You know, they're thinking,
you can look real nice.
And so that's mostly,
you were trying to piece with the label.
So the other one,
we, essentially the same bottles,
but we don't want to put the labels on them.
Just to make it look nicer,
but he's actually been known to do sell them
out of, like, millions.
So not a lot of regulation on that, then.
I take it really high.
I mean, it's just stuff that's growing out of people's houses.
So you don't have to, like,
you don't have to show proofs of any sort of, like,
no, quantitative, like,
this is how much algae is in the fluid.
No, and that's something I do want to address,
because I do have a microscope.
And the thought is, you can get a graduated slide.
You know, it's marked off in, like,
tin, nanometer, like, a little grid.
And you'll, you'll put a sample on there,
and you'll look at it,
and you'll do, like, a randomized count of, like,
so many grid, you can sit there and just manually count them,
and there's, like, equations that kind of figure out
how much, you know, parts per million,
and the sample is, and you kind of want to keep it consistent,
that when the microscope I have doesn't get quite as focused,
as it needs to be done.
The one I have serious account for me is,
it's like one of my first crystals.
Is there a good slide?
Yeah, we've got to have a microscope.
I'm like, I'm like,
four, but okay.
And, you know, they've been some improvements.
I want to get a better microscope,
so I can actually do more accurate counts.
But right now, we're just going to find the color standard,
which is, like, it looks like a dark green.
If it looks like a, you know, a dark leaf,
it's kind of what you're going for,
just like, you know, the color grass.
But, yes, one of people is just, like,
like, something just looks like white sea water,
and it's just like, not even really great at all.
And, we're trying to do a little better.
I mean, yeah, there's some initiatives trying to increase
the five-pointed population down in the tropics,
because just through, like, you know,
different things, like, just general pollution.
The population of five-pointed is diminished,
and then that kind of comes, problems, like, food chain,
you know, carbon.
It doesn't suck out as much carbon,
so it's basically what saves deforestation.
But it's, you know, an ocean,
and that's something we don't often think about.
And, depending on the article you read,
something like 60% of our carbon cycle
is actually through the ocean.
Yeah.
I read it just because I read that somewhere
there's, like, the breathable air we did,
is more dependent on the ocean than the air in the rainforest.
Because, you know, when we were kids growing up,
that's what they called the rainforest.
Don't cut down the trees.
And, but now we're saying that it's actually more,
more than the ocean.
And, you know, it just ends, like, purge effects.
So, you know, just...
Can I, you know, grow some algae?
You should've met a little...
Anything else you want to cover?
I would talk about the different types.
You don't just want to go out and scoop up algae,
and then try to come home.
Why not?
Uh, some algae is pretty toxic.
So, is it, like, just pretty much any catapultons gone?
Yeah, do you want us to avoid?
I mean, yeah, it's probably looks, you know, nice, pretty green.
And, like, some brown.
But, you know, you don't want that.
Um, this is, specifically, uh, Nell Portopsus.
And, it's, uh, it's non-toxic, it's, you know,
it's all around, it's a good part of the kind of algae.
It grows really well.
Uh, there's another strand of dust free well.
I think it's, uh, I'm going to mess up the names.
Prior to something.
Let's do it.
Mm-hmm.
But, uh, that was the idea.
Yeah, that's, uh, I've been able to do free well.
I think that you just do that.
Maybe the structure is from it.
Not that I'm not too sure.
Um, there's some research, uh, using how it deals, uh, biofuel.
So, you hear stories where people can run their, you know,
diesel truck off the, uh, Fritz Rodriguez.
Well, you could also, can't clean around on the algae.
There's a reduction process.
You know, it's one of, like, the saltwater.
But, you basically get the, you get the actual algae mass.
You dewater it.
And then, there may be an additional process.
It's a sort of like stripping cell walls and just going for the lipids.
But, people do make, um, combustible oil from algae.
So, that's some of the, uh, a lot of experience you went with now.
And that's what I might get into, but right now, just, uh,
you know, getting processed on and, you know, making sure I communicate a nice dark color.
Increased the amount.
Start from 12 ounces.
I've probably got, uh, three or four liters.
Three or four liters.
Well, no.
Six or seven liters right there probably.
Rough estimate.
So, the goal is to have, uh,
a gallon that I can just, uh,
in addition to just one, one of your own.
Uh, because right now, I'm just doubling up.
I've got one I can go sorry now.
Uh, but I've been trying to,
instead of just doing one all the time, you know, something, you know,
this split, I'm trying to have a full,
a full rat can cause a production.
So, I've been holding on to more and said some of them off.
And then once I got numbered up,
I might just switch over to the,
the larger glass cans and, you know,
start doing gallons at a time.
But,
stuff to look forward to in the future.
And how did you get the initial culture
or whatever that you used to?
Uh, Amazon.
I'll really ignore it if I was off.
Uh, it's, you got to, you know,
search term.
You can look for five point and find it,
but nanochloropsis with, um,
an A, N, N code,
chloropsis.
Yeah.
CHL, a little harder.
Yes.
Of course, spelling is a sign of high.
Google will frame you.
But, um,
yeah, you can find a lot of,
just, just years, um, Amazon.
Um, I'd like to get you full of rags just like, you know.
So, um, Amazon,
uh, I've got a pretty much a good distribution.
Just your mind, cousin,
and their contacts with, uh, the fish shop.
So, I guess we can, um,
later, you can shoot me,
they know some links,
I'll probably, you know,
you know, we know it's what you can do, like,
but, uh, probably,
probably, like, they have a lot of stuff that you can buy.
Maybe with the PD link,
I don't know,
it's not something to put in there.
Yeah.
That's important.
I'll forward over some,
not really about it.
You know,
we'll throw all that in the show,
and it's,
yeah, the taste about, like, uh,
like, a gatorade.
It's from, um,
it's all,
I don't believe you.
I mean, we can,
we can now,
we can now have so many meals.
I think, uh,
is it like,
some kind of,
out-year yeast based,
spread,
veg of mine?
Is it, like, a yeast?
Yeah.
Like an out-year,
something.
Something like that.
Some kind of,
you can find it out.
it's 2018. We know there's this thing where we can just, you know, search for, we can
google it being it. Ask Jeeps next time you see Jeeps go ahead and ask them to answer
a question. Kind of miss Ask Jeeps really. Yeah. There were a lot of e-strings to you
that you could ask to stop some other search engine. So you might be interested to know that
our far-ranging supercomputer system that I pulled from my pocket says that
Vegemite is one of several yeast extracts, breads. So taking Vegemite, putting a jug
and you got that part in it. It's actually beer at that point. They didn't make
basically beer. Beer is an interesting topic of its own. There's a, so it's an important
staple item. A lot of people don't realize this is kind of funny and a little off topic, but like
historically the archaeologist used to believe that human beings first began in the culture
of grains to make bread. When in fact now it looks like they made bread. And it was a very
sustaining. And of course, the ancient beer was thick and poor, not like the beer we drink
today, but it's unfiltered and unpasteurized. It has a lot of models and crap in it that
gets lost in that process. I can totally see that. As far as like oats, like oatmeal
probably came first. You know, there's people just eating essentially grass at this point.
Oh, I imagine too. Some of this was accidental because they don't have any way of preserving it,
so it's going to burn it. Yeah, exactly. So they're just eating like raw grains and some of
that. Well, I had a bit of water to it. They'll leave it out and they kind of like, you know,
kind of ferment a little better. I kind of like it that way. And then eventually they're just,
you know, they're just doing it for like, you know, that's a weird stuff. And then, you know,
some point later on, like, if you look at it, making bread is kind of a fermentation process.
It's kind of about the same, but it's more solid and liquid. And for those of you who do not
have the benefit of having worked in a pizza place, like we have, when the dough starts to get
old, it smells like beer. I remember we would have to throw it away, like at a certain point,
that somebody would make too much. Do you remember those days? We'd have an entire, like, 55
year old. The garbage can't fall on the dough. Throw it out of the dumpster and go back to
later and throw cardboard and then we just read, like, eat your right in the face and you feel
the groove. Just by open the business. It was so happy to, like, we had to, oh man, it took
like two people to look at the thing. Wow, those days. The burglars.
Like, why is it called that? That's just what it's called. The burglars.
All right. That's actually the brand I think was the brand that the dough makes here. It was
burgl. They call it the burglars. I mean the dough. That's the burglars. I haven't heard that in
years. You learn something new every day, working in a pizza place. You really do. It was an interesting
cross-section of human culture that would come in there because you would have to really pour,
really, really pour people that are looking for a cheap point of peak to your family. Then you
have the rich people who are skin-flints. So everybody came in and bought this cheap cracker.
I was kind of considered a piece to be more luxurious than a stable, but you work for a brand that
they're proud of joy as you leave this pizza in town. We won't mention their name because
they're professionals, but it's very Romanesque. There's a reason Brutus got to stab him.
Yeah. But, um, beer. Algae beer and pizza. Actually, all important. Now you figure out how we can
argue based beer. I don't know if it would come out to be beer. I don't know what the
dividing line. That's another thing I should probably mention. The weird thing is, is typically
we associate wine with firey and smoothing people. Beer being like the low-class, low-viral,
like commoners during or whatever. But the funny thing is, is beers actually harder to produce than
wine, and it's more complex and has a more complex flavor profile than wine does. Wine is just
fermented fruit juice, basically, and beer is a whole bunch of crap that is very hard to...
I'm not going to go into it here, because when we get an entire episode of beer, it's like with
the hot sauce and stuff, like people always drink the hot sauce. Yeah. It's like, oh, it's basically
a week long, I don't know. But, uh, yeah, the hops, it's funny thing is, do you know, they're actually
the same classification as like, you know, cannabis. Uh, space will sing family plans.
And if you like see pictures of the parser, you're like, deaths. Yeah, that's, uh, it's, uh,
it's interesting. The, uh, the wort, let me make the wort of, uh, whatever that stuff is,
like, that brain, the whole brain's not working. It hasn't been brain far, but, uh, it's the, uh,
boil that cracked down to make the sugar out of it, whatever it is, brain's not working, but, um,
like, that much. Yeah, it's, well, it's mash, and uh, whiskey, and, um, it's called the
award beer. It's the same, I guess, principle. And then hops, there's like two different kinds of
hops, and they can be added in different parts of the beer making process, which is a little bit more
complicated than, yeah, wine is super easy. You just throw some fruit juice and water and a big
jug with some, uh, some yeast, and make sure it's got a, um, I mean, it's for the CO2
who is gay, and you're good. And the weird thing is, there's a really a lot of variety of wine.
It's like, you have like, you know, a shard, you know, like, a dollar, a lot of those, you know,
champagne, things like that, but it's like, from what you're sending, a lot of those names are
just kind of like words that were originally grown in the morning. It's like saying, hey,
I want some west coves versus the east coves kind of stuff. I like, but like, the rest of these
still seem to be sent with beers. I mean, you could have it based on the over and through again,
they said, like, uh, wheat or, yeah, there's, there's different kinds. There's like stouts and nails,
uh, the thing they've heard that I didn't know this, but the thing they've heard, it's like an
ale from a water has to do with the yeast that they used to ferment with, and whether it's on the
top or the bottom. Um, it's interesting stuff, but I was like quarter, you should really kind of
dart, yeah, like stouts or like that. Stouts, um, I love these begins. Um, well, the darker color
I don't know, I don't think it really grossed the hops, so give them the lighter grooves too,
but it just depends, like, I don't know, I'm not a big, like right now, IPAs, it's really
popular to say, and I just don't like it. I don't like bittery hops at the end. It makes it,
it's one of the reasons that really bitter flavor is just, which is weird because you think I'd
like the bitter flavor because I like stouts, but I don't understand either. It's just like,
I think it's stouts, like if they're really done right, like you don't, you don't taste the bitter.
Yeah. It is, it like tastes dark, but not bitter, and that's kind of hard, it's hard to describe.
Yeah, I think it's really good. There's a, uh, it's weird to, um, if you take it again, it's like,
I like the extra stouts better than the stout, because to me, the regular stout takes a little flat,
and if you get to extra stouts and, um, and pour them into a glass, because I don't know what it is.
I suspect it has something to do with the weight, it washes back over the, yeah, at all time,
and it gets all the taste buds, but I can be completely wrong about that, I don't know, but
it does seem to change the flavor profile for it into a glass, it's supposed to drink it out of the bottle.
Well, a lot of very flavor comes through here, since it smells running in here.
So you drink beer, and it tastes bitter, but like, unless you're actually smelling, you don't get the full
effect to it. And some say that, depending on the shape of the glass, it's going to affect it.
Like, uh, do you get your health as I'm there? Yeah, well, there's one, there's fancy beer, and I was like,
with whole garden or something like that, and it was like, uh, it had this weird,
floral bouquet, it smelled of flowers, and they suggest it put in like an hexagon of glass,
so when you kind of, you know, sift it, you're going to stir it around, it creates, like,
these vortexes off like the sides of the glass, it really stirred up the bouquet, and it was so
slow. You know, when you're drinking a beer that they recommend, you know, walk shape of glass,
you know, you know, you know how, when I was in the back of the moon, it was so pretentious. Yeah, beer,
good stuff. All right, I don't know where we're at, we're at 40 minute mark, we should probably call
it a day, later. I mean, I just talked about, uh, talk about open source products, but you may
want to split in just a couple of open source beer. You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that release the shows every week
day, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR
listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our
contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital
Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binref.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
