Episode: 2702
Title: HPR2702: Audacity set up and response to episode 2658
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2702/hpr2702.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:43:38

---

This is HPR Episode 2,700 and titled, on Acity Setup, and Response to Episode 2,658.
It is hosted by Tony Hume K810H1212 and is about two minutes long, and carries a clean flag.
The summary is just a quick response to Episode 2,658.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi guys and girls, in HPR Land, this is Tony Hume's in Blackpool in the UK, back for another show.
I normally talk about my own stuff, but while it is related to what I've been doing lately,
this is a response to Alan Owl's interview with Dave in episode 2658,
and how this two-settle podacity to record nadi audio for the best sound quality and podcasting.
For those of you who aren't now, I've recently joined the Mintcast podcast team,
and have been editing and doing the post-production of the audio recording for the last couple of
episodes, so that the information that Dave provided during the show was invaluable in helping me
in this task. After all, I also give out a shout to Rob, the previous host, who's also spent an hour and
a half giving us a tutorial on post-production workflow, but the additional information given by Dave
in the show was also a big help. So as a result, I've now purchased a boom arm and pop filter for
my mic to reduce any artifacts in the recording, although this is still attached to my desk,
and I think I might need to invest in a shop mount at some time, although I'm not sure how it
will attach to the current boom arm. Oh well, that's a problem for another day. As I say, this was
just a quick shout out to Alan Dave to say thanks for the show, and I'm going to save it for another day
to do a show on my own post-production workflow on the Mintcast audio. So this is Tony Hughes,
saying goodbye for now, and I'll see you all down the road. A future episode. Thanks very much,
bye, just a quick PS today and Ken. Yes, I do owe you another show. See you around, bye.
You've been listening to Hecopublic Radio at HecopublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. HecopublicRadio was founded by
the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at
binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
