Episode: 2413
Title: HPR2413: personal health care
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2413/hpr2413.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:30:04

---

This in HPR episode 2413 entitled Personal Health Care.
It is hosted by BitHox and in about 6 minutes long, and carrying an exquisite flag.
The summary is wherein BitHox discover and gain fat, and can no longer find his feet.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasToast.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at AnanasToast.com.
Hi, my name is BitBox, this is kind of off the cuff.
Recently listened to the episodes by DeepGeek, Lost in Bronx, Clad 2, talking about exercise.
What a timely episode that was.
So I got on the scale the other day, looked down and saw the numbers 253.
That's the highest number I've ever seen on a scale, so I decided it's time to do something
about it.
My mother's a nurse, and years ago she sent me down one of those automatic blood pressure
cuffs, I popped that on, and of course I had never used it, or at least not much and
not recently, popped that on, blood pressure is 130 or 85, any good.
So anyway, I've instituted daily walking, doing some mild diet changes, trying to cut
down on salt, increased vegetable intake, cut out carbs, I'm not going to do anything
to meat, I think my protein intake is okay, going to leave the fats alone because there's
some studies out there now that cutting fats out of your diet is problematic.
So I'm going to leave that alone, I've started eating steel cut oats, I've had them
for a while, but I haven't been eating them, I'll be looking into, I have a few dumbbells
at the house, I'll be looking into doing either some work with them, just them, I think I
have 10 and 20 pound dumbbells at the house, I'm not a real big guy, well okay, I'm six
foot one, and apparently I am a real big guy right now at 253 pounds, that's ridiculous,
but a prime body weight for me I think was somewhere around 190, 195 pounds for my height
and build.
That's back when I was in shape, physically muscle wise, I was smoking like a chimney at
the time, a lot of my weight gain came immediately following quitting smoking about five, six
years ago, I had smoked for 30 years, I'm an over the road truck driver, so it's a heavy
chain smoking habit there, you know, you're going down the road and anything you do, reach
for a cup of coffee, open the truck door, get in the truck, get out of the truck, stop
the truck, start the truck, have a conversation on the radio, the other hands are reaching
for the cigarettes, sitting on the dashboard, and it wasn't unusual for me to, well my minimum
would be a cart in a week, which is over a pack a day, sometimes, some days I'd clear
two packs a day.
I did up quit and smoking because of fear, waking up at four o'clock in the morning, coughing,
couldn't breathe, couldn't get air into my lungs, this one on for 10, 15 minutes of coughing
and gasping, very, very scary, uncomfortable feeling, and as soon as I did start to clear
up and get some air back into my lungs, I found myself reaching for the cigarettes again
to calm myself down and had, what do they call it, a chakabuku, where, you know, the sudden
moment of enlightenment, of understanding, where I realized this is nuts, I can't breathe,
but I'm reaching for a cigarette, so I crumpled up the pack and I threw them away, and that
was the last cigarette that I had, I had tried Nicoderm CQ, which did help, it cut down
on my smoking, but when I got to the end of the regimen, I went back to smoking, you
know, I would sneak a cigarette here, sneak a cigarette there, before I knew it, you
know, or before long I was able to just fight on myself, you know, talk myself back into
just smoking on a regular basis, oh, what the hell, I'm just smoking anyway, why not just
go back to smoking normally, so none of the traditional methods worked for me, fear and
cold turkey, they worked, I guess maybe that's what's motivating this most recent, another
chakabuku, I guess, another revelation, you know, looking down at the scale and seeing
253.5 pounds, and then putting on a blood pressure cuff and sitting at rest having done no exercise,
my blood pressure being 130 over 85, again, another peak for me, the highest I've had it
measured yet, so started tracking everything, tracking my diet, tracking when I exercise
at the moment, I'm just doing a walking, I'll be adding stretching to that, I'm going
to have to work at it and figure out how to do all this, yeah, okay, I just looked
check the recorder to make sure it was actually recording, not still paused, and as I said,
I'll be looking into doing some free weights there, I'm not looking to get huge, which is the
impression I got listening to deep geek there was, he gained quite a bit of muscle mass, I would
like to put on a little bit of muscle mass, but I'm not looking to get real big, I just want to
increase the amount of muscle to fat ratio, so that, or changed muscle to fat ratio, so that I'm
burning more calories and faster, who knows, maybe I'll get to liking it, you know, and I'll be
looking for the V-tour zone and the big shoulders, well, I don't know, it's never been a thing of mine,
but people change, right? So, more later, this has been Bitbox, yeah, signing off.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. HECCA Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
