Episode: 2279
Title: HPR2279: The first Intel CompuStick sound fix with LUbuntu
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2279/hpr2279.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:45:24

---

This is HPR episode 2,279 entitled The First Intel CompuStic Sound Fix with L-Roon 2.
It is hosted by A.W.B. and is about 5 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is a quick podcast about sound with L-Roon 2.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good day, welcome to my podcast.
My name is JWP and I try to contribute sometimes to hacker public radio.
Today I work on podcasting from my Intel CompuStic and I had a podcast about this before the CompuStic and I had gotten it to work fine with the HDMI and the hotel but I was having some real issues with it being a normal desktop kind of thing.
As a backup to my work laptop and at work now we use Office 365 a lot and so it doesn't really matter if you have a good Firefox browser.
Office 365 works great and I even tried some of the Skype beta on the web and it worked well too.
But what I was having real difficulties with was that I couldn't really do anything with sound and again because I only have one gigabyte on my entry level stick.
I try to keep it really really slow and so Audacity took up a huge 80 gigabytes of space on that one gigabyte stick and I had to mess around with post audio.
Also so it the Ubuntu doesn't come with post audio and in order to get any kind of like change the HDMI or any kind of graphical thing where I'm not switching on the command line or looking up strange stuff that I could break the system with.
The thing I read you know I typed it in and it came to a site called My Little Space and they had a June 3rd 2014 article about connecting your freshly installed Ubuntu 1404.
Of course I of course have Ubuntu 1604 installed and so they just said that basically I had installed this post audio which is PA VU control so so to update install PA VU control and then right click on the speaker icon but I didn't have a speaker icon so it took me a while to figure it out.
I finally got it I finally got it going okay and this small space dot com guy he does a he does a lot of stuff with with the Ubuntu but it all seems to be from 2014 so but still it seemed to work fine.
So after I got got the icon installed on the panel it was just a very easy right click and then go to volume control settings and then everything was there and as a as an example I used only thing that would be in my work back.
So my I use a plotronics headset a lot of work dual dual earphone thing with a microphone thing that I sort of carry around with me it's a little bulky but it I mean it does skype meetings and Google Hangouts which 90% that's 90% of my job and so really really great and I'm recording on it now.
And of course it didn't want to play any sound at all before the post audio was installed so I would bring up a Humphrey Bullguard movie on the have on the the micro SD card on this little computer and then it would break down or wouldn't play unless I was connected to a TV at the hotel room and now it seems to work fine with the headset.
So if you have a a Intel stick or you're running the Ubuntu and you have a sound problems install post audio and it should work up fine.
It should work up fine and and I may do a rebuild and try to do it with mate with mate but Ubuntu seems like it might be the the lightest and I can have four or five tabs and Firefox now and I'm still talking to you.
Just just fine. Alright again thank you so much for your time and my name is JWP and we'll see you next time.
You all be safe out there in the big city. Thank you. Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like OR shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binwave.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, free dot o license.
Thank you.
