Episode: 2500
Title: HPR2500: What's In My Podcatcher 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2500/hpr2500.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:10:51

---

This is HBR Episode 2,500 and titled, What's in my podcatcher 3 and in part of the series,
podcatcher recommendations.
It is hosted by AYUKA and in about 21 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is a current report with description of the podcats I enjoy.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is AYUKA, welcoming you to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
What I want to do today is I want to finish off the discussion that I've had about what's in my podcast player.
As you may have guessed by now, I do listen to a lot of podcasts, but I think we can wrap it up today.
So I'm going to start with something called No Guitar is Safe.
This is hosted by a fellow named Jude Gold, who is himself a working professional guitar player,
has played with groups like Jefferson Starship and is also an editor at Guitar Player Magazine.
What this is about is very simply he will sit down for like an hour and a half with a well-known guitar player of some sort.
We're talking about people like Tommy Emanuel and Joe Satriani and so on.
James Valentine, Brad Gillis. That's a lot of good people.
Now I kind of like this because I used to play guitar myself, not anywhere near that level, but I've always enjoyed guitar music.
And it's kind of fun to hear all of these guitarists talk about how they do it and what they do.
Now the next one I want to talk about is something called Planetary Radio.
I am a member of the Planetary Society. Space has always been an interest of mine and the Planetary Society does this podcast.
There is a weekly podcast about what's going on in Space Science.
And then once a month they do what they call Space Policy Edition.
Now Space Policy is looking at U.S. government policy really. It's very U.S. centric.
But you know NASA is kind of one of the leading forces out there, although it is nice to see other countries get involved.
So if you have an interest in space, this is something that you might find interesting.
And I think that was actually when I mentioned that, that's what started all of this.
I put a comment to Dave Morris saying, hey, this might be something you would like.
And Ken said, I want a podcast. I want to show. She's very like that.
Then next one is revisionist history. Interesting one. Malcolm Gladwell, who is a fairly well known author, decided to do this podcast.
And you know revisionist history is actually very good description because what he does is he takes stories that we, you know, may have known about for 40, 50, 60 years.
And we thought we understood. And then he digs into it and comes back and says, you know, it's not really what you thought it was.
Now he's done two seasons of this. And each season seems to consist of, you know, 10 or 12 shows. And then, you know, he takes a little bit of a break before coming back for the next season.
So, you know, he finished off the first season in August of 2016, came in in May of 2017 and finished in August of 2017.
You know, basically during the season, it's weekly. So it's a very interesting one.
The next one is revolutions. And this is by the same fellow I might dunk and I think the name is who did the history of Rome podcast that I've already talked about.
And this one is about various revolutions. And, you know, I really enjoy what he does. And anything about history is probably going to be fine with me.
And this is another one of the history related podcasts that I follow.
Then there's Science Friday. Science Friday is a radio program here in the United States. It's on public radio.
It's going on for decades hosted by I Reflato. And what is happening is that they're sort of moving into the podcast thing.
So what they're taking the radio show, they're also offering it as a podcast.
And then, you know, requesting some support. And this is something I've always wanted to be able to take advantage of. So, of course, I provide a little financial support for it.
So this is two hours, once every Friday. But when they take out the station breaks and everything, each hour turns into more like about 45 minutes.
So, you know, this is good because they frequently what they try to do is they bring on the actual scientists and talk to them about the research they're doing that may have been in the news or some event in the news that there's a scientific angle to they'll bring on some professional scientists to talk about it.
Another one that is science oriented is from scientific American science talk. And that is kind of irregular.
You know, generally speaking, they might have one show a month unless there's something more. So, for instance, when the Nobel prizes come out, you know, they'll do a show about each one of the
Nobel science prizes. So, you might get four shows, five shows in a row that way.
But, you know, it's good. These are usually 20, 30 minutes at most. And it's from science American, scientific American. So, it's pretty good.
They also have something called the scientific American 60 Second Science that I also subscribe to. Maybe more than, you know, maybe there'll be 120 seconds, you know, they might want to take two minutes.
And it's just some little tidbit, something that's in the news that they want to just let you know about some new scientific result. And, you know, it's only a minute.
But that might come out three, four times a week.
Then there's security now. Security now is Steve Gibson. It's on the Twitter network.
And, you know, it's about what's happening in security. And this is on my never miss list.
Because, as you probably know, I have an interest in computer security. I'm not a professional.
It's an amateur hobby for me, but it's something I'm interested in. So, I never missed that show.
Then there's a podcast called Sherlock Holmes Triples. And this is by the same people who do, I hear of Sherlock everywhere, which I've already mentioned.
And that I hear of Sherlock everywhere was like a twice a month long form thing.
This is once a week for, you know, 10, 12 minutes, something like that.
Taking just one little thing about the Sherlock Holmes cannon and saying, oh, let's talk about that a little bit.
You know, maybe, you know, particular detail, you know, that appeared in one of the stories.
And, you know, let's dig into that a little bit. And I'm a big Sherlock Holmes fan.
So, it's something that I enjoy.
Next is a podcast called Something About the Beatles.
I'm a big Beatles fan, too. So, this was a podcast by two fairly well-known writers in the area, Richard Buskin and Robert Rodriguez.
And apparently they had something of a falling out. And Robert Rodriguez ended up carrying on for a few more shows.
And so, we'll see what goes on with this. Richard Buskin came back with another show that I'll get to in a moment.
And I always enjoyed it. So, you know, it would be a good hour, little over an hour, really.
And they would just talk about, you know, like a particular album or some theme, you know, every show had a theme of some kind.
All right. The next podcast I want to talk about is Sophos Security. And they have a series of security podcasts, kind of irregular.
At one point, they were trying to crank them out weekly. And that just wasn't happening. So, you know, they might put out two or three weekly ones in a row and then go silent for a couple of months.
Yeah, you know, with podcasts like that, I usually just leave them in my G-Potter because, you know, something does show up, it's worth getting.
And so, they might, and these are pretty short, too. These Sophos ones are usually about 15 minutes. So, you know, it doesn't take a huge amount of time out of your life.
Then their Star Talk radio with Neil deGrasse Tyson, who is kind of a science celebrity. He's the director of the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History.
He was the host of the remake of Cosmos, the series that was originally done by Carl Sagan.
It's always kind of a science celebrity. And this is a weekly program about, it's one of those things that combines science and comedy, basically.
And that's perhaps an odd combination. But, you know, it's kind of, in that sense, it's kind of similar to the Infinite Monkey Cage from the BBC, which is also science and comedy.
So, what happens on Star Talk is that Neil will have a comedian co-host, frequently someone like Chuck Nice, or, you know, Leanne Lord, or, you know, so he's got three or four different people that he has on his co-host.
And then every once in a while, he's not on. And so someone like Bill Nye will substitute as the host. But it's usually an enjoyable discussion about science.
The next one I want to mention is something called Swinging Through the Sixties, a pop culture podcast. And this is the one that Richard Busken, who used to be part of that something about the Beatles, got involved in.
And this looks like, roughly every other week or so, they'll crank out and usually about a couple of hours long podcasts. So, it's long, but if it's something you enjoy, why not?
And, you know, I grew up with all of that 60 stuff. I'm now 66 years old, and so this is enjoyable to me. If you're one of the young punks out there, it probably doesn't mean anything to you at all.
And then, similar vein, things we said today, which is another Beatles podcast, and that has Ken Williams, Alan Cosen, Steve Marayuchi, Maranucci, whatever.
And just about a half hour or so discussion about something. So, recent shows, they've done things like Compare Stereo versus Mono recordings, or let's go back and look at George Harrison's All Things Must Pass album and stuff like that.
The next one in my alphabetical march is this week in Google, another Twitch network show, Leo Laporte, Jeff Jarvis, and Stacey Higgin-Batham, are the regulars. And then they'll frequently have some other people come on.
So, you know, Kevin Marx is on there frequently. And so it basically, they say the title is this week in Google, but it's more like this week in social media generally.
So, it's not just Google, they'll be talking about Alexa or Twitter or, you know, whatever is in the news.
And then, similarly, is the one that started the whole Twitch network this week in tech. And, you know, that one is about, you know, probably an hour and a half to two hours long each week.
And I usually listen to it. There is one person that Leo tends to bring on as a guest that just makes my teeth great.
And so, if a fellow called Odocta is one of the people, I will probably just delete it and move on, because I can't stand the person.
But otherwise, yeah, I will usually listen. And the idea is that they're going to have people with generally speaking reporters of the tech industry that they will have on to talk about the week's news.
And another one from the Twitch network that I listen to each week is called Triangulation. And it basically is just an interview show. They'll bring on a guest that they think is doing something interesting.
So, some of the recent people they've had on, they had a fellow Nigel Cameron, who was the author of a book, will robots take your job and talked about that.
They had on Brian Deere talking about the Plato system. And the latest one was Dr. Larry Sanger, who is a co-founder of Wikipedia, and has founded something called Everypedia.
I'm going to interview him about all of that stuff.
Then there's undiscovered, which is from the people at Science Friday. But what it is, it's about how they'll take a particular story and dig into it in more detail.
So, an example of one that I thought was really interesting was a program called Mouses Vineyard. There's an island off the coast of Massachusetts. It's part of Massachusetts. It's called Martha's Vineyard.
But they had a problem with Lyme disease, and they wanted to test some genetic approach to dealing with it, and they wanted to do it on the island.
And really what the program was about was how the scientists decided that what they really needed to do was involve the people who lived there and get their buy-in.
And what were the things they had to do to get that buy-in for something that might have seemed kind of scary if you didn't understand the science.
So, I found it fascinating.
Another one is Welcome to Night Vale. And Welcome to Night Vale is kind of a strange, it is fiction.
It comes out twice a month, and it's kind of a twilight zone, there's comedy, there's horror, you've got the sheriff's secret police and the glow cloud, and it's very bizarre, but I love it.
You know, if you think you're up for something a little bit different, that might be something to try. Welcome to Night Vale.
And it generally not to about 20 minutes in episode. And the interesting setup for all of this is that it's a community radio station, and what you're listening to is the announcer at the radio station talking about what's going on in the town.
So, there's kind of a garrison killer news from like Wobegon aspect to all of this as well.
And, finally, I want to mention one that my friends, the Sunday morning Linux review with Tom Lawrence and Mary and Tony.
It just, you know, it's a wonderful show. And, yeah, oh, Phil, Phil Perotta, I don't want to, he's the newest addition to the show.
And so, that's something I listen to.
It comes out most often once a week, but every once in a while, there's kind of a break because they're all really busy people.
You know, Tom has a business that he's running, Lawrence Technology Services. Phil is now working out, if you're working for the Linux Foundation, I believe.
So, he's actually, I think he's able to work remotely most of the time. So, he hasn't actually moved out to the West Coast, if I remember correctly.
Tony just wrapped up his master's degree and his teaching. So, they've all got a lot of other things going on.
So, if they miss a week or two, I don't hold it against them too much. In fact, one of the things they did to make it easier is they don't actually record every week, but what they would do is they would record two shows.
So, they would record every other week and then do two shows and spread it out that way.
So, that is the conclusion of what is in my particular pod catcher. This is Ahuka, thanking all of you for joining me here on Hacker Public Radio.
And as I always do, encouraging you to support free software. Bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Count and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Light, 3.0 license.
