Episode: 2341
Title: HPR2341: Liverpool Makefest 2017 Show 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2341/hpr2341.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:28:58

---

This is HBR episode 2,341 entitled Liverpool Makefast 2017 Show 3, and is part of the series
Interview.
It is hosted by Tony Huma, Tony H1, 212, and in about 6 minutes long, and Karina Cleanflag.
The summer is a short series of interviews that Liverpool Makefast 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An honest host.com.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio.
This is the third in a series of short interviews that I did at Liverpool Makefast 2017 on the
24th of June this year.
Enjoy.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes from Hacker Public Radio.
Still at Liverpool Makefast 2017, and I've got with me.
David Giverd.
David, would you like to tell me what you're displaying here today?
What we're displaying is furniture made by the students at Studio of Days in Waveretry.
We're a new school for the 15 to 18 range of students.
We make furniture as an extension project.
We're an engineering college.
This is a work experience programme that we've got going for students.
They make furniture from recycled materials.
I can sit in front of me.
I've got a couple of little stools, some benches and various things.
They're all looking very attractive, actually.
These all started life as bunk beds.
That's quite interesting.
The large furniture which we all, they also made, is made from the old beams of derelict houses and scaffolding boards.
That's a really good way of recycling things.
It introduced them to traditional woodwork skills.
Yes, and the opportunity to take pride and responsibility for what they're doing.
Just excuse as well, there's a public announcement.
When I was at school, we used to do things like metalwork and woodwork and things like that.
But that seems to be going off the national curriculum these days.
Is your school kind of an answer to that?
Well, we're an engineering college and fashion and textiles.
We're promoting engineering skills and design and technology woodwork, product design.
These are just some of the projects that the students have taken on.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for telling me a little bit about the project.
If you go to the first floor, you can see some of the full range of furniture made from the beams
and recycled wood.
Thank you.
This is Tony Hughes at Liverpool Make a Vest.
And I've got with me Laura.
And Laura is doing plant synth kits.
Would you tell us a little bit about what it is?
Yes, so I made these kits that use, it's a really simple circuit using a 555 timer to make an oscillator
so that kids can build a circuit using copper tape and materials that don't need soldering.
And then they can attach it to plants and it makes sort of squealy sounds.
And then if you attach a leaf, it makes a different sort of clicky sound.
How about the kids who really love that?
Yeah, they do.
I think it's a tangible way of exploring conductivity.
But it's also a bit silly.
Have you done anything like using bananas and fruit to do a piano?
Yeah, with a makey makey and with a berthens it to touch forward.
My technology is a bit more basic, but you can still get a sound out of banana,
but it wouldn't matter if they're any maker of piano.
So, have you got your own website?
I have, it's a tumbler and it's called tactile electronics.
Okay, well thank you very much.
Thank you.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes at Liverpool Make a Vest.
I'm on the Girl Geeks stand and I've got with me.
Amelia, Beth.
Amelia and Beth, would you like to tell us a little bit about what you do with Girl Geeks?
Well, we were from the first Girl Geeks academy and we learnt to build websites.
So, we both built websites each and we went into a competition, which my website won.
I've got someone who's quite shy here.
He's not really shy, he just said they'll get a good inspiration.
It was really interesting to learn how to make websites because it was something that I'd always been interested in,
but I hadn't really done it before.
So, to look at the technical side of it as well and coding and just general,
it was really cool and fun.
So, what was your website that you designed?
I made a website on how not to make a website because I thought it would be useful to use the advice that we'd been given
and put it in a website to help other people as well.
That sounds really cool actually.
A website on how not to do it.
So, is this website available that people can look at?
It is, but I haven't really updated it much recently.
Do we have any address?
Well, my astronomy website, I use on a frequent basis.
So, my website is majortim.space and it's all about astronomy and astrophysics because I'm absolutely mad about it.
Right, so is that what you want to do when you go to university to do astronomy?
Astrophysics.
Oh, that sounds cool.
So, I'm just going to walk over here and I'm going to talk to Chelsea.
And Chelsea's going to tell me a little bit more about Girl Geeks.
Yeah, so Liverpool Girl Geeks.
We started in 2013 because we wanted to inspire more women to get into technology.
So, we worked with teenagers and adults on a various amount of programs.
We've got the Girl Geek Academy, the Girl Geek Bootcamp.
We've got tech routines.
And they're basically like a range of amazing courses for young girls to inspire them.
So, we do coding, 3D printing, robotics.
We've got a makeup academy coming up.
It's just really exciting.
And we love working with these girls.
So, have you got your own website?
Yeah, it's www.littlegirlgeeks.co.uk
Thank you very much, Chelsea.
And it's really good that you're doing all this great work.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
