Episode: 2572
Title: HPR2572: What's in my tool kit
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2572/hpr2572.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:54:36

---

This in HPR episode 2572 entitled What's in My Toolkit and in part of the series What's in My Toolkit.
It is hosted by Bokuium and is about 6 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is listing on item I carry for daily use.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Support universal access to all knowledge.
Hello Hacker Public Radio.
Bokuium back with you again doing another non-technical episode building my way up to stuff a little bit more advanced.
Today I'm going to do a What's in My Toolkit.
I actually have what I consider to be three toolkits.
Primary is my backpack.
Secondary is a tote with a locking lid that's in the back seat of my pickup truck.
And the third is a toolbox, a locking toolbox in the bed of my pickup truck.
I'll go ahead and start with the backpack because it's got the most in it.
It's one of the older Dell backpack laptop carriers.
It has five pockets with two small side pockets, small front accessory pocket,
medium middle tool pocket, a large main pocket with an interior zippered pocket,
as well as the space to secure a laptop.
The padded laptop section, it's pretty well padded and roomy enough for two slim 15 inch laptops.
I carry on a daily basis an ASUS Z54C with 120 gig solid state drive and four gigs of RAM,
currently running Sabian Linux.
And I also carry Dell 5570 laptop.
I also carry chargers for both laptops, a pair of Sony noise canceling headphones that my wife was nice enough to give me for Christmas.
A Logitech wireless mouse, a mag light LED flash light,
a multi-tip screwdriver with one Phillips and one flat head.
That one's really small enough that it would fit in a shirt pocket,
but I try not to tear up my shirts by putting it on there.
Also a six-tip screwdriver, two Phillips, two flat and two nut driver heads.
I carry a punch down tool for working with pots telephone lines,
a chamois cloth, a folder for paperwork and current tasks,
a one-subject notebook, sorted pens and mechanical pencils,
a wall wart phone charger with two ports, one for my iPhone that's issued by my employer,
and one for my Android phone that's my personal phone.
Of course a USB micro USB cable and a lightning USB cable to charge either one or both,
two 6-inch Velcro tie straps, a 15-foot Ethernet patch cable, a 10-foot Ethernet patch cable,
a 7-foot, a 5-foot, and two 3-foot Ethernet patch cables.
I also carry a 6-inch Ethernet patch cable.
I carry a laptop blocking cable, so if I'm ever out in public,
I need to just step away, but I don't want to close down and pack up my laptop from Kensington.
A USB to Ethernet adapter, a 6-foot HDMI cable,
a display port to DVI adapter, my digital voice recorder,
it's a little generic, I think I paid $9 for it off of eBay,
and if you listen to my previous episode, you'll note the sound quality isn't the greatest,
but it serves a purpose, allows me to take audible notes.
Portable power packs, less charger, that was a gimmie from Wired Magazine subscription,
two 16-gig USB thumb drives, one blank, and one that's loaded with portable apps tools,
including Libra Office and Wireshark.
A 6-foot power strip and search protector is actually carried in the locking tote,
in the back seat of my truck, reading glasses in my backpack,
alcohol prep wipes in my backpack, a handful of latex gloves,
band aids, a bottle of excedrin, and migraine medications for just in emergencies.
Also in the box in the back seat of my truck, I carry a 10-foot telephone cord,
an analog telephone, a printed style for testing phone connections,
three spare USB keyboards, and one spare two PS2 keyboard, two USB mice,
two more 6-foot DVID cables, and adjustable wrench, a pair of pliers,
a pair of needle-nose pliers, craftsman precision screwdriver set, and an exacto knife set.
In the toolbox in the bed of my truck, I carry a socket set, two or three ratchet straps at any given time,
a 50-foot cotton bond rope, half-inch diameter, and a 50-foot nylon ¼-inch diameter rope,
a 7-foot-by-8-foot medium-weight tarp, a fluke number 117-multimeter,
and a fluke link runner AT-1000, also carry a toner probe, a machete, jumper cables,
and an analog lineman's butt set, it's a Harris TS-30.
It's been a very reliable, although at this point, aging butt set for testing pots lines.
That's pretty much what I carry with me on a daily basis, as I travel around the
other regions of southwest and central Virginia, I'll tune in at another day.
Thanks for listening, have a great day.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
