Episode: 2206
Title: HPR2206: Podcasts I Listen To
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2206/hpr2206.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:43:58

---

This is HPR episode 2,206 entitled, podcast-cilycental, and in part on the series, podcast-recommendations.
It is hosted by first-time post-reader and in about 16 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is, current podcast-cilycental on my Android devices.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hello, my name is Ridge, and I'm going to do a podcast.
This is HBR, about the podcast I'm currently listening to, no particular order or category.
So let's start off right now.
First one is SystemA U. It's a couple of guys from Australia, Nick and Dan, talking
about Linux, Linux news, distros, whatever, involves Linux, and their trials and tribulations
are trying to use Linux in Australia.
They also play some music from Australia bands.
These guys, I like them, they seem to take a mantle up from the Linux outlaw guys after
their podcasts ended.
They're very funny, they're irreverent, but I like them.
Next podcast is the accidental tech podcast.
It's three guys mostly talking about Apple stuff, but it's Marco Armett, Casey Liss, and
John Syracusa.
You probably heard of Marco Armett from Tumblr fame, he also does a lot of big apps for
the iOS device, John Syracusa, he used to do intensive articles on the Macintosh computers.
They're all computer programmers, they know what they're talking about.
I don't particularly own any Apple products, but they're interesting, and they just tell
you what they think about Apple.
It's not one of those love fests with Apple.
They don't like it, they'll tell you about it, but they're interesting people.
Next podcast I listen to is Android Central.
It's from the Android Central website.
Three guys giving you their opinions about Android software and Android devices, cell phones,
tablets, watches, whatever, whatever they happen to be using at the moment.
Bleed TV is the next podcast, it's Jake, Cash, Zach, and Larissa, I call them the good
old boys and the lady, from Texas and Louisiana.
They talk about their favorite shows, currently they've reviewed Game of Thrones, Westworld,
Walking Dead, Vikings, Mr. Robot, or whatever is hot, and they like it.
This one is common sense with Dan Carlin, and the Dan Carlin Hardcore history.
I like this podcast, these two podcasts, especially the Hardcore history, because Dan Carlin
takes a deep dive into a subject and time and place in history, and he'll give you all
kinds of information.
But the thing you must be warned about is his Hardcore history podcast can be up to five
hours long.
His common sense podcast, he talks about current topics that affect the world.
You might not like his opinions, but it's informative.
And the next podcast is the HPR, wouldn't be here without him, so when for HPR I wouldn't
be doing this, so hats off to HPR.
Podcast is not very politically correct, I can't believe this shit, it shouldn't curse,
so I can't believe this shit, let's say that.
It's re-tept, a big deed just sitting around and BS about whatever comes to their mind.
Like I said, it's not politically correct, I call it two cave men having a laugh and
a beer.
The next podcast is a sports podcast called Jalen and Jacobi.
Jalen Rose, he's a former NBA player, and former member of the Fab5 University of Michigan
basketball team.
I don't know if anybody remembers him from the early 1990s, well, they went to the NCAA basketball
finals twice, but then it was found out that members of the team were taking kickbacks
from alumni.
And Jalen Rose eventually went on to be an NBA player for 12, 13 years, he wasn't bad,
he was a good player, he played for four or five different teams.
And the other host is David Chikobi.
And they just talk about the current sports topics, they also have a show on ESPN.
Another show is Last Men on Earth, it's another one of those cave men's shows, not politically
correct either.
It's two goos sitting around in a restaurant drinking beer and shooting a bull, it's Lex
Jurgen and Matt Ralston.
One of my favorites is Lennox Luddites.
I call them three cranky old dudes that are stuck in their Lennox ways.
They dish out good Lennox info, what they're using, what they've tried.
It's Joe Patti and Jesse.
And of course, you can't forget, we got to have no agenda with Adam Carey and John
C. DuVorek.
They say they dissect the news twice per week, but a lot of people say they're just crazy,
two crazy dudes trying to find a conspiracy and everything.
Next podcast is PTI, Tony Cornheiser and Michael Wilbaugh, they're from ESPN, they have
a show, PTI, it's been on ESPN for almost 15, 16 years and they take a point counterpoint
type of attitude towards their views on the daily happenings in sports, it's pretty
good.
I listen to the podcast when I can't watch the show on ESPN.
Here's another history podcast I listen to, I like it very much, it's stuff you missed
in history class.
There's two ladies, Tracy Wilson and Holly Fri, they work for How Stuff Works as a writer
and editor and they give short history lessons on historical occurrence, on a specific
small historical occurrence.
They don't do a deep dive like Dan Carlin, it's about 20 or 30 minutes and that's it,
give it to you quick and fast.
Another TV podcast I like a lot is TV, talking TV with Ryan and Ryan, it's two hosts or
Marine Ryan, she's a TV critic from Variety Magazine and Ryan McGee, who is a freelance
TV critic and they talk about the current state of affairs and TV and Hollywood and entertainment
topics.
It's about 60 minutes long and they do it once every week or once every other week.
Another show, another podcast I like is Television Zombies, it's about four friends from the
DC area, Washington DC area, husband and wife for a couple of their friends, talking
about mostly science fiction and fantasy TV, it's about hour long.
We can't forget the Linux League tech show, they've been around a long time, one of the
longest, I've been listening to them for years and years, four friends from the Midwest and
then they have rich flying rich down in Florida or wherever he's working at the moment and
a couple of other guys and they tell you what they've been up to after work, they all
work in computers and Linux and Microsoft, systems admins, you might get a topic from
Dan each week where he talks about what he's doing at his work and he'll tell you exactly
what he had to do to get a job completed, a project done and they're just interesting.
They talk about Linux, this current state of affairs with computing, what they like and
if they don't want to talk about computing, they talk about hunting and fishing and shooting
and flying and anything else, but they're all Linux professionals and they're just
hanging out, just a couple of few guys just hanging out every week, it's amazing how
long they've been doing this.
Now I have another Apple Century show, it's the talk show with John Gruber, you might know
of him from the daring fireball.
He talks about Apple as a guest, he's a podcast run about two to and a half hours and
what he doesn't want to talk about Apple or iOS devices or anything, he talks about baseball,
Star Wars and Star Trek.
Like I said, I don't have any Apple devices but it's just an interesting podcast, if you
like anything about computers, you should like daring fireball with John Gruber.
Then Tony Cornheiser is back, Tony Cornheiser, when he wasn't doing ESPN with Michael Wilbaugh,
he was also been a sports writer, he started in the early 70s in New York writing, he worked
for the New York Times, this was sports writer, then he moved down to DC and worked for the
Washington Post, there's a sports writer, then he got a radio show in the early 1990s
on a local radio station.
Earlier this year he decided he wanted to be in control of what he does and so he decided
to end his radio show and he became a podcaster.
He's all cranky dude, he doesn't know anything about technology, he relies on his son, Michael
to keep him up to date, tell him about stuff with computers and his Apple devices that he
uses but they talk about sports and life topics, films, they get film reviews, politics, news
of the weird and just whatever Tony Cornheiser is interested in.
Lechee's are all you little's out there, then I have another TV podcast called TV Campfire
podcast, it's four or five people out in California, they're TV bloggers or I think one of them
is a professor at a small college in LA and he teaches stuff about TV industry in Hollywood.
Another one, the main host, she's a film editor and she has worked on a lot of the shows
that are currently on TV now and in the past and they just talk about their favorite shows
for about 30 minutes and what they've seen, what they thought about it, you know just
the general breakdown, just four or five people just sitting around talking and then we
have TV talk machine, TV talk machine is with Tim Goodman, he's a critic from the Hollywood
reporter, very informative, knows a lot about the business, been in the business a long
time and his co-host is Jason Snell, you probably know Jason Snell from Macworld and MacUser
magazine and websites but they don't talk computers, they talk about TV and the current
topics in the TV industry, very interesting and it's only about 30 minutes also and the
last podcast I listen to, the last couple of podcasts I listen to I should say and what
is TV times three podcasts and it's with three TV bloggers and any guests they could bring
along and drag you in and they talk about their favorite shows from the previous weeks and
they give recommendations of what you can watch DVDs you might want to buy or whatever
but they come out every week once a week and finally we can't forget the Boutu podcast
it used to be called in Boutu UK podcast you know all the gang we all you hear a lot of them
from other podcasts and they're in the UK and there's nothing else I can say. Everybody might
think that's a lot of podcasts for one person to listen to well it is a lot of podcasts for one
person to consume but I'm retired, been retired for 20 years I live by myself I do what I want
and so I got plenty of time on my hands but I'm not watching Netflix or Acorn TV or Hulu or
Amazon I'm listening to podcasts or reading a book and so I got plenty of time and a lot of
the podcasts I listen to I listen to them when I get ready to go to sleep and when I'm sleeping I
might not remember the next day what I had playing while I was sleeping and so I get up and replay
those but that's how I do it and the Android app I use to listen to all these podcasts is Podkicker Pro
you can find it in the Google Play Store it costs about $3 but they do have a free version
but the free version comes with ads I don't know why in particular I picked that podcast years ago
that Podkicker app years ago it's just something that I've been using and I paid the $3 because I
didn't want to see the ads and I just keep transferring it from device device it does what I need
what more can you say if you like something you use it so that's it those are the podcasts I
listen to everybody have a good one and let's choose a read you've been listening to Hacker
Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org we are a community podcast network that release
the shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows was contributed by
an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our
contributing to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com
if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on
creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
