Episode: 2673
Title: HPR2673: Urandom - Ohio Linux Fest 2-18 Podcaster Roundtable
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2673/hpr2673.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:20:47

---

This is HBR Episode 2673 entitled Your Random Ohio Linux Fest 2-Shading Podcast Around Table.
It is hosted by Ajara and in about 34 minutes long and Karima next visit flag.
The summary is The Your Random Crew Danes the Podcast and at Ohio Linux Fest for a chat.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio. I'm Lyle. I have with me Taj.
What's good everybody? And we are bringing you a special multi podcast round up we did this year
at Ohio Linux Fest 2018 in Columbus Ohio. We had folks from the Sunday Morning Linux Review,
Linux Logcast, U-Random and Hacker Public Radio. Obviously. There were laughs, tears,
awkward silences which you probably won't hear and a damn good time. So I would encourage you all
to give it a listen and check out everybody's podcasts. I know everybody works hard to
put out their shows, come to cons like this, meet people, have stuff to say and generally have a good
time. Check for links for everybody's shows and the show notes. Yes, links and show notes.
It is recording. Thanks for the warning.
Now we have two streams of evidence. Well, just just just don't cross those streams. Yeah.
Well, it's like, you know, something happens to me. Tony's my dead man's wedge. He's got the
evidence. You random special episode 29.5 for October 15th 2018. What do I do with my hands?
Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to a special Ohio Linux Fest 2018 episode of U Random. We have
quite the cast of characters with us tonight, including Taj. What's good, everybody? We have
Ahuka. Hello. Tony. Is this Tony? We've got 5150.
Howdy folks. Welcome to the Sunday morning Hacker.
You know, you random. All the people are here. We've got a podcaster round table without the
table. And it's more like a triangle, really, but yeah, but we couldn't have had all the audio
set up. That's true. That would have been more difficult to set up. Taj may have brought
half a studio with him. No, that's just not happening. This is enough. No, no, no, no. I was
implying that this was half your studio, but that's not accurate. Not even close.
I have lots and lots of audio equipment. Well, our past lives do follow us around. Yes.
So how's everyone enjoying the weekend so far?
Great. Yeah, wonderful.
Yeah, it is. Yeah, you guys could get a little closer, but I can turn it up. It's not that big of you.
Yeah, should people did not come? Poke should have come. We're having a head talk.
Poke doesn't fly. Unfortunately, that's like his, his thing. So he's, he's not allowed to be here.
Yeah. We kept up the tradition going to beat us.
Very not. Beaties. Yeah, the Mongolian place. Yeah, for sure.
That was an experience I'd never had Mongolian barbecue. It's delicious.
I mean, it's just a bunch of things I already liked cooked on a round cast iron grill. So,
I mean, it was delicious. It was just a style of cooking that I'd never seen with swords.
You forgot the with swords. You're right with swords, which makes everything cooler.
Yes. And tastes better. I don't know about that. The cooler part, definitely.
So did anybody learn anything like super cool yet? I know, I know we did from a production
standpoint. We've been picking brains on, like, improve the workflow for the show.
Talked to a gentleman by the name of, I believe it was Josh Plum. Jason, Jason Plum. Thank you.
From GitLab on, I forget how the conversation came up, but he heard us talking about our current
deployment process. And he's like, you can do all of that with GitHub workflows or GitLab workflows
much more easily. So guess what I'm going to be working on at some point, along with, like,
other projects we have going on. We also learned that hotel Wi-Fi is a pain in the ass.
Well, hotel Wi-Fi is a pain in the ass if you're trying to spend, like,
VMs and run servers on hotel Wi-Fi. Let's keep it in perspective.
Okay, you're not wrong. Rarely, I might ever.
All I want is a T1. Is that too much to ask?
Well, what was the talk we were in where they were talking about, like, they have T,
they run the railroad runs data transmissions through the rail lines at T1 speed.
And I'm like, yeah, I'm like, how do I hack that? Where do I have to tap into the rail line to get
that? Must have been the only talk you went to without me because I don't remember.
It was the home brew, I think. No, because I was in the home brew one.
Maybe it was the Raspberry Pi. It must have been the Raspberry Pi one because I was busy in a
Vem talk. Yeah. That I really wanted to crash. But then I found out that rail lines have T1 speed.
So I guess it was worth it. So the trains move at T1 speeds or that would not happen.
Well, it was cool because he was talking about, like, they can actually track the impedance
of the track to figure out where it's severed. Like, by just checking that, I was like,
that's so simple and so brilliant that most good ideas are the trains themselves communicate
through the wheels through the trail, the rails all the way back to the station. And then that's how
they know, you know, where the trains are at any time. They go throughout, you know, and changing the
rail lines and whatnot. Are we getting Tony? Yeah. Okay. I'm like, we're going to the side of the
mic here. They're dynamic mics. They don't work very well over here. But that's okay. Well,
sorry about that. Talk into the mic, Tony. Talk into the mic.
Yeah, you can move it. That's fine. There we go. Well, at that point, you kind of all are
almost into the cone. Yeah. So it should pick you guys up pretty well. All right.
If not, I'll just boost you like two insane levels and it'll work. I will fix it in post this
time. I promise. I think that this is a special enough case that there's going to be some post
to fix. Yeah, live recordings are always a little trickier to manage. It's not as simple as
because the beginning off got the end off. Call it good. Find a good joke. Compress it. And yeah,
find a good joke. Put it at the beginning. It's done. Yeah. For sure. With the three of us over here,
I have a sudden urge to do harmony and dance. That's going to say we look like a really strange 70s
bluegrass band. I think this is a you random exclusive.
I'm kind of scared of what that sounds like, but I'm still vaguely curious. That's what you don't
know. Just like you said, people don't want to see your face. Nobody wants to hear me sing.
No, they probably don't want to hear me sing either. So you're not alone in that count.
So yeah, that's that's cool stuff I learned so far. I went to a couple talks that were
interesting. We went to the lazy siss admin talk, which was awesome because the guy didn't even show
up. He was like teleconferencing in. And I'm like, this is exactly what it says on the 10 line.
This guy didn't even show up. It's amazing. So that was fun. That was fun. Then we did the
get one today, which was kind of like how to how to get how to set up get lab. Yeah. And I guess
I already knew it all, but well, it was super funny because the guy from get lab was not the one
giving that talk. He was answering all the questions. All of the guy giving the talk didn't actually
know. I mean, he did a good job doing the talk. Yeah, I mean, it was the thing he was there to talk
about. He did a good job. But someone had a question of how do I do this? And he would kind of
you do this and this and this. And he finally towards the end. He's like, oh, you actually work
for get lab. That's why that's why you know all the answers to this. So I want to halfway through
that presentation. Was he actually showing like a self hosted? Yes. Yeah. I think he set it up
in one of the cloud hosting services, but he had already done the install prior to
and just did a what did he call it? Ask his cinema? Yeah, which was kind of cool. I'd never seen
that before. I want that. I'm going to be using that for something. It's like a YouTube where you
can do command line things, but in the video, you can reach up and like copy and paste lines
from the video. So it's like, I don't know how they're doing it, but it's kind of interesting.
So like if somebody runs a command, you know, what was it? It was like curl this and then
pseudo bash it and like everybody face bombed in the room. You should totally do that. So you
could just do that from the video, which is kind of cool. He was just being helpful. Yeah. Yeah,
for sure. I had one. I think it was last year of the year before. Some guy just thought he knew
more than the speaker and kept interrupting. And I finally turned around and said shut up.
At a Linux conference, somebody thinks they know something more than somebody else. Surely not.
That's not a thing that happens. No, no, that smart. Go do your own talk.
Yeah, obviously social graces might not be there. Strong suit.
Speaking of which, there wasn't a Kevin O'Brien security talk this year.
I'm kind of back and away from a lot of that because I'm getting older and I'm getting tired
of doing stuff. Fair enough. Fair enough. Yeah. I don't get out to the Linux users groups as much.
Only gets to a couple of the like Ohio Linux Fest and Panquicon
or about the two things that I get to every year.
And then record stuff for Hacker Public Radio. And it seems like that's enough.
Speaking of which, your recent like health Hacker Public Radio things have been like 100 percent
awesome. Cool. Yeah. It's been actually going somewhere. Well, that's good.
The next one is going to be how I'm actually not dying.
Okay, not dying is good. I am not dying. That's that's a positive.
Yeah. And I just want to say that your episode on diabetes, I have a family history of it,
but and that wasn't enough to kick me in the ass to get things going. But your episode was.
So thank you very much. Cool. Great. I'm glad to hear it.
Three generations of family history. Not enough to get me to move.
Hacker Public Radio enough to get me to do something. You know, it whatever it takes. Yeah.
So I think we need to tell Ken. He needs to have like bumper stickers made like Hacker Public
Radio safe lives. It's just it's official. You know, he might.
You're not wrong. Or else he'd tell Dave to do it. Yeah. David write a script to do it.
Yeah, for sure. So yeah, I've got about four more that are uploaded. Oh, wow.
But I space them out. Yeah. You're much better at producing Hacker Public Radio some of
we are. We have tons of ideas. We just execution. Yeah, execution is a broad. Yeah. Well,
outside of the conference, I got to see my first green green scooters this this week. I've
yet to see one set on fire. So maybe we saw one in two pieces that was laying on the sidewalk
that I guess somebody just like Hulk smashed. It was just laying there. So you say green scooters,
but they're actually white, right? Is that the ones you're talking about? No. Yeah. Well,
black with green accents, I think is what I've been seeing. I think they're called birds or
something bird related. Well, they're the bird one because we've got the bird ones in Louisville.
They look different though. They're not the same miss the ones here. I don't know what the
brand name is, but it's the same idea I think. Oh, I've never seen them. Are they like you rent
them and you ride around with them or and then you leave them literally anywhere. Yeah,
you just drop it wherever you stop. It's kind of a it's it's not thought out process. It is it is
super convenient, which is the thing that they're selling it on. But I have the feeling that it
leads people to be less than socially responsible with them. Yeah. Well, when you've you've
already got us like secondary market of people finding them and bringing them back to get paid.
Well, not even a secondary market. That's part of their business plan is they don't you know,
have employees to gather them. They just like ad hoc pay people like a dollar a piece to go find them.
And then I read in a whole article about this. It was you know, they start out as not very much
and then the longer a scooter is missing and hasn't checked in, the more you get paid to return it.
Why would I not just go out and collect them and keep them for three months and then take them back.
That seems like the easiest hack ever. Yes, it does. I'm pretty sure that the person who wrote the
article made that point. Good. It's a point that should have been made. It is a fairly obvious one.
And as far as social responsibility, I was out walking on the sidewalk last night in the
in the rain and you see like three headlights coming at you down the sidewalk. But no, they
haven't really had any near misses or whatever, but I can I can see why that may be a concern for
Yeah, some people some municipalities, but
Well, especially if you're not super mobile like if you're you know trying to get down the sidewalk and
these, you know, these kids are running towards you with these scooters like that may be a problem.
I am sorry, Taj, I will stay off your lawn. Yes, this is a thing that happens occasionally,
as an occasionally like all the time. What people stay off your lawn? Well, I yell at them,
stay. Actually, there's nobody in on my lawn ever except for horses, which are dumb.
We've had this conversation. Absolutely covered your feeling about your horses. Yes, they're dumb.
I told you last night what the solution is. I don't think that's going to go over well. I mean,
I would pretend that I care, but I think other people might actually care.
It answers the French have a really good solution for what to do with excess horses.
Yep, since Taj is going one in his house of these meat, he would be eating horse for
like the next eight, like 12 years. But then I would at least have an excuse. Like they're
I'm no, I have to eat it. It's going to go bad. Yeah, exactly. I bought a freezer just for this horse.
That would not go over well.
I'm pretty sure that that sound I hear is your wife rolling her eyes all the way back
and then again, you're. Yes, and she hasn't even heard you say that she just knows that you said
something. She'll never know because like she's never listening to this. That's probably for
the best. Yeah, well, definitely. And we're just here to get you guys angry letters.
Well, we haven't really ever gotten an angry. I can't think of anything. I think the
angriest we got was lost in Bronx is like, why aren't you posting Google Plus? And I kind of wish
I had gotten that about three weeks later because then I would have had a good reason. Yeah,
it's like, well, because there is no Google. Well, we're like our fights about cannon with him,
but that's, you know, a thing. And then he just like passively aggressively doesn't mention us in
his audio diaries, but that's probably about us anyway. That's okay. I still love you lost in
work. Yeah, you're still my homie. Yeah. I've been reading his excerpts from the new book.
Yeah, they're so good. Yes. And it's like a first draft. And I'm like, it's a first draft that he
has been like, it's just a first draft. I don't even really like it that much. And then I read it
and I'm like, you don't, you don't like this. This is exactly the story that I want more of.
Here, take my dollars. Yeah, make this book. I mean, he's already getting my dollars,
but yeah, I would like to give it more. The first time I got one of those excerpts, I'm like,
I'm not giving you enough dollars and turn the dial on. Nice. I think that's the point. Like,
that's why you should do that. But yeah, the whole Patreon thing, that's, that's an interesting
like, like share, subscribe. Yeah. Smash that subscribe. Because that's what it works just
fine. If you just press it, you don't have to smash it. I don't know why it's a thing.
That's kind of how any weird gets started. Yeah, right. It's doing pretty well. Yeah, you're not,
that's a thing. But I mean, it's, it's kind of funny, like, especially since I went to music school,
and it's, you learned about like the old patronage model and how that worked and, you know,
how it did work and how it didn't work. And it's like, we've, we've slowly come back around to it.
It's like, I'm not sure that's for the best, but it's a thing. Like, at least people are getting paid.
Mm-hmm. I'm trying to think about what to talk about besides food. Why? I don't know.
We had yak burgers today. That was awesome. I was today years old when I learned that yak is
delicious. Today is all. Yeah, I was, I was like, that's a thing I've never eaten. Put the animal on
a burger. Let me have it. Where do you find yak burgers? At North Market, actually. What was the
place called? It was, it was right across from the Vietnamese place. Like yard streaked something.
I want to say, but yeah, they, they had a couple like game meat things, but they had a yak burger
on special. And I was like, well, there was a bison burger on the menu. And I was a little
iffy about whether I wanted to go with bison or look for something a little more interesting.
And then Taj Mentson mentions the yak burger. And I'm like, yak burger? I am having a yak burger.
Yeah. And it was a good decision. But because I've never been any, no, no, it tastes like, yeah,
come on. I've never been anywhere that even offered me yak. Like I've been places where I could
get bison. I think I can get bison in the grocery store. But I've never been somewhere that's like
yak as a thing that I could eat. And so I had to, I had to do that. It was, it was worth the
experimentation. It was a good deal. It really was. Yeah. I mean, it's like beef, but
it's kind of pungent is the word. Well, it's kind of like where bison doesn't have a lot of fat in
it. So it kind of like lacks a little bit there. This felt like it was almost a little more fatty
as far as the meat was. So it was pretty good. Probably not good for me at all. Like in any way,
but it was delicious. Well, lunch we were discussing whether Tony ate cat in China. Yes, he
actually does, didn't, but not as told it was not the barbecue place one to was not chicken.
There was not cat. But if I get further out into the city, then it probably would be. Yeah,
I mean, here's if you hear him in the kitchen saying, mal, mal, because it's cat, then
which is always, it's like one of my favorite Mandarin words is mal, because it's like, it sounds
like that. Here's a hint, Tony, they lied. That's totally changed your perspective. If you were
Chinese, you'd wonder, why is it these crazy Westerners make pets out of meat? They're wasting
a perfectly good revenue stream. You know, that, I mean, that it helps deal with the pet over
population problem. It deals with food shortages all in one go. It's like a very like the
what's the gulliver's travels guys? Jonathan Swift, the modest proposal. It's like, we should
just eat the babies. That's oh, really? Well, I am a virus. Yeah, that's who he was right.
I always thought that was like class A trolling. Oh, yeah. I have, you know, I've heard other
stories. Of course, it's too far back for any written record, but I had heard the theory. That's
how humans originally domesticated wolves is because they just throw the scraps, you know,
and the dogs, dogs would fall around and then, you know, when when food ran out, they'd
club the dog. Well, that's unfortunate, but it's kind of like early fishing for dogs.
Like, you call it, I don't know, like, is it dogging them? I don't know what you call that.
Or for something more recent, take a look at the Antarctic expeditions.
I'm confused. Oh, they would start with animals pulling everything and then as they started
you've been good, but I actually still do it that way. I mean, that's that's not something that's
no longer a thing because your sled would get lighter as you, you know, consumed your, uh,
your supplies and then you didn't need the dogs as many dogs and you would eat the sickly ones.
Well, I mean, it's just a waste to carry them back. So we might as well, but you know, you take two
wagons full of things. By the time you finish all the food in the first wagon, you burn the wagon,
eat the cow pulling it, and then you're down to one wagon. I mean, the logic is sound at least.
This is this is going to be the one where people years from now will come back to you.
Remember the one where you talked about eating all your, that one random like point episode,
like the point five episode where you just talked about food the whole thing.
I mean, that is a huge part of like the, oh, it's like hallway track and where are we going to
launch? Yeah. And the answer for lunch is always North market. Yeah. So like, if you've never
been to OLF and you come, like you're going to all my track and North market. Yeah. For sure.
Also, Momo is delicious. I'd never had Momo. Momo is always legit. So now I have to ask,
did you get your burger without the bun? No. We were talking about that on the way there that, uh,
there's, there's a moratorium on Lyle's diet this weekend and then he goes back Monday.
And it's back to salad and water on Monday. No, I really like my salads.
It chicken season chicken season salad. It's like probably 40% of my diet at this point.
Yeah. I went down to subway and go to salad.
For me, the reason I've been as successful as I have been and hope to continue to be at losing weight
and feeling better is, you know, eating well most of the time and then occasionally giving
myself permission to not because it's all of the food I grew up eating. I'm not just going to say,
okay, I can never have that again because I would just fall off of that wagon so fast.
But by saying, okay, here's the thing that you used to have all of the time and now you just
need to not have it all of the time and just have it a little bit of it occasionally. I can do that
and salad being delicious doesn't hurt. Right. As long as you're one of those people that, like,
says, I like salad because I just like to drown in salad dressing. I'm working on it. I'm
I'm backing off the amount of Caesar dressing I put on my salad. It's it's a it's a process.
At least it's not rich. I know a half pint. No. Like you're one of those people. It's either the
dressing or the cheese, you know, too much of one or the other makes it good. What do you mean or?
That is the wrong conditional.
I believe this is only an ant situation.
Feta cheese. Feta cheese. That's where it's at. Feta cheese is delicious. It really is.
On weird things too. Like things you wouldn't think about putting cheese on. Like I'm thinking
about I'm trying to think of something I wouldn't think of putting cheese on. Fair enough.
Like my mom makes this asparagus with Feta cheese. And I would have never thought
about Feta cheese on asparagus, but it's legit. It's super. It was parmesan, but I can see Feta working
there. Yeah, it's really good. Actually, the best Feta my wife and I ever had was in a restaurant
in Amsterdam. It's right on the Amstel River. We've been trying to find something like that ever since.
Yeah, just like not. Yeah. Trying to think we, uh, we're we're already kind of trying to plan
next year. Yeah. If we were like, what will we do better? I feel like I'm damaged because
that's always how my brain works. I'm like, I'm having so much fun. How do I make sure the next
time is even better before I'm even done having fun? First of all, make sure your, uh, your ex-server
will pipe out to play board. That would be I mean, I could have started working that before Wednesday
night, but I didn't. Yeah. Well, things. We made some headway. We got some of the doctor stuff.
At least running. Of course, we had to install a desktop environment to do it, but whatever.
It doesn't matter. Well, all the configs will carry over and then I'll just burn that VM to the ground.
Yeah, as it should be. So yeah, I think next year, we're talking about doing something we did a
couple of years ago where we try to get a podcast table. Um, that way it kind of gives us a central
place to hang out and promote stuff because there's so much of us like Linuxy podcasts.
That, well, we're Linuxy, but a lot of others are just Linux like Tony, for example, it's in
the name. We are, we are very much Linux adjacent. Yeah, Linux plus is what I'm going to call it.
That's fair. 50 didn't you have one like two years ago? Yeah. Uh, it was two or three.
It was two. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, we, uh, we started bouncing around where their
tilts was going to have a table and wasn't going to be enough. People from tilts think
Joel. And, uh, uh, pod nuts guy started, you know, uh, there's last time I think that
door was able to make it, but, you know, they were about truth. Well, there's three or four pod nuts
people. We thought, you know, the old days, everybody had a separate table back before my time,
but, you know, we thought that they said, you know, wouldn't be enough. Trouble fat is,
somebody wants to go do something. There's not enough people to, you know, have somebody on the
table and then we brainstorm, well, let's just, I think that may have been my idea, but let's just
do one table for all the podcasts. And the thing we learned is that nobody who comes here knows
any, any podcasts outside Jupiter, networking or yeah, for sure. Or if they do, it's, it's very,
it's us. Like it's people, it's everybody who knows each other that knows, uh, sort of like the
HPR branched off things. Um, the HPR family tree. Yeah, for sure. But yeah, the table helps
organize that things a lot. I feel like we were there and it's, it sucks the door can bring
his people or him and his people, but, uh, you know, we can still do it without him. I mean,
I still from two years ago have the HPR like booth kit in my basement. Sorry again.
Because I know you'll listen to this, but it's in my basement. And, you know, you random only
exists because, you know, I went and hung out with Pokey at the HPR table at the last Northeast
Linux Fest. It's our Genesis. Yeah. I blame on my bill. Well, that's just in general. You
should just do that for everything. Yes, but he's the one who, he's the one who, you know,
introduced me to Pokey and yeah, and then HPR audio book club and just and now you're all stuck
with this. Yeah, we're not going away. Uh, you can, you can once again blame Pokey because we
got to the point where he's the only one with the coffee now. So as soon as he gives me the next
one, then we're good from there on out I think. Is it just one more that we're blocked on?
There's two, but the, the other one that we, that he has the only copy is the very last one that
recorded. It was the, uh, the sigler, uh, galactic football. Was that the last one we recorded?
That's the last one we recorded. We, we picked one and I think I listened to it and it wasn't
very good. Yeah, that's for the next one that we never picked one and we all hated it. We were
like, this is not, and then, and then other stuff changed and it kind of all fell through.
So Pokey is book blocking HPR. Yes. Yes. That I want, I'm, I'm, I'm turning or I'm taking that phrase
now. That's my taking it back book blocking. Such a book blocker, Pokey. This is what you get
for not coming. You can't defend yourself. It's okay. We're not saying anything we wouldn't say
if he was standing right here. That is 100% true. I remember when, you know, it was announced that
you're going to do triplanetary. We were talking about this before the podcast started on huge
Doc Smith fan. And I thought, Oh, great. I'm really looking forward to this and the years go by.
Well, that was a great idea. Here's a preview. We really liked it.
Has it, has that one even aired? I don't think so. I thought we finally got past that one.
Like, I don't think this is how far back we are. The Nathan Lowell episode that we did of like
the actual Trader's Tales. Yeah. We haven't got to that yet. Oh my gosh. That's astounding.
Because I know, right? I heard Nathan Lowell. Yeah. Well, that was like my introduction.
And I mainlined all of its books in like a week and a half. It was crazy. Yes. You and me both.
Yeah. And now I've got him followed on Amazon. Like, I get a notification that says Nathan Lowell
has a new book and it's just the button should just stay shut up and take my money.
And they will. They will gladly take your money. And I will gladly give it to them if it is
some of it goes to him and I can continue to get. Yeah. The only, the only bad thing. Solar Clipper
books. Yeah. The only bad thing about that deal is the lack of them letting him do the audio books.
Yeah. Like, I'm not interested in anybody else reading those books. Thankfully, I can just read
the book myself. Yes. That's okay. That'll, that'll work. It's fine. So what else? What else
do we want to talk about? Are we good? Like, this is, this is our check-in. So everybody knows
that we came and we're alive. Anybody want to plug their stuff while we're here? Please do.
Yeah. Tony, that's your cue. All right. So in case you guys, you random listeners, you don't know me.
I'm Tony from the morning, my next review. And I'm one of four, almost five hosts now.
And everybody else couldn't come. Almost five hosts. Yeah. We got one guy starting to come,
a normal guy. His name's Jay LaCory. He wrote the mastering, you, the Ubuntu server.
Okay. Oh. So he's got some credit. Yeah. Nice. And then, I don't know. So check us out at smlr.us.
And then actually one of our listeners, Goran is here. So he's sitting back looking or watching
listening at taking pictures. Yeah, taking pictures of the production of the show. We'll have
to confiscate his phone before he leaves. This is top secret. Charging us for the negative
slater. Yeah. Once again, this is like that dead man switch. Okay. 5150, you can hear me most
regularly on twice a month on LinuxLugcast.com. And that's, that's an open podcast. If anybody wants
to set up mumble, can jump in the room and record at 9 p.m. on the first and third
Fridays of every month. So, you know, please, please do. I mean, we have, we have regular people,
but we would really like to have other opinions and people jump in. Oh, you want opinions. I have
those. And abundance. And I will say just as in this aside, if you're in the same situation as
me, which I don't know, you may be, their aug feed is currently broken. And we were looking at
that this weekend. I think they're going to try to get it fixed. But if you stopped at episode 100,
you are now officially 11 episodes behind like I am. So that just gives you something to listen
to when you drive home, Tosh. Yeah, I already hit things. But more things is not a bad situation
to find yourself in. So, uh, yeah, just switch the MP3 feed for now. And then you, you will get
those. So public service announcement. Anybody else want to plug anything? Well, I'm going to use
my usual tag line. This is a hookah signing off from Hacker Public Radio reminding everyone to
support free software. Indeed. So, um, is this the end? I think that was okay.
What do I do with my hands? What do you do with your hands normally? I have them on a keyboard.
Never mind. I don't want to know. Stop. Do not go forward.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club. And it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
