Episode: 2391
Title: HPR2391: HPR Community News for September 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2391/hpr2391.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:14:12

---

This is HBR episode 2,391 entitled HBR Community News for September 2017 and is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 81 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment posted in September 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and joining me tonight is Dave, say hello Dave.
Hello Dave. Hi and this is HBR Community News for the month, that is September 2017 and it's been a very busy month Dave.
It has been rather busy month, yes I don't know.
What we've been doing again, I can't quite remember.
Dave, well actually we don't have it in the A or B, what we mostly have been doing is all that comment feed stuff.
That's true yeah. Make a note to talk about that.
Yes, yes okay, but let's do that at the end of the show.
This for people joining us for the first time is a community news roundup of all the shows that have been going on in the last month.
We take one show out where volunteers like Dave and myself come on and make sure that we go through every show just to prove to you that at least two people have listened to these shows and drawn some sort of inspiration from them.
We also Dave and I happen to be want some of the volunteers that keep this thing running along with Josh.
It's been very active this month and HBR itself is a community podcast network and that means we take shows from random people on the internet and we put them under the HBR banner.
So you don't need to worry about things like RSS feeds and comments and DDoS attacks and all that sort of stuff.
That's all taken care of for you. All you need to do is think of a topic.
Press record, talk about the topic, go to the upload form and upload the show. We do the rest.
Well that summarized it Dave for you. I think that that just about covers it. Yes, yes.
There's many nuances we could go into but now it's not the time.
Nope, that's correct. And this is the point where we traditionally welcome new hosts but alas, alas.
There are no new hosts, I'm afraid. No, no, very sad.
That means either Dave, either we've reached the maximum limits where our entire listenership is now contributing shows or somebody hasn't been guilted enough into doing it.
Yeah, yeah. I think the people who do listen and contribute should be out there spreading the word.
Not saying that I'm angry. It's very, very disappointed.
Anyway, let's start off with who is Horton works and what they do with Hadoop.
And this was by JWP and this was about Hadoop and what you can do is pretty cool Apache project actually.
Little bit, data management is a little bit of a strange thing for me almost so.
Yeah, I don't know much about this at all. I keep meaning to get more into it, just experiment with it, but I haven't done so yet.
But yeah, it's good to have JWP telling this stuff about it.
Seems like a very interesting thing. It's like a file system for, yeah, a global file system. It's pretty cool.
Oh, yeah. That's part of the whole build the thing. Yeah, yeah. I nearly got a job as a Hadoop administratory type person, but I didn't see what you filled in to be a Dave.
I know nothing about it. Sorry.
You don't want me to ask. Clear off then.
If you don't, if you don't listen to JWP's episode, yes, quite.
And then the following day with the community news and there were four comments for this.
Frank had a comment saying, I have a very selfish idea for a show. Actually, you do that and then I'll do my own reply.
Okay, okay. Frank says, I've a very selfish idea for a show, a tutorial based on moving HPR from HTTP to HTTPS.
Selfish because I need to do the same thing to stop Firefox is incessant and given the nature of my site,
quite silly nagging, it's not like I manage any personal information after all, another than my own log on.
I mean, really, heartfelt. I've nothing but praise for my hosting provider's tech support.
They have proven themselves to be real troopers and generally find the help files actually helpful.
But I must admit that since I now have a VPS and I'm all on my own,
managing something like implementing SSL, I'm quite confused and unsure to what I must do.
Yeah, and my reply actually wasn't to Frank's, I just noticed, and it should have been.
And the troubles with the HTTP to HTTPS that we were referring to in the last show was the fact
that our common system was incapable of switching to HTTPS because our coded URLs
with HTTP colon for size were put in. And among other things, library's not working and all sorts
of stuff and not all spin-able upgrades, so that was actually a bit of a pain.
In general, though, I switched on HTTPS for some of my own sites using
Let's Encrypt. If you go to the Let's Encrypt website, they give you fairly easy step-by-step instructions
how to do it. Not that tough. Cool. Yeah, yeah. It's, yes, poor Frank's calling me that
I replied, but yeah, we should maybe drop them a note or something.
Yeah, true. And yeah, we've gone live, but the new common system, people's post,
if you notice anything weird on the site, and then the following one was DoDoDoDoMe.
In the US, in the US, Jelly is also clear and Jam isn't. Jelly is clear,
Shulky stuff. Jam is not clear unless Shulky. Jam and preserves are a bit harder to differentiate.
I've lived all over the US, and this difference between Jam and Jelly seems possessive.
Okay, that was me being a little bit, we're going on about the subject. Anyway, and I replied
saying Jam versus Jelly. Hi, Dodd. DoDoDoMe. I'm not sure how you want to pronounce it. I've never
heard the term Jam used in US English, so my experience is not broad. Researching I found this,
I bought a jar of raspberry jam. She made us jelly sandwiches, which in place of the words jam
and jelly are a little interchangeable. I've also believed that you're not really deep. You
might have wanted a jar of raspberry jam, and it's just very much jam. Let me make some jelly sandwiches
from this jar of jelly I have over here. Just, just, just, just, just, just, just, just let me read this
and keep your comments yourself. I also believe that where UK English uses jelly, which can
refer to a jam with all the bits taken out, based on pectin, which is the stuff that makes it stick.
And a dessert, they also use it, so dessert made with flavour gelatin, whereas US English uses
gelo for the latter. I may be wrong languages moving target anyway. Thanks for clarifying things.
So yeah. So anyway, I've learned something. I'd never heard anybody use, I've always heard
like peanut butter, jelly, etc. So I've never heard anybody say jam, but then I've only
visited the US one, so it's not, not the best of samples. No, that's true. Duckbook. For sick
Markdown now, Plato walks you through writing in duckbook processing and rendering output.
And I have, there are no comments on the website, but there was a comment on the, that I got
in person to this, which was a discussion with a work colleague who listens to podcasts,
high work colleague who hasn't submitted the show yet. And she was saying that, that's right,
there, and there was a doubt that, um, yes, basically my shows are boring, but Plato's shows are
really nice. Ah, right. Well, not hurt at all. I've got a thick skin, me. Yeah, yeah, that's
good. It's really positive stuff. Good feedback. Well, but we all know this. And the following day,
we had PC Gen, Plato talks about PC Generator on the tabletop series about building characters
for your next exciting RPG session, use PC Gen, and here's how I would not have known what
this was. I would not have known that this existed, but now I'm glad I do, actually.
Well, I mentioned it to my daughter. She said, oh, send me the details, send me the details,
but there's, it's a huge lot to send her in the show, but I haven't done it either, but
I was strongly suspect, Plato is preparing us for later shows where he talks about, in my earlier
episode, I spoke about PC Gen, which he actually has done in later shows. Yeah, the following day,
we had how to make Sourcrout the one thing my wife won't let me have. And it was by Tony Hughes,
aka TonyH1212. And it's part of our cooking series, which has taken off a storm.
Pretty cool. Can't really comment on that, and the people who did comment were
Jasra, who said splendid. Thank you for the inspiration. Cabbage is now on my shopping list.
I will be making a batch this weekend. Tony replied saying splendid, Jasra, you're welcome.
It was other people freely sharing by YouTube and blogs that got me started, so I thought I
would share with the HPR community. As well as it tasting really good, it has health benefits as
well, win-win in my book. By the way, after making your first batch, try adding a couple or 10
clothes of garlic in a future batch. The flavour is fantastic, and you can eat the fermented
guy or use in other recipes. Very nice. Very nice. The following day, we had competing
interests. We look into the market place and see how everybody's interest flash. And this is a part
of Ahuka's healthcare series. And the following day, we had information underground, 21st century
superstar. Clot 2 Lost in Bloggs talked about an iconless culture. And I was writing down
a North Pad full of comments for this, but then I kind of gave up because it's just one of these
conversations that I really... Oh, actually, I echo Kevin's thing here. If you want to read
a comment. We had a comment from A. Pork Chop, which is unusual. Communities, while all the
specialised media makes it more difficult to find commonalities. The internet and forums
like Reddit also make it easy to find other people that share interests. That's a good point,
actually, yes. Just true, just true. And Kevin said, Kevin O'Brien, great discussion. Love
this show. The only problem I have is that I wanted to be part of the discussion while done.
Actually, yes, I was... I was feeling very much the same way during it. Yes, I sort of was feeling
I could... The conversation is needed to be broadened a bit there, but it was an interesting,
interesting subject. Make me think. Yeah, but I still... Yeah, I was also thinking like
Game of Thrones now is the thing that everybody has to have seen the new episode of blah, blah, blah,
and then people disappear from the floor and they're not allowed to talk about it. But that was
also mentioned. So, yeah, rather interesting. On the other hand, you get specialised podcasts,
like ours and other people's. And you've got a community. It's just a different, different
community then. But a great, a great episode. And the following day, we had an episode where the audio
was not as pretty cool, great, true Beatles. Yeah, a rambling drive-in tour. I was able... And
here, folks, is the barrier. If it's audible. And yeah, I had to struggle with this one. Was it
audible or not? Well, yeah. Yeah, you're going. I sent it off to a cleanup. All the works
was something where the cleanup audio and they couldn't make it any better either. I don't think
it was the car sounds. I think there was a... When you hit a bump, the microphone hit something,
which closed. I felt that if the microphone was held somewhere else, it wouldn't have picked up
as much vibrations. Yeah, it was... It was a very odd thing, actually, because I listened to it,
I always tend to listen to things I'm listening to, and I'm doing something else. And I managed
to pick up everything he said I felt. But it made me, because my audio setup, an MP3 player with
some fairly crappy headphones, didn't make... I didn't get the finer details of the noise,
perhaps. I don't know. Maybe my ears are so awful that I couldn't tell the difference.
But yeah, but basically it was pretty, pretty darn, which he knew himself. Yeah, but no, I think
cool for trying. And yeah, it can only improve. Doe, doe, doe, doe, doe. On me says,
I know you said you didn't need this boss. I was going to come up on your last show where you said
don't think about any processing. It was necessary. While I agree content is king, you might find
this tip handy. When I record in the noisy environments, I record a few seconds without speaking
to pick up the background noises. The reason for this is that you can use those few seconds as a
model for noise reduction and audacity. It only takes a few seconds to process the, you know,
audacity. So it's not much more work since there's come a practice to try this. Yeah, come in.
But I really don't think that would have helped because the audio processing thing that I sent
off to filters out the gaps in between the speaking to desks that audio level and it didn't do a lot.
Correct. Yeah, yeah. No, it's yeah, I think I think it would have been really hard to have got the
the junk out of that. Lovebug replied to this. Love it if Mr X tried the same experiment again,
just without actually any content, but recording, getting as many different recording devices that
he could, um, to see and give us samples of the audio of, you know, the same thing, say,
some copyrighted phrase in the car recorded on as many five, six, seven different devices,
and then see if we can pick up the differences in them, do a comparison, and then send them off
and see can we get them processed and see what the best setup would be. We might make an interesting
sure. Yes, anyway, we had a comment from the lovebug, which was great concept for a show, so I
pinched it. I managed to get the gist of what you're trying to say, but I don't believe that any
level of processing would have been able to tidy up what was ultimately recorded. I find that
in noisy environments a low gain recorded with the microphone nice and close to your mouth tends to
make you heard much better. I've just uploaded what will be episode 2,400, where I basically pinch
your idea and drive the 28 miles to my work and spend most of the time talking about the 14 cars I've
had. When I recorded this show, the only thing I did was push the file through Orphonic, which was
of the service you were talking about, to level it out. There was no noise reduction applied,
and I do have a fairly noisy car, and you were first to his show. I would definitely like to hear
another attempt from you at this. Yes, excellent. This could turn into a series. Yeah, yes,
it's an interesting thing. I don't have enough brain cells to talk very interestingly when I'm
driving, so good for these guys who can do it. I'd have to buy a car. It could be a bit expensive.
Yeah. Get the kids to make car noises around you anyway. Yes.
Why duck book? Tattoo talks about why duck book is the greatest, and he is so right. I have decided
to use duck book or my wife's book, which is now currently written in legal office,
and needs to get translated and stuff. So, good reason to use it there.
Yeah, yeah. Duck book. I've toyed with duck book. I've actually played with loads and loads and
loads of different text processing things, and written one of my own a long, long time ago.
And so a duck book and SGML and stuff have been on the radar, but I've never used them.
Mainly, of course, the XML of it puts me off a bit, but I should really
sample it and see how you live in the XML. I've done about XML that I've probably asked you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. But if you want really professional quality results, then I think it's
absolutely right. You need something like duck book, and you don't want a desktop word processor
for really heavy stuff. No, it was, I was really in tears. I had to tell people to leave the room
for a while, just because I was getting so frustrated at trying to get a finished working document,
especially when it goes into hundreds of pages and you're going something strange is going here.
And this is me following all Kevin O'Brien's Libra office, set up your style, set up your
everything rules, you know, there's still some pages, big content, just randomly changed
for no reason that I could see. I've had the same experience. I resorted to using tech.
A long, long time ago, I had the job of doing an invitation to tender when we were buying a new
computer. I had to write the ITT document, which is very, very formal and stuff. And I used tech
in the end because it was the only way to make something really, really consistent. You wouldn't
do that now, of course, but to duck book would be a better choice. Okay, Mike Ray commented,
cram down. I completely agree that it is impossible to write anything complex in Markdown without
resorting to HTML tags. For me, it's putting anchor tags around headings to provide in-page links.
You should take a look at cram down, Debian install, apt-get install, Ruby-cram down,
has stuff that Markdown doesn't like tables, stuff like ID, and classes, attributes for CSS,
et cetera, and an auto-generation of table of contents. That's interesting, actually.
But if you use pandox, Markdown, you get all that as well. But yeah, I'm sure this everybody uses
any Markdown variant could probably say similar things, actually. Yeah, but then I'm thinking to
myself, well, if you have to go to the trouble of learning that guy's learn HTML5, it's not that
difficult. You'll do everything that you want. You can keep it relatively simple, relatively
readable. And I know this isn't particularly about HTML. It's about duck book, but you know,
for web content stuff, Markdown, yeah, if you have to go to the hassle, just use HTML.
Hmm, I'm not sure I'd agree with that, but never mind. Yeah, I mean, you know, because it's
really Dave. How many times have you seen now, folks, that you know, I've passed over the pain,
and I do mean, and I know it is pain, or formatting the show notes to Dave. And I hand on
your heart, Dave, how many of those show notes go straight from input to our book without some
level of editing? Oh, very, very few, very few. I mean, some people send in beautiful Markdown,
but that needs processing, obviously. We'd very, very few people send in really excellent HTML,
which needs no processing. Yeah, but even I'm talking about the Markdown. They're very few
from the perfect Markdown, I don't know, yeah. No, I quite enjoy the challenge, actually, but
that's just me. I hope that's how you're being Marks, and I exploit you, Dave, for your handyman.
You do, don't you? Yeah, yeah. I enjoy it. Anyway, so comment two was from Florian, who says,
what's so hard about code in a list? Seven spaces makes sense. It's three for everything
belonging to the same point on your list, plus four for the code. This is about code
appended to lists and so forth. I was kind of about this in your first. And he points at a
and an example on GitHub, which I won't read out, and it's GitHub flavored Markdown.
He prefers three backticks, but he comes, I come from track wiki syntax by restructured text
to markdown and using single backticks for inline monospace, but three open curly braces,
braces code here, closed three braces, in track still annoys me, I think I think I'd be annoyed
with that. Understand the additional value semantic markup has, but in many cases it's nice,
but not necessary. And he's a siss admin who never broke out into HTML in RST or Markdown.
Right, comment on that, Florian. Well done, you won't say sure. Next thing is a tattoo never
was able to figure that out. Other people in his work were never able to figure it out. And
until that show aired, there normally in my work ever figured out that you needed to go seven
spaces. Why seven spaces? Why not 42 spaces? It just makes no sense. It's just an arbitrary
ridiculousness, nothing. And then it just doesn't look correct either, that you have to
space seven spaces. And then there's no resemblance to the formatting, which is exactly what Markdown
was supposed to be doing. It's supposed to be sort of giving you formatting in a human readable format.
So no, I'm not buying that. Thank you very much. I'm also not buying the siss admin who never
broke out into HTML or RST. I need a show about that proving the fact. I've written tons of
Markdown now, because I do all my HBR shows in pan-knock-flavored Markdown. And I break out into HTML
so many blooming times, especially since VIM is very, very nice at giving me the HTML markup if I want
it. So yeah, but then maybe I do more advanced things. I don't know, but it's hard to believe,
really, of I'm calling Florian a liar, of course, but we're prepared. No, we're prepared. No, I
really would love to know. And it is a show I would like to hear if you can do Markdown with those
breaking out into HTML, that would be absolutely awesome. But I imagine, other than, I guess,
tattoos, that has also been very boring documents. How do you even do a link? Well, no, okay,
links are kind of covered. And yeah, moving on, tattoos says, cram down. I've not heard of cram down,
I'll have a look for kicks because it sounds very good. And yes, another comment by Clat2,
GitHub Markdown. I've found that GitHub Markdown is a heck of a lot better than Markdown. In fact,
it's so significantly better. I don't see why it's not merged into Markdown yet, except that as far
as I can tell, Markdown proper is unmaintained. The existence of GitHub Markdown reinforces my point,
Markdown needed fixing. But I agree. Sometimes Docbook is overkill and GitHub Markdown is a better
choice. But I didn't say that in this or my previous episode. I did mean to, but maybe I was
blinded by Docbook passion. So yeah, good for that. But he has a good. Yeah, the Markdown thing is
one of the worst pains in computing in the world of computing in my mind. I was on the markdown list
for many years because I used to use it at work as well. And the in fighting about Markdown's
crap. No, it's not. It's wonderful and all this stuff that was going on. And the guy who'd
invented it was so stubborn, is so stubborn about any changes. That's why it's fragmented and
going off into all these subversions of it. If only there had been a process where suggestions
could have been incorporated, it would have been one thing and a good thing. But it's not the way
the world is. We're not the people's front of Judea. Yeah, we're crammed down Markdown GitHub.
Sending text messages from the command line. And this was from, why is that not jumping out of me?
Why is that not listed? Of course. This is gesture here. We maybe don't highlight the host enough
to make it jump out of that. Yeah, I don't know. But Jesu normally has a photo. Where's
Jesu's photo going? Oh, that's a good point. Good point. I don't know. If we have something
broken, I can never notice. I can't take any more broken stuff, Dave. That's the world. The world
is broken. No, this whole month has been one continuous broken HBR. God, the hours have spent
this month. We lost the... Oh, yeah, yeah. Anyway, there's something to look at after this show, I think.
No, I'm going to bed after this show. Well, I'll have a look at it. See, I can spot in it. Anyway,
okay, go on. Anyway, for the people who are wondering what we're talking about, if you post
if you were a host of HBR and you post your show, you would get a picture. You can know either
upload that picture or you can attach it to Gigi-Gigi was a some gravitar and we will pull it down
at a reasonably regular interval and do it that way. So, show notes. He doesn't need any show notes
because he's a bunch of waffling about emails, text, sending from the command line. And I edited
the comments to add in that it was recorded and all that. The links to his previous chicken
soup and provided links to the show about the SMS catering. To it, Jezre commented.
You, you, you offering that to me? I would do because then I'm replying to him, you see.
Yeah, okay. Jezre says feedback. I'm not sure this episode is explicit. Sometimes I forget
if I swear or not. Anyway, the coop isn't always opening and closing properly. So, today I've
been in the process of updating the code that controls the coop door. I want to read that as co-op
as my brain has been. Testing has resulted in a massive amount of text and emails. Oh yeah,
and thank you Ken for the show notes, smiley face. We do what you ask smiley face. Hi, Jezre,
and this is more of the comment about whether it's explicit or not. And I have to do my official
Ken thing here. We process the shows as per the instructions given to us by the host. In your case,
the host was marked as explicit on upload hashtag explicit. We never contact people who have
marked the shows as explicit as there's a large body of holes that deliberately mark all shows
explicit as a precaution or protest. Another link to the West of you need to know explicit.
We have had on occasion contacted shows who have their who have marked their shows as clean
where we feel that the show may not be considered in offensive in other in every region of the world.
If it ever occurs where the host disagree, we will pass the case to the HPR community mailing
list. HPR-22-10 on freedom of speech and censorship describes the agreed approach to this topic.
And Jezre replies, for some habit question mark, it was probably for some habit that
caused me to mark the show as explicit smiley face. I could not trust myself to go back and
and even listening to it again, I could not trust myself, but I wouldn't. I would pick up some
expletive, expletive gave help. Expletive. That's funny. That's the one. Yes, yes. I don't want to open
up that thing again, but the only time I've ever mentioned it before, people have
resolved the situation to everyone's satisfaction and that's wonderful. Razbian x86 on the P4 tower,
the show is the show on installing pixel on a Pentium 4 tower PC by Tony Hughes, and I would
not have thought to do this, but what an excellent idea. Yeah, I had no idea this was this is possible,
there must be something that's come up quite recently. They've released Tony's distribution and Tony
has been like a madman around installing it on everything. Yeah, I was shocked and stunned that
at the efficiency, of course you're going to get, because it's designed for a low-power system
on the chip. I've seen other people mentioning it since Tony's show, explaining computers was
demonstrating it, for example, on YouTube, but if you ever watch that, but yeah, it sounds like
like a pretty interesting, yeah, I must give it a shot myself. Yep, and oh,
did it on me? Glad you posted, for some reason that I hadn't considered this for older,
older, harder, thanks for the post and the idea. Basically what I steal in my ideas again there,
David. Yes, and let's see how many times we can give different pronunciations to his handle.
Yeah, absolutely, yes, yes. Do triple D, um, E, um, clear, clear, cut, says resume x86. I did the
same thing with a very similar p4 computer. It does eat some electricity, but it is substantially
faster and has more inputs and outputs than an original model b, your Raspberry Pi. I could make
for a more enjoyable experience learning to use Pi since it can use USB persistence and be utilized
on nearly any PC. Since most of the software is the same, it could be a great way to make up for
lack of funds to fill a classroom with Raspberry Pi machine. Now, any donated PC that still runs
could be made to work even cheaper than buying any of the Pi computers. People could rotate
so if they want to experiment with GPIO pins or other Pi-specific components, they can have a
chance while others won't have to sit around and wait for a buy to become available. A new version
of Raspbian x86 stretch should be coming out very soon. That's a good point now. That's a good
point actually. Yeah, recycling old PCs into classrooms is a great idea. It's probably happening
to some extent, but this will make it a little easier, isn't it?
Yes, and a lot of those old, I know there are a lot of labs that are running Windows XP and stuff.
Can you still hear me? I can hear you, yeah. I think I may have realized what's going on. I think
I had some network issues earlier on, and the network had my Wi-Fi enabled for some reason.
And as it was checking the network connection, my system started sputtering. Anyway, next day,
23.81, the benefits of a tabletop. No, I wasn't finished by comment about labs and stuff. A lot
of labs, computer labs would have had XP computers, and those, of course, are now out of date,
so it would be a good way to sort of upgrade them to run on Raspbian. Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Great idea. Good for lugs, and that sort of set up code clubs, whatever, I don't know.
Yes, that's good. Clot 2 talks about the benefits of analog gaming, and the comments from
Google Mark, and it is my job to butcher people's handles. How would you say that, Dave?
I would call, I would say, good and arc, but probably not what. Yeah, that's probably what she meant.
Good and good and arc, doesn't sound as cool as good and arc. Yeah, yeah.
How are you to do it? Yeah, you do that, you do that.
Okay, good episode says good and arc. The closest I come to gaming on the tabletop is chess,
and my online gaming life is more about casual, false games than PC gaming. But even as a non-game,
I really enjoyed this episode. It spoke to me because it reminded me how much I like science
fiction novels better than science fiction on film, like the tabletop games in your story.
Yeah, absolutely. The power of imagination in a sci-fi story trumps for me, even the most
well-done special effects in a science fiction movie. You make at least seven good points here
in a show I found a good listen. Excellent. That's a very nice comment. Yes, and a very good point
currently listening to Cavalcade's audio robot. He's got a two-part audio story out,
and it is hilarious, but also I am dying for next week when the next episode is out.
This is lost in bronze. I have a weird sidetrack trying to go to sleep to clear my mind. I try
and come up with space opera things, nice boring space things, and then he comes out with
his shows, and their universe is a thousand times more elaborate than my more accurate,
better stories, better written, just talent of lost in bronze. He does have a hell of an
imagination. People have lost her stuff, go check it out. Join up to his male list, and you'll get
links to the early shows before they're posted on his website. All right, Sean Sheen. Sheenon? Yes.
Sheenon? Sheenon. You're correct in me. Sheen Sheenon, even on Irish names. Things about Dave,
things are bad. In my defense, I'm half-dutch now, so okay. I like how you put that. I enjoyed
your comment on GM being a person that has too much imagination for one person, well put, and that
actually right there describes my son. I do really try to the sooner or later my son will become
a dungeon master, and then we'll never see him again. Yeah, yeah, it's wonderful to see
see youngsters too with tons of imagination for that in that sort of way, yeah. Cool.
A non-spoiler review of gist-commage murder and forever fails by a Michael Warren Lucas,
that has to be the best book title for geeks ever. I don't know what they popularist
community might think of that, but for anybody in the geekdom, that should be, that's a definite
read right there just for that. Oh yeah, yeah, I agree. We don't have any comments on that, but the
basically a little book review there by a book teaser will be a better word by 50 on 50. Nice
to hear 51 50 on HBR again. Isn't it? Yes. What's in my handshake by Steve Sainer on recorded
on the very night that we recorded? They are recorded. They amateur radio roundtable, and I came
on as a moron, intended to be a guest for really folks. When you hear that, it's a show, and
sometimes Dave here, we have people who send in the show and think, oh my god, this was the most
terrible show ever, and whatever. This, my participation in this was truly, truly awful. I was just so
tired and not thinking, and the poor guys were on there, just gone beating their heads against
all those sorts of moron and so on. But anyway, back to this show, just preempting everybody whenever
it comes up. This is how I'm radio enthusiast, and you have a handshake, can you please
do a show like this? What I love is a little link to each of these, each of these radios and stuff,
and he also has met a very good point about my, about my little radio might complete that
good because, you know, the bullfight, I was about to broadcast crap on either side, so I'll
have a listen to this show. Yeah, I thought he did a lovely job, very, very nice. So much,
so much kit, so much stuff. It seems expensive to me as well, but then again, you look around
any of our, you know, what's in your own check, you've got a laptop, you know, 1500 quids worth
of a laptop sitting right there, and then you've got a whole pile of pies around, and some monitors
around, you know, it kind of builds up, it just happens to be, how I'm radio stuff, you know what I mean?
Oh, absolutely, yeah, and my attic is stuffed with, with the odds and ends, like a dead laser printer
and a, a monitor of a, at the game, tabletop game, which I tried to make them, you know, all that sort
of stuff, I'm sure he's in place, but yeah, yeah, yeah, I got the best talent for this was, you know,
your hack is never, your, your shack is never finished, so just recorded, at this point in time,
and then two years later on, you can tell us what change in your shack, so, yeah, pretty amazing.
Many of it comes to Scotland and talks to Andrew, but it's luckily 14.2 a year left, a little
lease, and I apologise to everybody in Scotland for that tour of the accident.
That was obviously a Glasgow accident, yeah, definitely, yeah, yeah, which is where they were.
You've got an Edinburgh accident, should I?
Oh, absolutely, yeah, something like that.
Oh, this is so funny, but Arch, you know, how's that elephant, and Arch is freeflies in
Slecker's relevance, this crack will boost it.
All right, yeah, yeah, that's great. I enjoyed, well, I've said I know both of these guys
going well, and it's good to, good to hear them, hear that chat.
And, uh, Suns of Man 1 says, still thriving, good to see HVR showing Sleckware love, yes, indeed.
No, that was good, we need to know more about Sleckware, have you, have you ever used it yourself, Ken?
I have, yes, I once did a, um, actually was one of the first, uh,
distros ever run. I should actually, I did a, um, part of somebody else's show how I got into
Linux, but I should probably do one as well, but really, it's a long story.
Oh, um, yeah.
No, it's, it's, uh, it's something I've never tried myself, and this thing to, to this sort of
chat makes me want to just have a mess around with it on a, on a machine that's not, not particularly
important. But, uh, yeah, yeah. That's like a little work, but not as much work as
arch and gen 2 and stuff. Oh, Linux from scratch? Oh, well, yeah, yeah. I'll be dead before I
finish that if I've ever started it, so I'll not bother. That's not about it. If you do
it in a virtual machine, then it's not that bad. That's kind of cheap.
Anyway, the next day, healthcare costs, why are the cost pressures in healthcare?
And again, this is part of the series, uh, series on, uh, healthcare that you're doing,
and the easy says impressive. Thank you for this episode. Once again, I am pressed by the knowledge
of the healthcare system in the US. I'd love to hear your, the sub word A, political.
A presentation. Yep. Cool. And Bob, Bob, Bob, comments with more information. I hope you can
address some of the points brought up in Adam ruins everything. The real reason hospital
is so expensive in a future episode. The video seems to challenge your arguments related to
why healthcare is so expensive in the US. Their video sources are here and he gives a couple
of, couple of links. I would argue that it's possible to decrease the individual cost of
equipment by increasing its utilization. For example, it's common practice in European
hospitals for unexpensive equipment like MRI machines 24-7 to reduce the overall cost.
It's also possible to increase human utilization by concentrating skills in facilities
dedicated to a given specialism. This is being done to great efficiency in India.
Their facility is dedicated to, for example, eye surgery or heart treatment. This is proven to be
extremely useful in tracking the best specialists from all over the world because they're guaranteed
to have a high throughput of patients in their dedicated field. This allows facilities to train up
many more specialists as there is a constant utilization of their skills. Interesting.
Yeah, I watched the YouTube video and some interesting points though. It has a presentation
that's very lightweight for a very heavy subject. I would like to follow up all the links in it
and it would be interesting. It doesn't seem to, he's thinking about the Alaka costs. In Ireland,
they simply said, okay, well, we're not. They put a board in place to look at the price of
that hospitals were being charged and it was just ridiculous. They don't know. They're setting
the country like the limits on what hospitals can pay for drugs and stuff. Although, I do see
Ahoko's photos in there. So what's going on? Strange. Oh, I think we must have a gravitar fault
of some sort here somewhere. I made a note of it, so we'll pick up on this one later.
So the next day was the decline in fall of tickle TCR. Very interesting show. I'm glad
Plaky brought it to us and also brought more stuff to the commons in getting permission from
the author to release it as CC by essay. Yeah, good. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Absolutely.
Losing community, I think, is something that will more than one projects should be very careful about
doing. Yeah, it was an interesting analysis of the problem. I used, I've never called it tickle.
It seemed silly name, but that's just me. I used it a lot at one point because that and TK
was the only way to get stuff to work on a bunch of Unix work stations I've got lumbered with.
The principle of the university bought 50 Unix work stations to implement the thing called
deck Athena. Digital equipment, corporations, implementation of the MIT Athena project,
which we had to then implement to the whole Blooming University. And TCLTK and expect TK
with two things that I found very amazing and useful to speed up stuff on that, just to provide
interfaces to various things. So yeah, a lot of interesting stuff there. And it's more slash,
more space, asterix, four slash capital T, no case K. There's a Ruby TK that used to be
Guile TK, best friend of enemies, but Guile TK was deprecated and replaced with Guile GTK,
which was then replaced with Guile Nome. It's pretty funny that although Pitman has had a large
degree replaced TCL out there, any system that includes a full Python also includes TCLTK because
Ticker depends on TCLTK as part of Python's standard lib, even funnier. The proudest project
of the Guile world, G-U-I-X depends on Geeks, thank you. Depends on Python via Graphis and G-lib
and therefore TCL. Well now. Yeah, yeah, it's embedded. TK into is the thing that's in Python by the way.
Yeah, it's true. When I first started using Linux on Red Hat, then just for every GUI that you
ran was TCLTK. Some of them bit clunky, but they got better as they moved away from it.
Retro would be more good looking for it. Yeah, yeah, definitely. Yeah, I used the motif version
of TK, which was which was nice, but weird, but motif was weird anyway. So Mad Sweeney says TK
is not accessible. RMS started a Flame Pest when he posted to compang TCL in 1994. Why should not
use TCL? He gives a link to the to the Google groups that has archived this chat. I don't like TCL
for it's extremely typed nature, but TK seems like a nice lightweight GUI toolkit, but unfortunately
it doesn't work with screen readers on any platform, so you should avoid using it unless you're
just developing something for your own use. And plucky response, RMS Flame Pest. The Flame Pest
you're referring to is the TCL war link in the show notes. Thanks for the comment on the accessibility
that's good to know if you're building a serious GUI, but I guess it's another example of how TCL TK
hasn't quite left the 80s. Mad Sweeney replies, Flame Pest. Hi, Glacier. Yeah, I missed that.
That'll teach me to listen at four times speed. Oh, yes, yes, yes, those blind readers
horse and thrarshoes. Freeway at some bicycles. Frank's discussion of the lifelong love of freeway.
This is in danger of becoming a series Dave or more sure. It is, isn't it? Yeah, interesting.
It is interesting. Yeah, like a Mexico point that he didn't need to do a whole lot. I particularly
love this comment on the exercise booth, you know, he hasn't had only done it a lot some for you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, he's a bit old school, I think, Frank. So I tend to agree with him quite a lot,
actually. Yeah, I'd be similar ages. Yeah, I've had this debate with people before, you know,
and work. Oh, if they, if we get a solar thing, then the whole world is going to come to an end
and thing. And I just remember the interview that was done at the beginning of the year 2000
when they were going around. Yo, what have you done? Well, guys, you know, we only switched to
using the computer last week. So we'd probably go out to the shed and take in the forms that we're
using before that and sure to be correct. Yeah, life will go on, my friends. Yeah, we're going
to two world wars before the days of the internet. I think we can continue in the assurance that
mankind will be more on and continue to communicate. Any apps sprunking, the plan is of the apps.
I am now looking forward to more of these apps sprunking shows, although I still think it's
always given three shows, three finds, perhaps odd, but it seems to be working for him. So I'm
going to let him off the hook now. These days are great. I like these so much. The lightweight
window managers haven't been tempted to change window managers in a while. Don't know if I should.
I, yeah, I've never, I think I've used tiling managers in the very, very early days.
I think weren't some of the early X1s tiling, like TWM and stuff, were they tiling? I can't
remember, but yeah, I've used, I think I might even have used i3 just for a moment or two, but yeah,
not, I'm happy with what a guy. I'll just stick with that. I don't want that. Change, don't want too much change.
Yeah, double this change in stuff. Come on. I'm in phones and stuff. Yeah, fancy computers,
what you're doing. I saw that Raspberry Pi phone. Pi zero phone. Do you see it? The GSM module
onto your Raspberry Pi zero. I am so getting one of those things. If you can get a like Wi-Fi module
and a, um, and a 40 bridge, dungal thing with maybe GPS on it, I'm, that's it, that's my phone.
I'm just going to have that. But can you come back and walk into the airport right and put
your phone, put, put, print a four stacked printed circuit boards with a battery and duck tips
around them into the airport thing. Everybody down. It's all right. It's all thanks to the Raspberry Pi.
The bomb squad will be there in a second. Anyways, he's been wasting shows again and he gets his
own series series. 98 is up splunking. Excellent. Excellent. So yes, is it, we change in the names of
the shows or no? No, no, no, no. Yeah, if he wants to, if he has to, if he, yeah. Okay, so that was
your comment. Um, and Jensras commented, ha ha, you said unicorn because he was trying to do
for a fanatic thingy. So I thought it was quite, quite inventive. Yeah, he also said it's a very,
very strange, very strange Altenewericks on there. Or, uh, well, that's Altenewericks on the word,
fanatic, fanatics, yes, yes. It was the, it was his own, it was his own construction, I thought,
perfectly good, perfectly good. Yeah, fine by me. Ports on life and learning by B easy and talk about
your experience as a good learner. Very nice little show. So yeah, it's, it's learning things and
do it well. Yeah, that's an excellent philosophy, I think. I very much agree with that. And,
nicely put, I had never considered that lifetime learning was not an option, but apparently for
some people it is, I don't know how you could, I doubt anyone listening to this show, um, suffers from
the not lifetime learning thing. I think it's the Bahaqa, or haqa, or outlook, haqa in the, in the
non-projorative sense. It's, it's, you know, you want to work out how to fix that thing and make
it better, et cetera, et cetera. And you've got to learn new things to do it. So, you know, it's,
yeah, you're right. I think it is the community we're in. But, yeah, how could you not? I mean,
you have to live on a diet of terrible telly. Yeah, I want to just stop.
Top games. Counterpoint to episode two, three, eight, one. Platoon talks about PC gaming
compares to tabletop game. So that was it. It was, it was also good, you know, a good
balance there between, because in one episode he was saying he was arguing with himself basically,
he was, um, arguing the point that there are advantages to PC gaming. So, over table something.
And that was it, Steve. We're done. Or are we? Comments? We're coming from five. We're not done.
I just, I just have to go and let the cat out or in if you can, you let me step away from
I don't want to be in the control case. All right. Okay. Right. I'm back. Let's get out of the bag.
Cats who'd keep them as soon as you go out to come back in again. I don't know. I mean, things
really have to get a cat float. There's no way to put one in this house.
So you send me the comments file. Oh cool. I just work off that then, shall I? Yep. Okay.
So the comment, um, uh, well, you can read the first comment, but you got your text file.
I just have to get it. Yeah. So we have, we have comments, um, for shows prior to this month's
shows. And we have one on safely enabling SSH in the default rise of inhibition by Ken Fallon from
Sesame Mutual, who says, thanks for pulling this together. This is just what I needed. I made
some changes, um, Raspberry Pi.org is now using Sharty 5.6 Chexams and I use L-O setup to
avoid all that calculation. This script is on GitHub and it gives a link. Thanks again.
And I reply, fantastic brilliant thing up job. Thank you very much. I am so shocked
of this. I haven't given up and you have something in it that gets, uh, gets cloned brilliant.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's very useful. It is useful. So it's good to have that, uh,
that comment that shows that it is. I am drinking a shuffelle, a soleer, Belgian beer.
Lucky you, lucky you. Yes, yes, yes.
That's for later. So we also had a comment to hr 2, 3, 5, 6, how much you're ready around table number
two. Josh Huber, six KF six ZZD ZZD. Uh, I like to, he says, Doppler shift of RF at terrestrial
speeds. I like the explanation to the Doppler, Doppler effects, Doppler effect on radio frequencies
at 3330. It was mentioned that at the speeds that satellites travel, the Doppler effect is noticeable
so much that you have to adjust your Rx frequency. At the speed of a car, a car travel, which is
very slow compared to RF propagation, the Doppler shift wouldn't play a role. I just have one nitpick,
which is that at car speeds, a measurable Doppler shift of RF signals indeed happens,
even at gigahertz frequency. And this is exactly how police radar works. Commonly using radar
way up in the 10 gigahertz or 24 gigahertz bands. This is totally a nitpick since we're probably
not talking about a shift of more than a few kilohertz and very few, if any, radios can tune in less
than 10 kilohertz increments in UHF anyway. Enjoyed the show. Cheers. And yes, nitpicking is what we do
here today. So, I didn't know that. It's good to have these things pointed out, actually.
I haven't quite appreciated that. Of course, that is how radar works. My son's currently in
Japan and he's driving around in the Hanapanshu and he, everybody drives way over the speed limit
and he was just following along. Then he saw a Japanese radar truck. He managed to avoid just
like the skin of his teeth. It's quite scary. He was very scared because you don't have radar
trucks like they do in Japan in the UK. We have sort of things on sticks. These would get these
these are people hiding behind bushes or radios. Oh, right. Scanny things. So, yeah, that was
that was a highlight of his holiday. Not. They have them here and then people go on to apps and
signal to people that they're available and then it's broadcast on like the navigation assistance.
But they're... Oh, people used to flash their lights to work. Yeah, there's a guy hiding it.
He'll get you. Tradol is some US care system by Oka. We still have Tradol's. While there are,
while that would be an improvement, there are still be other Tradol's to deal with and
probably benefit from reading the comments that they should do in one second.
Hi, I was to my comments. A better start and a point would be to agree that everyone has the
right to have a care of work from there. Well, that would be an improvement and would still be
Tradol's to deal with. Yeah, so he was commenting to my comment. I can reply to that. Saying that,
indeed, yes, but if you say to the states that they need to put it for health care, then it's
basically... Whoever is saying that you need to do it is the one that should be making sure that
it's funded, so... Yeah, yeah, it's a... Oh, yes. It's a big problem. Oh, but it's an interesting
series in that it is a... It's interesting the way he's going through that and probably at the end
of the series would be better positioned to make some more comments about it if any jumped mind.
Yes, he's doing a great analysis of the whole thing. I'd love looking forward to hearing the whole
thing. Anyway, yes, moving on to the next one. Two, three, six, four. This was managing your
Android with AirDroid by Frank Bell and Brenda J. Butler commented, run naked through the Google
plex. Ha, ha. Love that comment at 50 minutes, seven seconds, both because it's funny,
because it brings the point home. Yes. That's a... That's quite an image. And Paul, feel free to...
There's been a few of that this month where you take out a few sentences from the
shows that make you chuckle and say within. Two, on the show, two, three, six, nine, but that was in
Y-bills, which is a little meatless problem, not having enough of them. Ambient noise, thanks Mike.
You know, I didn't notice any of the other stuff. Hold on, hold on, hold on.
In the thing you're reading, I flagged the comments you don't need to read with a vertical bar
on the left. That means... That's so explanatory, Dave. This is the green on the on the other ones.
Well, yeah, I just forgot to tell you. I mean, you should...
So, yes, we read them last week. Last week. Okay, not Verified says one. And I like the idea
where Handler's called, not Verified. I had to laugh out loud when you weren't
remodeling for batteries. I'm sure we've all done that more than once. Have you tried...
Have you checked out any of the Amiga 328 based ESR components testers? Again, this one
I'll try to link to the Amazon one. Based on the price and reviews, I got the one with the IC
InSocket because I tend to trash things. If the unit, I know, do... I know, do a show.
What? Is it what, Dave? People started typing me.
Well, I do have to hear this because I ordered a component tester. I got a whole
group of components from my father-in-law's school was thrown out a box of components and they
just get them to me and I have no idea what they were. So, I ordered a component tester from
Banggood and the shipments didn't work. So, I ended up not getting a component tester. So,
I'm looking for a good recommendation. So, people conditions that will be awesome.
Well, NY Bill replies to this ESR tester kits. Yes, I have. Have you built one?
That was the question. I built two of them. First, I sold to a friend at our
lug for the cost of the kit. Worth the money. I was happy to sold up, sold up another and he
points to a link on his site where he keeps his pictures showing this particular thing.
I even started recalling an HPR on the unit, but life got in the way. So, yep, get one,
build it up and give us a review. So, can I do? I do believe he's that we might be hearing more
about this from NY Bill. So, what about maybe? No, don't mention that. Because right now we have
to have not verified, which is an awesome, an awesome handle. Please record a show and
claim that name before anybody else gets it. And you'll be verified, that's not verified.
Yes, I will verify. Make sure that you are not verified.
Actually, yes, yes, good. So, mailing list stuff. And now news from the mailing list.
So, we need to be able to do the mailing list more efficient.
Yes, yes, because yeah, just to let people know what we're trying to do this week or what I'm
trying to do, because the website has been a little bit difficult to use lately. I tried to send
out as much in a form of text files as I could this week, this month. So, we were using the text
file now, but I haven't done this for the mail. So, anyway, I'm just looking at my
mail client to try and work it out. Well, I'm looking at the thread on the archive,
which has got them nested threads. The link of the show. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So,
it's far more changes to the common system, basically,
anti-spam measures that we're going to put in and stuff. So, I will probably know as good a
time as I need to talk about that. I was a massive, massive pain in the rear end, not because it was
anything complicated or that. We did the change over. Everything was going, well, I wrote a
a comment-changing script, which is basically a cookdown version of the upload show script.
It's got all the checks on there. Actually, one thing about writing your own comment-checking system
is that you can absolutely tailor it to the HPR site. So, there is nobody else who will be able
to use this other than HPR. So, we've got a question in there called, like the anti-spam question is,
what does the P in Hacker Public Radio stand for? Do. So, you, that's so, yeah. We haven't received
one spam comment since we implemented this. I'm pretty impressed. No, yes. Yeah, and no,
we haven't received any spam comment. Just don't wish them on it. No, if they're listening.
They're moving, but so listen. But there is some things that we need to, so we had to
replay the functionality of the website. And I got my grade to make sure that's just accessible.
It is accessible for, here's this funny thing that I do. The vast majority of comments that we get
on shows are comments for the last month. Yeah, so, you know, the last 30 days. So, I decided that
if it's the last 30 days, you only get asked the anti-spam question, what's the P in Hacker Public
Radio stand for? If you're commenting on shows older than that, which is a typical exploit of
spammer sale, pick a popular show or a popular blog post from a few years ago that you're used
of approving spam comments on it and then they'll try and sneak in there. And so, in a slivering
cutting plan, if you're commenting on the show in the future or commenting on the show more than
30 days in the past, you would get asked three additional things. Number one is, are you a spammer?
And the default answer is yes. So you have to switch that to no. You'll have to answer who hosted
the show and you can select the host from a drop down list. And then the other question is,
what does HVR mean to you and the you need to put in their convinces,
convinces us you are part of the community. And so far, we've got two or three comments on older
shows and the comments in there have been very, very, very sad today. Yes, one of the side
effects of your, your test for older than 30 days is that it also determines if somebody's
commenting on a show that's been posted, but hasn't we haven't yet got to it in the feed.
You'd also triggers that question. That's why you've had those questions from people who have
been commenting in the future as it were. Yeah, exactly. Anything when it comes to the HVR size,
anything that falls anywhere suspicious to me is triggered on that. And we also put in a limit
now on the amount of verbals that you can put into a comment. If you hit that limit,
then you should be recording a show. That's pretty much it. Yeah, yeah. It seems like it's fairly
significant to the number of 1,000 something characters, I don't know, 2,000 characters,
but yeah, I'm even more than that. And you should be recording a show because that's what we do
here. So that's the that actual part worked quite well and everything was hunky-dory and then we
turned it on and then the site stopped working. It's funny now, David. It wasn't funny back then.
No, it was it turned out we can. The common system was being used by the site to get access to
the database. And so I had significant amount of changes to do to fix that. And then there was
all sorts of byproducts of that where RSS feeds were not working. There was extra lines in
their things coming back and all sorts of message. But yeah, so none of this has anything to do
with moving from HGP to HVS. This whole thing, the whole common system chain is getting rid of
the old common system. And I think you're now in the process of deactivating the tables, correct?
Yes, I've moved them away. So they're not that we know for certain, I think, that nothing is
trying to use them or do anything with them. So we can now archive them or whatever else we want
to do with them and then delete them out of the database. That actually leads to a lot cleaner
system. So there's a few things. Sorry, what? No, I was just going to say the old the old
structure was very, very convoluted because it was, yeah, maybe because it was written to be a
generic thing that was being sold to anybody who needed a common system, but it had all sorts
of problems as a consequence for us. And even the spam checking as well was the
trouble. And the fact that we attracted, you know, we had the name of the common script down there,
so all the bots could happily then go and find out their custom hacks for that particular script.
Anyway, there you go. That was one thing. What else do I'm going to read you around table?
5150 offered stickers. Yes, shall we talk about that? Stickers, stickers, stickers.
And it's in the any other business news. Another thing that we did this month was to
Fostem, right? Fostem is coming up. It's a free and open source conference where lots and lots
of developers and thousands of participants come to Belgium every year and walk around and talk
about free software. And it's basically like, I don't know, hackers version of heaven,
possibly with far too few ladies and people of, but there you are. And we
I got emailed some time back as I managed last year, I was booking them so much about getting
the contact information for the interviews around the stands. I think I got added to the list
by mistake. So they sent me a link to the proposals for stands. So rather than just, you know,
putting in the proposal for HPR ourselves, I contacted as many other podcasting shows and
free culture that I could get my hands on. And basically, everyone replied back, yes, we would
like to be included in the presentation and probably send you stickers and stuff.
So if that does go ahead, and I'm not saying a will because they, as you know, we're talking about
Europe against people like KDE, Nome, Slackware, Postgres, MySQL, Google, Mozilla,
Europe against massive big projects here, even trying to get a space is a massive premium there.
So, but we put together a good picture I thought to. Yes, absolutely, I think it's an
actual thing and lots of lots of backing, which should cause the administrators to stop and think
before they say no, hopefully they won't say no, but because it would be an interesting change
just to sit there and have people have the interviews come to me rather than me going to the interviews.
And we would have others other podcasts is coming along to which would be really nice
that kind of comes to be be super. Yeah, it would be it would be really, really awesome. I would
take some time to make sure I'm done there for. Okay, let me see. So 1550s talking about stickers,
give you some links in there in the show notes, probably coming back to that again. Michael
sent us in the text text, even if they see the Belgian beers beginning to take effect.
If you're only going to have one beer here, it should be a good strong beer.
20% joe visa. It's like a after six percent, yeah, but I'm a worse. So the low q poem,
which I think you know, we should threaten to put up every time the
picture is low, but it's a brilliant, it's a brilliant poem with more or less. It gives you the
the complete rundown of what H.P.R. is and how it works. Now this is this is great. I really
enjoyed it when it when he did it and I have the words for posterity. It's great too.
I added it to his shows, one of the most added to the help sites or whatever.
So, let's talk about the other thing, slow downloads again, why am I great? Well, we had a look
to see, we're getting 500 hours, which we thought were related to us using us maximum bandwidth
because then we were checking and somebody was downloading a lot of shows, but we checked again
and this was happening quite a lot and then we realized that there were bots out there
and I'll just give you some quick parsing of the notes that I
of the log file I did for this month just to give you an idea of what's going on.
So, between the 31st of August and the 30th of September, there were
1,878,779,000 hits on the websites and that came from 67 and a half thousand unique
IP addresses. Of those hits nearly a million were from bots crawling and of those 75,000 were
invalid requests. So, a massive proportion of what was happening is down to invalid crawling and
I'll talk to you more about that. Of those, half, nearly all of those were by two bots, a Yandex
bot and a MJ12 bot and then there was also a dot bot and then the numbers drastically go down to
real bots like Bingboss and Googleboss and whoever go down to into the few thousands range where
you would expect them. Those morons for one to the better word are assuming that HPR is a
open API and that's using directories for attributes. So, they're converting apps.php into apps
forward slash something and then they're finding an app in there and then they go forward slash
and then they go forward slash and forward slash and forward slash. They had a look in the show notes
and quite a lot of their URLs, no idea where they came from, never were on the site. Google or
any other place have no reference to these. It just and there are plenty of comments where these
bots have been shown to be doing this to websites around the place. So, Josh called, okay, well,
I'll put in my robots.txt file and they'll surely stop crawling the website after that, no.
They continue down and then he found all the IP addresses of those sites and new. They changed
the IP addresses and now he has failed to band scripts that checks the number of processes,
number of open connections and then every few minutes he bands all those IP addresses and
it's still going on today, still going on. We are sending requests in so we're blocking them
directly. There's a check on every web page as we evaluate the web page and immediately
replies back with a 404 which they should terminate the connection but no, they continue on and
continue on. So, they've got a list of some URLs that are completely ignoring the 404s and they're
going out. We run the IP addresses so they're being very, very nosy citizens. Now, the only other thing
that we can do, how this is affecting the website is we're getting 500 errors from time to time.
So, the sizes are either slow because they're using up all the resources or we don't get connections
or other things. So, it's rather unfortunate what I must say but it has been looked into.
There is the possibility of installing some proprietary software which will cost, what was it,
$24 a month? $20 a month is what I remember, yeah. Yeah, so they work out at $240 a month and to
be honest, I got forward to spend any more money on the HPR project. Josh is pumping enough
money into this. He found out that he's not really making anything from the advertising that he's
doing and because we're not too charity, he will try and log it against his tax, tax thingy but
because we're not too charity that just makes it a little bit more difficult. So, props to Josh
for all the support he gets and yeah, I don't know, really what to do about that was well done him.
It's grim, it's really grim. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, some of those robot sites are regarded as
as sort of attack sites. It was a little bit, I've read about it, that people can actually
use them to do attacks on sites. Yeah. For a start, not following the 404. Not following the robots
of text is a red flag for me. The fact that you get a 404 and then four weeks later, you're still
coming back to the same URL is a red flag for me. So, bam, there are bots as well, I said.
And a big thank you to Josh for everything that he's done. He's been on the ball this month,
helping us out. So, yeah, basically, if you get a 500er, we've got this site for free from
where we're basically under attack all the time and there's not really a lot we can do about
just know that in a half an hour, they're more on that's been blocking you. Their IP address
will be banned and it'll take a while for their open connections to phase off. Your RSS feed should
be able to pick up missing shows again the next time it's run. So, I apologize for a little bit
of turbulence, but hopefully we'll get you through. Yeah, there's not much else that we can do
in the environment that we're in. So, new podcast coming up, website appears to be down,
site unavailable again, and then Mike Ray had something about St. Columns in Libra office
Calcish and Kevin O'Brien helped out and Rob Hawking's and Roam Hormingling. If I'm mispronouncing
any of these people's names, feel free to record a show, tell us the correct pronunciation.
Kevin had a title mishap which I believe you fixed to the correct. I did indeed. Yes, yes,
I meant to ask him what he put a title with a number and stuff in it which didn't look right,
but I forgot to ask him. So, apologies, Kevin for not coming back to you quicker, but I fixed it
very quickly once he highlighted it. And the Ohio Linux Fest was on is on the 15th in Ohio,
will be on the September of the 29th and 30th, so basically this weekend as well.
Then we have news of the community news, and that's about it. Was there any other business Dave?
We never, yeah, Clinton Roy presumably couldn't make it, he thought he was going to be able to
join us tonight. Yeah, no, no, he did say he was going to try, but anyway, thank you for the
thought, Eddie. Next time. If you want to organize one of these shows and your own time is on
absolutely no problem, we can send you the, I'll support you with notes and stuff. Yeah, yeah,
no, no, I've got a bit early. So yes, on the any other business list, we've covered a few,
we have podcast awards. The podcast awards ceremony is today, 5 p.m. pst. So,
no, I was just just reading out my notes earlier. It's International Podcast Day, which is no
coincidence, but we should all have been out there pushing the idea of getting people to record
shows for HPR, really. Which is what I'm looking forward to, to be able to get more hosts.
Definitely, we need to be producing a sort of pack that we can give to people to say,
you know, this is what we do is what we like from you and blah, blah, blah, and all that sort of
stuff. Yeah, yeah, there's a lot of work to do if we get that. So, last day, we've covered website
issues we've covered, and we really commented on Josh and Anonisthost.com. I put in an item there,
thanking him for this and reminding everybody that we're getting free facilities from Josh's company.
Yep. So, cool. That's pretty much it. Cool, cool, cool. Dave, I had nothing else.
I have nothing else out there. So, we're good.
Chin in tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Hi, cut. Public radio. Oh, what? It's almost as if we rehearsed that.
Yes, yes, yes, yes. Okay, join us now and share this offer. You'll be free hackers. You'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog
Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the
Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
