Episode: 2392
Title: HPR2392: Weather, Ogg Camp, Server Room,  ITO collection
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2392/hpr2392.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:10:33

---

This is HPR episode 2,392 entitled, whether, on-camp, server room, ITO collection.
It is hosted by AWP and is about 8 minutes long and can rim a clean flag.
The summary is a short podcast about various things mostly on-camp.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Good day and welcome.
My name is JWP and I wanted to talk today about some things that are going on.
The first is the German weather boy, this hot cold rain, cold hot thing, it's really
really bad.
We've had a lot of ticks here in Southern Germany this summer and I'd like to ask everyone
to think positively about Texas after Harvey pounded it and everything, all my relatives
are there and it's been quite an interesting time recovering from Harvey.
I went to AWP camp in Canterbury and I have to say that it was a really nice time.
I thought the great venue, Tobias, he worked really hard on the venue and John and I
sky put to put on a pretty good show.
There were many, many, many beer strong and somehow I didn't win the laptop, I tried
it really hard, it just didn't happen.
I thought probably the most interesting talks were there was a girl from Mozilla that
did the class about photography and cryptography 101 and then the open Sousa Richard came
by and he was a new bird and I seen at the open Sousa summer every year and he talked
a lot about containers as a service and that's our new distribution and how he's going
to be spearheading that and he talked about the difference between leap and tumbleweed
and how he thought that everything was going to be rolling distribution and got me a little
excited.
I tried to install tumbleweed and I failed miserably.
It worked at the ButterFS for me worked for about two or three boots and then it wouldn't
do anything at all and went back to boot to grove and I couldn't figure it out anymore.
But I'm still going to try and maybe I should have tried with leaps.
I stayed at the camps, the hostel there in the backpastor packer hostel and it was
quite an adventure there.
It's five nights for 72 pounds.
I had to share an eight man.
I wasn't the only person over 50 there in my room.
There were lots of over 50 folks there.
I was really surprised so it was not just a young person thing, very very nice if you're
in Canterbury and you really need a cheap place, that's the way to go.
Well, I wanted to talk a little bit about how my server room's coming in.
Recently I interviewed my collection of embedded devices or ITO devices and I found out that
I had an original Raspberry Pi.
I think it was a B plus maybe or B. It has a yellow audio out.
I have a PI 2, three PI 3s, a PON 64 computer and an old debut and slug.
And trying to get those configured in the basement and each of them doing something has been
quite the journey for me.
And also I tried to put Mate, the 17 or 4 Mate on my Microsoft HP Stream and I just couldn't
get it to the Firefox every time I loaded it, it sort of freaked out a little bit.
So I moved back and I went to the Subuntu stock and it took me better part of a day to
get everything fixed.
The third news is that it doesn't look like I need the Broadcom, Survivors anymore, the
BWL, it looks like that.
I talked to Martin, the guy that does Mate and he said that 1710 is going to be a really
good one.
It would touch support and everything and I might want to try 1710.
I'm probably going to wait until the next LTS comes out because it's my main machine
and I really don't need an awful lot of trouble there.
I forgot the 16 or 4 working on my Microsoft Surface, just fine.
I can't remember the last time I booted into that.
Now the PON 64, it's really interesting, it runs a special kernel but everything else
about it is senile and so it's a pure Ubuntu 1604 experience on ARM and I got it going
and the nice thing about it is it's got 2GB RAM and that little quad core ARM processor
so it whizzes right along and you can still buy those, it became a commercial venture
after the Kickstarter and there's still $15 or $20 each and it's got a gigabit ether
port built in, built in to it and they also sell a laptop variant.
The slug he's having his issues, I mean he's only got 32 megabyte of RAM and so he's
having my little in and so you too, he's having his issues and of course I'm still running
Lini on that because it's too complex to get Jesse or stretch to work on 32 megabytes
it's just really, really tough so and of course that's the ARM 5 chip and so it's really
tough.
I've been thinking about maybe getting a paper clip and trying to flash open word back
on it and maybe get something a little more usable but on that particular box it's
the only place that I've gotten the full console office suite on it and so I've gotten
pine and we've got Python or Python 2 there and so it's really difficult for me to give
that up because I spent a lot of time on it but lately the SSH connects and then it drops
connects and then it drops, connects and then it drops and so I'm having difficulties
with that.
The shows seem to be coming along quite okay on the hacker public radio, I really like
the one about Jam the other day, we had some Jam talk and I really enjoyed the Jam talk.
My Hadoop studies are too infine, I've got three tests, Hadoop things and my server room
at work and I'm testing them out and trying to get the SAP part of Hadoop running and working
well on there and it seems to be doing quite okay on my studies.
Already well I'll let y'all go, I hope y'all enjoyed my on camp review and what I'm doing
with my servers and again y'all think about Texas and the water there.
Alright, thank you much, bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise status, today's show
is released under creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
