Episode: 2493
Title: HPR2493: YouTube Subscriptions - update
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2493/hpr2493.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:06:35

---

This is HPR Episode 2493 entitled YouTube Subscription Update.
It is hosted by Dave Morris and is about 15 minutes long and can in the next visit flag.
The summary is some of the YouTube channel I have subscribed to in the last year.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, everybody. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. My name is Dave Morris.
And I'm doing a show about YouTube Subscriptions today.
I did one in January 2017 about my YouTube Subscriptions concentrating mainly
on the makers that I like to follow on YouTube. Since then, I've added a few more channels,
some of which are related to making and that sort of stuff.
In fact, probably most of them are, but there's a few others as well.
I thought I would just give you a quick rundown of those in case they're of interest to you.
So what I've done is I've listed more. There's a short list in the main notes,
just links to the channels and then the longer notes.
There's a list including some descriptive text that I've got from the about page
of each of the channels. When there is anything, a few people don't have anything at all.
And I've also added some of my own notes about what I think about the channel,
why I'm following them and so on.
So I've got an alphabetical list. It's just start the beginning and go through them.
First one is a channel called Anne of All Trades. It's a new channel I've recently
subscribed to. I don't know much about Anne's history, but she seems to be quite talented
in making stuff and is on a quest, apparently, to learn new skills and so forth.
Of the more old-fashioned, I suppose you'd say, manual making without too much in the way of
electrical equipment and so forth. There are not very many episodes yet, but I thought it was
worth bringing in the channel to your attention because it seemed like it has great potential.
Bigclive.com is the second one and this is a guy who Scottish guy, I think, from Glasgow
originally. He lives currently on the Isle of Man. I think he works in electronics in his day-time
work, not precisely shown, he does. He certainly knows a lot about electronics and
soldering and all that sort of stuff and he's always got some weird and wonderful gadget,
often a cheap nasty thing from China or something. He's bought from a pound store and he's
tearing them down, looking at how they work, how they whether they're safe or not. He does a lot
of sorts of weird and wonderful things. He does a lot of videos, how he has the time to do so many
per week, I don't know, but they're really entertaining. Next is computer file and their
description says videos all about computer science and computer stuff, which seems to cover it all.
There's some fascinating episodes on here. You need to be interested in programming and
computer science, I guess, to get most of it, though there has been a series of interviews with
Professor Brian Kernigan, who's one of the co-creators of Ork, which Be Easy and I doing series
on, as you hopefully know. And he's a really interesting idol, isn't he? And some of the decisions
made about the design of Ork are interesting to hear about. Some computer history stuff as well
where they tear apart old computers and talk about them and that type of thing. David Welder is
the fourth one. He's a sort of general maker and woodworker. He says, make things from all kinds
materials. The channel is pretty organic, I shoot things, I like and find interesting. So
it's not just making, it's all sorts of stuff. His father seems to be a maker as well and sometimes
they work together. He's pretty interesting. He has been on hideous for a while, but his
output seems to be increasing again now. You might like to give him a look anyway. He's an
entertaining sort of guy. He also fairly recently subscribed to number five, which is channel called
Evan and Caitlin. And the hosts are, of course, Evan and Caitlin. They married a couple,
they made a lot of stuff together. There's it says in their description, I'm not going to read
these all out. You can do that yourself, I'm sure. But they're projects often quite clever.
They're sometimes quite simple, but just have an interesting twist to them. And their
relaxed and friendly style is great, I enjoy it. Next is explaining computers. This is a guy
called Christopher Barnett, who's been teaching computing in future studies at the University of
Nottingham. And has written a lot of books, 13. He's taken a break from writing books, I think he
said. But his channel is fascinating. I wasn't sure about it when I first encountered it. It has
quite an old-fashioned style to it. Somebody says it's like, if you're British, you'll know the
Open University and the way in which at one point they used to put out all of their output
on the television at weird times of the day. So you could, if you wished, watch all manner of
lectures on stuff. And he seems to come across as a bit like those guys, which, to me, it's
perfect. I like it very much. He's been talking a lot about single-board computers lately,
comparing Raspberry Pi with the O-Droid and various others, Tinkerboard, etc. Check it out and
see if you're interested in those things. And he's done some interesting explanations of stuff
like quantum computing, blockchain in relation to Bitcoin, but not only. He's a good explainer.
And he does pretty regular one a once-week video rate. The next one is called Homemade Modern,
7th one in my list. That's a guy who's a designer and he sometimes works with his sister
who's, and they both do some really interesting designs and clever projects. He build himself a
spiral staircase, for example, which I think is quite amazing piece of work, but he has a very
interesting take on stuff. Quite likes to make domestic things out of concrete, which is concrete
in various molds, which is an interesting approach. Easy swan is number eight, and somebody he
commented on him and the last show, so I thought I'd include him. I don't watch him that often,
to be honest, but he has some very interesting ideas. He seems to make invent or manner of gadgets
and things out of, often out of wood. He's quite an innovator, an inventor and innovator, as well as
a maker. Number nine is Jackman Works. This guy Paul Jackman is a woodworker and he tends to make
stuff out of recycled material. He's got a sort of name for collecting pallets and breaking them
down and making stuff out of them. His work benches are made out of them and so forth. But he has a
really lovely style of making videos, which with loads of jokes in them, very subtle to my way,
thinking anyway, and often, well apart from the fart jokes that he occasionally puts in.
Yeah, it mueses me. He's one of my favorites to be honest. I do enjoy his output. And his one that's
completely unexpected, maybe. I've got a cat. There's a cat set on the windows, it'll just
across from me. And my kids and I enjoy cats, we like looking at cat-related things. So this
one is a Japanese channel. Mugu Mugu is the channel name. I think that's the sort of alias of the
channel owner and the cat owner. And her catch has two cats. One is called Maru, which I mean
something I've forgotten in Japanese. He's a big Scottish fold cat, very, very strange and
idiosyncratic. I do enjoy watching what he does. And she's brilliant at making videos of him.
Number 11 is a guy called Neil. His name is not PASC, but he calls himself PASC. PASC makes.
And he is a British guy who seems to have emigrated to Australia. I've been watching him for about a
year. I've thought, yeah, yeah, mildly interesting stuff. But the more I've watched what he does,
the clever I find his output. He does some really amazingly interesting and clever things,
making stuff like a workbench and a vice and clamps and things like this, all his own sort of design
and build. He's a really clever maker, I believe. This is one of my favourites, I have to say.
I do really look forward to his output. Next is the channel called Phil Pinsky Productions.
Phil Pinsky is a Canadian, a hobbyist woodworker and maker, another reclaimed materials user.
Not a huge lot of videos on the channel, but some quite interesting stuff that he does.
I mentioned a podcast called Reclaimed Audio Podcast in my last show, and he's one of the hosts
on that. That's why I have anyway, I've included him and why I watch his output. I would really like
to learn to weld. Never had any lessons or anything, but there's a channel called Retro World,
who, this guy's obviously a metal worker with lots of experience, and he does some really
interesting work in metal and welding of all sorts of ways. There are many different ways in
which you can weld, and it's a fascinating one to watch. Not a very high rate of output,
but some really quality stuff. Number 14 is Thomas San Laura, not sure I quite pronounced that
right. I think he's German, so I might have got the pronunciation wrong. He's very much into 3D
printing, and I'd quite like to get myself one at some point. It's a great source of 3D
print information. There's loads of channels on 3D printing. I just happened to have latched
this one because he does some very comprehensive surveys and stuff, so yeah, it's good. I'm not
sure it's strongly recommended, but if you're into 3D printing, you could certainly start with him
and see where you go from there. Tim Sways, the next one. He's another reclaimed materials maker,
and he does this for a living, and he makes some really interesting stuff out of all manner of
reclaimed stuff. He does, on occasion, use bought material, but a lot of it is reclaimed,
but more manner of sources. It's amazing where he can get stuff from. He's based in the
Eastern USA. He's another host on the reclaimed audio podcast, and I do find his
his approach to making stuff very interesting. He'd learn a lot from him. I could anyway.
Unemployed Redneck Hillbilly Creations. It's the name of the next channel. This is a strange title.
The guy found himself unemployed, I believe, because his work was, he effectively became
redundant, I guess. I hope I'm not putting words in his mouth, and he's become more or less
self-sufficient. He won't be a very young man. He'll be in his early 60s, and I would guess.
He's a very skilled engineer. He's obviously been an engineer for a lot of his life. Makes and
repairs and enhances a lot of his own stuff. He has a lot of land, which he cultivates,
built his own CNC, sort of task, that you have to be pretty sophisticated to do. He's also made
a CNC plasma cutter. The thing that you can drive in the XY direction, so he can easily cut up
bits of metal and make bits for just tractors and his mowers and this type of thing. Very
interesting guy. I'm surprised how much I enjoy his output. He talks about his garden quite a lot,
and also about cooking and stuff, but that appeals to me, so you might like to check him out,
but don't be put off by the strange title, because he's certainly not a Hillbilly nor a Redneck.
William Loots is the penultimate channel. He's another one of the reclaimed audio hosts,
and he makes reclaimed materials more or less as a hobby, I think, but he's an interesting
make. Finally, and this one is quite a bit different from the others. Vintergattan is a Swedish
band, and one of the guys in the band, Martin, is something of a maker. He certainly
turns his hand to building all manner of weird and wonderful stuff, and he created, I think it's
pretty much his own creation, a thing he called the marble machine, and the original one was made
of plywood, and it used steel-large ball bearing type things, marbles, onto a vibraphone, onto
various percussion things, and onto the strings of a guitar, and it was all programmable through
a big cylinder with lego-technic pegs stuck in it, and you basically turned a handle,
and the marbles moved through it and played music. You should really see it play, but it suffered
from, as a Wikipedia article, by the way, it suffered from the fact that building stuff out of wood,
precision stuff out of wood, and also doing it with fairly basic tool, ended up with something
where all the tolerances gave all manner of problems, and it didn't really function beyond once or twice.
You can actually see it being played, and I think it ended up certainly visited a museum
in the Netherlands, where they have all manner of mechanical musical thing. Not sure if it's
there permanently, but anyway, he's building a new one, which is going to be metal framed with
wooden parts, all manner of gears and strange things, but the whole design of it is
considerably improved. He's got a big, big CNC that he's cutting things up with, and watching him
build this is fascinating, and of course I actually enjoy the band's music quite a lot as well.
I have strange, probably strange tastes for somebody with my age anyway, I enjoy their music, so
you might like to at least go and have a look at his marble machine videos to see, see what the
original one did and looked like and stuff, is a really clever concept I thought, and he's also
made other musical devices. So that's really it, that's my list of 18, and check it out and see
see if you find anything in there that's at all interesting, and I'm going to leave it there.
Hope you enjoyed it, bye-bye!
You've been listening to HecopobliGradio at HecopobliGradio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. HecopobliGradio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club, and it's part of the binaryrevolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
