Episode: 2351
Title: HPR2351: HPR Community News for July 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2351/hpr2351.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:37:15

---

This is HBR episode 2,351 entitled HBR Community News for July 2017 and is part of the series
HBR Community News.
It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 39 minutes long and can remain an explicit
flag.
The summer is.
Murphy is Tron, but Kent Truddles on talking about show release and comment posted in July
2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
With 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Kent Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio.
Today it's the Community News show for July 2017.
I'm all on my own today.
Murphy has been very strong in the forest, so I have to say, combination of mumble crashing,
Dave's cellar flooding, electrical problems, HBR site, my IP address been blocked, mumble
server crashing, etc etc, so it's just me.
For those of you who don't know, I happen to be one of the volunteers here at Hacker
Public Radio and Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast network, made up of various
random hopes from around the world to take their time to contribute shows to the network.
The network is welcoming this month one new host with the awesome name of ironic sodium.
So once a month what we do is we have a little chat here, we go through the shows to make
sure that every single show that we have gets some feedback and that we can comment on
them, we read the comments and we tell you anything else that's been happening on the mailing
list and the mailing list of course is where the HPR community decides what's going to
happen with HPR and we also will be talking about some other stuff that Dave wanted me
to mention.
So last show or the first show was the HPR Community News for June 2017 and there were
no comments on that show.
So the next day we had a show from JWP called a Texans view on why only native born persons
can be president and this was a show that JWP did in relation in answer to a question
on the new year show as to why American presidents can't be have to be native born.
So there are a few comments, Jesra replies, not native born, natural born.
The requirement isn't to be native born, the requirement is to be natural born citizen.
This means that one needs to be a citizen at the time of birth and you born is considered
a natural born citizen of the U.S. if the child has at least one parent with U.S. citizenship
and the children of any U.S. citizen are natural born U.S. citizens regardless of the location
of the birth.
And Kevin O'Brien says Jesra is correct, this is why John McCain who was born in Panama
was eligible to be born for president.
Canadian Bob says, a completely silly rule if you ask me, it's exceptionally true in
a country populated by immigrants.
We have no such rule for head of states here in Canada and the country that can come to
an end.
Well, yes, who can possibly comment on somebody else's form of government and far be it for
me to do that?
However, I was interested to hear the point of about the referendums.
I'm fascinated by referendums because we use them quite a lot in Ireland and they
have had much, have produced many interesting results as a result of that.
So I was surprised that I show on why referendums are not one person, one vote would be also
excellent.
So the following day we had another in the episode by Mr. X about the bullfang UV5 or
VHF, UHF.
And this handset is a relatively cheap, well-liked handset by the Ham Radio community.
And what we suggested here was that this would be the star handset.
If you wanted to get in the Ham Radio, we're doing Ham Radio series here on HPR.
And if you wanted to get into Ham Radio, this was a relatively cheap, relatively affordable
way to do it.
Mr. X has done an excellent series introducing the handset and giving you the basics that
you need in order to start using that after you get your exam, of course.
So let's study for your exam and this is the Ham Radio that you could use to start your
Ham Radio career.
Thank you very much Mr. X for doing this series.
It's been very, very interesting.
The following show was a digital, building a digital clock by Dave Demand Morris.
And this was one who I was surprised actually that Dave and I both listened to Big Clive
and Big Clive did one of these very mesmerizing videos on putting this clock together.
And it seems like a nice thing to do and I was interested in doing it, but actually the
functionality of the device is not what I want, very specific requirements for a clock.
Here in the Netherlands, we take advantage of a DCS system, I think it's called, which
is a, I think, a long wave transmission from the center of Germany around Munich.
And I believe I need to, I'll maybe do a show on this.
And that sends out a radio beacon that tells clocks who are fitted with a little radio
in them, what they, what they actual time is.
So that is actually quite cool.
But he took this kit and built it and Dave Lee says he just bought one because of this
episode, there were £4.27 depending on the timing.
He might bring it to the pub crawl so he can expect my work.
That's a reference to Glasgow pub crawl anyone says Dave, hi Dave, I hope you will have
fun with the builds.
I'm imagining a bit of last minute's soldering at the back of a bar in Glasgow, yes.
So the pub crawl has come and gone and we expect a show or two as a result of that.
Following day we had ock, part seven, which is a tag team episode by B easy and Dave Morris.
And I must say I cue these up because you need to be on the right frame of mind to get your
brain into the whole ock thing.
But they are an excellent series and I have linked to both of these series in several
other of my shows and I have also linked to them on internal documentation in various
different places because they're basically, I learned all I needed to know about ock
from these series.
I go through the various different types of loops that's possible within ock, something
I didn't even know was possible.
Let's see, no comments on that.
The following day we had the first in what is a series of interviews from the Liverpool
Maker Fist in 2017, really missing going to these type of things done by Tony and Tony
Hughes and it was Dave from the inventor asylum and the second interview was John Walton
from about his animatronics creations, which didn't have a web link, which is a bit of a
pity.
The following day was the first show from a ironic sodium, a very, very good show, DDWRT
on an ASUS RRT-N66U and we could do with more shows on DDWRT.
It is surprising, it's one of those little things that if you order a cheap router from
China or the Far East, then you quite often comes with DDWRT under the hood.
All of the steps involved in putting a new image on it and it's something you should
do, excellent show, no comments on that.
The following day was a virtual M wrapper for the fish shell and this was by Beezy and
this was in response to BJB show, a bit of background on virtual environment, which we
showed 2, 2, 3, 2, 2 and Beezy goes through how he would do that in the fish shell.
Not had a lot of stuff about the fish shell itself, we could do it a show or two describing
the fish shell I'm high one would want to use it and the risks in doing so.
Clat 2 commented, home brew virtual environments, I'm not a fan of fish but I love your home
brew homemade virtual environment.
I did something similar, in bash, at my old job and it worked pretty well when I stumbled
across virtual environment, I just used that.
And speaking of BJB show and recommending HBO shows to people, I've also recommended
that to one of my fellow engineers as a show to go back and listen to in order to make
sure that all the Python libraries are installed, so it's excellent.
Claudio Miranda, our adventure begins, discuss the colossal cave adventure and the adventure
of playing it with my son, so this was loads of interesting links to this sort of thing
and I am reluctant to give it to my kids because I actually have them requiring them to
do tux type at the minute so that they'll be able to touch type by the end of the summer
holidays and there were loads of comments on this for, so let's just read them for you
there now.
Kevin says, right with you on this, I was born in 1966, very interesting to go over origin
of games and where they are now, would love to hear more like this, well please do, Claudio
again, thanks Kevin, I hope to actually give Frotz or OTZ a try with a Zork code that
is available online so that I can do an episode on it, oh my show, excuse me, back off
there.
Dave Morris says, nostalgia, this was great, at my job at the University of Lancaster around
1978, there was a copy of adventure installed on the ICL 1900 mainframe which many of us played
during lunch breaks.
We had here, yeah Dave, lunch breaks, yeah, no judge went quick, we had the Frotron source
and we were not above peeking at us to try and work out some of the puzzles, it was
quite addictive, I remember, thanks for the show and Claudio replies, glad you enjoyed
it Dave, I've been downloading open adventure on my Fedora laptop to see if it will compile
there since it wasn't on Termux.
I did get Zork to work on using Frotz in Termux, I have no idea what he's talking about
here, it's available in a repo of Termux and Zork game files are downloadable online,
so I'll surely be doing an episode on that soon as a sequel to this one, well, there
you go, definitely was Michio now.
The following day, another in the series of Bullfang UV Fiverr and that was followed
by another in the show from Librefpool Make-A-Fast and this one was Jimmy Englund from the
Warrington Fab Lab and Patrick from DDoES Does Librefpool, links to both of those are
in the show notes.
Then we had John Culp doing a show on the Kobo Aura eReader and the review of the new
used Kobo Aura eReader that he recently acquired and there were two comments to this,
Lost and Brunk says, I have a Kobo Aura and really love it.
I also have a second generation Kindle and it's very nice device but the Kobo definitely
beats it.
It was an excellent look at an excellent product.
I've owned mine for a while now and it has still helped me a few new tricks and you still
help me if you need tricks.
John replies, Kobo anagrams to books.
Thanks for leaving your comments Lost and Brunk.
Glad to hear you enjoyed the episode.
One thing I'd like to mention and I might not even have realized when I recorded the
episode is that the name of the device is an anagram of the word book.
I am definitely loving my Kobo.
I should probably load it up with your latest book, actually quite true.
I last night couldn't sleep, came downstairs, wanted to read the book, decided I would
read one on my Kindle, are my also Kobo and it wouldn't work with Calibra, turned out
it was cropped, had to install a firmware, 2 hours later and I'm sitting reading
a book.
So not 100% sure that ebook readers are the best way to have a frustration free thing
when you want a day, you've had a long day of tech and then you have to troubleshoot
even more tech.
Anyway, not to take away from the show in any shape way or not to take away from the
show at all.
Anyway, the following day we had episodes 2, 3, 3, 8 and this was another bi-oral recording
number 2 of Twork, I think, by KubeNu and this one caught me out, lots of people found
it quite interesting.
Kentronoi says, wow, that started off really creepy.
I couldn't tell where the sounds were in the podcast and thought it was happening in
my office.
And Renigo says, I've been listening to HPR episodes I've missed and recently caught
up with previous episodes about how you created these recordings, thanks for the follow
up.
So, very good.
And that was in reference to the show 8, 7, 8, 5 bi-oral recordings, which is quite
a while back now, let's have a look.
Yeah, that was 2011, actually.
So good stuff, good stuff, more there, I always find those interesting.
Daveyates comes along with an updated version of podcast recommendations and links in the
show notes.
Very interesting show, quite a few that I listen to, quite a few are very unlikely to listen
to.
And why have we no more doforcast, guys, we need more doforcast, and as always, if you
have podcast recommendations, you can please send them to us here at HPR as in the form
of a show.
Now, the next MrX tracking the HPR queue in Python, I explain how to capture the number
of HPR shows in the queue use in Python.
And there are four excellent little script about how you parse the site, and I replied
to that without listening to the show.
You don't need to script MrX, having listened to the show, you don't need to script HPR,
and I'm not going to read the comment, because we actually provide a PHP statistics page
for you.
And Dave also commented about that as well.
But that said, it's an excellent show about parsing a website, so you definitely have
a look at the script and how to use a blank stick.
The following day was Liverpool McFest, show number three, Tony again, this time interviewing
Dave from studio dies in Weaver Tree, Laura from tactile electronics, and Emily Beth
and Chelsea from the Liverpool Geek Girl Geeks.
So really enjoying those behind the scenes shows.
Christopher Hobbs, oh Christopher, be careful, dude, please be careful when you're doing
these shows.
I don't want anybody to to suddenly lose an eye or something when you're doing this.
But Operation says safety first, I ignored some of these safety precautions when I adjusted
the tension on my screen.
It was a scary as hell, lol.
From what I was reading basically, it needs to start to pull itself up after about the
halfway mark mine was struggling a little bit too much, and I had to add some tension.
Well, there you go, but nice show as well, you into other people's lives.
Then the next day was a show that I did can't actually claim, I posted it, but it's actually
a Wikipedia article on healthcare in the Netherlands, and after coming from a suffice to say
a country with a poor health system, one of the highest per capita spending in Ireland
that is highest per capita spending on healthcare and the lowest satisfaction of healthcare.
This moving to the Netherlands was a bit of an eye opener for me, and it was interesting
to read this article.
Beasy says, Unexpectedly interesting, I am really surprised how much I enjoyed this
episode.
It seems like a good system.
Can you do the US system next?
And Kevin O'Brien says, it's on the way, Beasy, I already recorded several shows on
the US system, and there will be forthcoming in the next few weeks.
So the next day was programming 101, tracking hit, pure Q and Python, did we not just have
this show?
Well, as a result of the comments that Dave and I left pointing out that there was the
PHP stats page, then Mr X went ahead, modified his program again, and this time modified it
to parse the stats page and then link left and right.
So the next day we had, fixing a toilet roll holder, a small fix improves someone's life.
So this, as I said in the show, may seem like one of these life hacks that I do from
time to time, they to lower the quality here in HPR so that people don't feel bad about
posting shows.
But this is an important one for us here as a family and it continues to provide lots
of functionality and continues to not be a problem.
So that's absolutely awesome.
The following day, another one from, actually I'm not sure if it was the following day,
could be the following Monday and the last one for this month, let me see, it was on
the Thursday, actually, and the last one for this one, it was a interview from Liverpool
and Bakerface 2017, this time it was Gemma from Pattencraft and Simon Ryder from Liverpool
book art.
And the next one is, of course, for next month.
So the mailing list, some of the comments that we didn't, that were covered in previous
shows, was about how to make and use a stencil from INB and it was, that show was about how
to make a stencil and it was nice show beanie and congratulations on your first HPR and
that was coming from somebody calling themselves Admin.
And Admin again was busy thanking, thanks for the info, about the Raspberry Pi 0 by Tony Hughes
on hardware upgrades, so good show there.
And Mr X commented on a bit of background on Virtual End Rapper, which was the one that
BJB had done and he said great first show, sorry I'm taking so long to comment, but I'm
always running many shows behind and just listened to yours last night and felt I had to
comment.
I just wanted to say many thanks for a great first show, I enjoyed it so much, I listened
to it twice, very concise and clear, covering a confusing topic.
Up until now I'd never fully understand the difference between Bash profile and Bash
share your notes, show notes, also put mine to shame and mine indeed.
Looking forward to hearing another one when you get a chance, I know for myself finding
the time can be difficult best regards, Mr X.
And then we have the comments on this month's show.
So in the any other business section, Dave has asked me to comment on the tags and summaries
in the past months, they've been contributions from BJB and Windigo, I also have this interview
shows but haven't sent it into yet, Dave, sorry, don't forget to remind me, I've added
a few tags and summaries myself, thanks to all the contributors, see the current status
and instructions for contributing and there's a link to shows without summary or tags.
This page has recently been reformed for easier navigation and a new section has been
added.
This section lists the holes whose shows need attention followed by the show number that
need to work.
Currently there are 900 and 87 shows that need summaries or tags to be added.
All contributions are welcome.
So that brings us on to what's been happening on the mailing list.
So as I said earlier in the mailing list is the place where we discuss what's going
on on the HPR website.
And we had a continuation of the discussion about slow downloads and Crayon says, it's
just go, I suggested a mirror ring or something where we can put, share the load, it would
be pretty cool and then we could get rid of the advertising as well.
And just for clarity, I replied that we had the torrent approach, but when the hash
changed, the new shows, hash changed every time the new shows were added, so that made
it difficult.
You can actually guess individual show torrents from the archive.org feed.
So I'm also thinking about the R sync approach, but it's a lot of effort and we might also
be looking at something like posting the shows into Giz and then being able to do Gizync.
So if you're interested in that sort of thing, give me a shout, anyone interested in
appearing.
And with regard to advertising, I would like to make this clear, we do not have advertisement
on HPR.
We do voluntarily thank people who host our shows.
So if you get your shows from Josh server, you will hear an honest host mentioned.
On the other hand, if you get them from archive.org, you get a thank you and there's a link
to their support page.
So no advertising here folks, just thank yous for the people who throughout the month,
we contact Josh lots and lots of times and he must be absolutely sick of hearing from
us right now.
So I want to take the time out to thank Josh for all the work he does.
So the next topic was permission to modify the show notes.
As you all know, we're going back to the old shows.
So this is a policy decision change.
So I will read out the email for you.
If you're not on the mailing list, then feel free to comment, feel free to join the mailing
list.
It's a fairly low, from time to time, it gets busy, but usually there's not a lot of traffic
going on there.
Anyway, the email.
As you know, we're going back over the old shows to act tags for archive.org.
Nearly all the shows need tags and summaries.
Some even need show notes or to be placed in a series.
You can help see the main page for more information.
In the process of doing it, I was thinking it would be a good idea to do a bit of housekeeping
on them.
For example, to fix the HTML, check that the links still work on point two where the
whole is originally intended, etc.
Because actually what's happened is a lot of the old shows, 10 years, 11 years ago, point
two sites that have the demands have expired and now they're going to click their sites.
I was asking, did, who's leading this project, what we should do if a show notes need correcting
for example, a show may benefit from having Google reader was shut down in 2013, but this
show is of historical interest.
I'm still not over that one.
And the license is CC, so the license of our shows is CC by SA or CC by SA and C. So
we are allowed to do derivative works on the show notes.
To be honest, most of the early shows didn't have show notes and they were probably added
by the admins.
So our current policy on all this is HPR2210 on freedom of speech and censorship and which
would seem to allow us to do this.
So the question is, are we allowed to modify show notes?
Now pretty much everybody, X101, Jim Stiller, Bob Youngman, Kevin O'Brien, Dan, well Dan
I want to mention, 5250, pretty much everybody who replied to that said, no problem whatsoever.
Dan Washgo, I want to point out, he's saying because they, what he recommends is don't delete
the original content if something's considered a deletion, put a strike true and a note high.
Clearly Mark Changes document providing the editor's name or handle and of course Dave
loves that, but it's extra work guys, it's extra work, but yes, okay fine, that's kind
of makes sense to do that.
There is one thing about this argument that I did want to mention here on the show is
of course and this is on freedom of speech and censorship which show if you haven't
listened to, you should listen to.
There is the question here, and I know why everybody gives Dave's permission because
he's the general all round nice guy and you know, who wouldn't like their show notes
to be up to Dave's standards.
However, from my point of view, being not a nice guy and whatever, we have the interest
of HPR here at heart.
So if I do a show that has got naughty words in the show notes, are we allowed to modify
those naughty words because those naughty words will both be in the public feed, in the
public feed that everybody gets.
So the feed in wherein you look to see if it shows explicit or not has those naughty words.
So show notes, be taken and moved in that you need to, that we have an edited version
on the main page, edited is probably not a good word, but you know where those are removed
and then they would link to the unedited version on the show notes HTML page.
So it's a little bit more nuanced than this and that's why I'm asking permission.
Right now, the state of play is free speech and censorship.
If we're ever doing that, then we will be asking the mailing list for advice on a case
by case basis.
We don't do that.
It's not something that we're going to do.
There's more general question of can we tidy up the show notes?
I think we can.
I think everybody's okay with that and it's CC by a say, so license allows us to do that
anyway.
But on the other thing about freedom of speech and censorship, go back and listen to the
show 20, 22, 10, which describes this using the by mirror shade.
And this is the current state of play and it gives you the example of how record labels
drop a balance between protecting the innocence and and meeting the needs of people who don't
want to be on censorship.
So I'll have a listen to that.
That was one of the threads.
Kevin O'Brien asks, how do I edit my profile?
And Dave got there before me saying you can edit the profile if you upload a show.
So yeah, see what I did there.
So you can actually edit the show if you upload the profile.
I would recommend everybody, even if you've uploaded, if you've been uploading shows for
the last, I don't know, 10, 11 years, reread the help pages again because it explains
all this.
It's on the, when you upload a show, it'll pop up there that you can.
And there's question marks that if you click on them, it'll bring you to the exact page
in the how-to pages, how to do everything, explains everything.
So please have a look at those.
There is no explicit way to change somebody's profile, not putting up a show, gosh, I wonder
why that is.
But if you do want that done, just send us an email and we will get back to you.
So I've got an email from, from Crystal, who is, who I met back in a camp of 20-something,
the first dog camp that I went to.
And they, she is one of the admins on free node, which is the IRC network, specifically
there to help the free and open source community.
As you know, if you go to hash, augcast, augcast plan, that is there on free node and they're
putting together a event at Bristol Science Center on October the 28th of the 29th and
they were asking if any of us would like to attend.
So, if anyone,
anyone would like to help out, go or who intends to go there, go to free node.net, free
node.net and have a look.
While I mentioned this, John the Nice Guy has been on to the dev mail list and has been
talking about aug camp 17, which is going to be on Saturday, August the 19th and Sunday
August the 20th in Canterbury, UK, unfortunately, because of the location being quite far away
from an airport, I won't be able to go nor will Dave.
So if there's anybody else out there who would, will be going to aug camp and would like
to do a HPR table, can you please get in touch with us because we love there to be a HPR
presence at aug camp that will be absolutely awesome.
So yes, can you do that for us or if you could represent HPR at the Bristol Science Center?
Think of the awesomeness that would involve being part you representing the HPR project
would not be massive.
So then we had Klatu sending us in from yet another email address, Klatu goes through email
address as like I go through underwear, honestly, HPRs, I love them, I love the guy, I don't
see this message on the mailing list so he's resending it, planning on running a short
campaign about tableclap RPG games over mumble and then publishing the recording sessions
to HPR, which is excellent.
The intent is to introduce HPR listeners to what an RPG game is like and hopefully to
give us all fun story of what's to listen to, it's about ten episodes long, two hours
each and he'll be the dungeon master but I'm looking for three to four willing players.
The game is interface zero, an open game, licensed cyberpunk setting using pathfinder
rules and a few custom mods of mine.
You'll do an unrecorded initial session once I've gotten enough players in which I'll
help to build a character and get familiar with the rules and the structure of the flow.
I plan on playing on New Zealand Sunday morning at 10am which is probably Saturday evening.
I hope to record five sessions of four hours each caught into ten to our episodes.
If this is something you're interested, can you contact Klatu at members.fsf.org, that's
Klatu at members.fsf.org.
That was it, we had one from Dave about community news and for some reason they could
be because it's this next month.
Yes, next month there are updates to the stats page because I already saw a
look at two shows out of Mr. X. So I've now updated the stats page to include a JSON page.
So stats.php question mark format equals JS on a XML page, question mark stats.php question
mark format equals XML and a comma-separated-value-fall.sof and the battery ran out of my Zoom recorder.
So Murphy is definitely strong tonight so the only solution is of course to stop recording
and to have a beverage of some sort preferably of an Irish nature.
I'm sure Mr. Murphy won't mind if I have a Belgian beer instead but that's the only
safe thing to do folks.
So if you liked any of the shows that I talked about today and you listen to HPR on a regular
basis, it would be really nice, very neighborly of you to record a show and submit it.
It couldn't be simpler, every device that you can listen to podcasts on can probably record
a show and if you're wondering what type of show you want to talk about, just tell us how you got
here, what's your tech story and submit that as a show to HPR.
Anyway, that's it, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
The binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
