Episode: 2057
Title: HPR2057: dodddummy on oats
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2057/hpr2057.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:48:05

---

This is HPR episode 2057 entitled, Not a Me on Oats.
It is hosted by Not a Me and in about six minutes long.
The summary is how I cook steel cut oats.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is DODD dummy recording my second HPR episode.
I think it's only been about four or five years since the last one.
So I'm making pretty good progress.
I decided to chime in on the oatmeal discussion.
Now I use, and this is how I eat steel cut oats or how I cook them.
You decide if I really cook them or not later.
A little bit of background, I don't like oats, I don't like oatmeal, I like oatmeal cookies
as long as they have chocolate chips.
I'm a big believer in raisins or the reasons I have trust issues, I think that's the quote.
So, to me oatmeal has always tasted like a big pile of mush and I just didn't found
no appeal in it.
Maybe I've eaten about three or four bowls of oatmeal in my life before I found the steel
cut oats I eat now.
Now I love oats.
So about, I'm good to the age where eating healthier is starting to appeal to me, I traditionally
eat about the worst diets you can imagine, that's what I eat.
And I don't know, several years ago, I read an article or I don't know, somewhere I read
something that steel cut oats are supposed to be better for you than regular oats and
they also taste better.
So I got some steel cut oats, cooked the way that I thought you were supposed to cook
oats and I made a big, huge mess everywhere.
So I got, I didn't try oats anymore after that until one day I saw, I think I was walking
through Kroger and I saw some oatmeal and it said instant, something like instant steel
cut oats and I thought, oh, well I read you couldn't really make instant steel cut oats
because after I made the huge mess then I decided to read about how to cook them and I
saw that you had to cook them differently.
So anyway, I looked at it and the box is like two or three bucks and I think I had ten
pouches of oatmeal so maybe the purerest were making horrible faces and screaming into
their, into their players now.
But for me that was fine, that's what I'd been used to on regular oats anyways was the
package and cooking the oats seemed like a barrier that was too big for me anyways.
So I got the oats through them in the microwave with some water, the package on these had
a little water line, interestingly enough they had the water line different on both on
either side of the package so I kind of split the difference, put some water and cooked
it up, put a little bit bigger bowl because like I said, steel cut oats kind of make them
big mess if you don't, if you try to do them like you do regular oats, I put a, I used
a bigger bowl than I normally would to microwave regular oats.
And they tasted great, came out perfectly I think, I think maybe they were a little bit
dry with the amount of water that I put in but I just made a difference up with milk
afterwards, stirred some milk in and they were great, I love oats now, I've tried both
the plain and maple syrup, I think brown sugar and maple syrup ones, that's what I prefer
is the maple syrup one but they're regular fine too, I just use sugar and milk and, and
they're great, and the company is, and I think they're, I think they have a formula that's
proprietary somehow or, and maybe they're the only brand that are selling these at least
in the States, they're the brand I've seen but it's better oats and like I said, in this
area, there's Kroger and Wal-Mart are the two grocery stores I would normally go to and
Wal-Mart didn't have them but Kroger did, so, yeah and apparently the secret sauce is
flaxseed that makes them not make such a huge mess everywhere because there's, what comes
in the package is really oats and while flavoring if you get the flavored ones and flaxseed oil,
I don't know what percentage but a small, you know, there's a little bit of flaxseed, flaxseeds
and I guess not flaxseed oil, kind of it looks a little bit like flaxseed dust to me but there
are some like husks in there and I assume that's the flaxseed and I think maybe that helps keep
the oats from making such a big mess, that's my, that's my, my theory now anyways or is it
the hypothesis, I guess hypothesis, so anyways if you if you're willing to risk two or three dollars
and you either haven't tried still cut oats because it seemed like too much work or you try,
you eat still cut oats but you want to try a different way to make them and you haven't yet so
check out better oats and it's like a two or three dollar risk so you might be able to handle that
and I guess that's all I have to say about oats but but believe me better oats turned someone
who really didn't like oats into an oats eater so
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then
click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was founded by the
digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at
binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on
the website or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is released
creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
