Episode: 2825
Title: HPR2825: More text to speech trials
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2825/hpr2825.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:19:58

---

This is HPR Episode 2825 entitled More Text to Speech Trials.
It is posted by Ken Fallon and is about 5 minutes long and currently in a clean flag.
The summary is a supplementary show to their own Episode 2792.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of HPR Public Radio.
Today is a supplementary episode to youroomed show 2729 playing around with text to speech synthesis on Linux.
In this show he was talking about the HPR introduction text to speech synthesizer that we used
and did a state of the art to see where we were in relation to see if there was anything better out there.
I had a quick look in the Fedora package repo and I found two additional ones that may be of interest
which I'm going to include here. One is MIMIC MIMIC and it is Microsoft's TTS engine, Microsoft's
text to speech engine. The description says MIMIC is a fast lightweight text to speech engine
developed by Microsoft AI and vocal ID based on the Carnegie Mellon's University F light software.
Text text and read it small for print etc.
And the man page allows you to take in a text file and I'll put a weird file.
If you do MIMIC-FLV it'll list the voices. There are something like 8 available on my system.
One was the AP which is Alan Pope, our good friend from the Ubuntu podcast. The other one is the
SLT voice which is similar to the festival voice that youroom recommended in his show.
The voice of Lin if people remember their Linux podcasting. So I will include those voices here now.
This is HPR episode 2792 entitled playing around with text to speech synthesis on Linux and is part
of the series sound scapes. It is hosted by your own bottom and is about 20 minutes long and
carries a clean flag. This is HPR episode 2792 entitled playing around with text to speech
synthesis on Linux and is part of the series sound scapes. It is hosted by your own bottom and is
about 20 minutes long and carries a clean flag. This is HPR episode 2792 entitled playing around
with text to speech synthesis on Linux and is part of the series sound scapes. It is hosted by your
own bottom and is about 20 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
This is HPR episode 2792 entitled playing around with text to speech synthesis on Linux and is
part of the series sound scapes. It is hosted by your own bottom and is about 20 minutes long and
carries a clean flag. This is HPR episode 2792 entitled playing around with text to speech synthesis
on Linux and is part of the series sound scapes. It is hosted by your own bottom and is about
20 minutes long and carries a clean flag. Okay and as I was looking around I found some other ones
something else that was quite interesting which is the Google text speech Python library which
allows you to use the Google API. There is also a command line version called gtts-cli which
takes in the file and writes out a file for some reason it didn't work for me but with the Python
library I was able to write out that as well and you will hear the same text string that you
ruin used in this example. This is HPR episode 2792 entitled playing around with text to speech
synthesis on Linux and is part of the series sound scapes. It is hosted by your own bottom
and is about 20 minutes long and carries a clean flag. Okay that's it if you know any more of
text to speech options that are available to us. Open source would be the preference but if
that's not available if there's a way to get it from the command line that might be something to
consider. I would appreciate hearing about it and failing that record to show on whatever you
think is interesting. Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
