Episode: 2079
Title: HPR2079: Everyone Loves Some Acid House
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2079/hpr2079.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:02:27

---

This is HPR Episode 2079 entitled Everyone Lone Somasid House.
It is hosted by SIGFLOB and in about 7 minutes long, the summary is SIGFLOB demonstrates
how to make a SIGFLOB quickly.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello everybody, my name is SIGFLOB and I am going to be talking about acid house.
I won't really get into the theory of it or anything like that.
I'm just going to demonstrate very quickly something that you can produce that sounds acidy.
Acid house is a genre of music that was developed in the mid 1980s from Chicago.
Believe it or not.
It consists of a TV 303, this bass line simulator by Roland.
It sounds like a bass line, but it sounds neat.
You can get these cool squalching sounds from it, which I'll demonstrate in a bit.
Then bass drum machines, like the TR808, the 606 and the 909.
I'm just going to be talking about the 808 and the 303 right now.
The 808 has these instruments.
It has 12 instruments in total.
It has a bass drum, also known as SBD.
I'm sorry, BD.
It has snare drum, SD.
Low-tom, LT, Amitom, MT, high-tom, HT, room shot, RS, clap.
CP, cowbell, CB, symbol, CY, open hats, OH, and finally, a closed hat, CH.
Now, you can have some conga sounds as well.
You can, in the console, the 808, you can switch the low-tom to low-konga, in the mid-tom to mid-konga, and stuff like that.
We're just going to be dealing with the tons.
Why don't I demonstrate what each sound sounds like here?
Give me a second to get at my little thing here.
All right, so this is what the bass drum sounds like.
This is 16 beats per pattern, and I'm playing it at the wonderful frequency or frequency rate of 120 beats per minute.
So, this is the snare drum.
Low-tom.
Now, you get the idea.
I'm going to go to claps right now.
It's a clap.
And so, what you want to do is set up a drum pattern.
So, I think I have one programmed in here.
Which sounds right nice.
Let me go and clear out one of the drum patterns here.
The house is characterized by four by four sort of beat.
So, we have a bass drum, four by four.
And then, why don't we alternate the bass drum and the snare drum?
Okay, and then we'll have a close-hat 16 times.
And so, that's an old rhythm.
Let's kick that rhythm.
And it's very simple.
And raise ourselves a 303.
Not 303.
When you begin it, when you have it initialized,
in the very beginning, it's just a bunch of C notes.
And the console of the COC 303 has one octave of C to the next C.
And you have these step buttons.
And you select what step out of 16.
And you select what note it is.
You can also go up and down and octave.
You can have it slide from a previous note.
You can have an accent to it, which is pretty much amplifying a little bit, that's all.
And you can have a closed gate,
which is just another way to have a blank note.
So, why don't we program in some notes here?
I'm just randomly doing notes.
And see what it sounds like.
This has no slides.
The slides really make what the TV3 of 3 sounds like.
So, why don't we add a few slides here?
And so, that's what we have.
There are different, you can have it be a square wave or a buzz wave.
I like having a minimum combination of that.
Then you have residence, cut off,
you have the envelope length, which really adds to it,
and decay and accents and whatnot.
So, why don't we switch our drum pattern?
That was one that's programmed and ready.
This is what accent sounds like.
So, yeah, I guess that's all done.
All the examples I'll show you.
Take care everyone, bye bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio as Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute ring to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at bmrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share-like 3.0 license.
