Episode: 2881
Title: HPR2881: Automatically split album into tracks in Audacity
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2881/hpr2881.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:40:58

---

This is HBR episode 2008-181 entitled Automatically Split Album Intertracks in Audacity.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 4 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is inspired by a John Colpe show, Ken Split's a large recording based on silence between tracks.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today is a follow-up episode to HBR1771 Audacity label tracks by John Colpe originally aired on
2015-05-18. At the time I remember saying on the podcast the community news that
at a particular point in time that show was going to become very useful to me and in actual
fact today turned out to be that day. The show was Audacity labeling tracks and it basically means
when you bring in an audio recording that has different chapters or like an album, an audiobook
that has different chapters or an album that has different songs in it that you can record it
as one big long thing and then in John's episode he was saying you can add a label track using tracks
add new label track and then you can locate the various different sections of the files
and proceed from there. Well one addition I'd like to bring to the table is they analyze tools.
So when you're bringing in your recording of an old LP or something that you've converted from
analog to digital you've got your two left and right channels up there presumably and every so
often there are spaces. So rather than having to click each of the spaces in turn and add a label
track what you can do is you can go analyze silence from the analyze menu, look for silence
finder and well you have to obviously select the entire track for that analyze silence finder
and you're presented with three different options that you can modify. The one that I wanted to
select was the minimum duration of silence and in this case I set it from the default of one
to three which worked for me because the silence is between audio tracks in this work that I'm
processing turned out to be three seconds, four seconds so the three was sufficient to
eliminate all the false positives and allow me to at least have the tracks labeled. I then
then had to go and add the labels from the generic s that was there for some reason and
they're all labeled s so I had something like 26 different s's labels all labeled s and then
knowing from what tracks names they should be I was able to go in and copy and paste each of them
into the various different fields I imagine I can probably do that by importing a label or something
but in this case it's a one off so I was more than happy to copy and paste them in and then it was
a simple matter of file export, export multiple and then where I'm going to export it to the folder
and the format which I'm going to select so I have MP3 flag whatever and then split files based
on tracks or labels and I selected labels and then on the other side name of files using
label track name you also get the option of numbering before label and track and numbering
after file name prefix so then you just click export and then badaboom the whole thing is exported
out so very very useful and thank you very much John for producing that show on the first place
that's pretty much it tuned in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com
if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license
