Episode: 2682
Title: HPR2682: (NOT) All About Blender
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2682/hpr2682.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:31:18

---

This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com
Hello world, I'm Mary Shades and I'm with deep searcher today and we're going to talk about ice cream sandwiches.
It's an open source ice cream sandwich, that's not it, but we can make it up in source ice cream, if I refer to it in your recipe, we'll call it, we'll think of a clever name library, yeah, that's in space case, that's in space case.
I think we'll sell it alongside the Billy Joe, D searcher, algae, soda, water, that's going to be a new one for my words, we'll just take a picture of you with your overalls, like boat with a computer behind you.
You have your soda and mercury sauce, boil it hot, Texas style, you got some drips like that, you got yourself a meal, just take some algae, water, and break it if you're all eggs into it,
I have a timer, calm, models, I'm, you know, it's a Kentucky burger, Tennessee style ration, this is beer, it was the algae cast, I don't know, it's got a frog, tastes like catering.
I try to explain the tastes in my memory, it would be, you drew them, yeah, it tastes like Florida, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it,
I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, I don't know about it, no about it, I don't know about it, it's the only place, it's clear forθ is tällhip, I don't know about it, I don't know about it,
That's what I was saying.
Gayery?
Gayery coming from Florida.
Yeah.
What's called Gayery?
That's, yeah, Florida Gayers.
They essentially just water with swamp water.
I was like, should this.
Yeah.
That's where that came from.
So yeah, let's talk about Blender.
Because you didn't want Blender to all that.
Down over.
So there was an algae soda with some ice cream.
And you blend it up.
And then you have an episode.
Good night everybody.
A little bit of ice.
And then, throwing the purse.
That's just a good menu.
It's white.
But no.
Blender, the open source project and all that good stuff.
You know, mostly if you think it's like a 3D blender.
And you have models with it.
So it's like, I remember when it first, like, or my recollection may not be the best.
But when I first noticed it, they were, I remember there was a lot of people wanted something
that was like an open source, like 3D studio night.
So what was the other one?
Draw points.
Make it three.
Yeah, yeah.
Or some similar to like AutoCAD.
And there was also, what was that other one?
Very, very slow.
It was real popular for very short periods.
Brice.
And people wanted something that was like an open source.
Something that I remember that's when people started talking about blender.
Yeah, and then blender, like, it's grown over the years.
Like, it's just be straight now.
But I actually started getting into it because I was looking for, you know, open source videoing.
And, you know, I was just checking some scrolls online about, you know, what's good?
And everything shit.
Everything was just terrible.
But then, I found this one of our quotes just like, try blender.
I'm like, the blender is for like 3 models that I'm not doing.
3 models that I'm doing.
I don't even do graphics.
Or, you know, video editing.
But I loaded up and I checked and I'm like, oh shit.
I like it.
It is legit.
You could not edit videos.
It's like, oh, it's going to be excellent.
I've got a couple of videos that I just kind of want to clip together.
I've come into my YouTube foods.
Or it's like taking scenes of like, different shows.
Like, games around.
And then you just sit there and kind of splice it up to, you know, for the walls.
But, yeah, it actually works just as a video here.
And it's like, you know, you think it would be confusing to do.
There's a lot of buttons, a lot of features to it.
But that's kind of the benefit of having like, you know, for example, for software like YouTube videos.
We'll just, you know, free tutorials.
So, you know, if you go to blender.
That'll work.
Yes.
Or net, com, whatever.
It'll just, on their page, you know, they've got limited YouTube.
So you can be on the channel.
It just asks you.
Yeah.
It just asks you about it.
You know, let's go with blender.
Jesus.
Gone.
You know, we should start our own open source search engine called Ask Joe.
Ask Joe.
Ask Joe.
Kill him.
But, yeah.
Video editing.
And then I started here lately.
I've been playing a lot of Warwood because, you know, old video games.
And finally got around the way you complete it.
Because there's so many cyclists.
Well, what do you do when you beat a game?
Like, guess I'll get into the body.
And then, you download a couple of ways.
Check them out.
It's pretty neat.
I kind of want to do this.
But this other thing.
So, like, you should start doing, like, retextures and stuff.
And then you're like, well, okay.
Well, the new texture.
The model is between walking in.
It's a load of blender.
You can edit out video game balls.
I'm like, hmm.
And, you know, you don't know how to do it.
Just look at what you're doing.
Pretty fun.
So, I remember the first time I ever got into doing it.
I think it was.
I think it was Test Drop 5.
Yeah.
And we had it for PC.
Several of us.
And we bought it.
I think I got it out of the bargain bin at Walmart.
Plenty of books.
And the bad thing was, is, and I don't know.
I'm sure it was a licensing thing, but for some reason, like,
the bargain bin version was the full version of the game.
But it didn't have the music it was supposed to have in it.
But you could stick as an audio CD in there.
It would play it in the background.
Because the music was supposed to be on the same disk.
So, yeah, it's kind of, you know, and I don't know.
But it was kind of weird.
You didn't have the, all the, because I remember,
there was a bunch of bands that had songs on the,
getting on the, on the game.
But you could go in and, you could find the folders
where the, the data, the cards were.
And I remember pulling up the skins and being like, okay,
you could open this and, uh, and like, whatever,
Photoshop, I don't think I had the game at that point,
because it was a long time ago.
But, uh, there was, uh,
you could, yeah, I would take, uh, I would find these
tribal tattoo flesh.
A lot.
And, and, and remove the background and change the color of,
uh, of the tattoo or whatever, and stick it on the car.
So, the bin was painted on, and it was kind of bad,
and then the experimented with some of the sound effects and stuff.
When Test Drop 6 came out, though,
he had a different, like, the car data,
each car's data was an individual,
like, zip files, and, uh, a buddy,
mine figured out, like, most of the,
most of the data for the car was in just a text box.
Yeah, he changed the torque to, like, not, not, not,
and that was, in hilarity and sued.
Since you hit the gas, the button for the gas,
the car was just jump into orbit.
And I see the map down here just spinning.
And the car was just up here in the corner of the screen.
And eventually, if you waited long enough,
it would take forever.
But eventually, the car would finally fall back to Earth.
And when it hit, it would hit so fast,
it would just wreck.
You know, you couldn't control it.
You couldn't really screw your physics, but,
fun stuff.
So, you know, you feel like negative value.
I don't know, I hope you're great to see.
Maybe we're just going to reverse.
How did that man kill screen pop up on the moon?
Yeah, that's interesting, because, you know,
you can use, like, a gimp to do textures,
and you can use a blender to do the models.
I think what would,
actually, you can actually do your own textures in
the blender as well, but, you know,
it's going to be nice for you to, like,
you know, some other program that we're fairly used to
to using.
And, uh, the end is going to work.
And then, the cool thing, too,
is, you know, like, a plate,
more wind on a computer.
It's like, it's kind of all the windows.
Like, how do you do this?
How do you play your games?
Do you use a wand?
Now, there's actually an open whirlwind,
or open GW.
It's a, you know,
pre-known first Linux-based game engine,
specifically to play Morrowind Balls.
So, I got into that project,
and pretty much just stayed there,
because I have a,
I'm so sure we're going to see what it looks like
in a range of Morrowind.
And, yeah, there's a couple of different features
you can add, and, like, there's some,
there's some mods that look,
do tricks of what,
things look like, you know,
hyper-realistic stuff.
That's not yet been ported over to open Morrowind,
but still you can get mods to make things look so much better.
So, been doing a lot of it.
A lot of that lately.
Pretty fun.
It's not hard to get into,
just, uh, full of experience,
and you get to do them.
So, like, I remember,
it seems like, back in the day,
because a lot of games,
especially first-person shooters,
would have, like,
people wanting communities around them,
and it seemed like it would start out
with, like, the map editors.
A lot of those games,
yeah, I went there on official map editors,
I don't know why I gave something,
maybe they do.
The Morrowind has,
it came on the tone,
the overshrews,
the instructions,
which, of course,
Morrowind also has, you know,
a multitude of them.
Yeah, I remember, like,
Quake and contractions,
that's warm, too.
Ducry,
a lot of that.
There was a lot of people on them,
but I have a couple of friends,
I've got enough, quite three,
because there's an extensive list of models,
like, and I remember,
even, like,
characters from other games,
like, he would run around
with, uh, in Quake 3,
and sub-zero,
do you think,
yeah, there's more combat models.
Hmm.
For Quake 3.
I know, uh,
I have me,
you used to play,
I don't know,
a turn for quite a bit,
and I was set mind at, like,
the blade model,
so I'm like, uh, you know,
blade,
and a bandwriter slayer.
I can't remember what I used to do.
I remember when we did Quake 2,
I had a, uh,
a really killer,
I don't know where I found it at,
but it was a really killer,
a model,
a dark model,
because whenever,
yeah,
killed,
his legs would be laying over here,
his body went towards,
I would be over there.
He got it,
and we used to play
this guy named,
uh,
Timmy.
Timmy?
Yeah.
We had a,
I don't know where it got it,
we had a,
you know,
model number five,
from short-circuit,
do you remember that?
Yeah.
He was so ridiculous,
because everybody would get these
like big, serious models,
and it comes number five,
and it was so stupid.
Why did they still play, like,
a giant mackerel?
So it was a hundred of it,
a tiny mackerel.
Yeah, I can remember what he had.
Look, some big,
robot-looking thing,
maybe I'm like,
uh,
I think it's a model from,
um,
Alice and you,
you know,
it was a man,
Barbara and her,
so whatever.
So yeah, like,
I probably got a point where,
like,
that's probably the first time
I saw an object,
you know,
just definitely smiles,
um, model form,
and then,
rescinded it,
I just kind of like,
took a picture of my face,
back with the digital camera
sort of thing,
you didn't have it,
you know, on a cell phone,
and just a picture of my face,
and put it over his,
and then,
I think I even took a picture,
and I'm like,
workshurt,
he's in a worse way,
and then,
he's a place,
and I skin that in it,
so I'm like,
I'm running around,
but it's basically me,
you know,
but, like,
my arms are like,
really dirt,
you know,
being wet with the snacks
and all that,
and he had like,
a sword on his back,
but I mean,
other than that,
well,
we'd run around,
and then,
I remember,
I kinda said,
like,
you know,
I'm served from my computer,
and back when we did
the LAN parties,
like,
this wasn't over the internet,
it was like,
come over to my house,
and just eat play games,
well,
you know,
where I was like,
the main server,
I wasn't sitting there,
but, like,
all the concerts,
and bands on mine,
so I actually re-matched my jump button
to, like,
I'm just reduced gravity,
so, like,
I'd run around,
or I'd be jumping,
and I'm like,
well, I need to get up there,
so I'll just turn gravity out,
and look at my ass up there,
and turn it back on,
and I'll land,
and you know,
just,
you know,
just much to the screen,
everyone was playing,
but I did, you know,
like,
sporadically,
just,
barely, just not really,
I didn't really abuse it,
but I stuck away,
for, like,
all, like,
two seconds ago,
I think it was Tony,
he was having an issue,
getting,
connected to the game,
and, like,
either at cables,
or something,
but,
suddenly,
I started,
like,
doing a busy stop,
like,
you know,
you're just,
like,
looking back at my mom,
and just sitting here,
just, like,
I didn't game,
like, stop,
stop trying to jump,
like,
you mess with the game,
oh,
no,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
we know that,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
yeah.
yeah,
oh demand.
wow,
is it,
hey,
is this
has it
employee already?
it is
and they're actually printed them out on the paper for whatever reason, read three and
they're like, what's this? I was like, that one was a lot of balls, a lot of balls.
Yeah, a lot of balls. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for
real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for
real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for
real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for
real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for
real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for
real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That
That's for real. That's for real.
That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That's for real. That
that's for real.
sandbox with like no extra content.
And it's like everything's particularly
generally, it sounds great on paper,
but then you're out there and you're just like,
okay, so what I'm actually doing,
you're mining resources, okay?
And what are these resources do with a Q and a spatial?
Oh, okay.
And where can I go to other planets
where you can buy resources?
And if you want to go to other planets,
what, and the point is?
To the loose.
It's like to explore a lot of,
essentially, mining colonies.
But, you know, there's like wildlife.
But after all the kind of notice,
everything monster is just some
procedurally carried in basis of another.
So it's like, oh, this one has three eyes instead of five.
And it just, there's no fun to it.
Like, when you start playing it like 15 minutes in,
that's what you'll be doing 15 hours later.
There's no variance, there's nothing to do.
And people, it was very much hired,
but people were so disappointed that they,
they, I want to say even like game stuff,
like redacted or refund policy,
it was just like, yes, you can return this game.
Like, it was, it was bad.
There's, what gets me is,
and it started on mobile platform,
mobile games, because they're,
they're all kind of copies of each other in a way.
And they're just designed to,
they create this sense of I'm working for something,
I'm working for something,
and then they give you a roadblock,
so you have to pay money,
and they're just designed to suck money out of your wallet.
Yeah. And there's no point.
Like, even if you, even if you get past that roadblock,
if you, what you pay the money,
or you, you know, grind on the game for nine million hours
to get past it, then you're just in there.
It doesn't really help you.
You just bought you right back in another area
where all the players are probably better than you.
And it was just a grand pay counter.
And I, that as soon as that realization sets in,
I'm like, don't, I know, I want anything else
to do with this game, it sucks, I'm done,
and it goes away.
And, but that's way, like,
that has crept into console games now too.
And, yeah, all games are like that.
I just, I'm like, no, I'm just going to fire
the old Genesis simulator.
Yeah.
I think you'll have things where like a game
will be like advertised.
You get to play this like, you know,
Wolverine, you're like, oh, man, that's awesome.
I'm going to do that and buy, you know,
where's this character?
He's not in the game.
Oh, that's the DLC, but why didn't he just
include it in the game?
No, because we want to get more money so he can, yeah,
this is like.
And then after you pay 50 bucks to get to play
as that character in two months,
they'll shut the service down.
The game doesn't work anymore.
There was a, there was a, there was a first person
shoot your shadow on the game.
And I bought it for a dollar.
And I'm like, man, this is going to be awesome.
And I'm like, the video was horrible.
I mean, this is like older kind of game.
And I'm like, I never even heard of this,
but I mean, this can be cool with shadows.
Awesome.
I'm like, you know, watching the video and that sort
of playing the career.
I'm like, yeah, it's got some energy to the cat.
You should be teleporting and doing some cool stuff.
All right, let me actually figure out the game is,
because there's no story mode.
It's just like multiplayer.
And waiting, waiting, it's going to act like.
They have the service down.
Yeah.
Here's a good quote, and that's still the same game.
And it's just like, wait a minute.
So I guess it's why it was a dollar.
I'm a bad skin fling, but I'm worse than most people
because I will.
So if you figure out PC games, unlike console games,
don't have any resale value, really.
And so I'll jump on eBay or something.
And someone can be auctioned off their entire PC game
collection of like 15 years, like 150 games for 15 bucks.
And yeah, some of them aren't going to work,
but there's going to be a lot of them
that there's the product key right there.
I mean, that's how I got a lot of games.
But yeah, I'm going to tell the other one.
And I would hold her kind of stuff, but all
of the older games that like, you stop
was really cool back when you was a kid.
And you're like, I want to play that one.
Play that thing you just like never do.
And then years later, if you're on the line,
you're going to break that dollar three or some shit.
And then you're looking back like, man, I missed out
home generation games and you go back and you're like,
really super legit.
Sometimes you can completely frustrating
that you can see how other names were inspired by it.
Oh, I got a lot around the lot.
We're like, I've got multiple games on a ball hit
or like, I got it stalled.
We got real excited.
This looks awesome.
And then, oh, the servers are gone.
Yeah.
It had been for like 12 years.
There was a, there was a story I heard.
There was a game called, it made,
it's something, something earlier in here
that I was like war or something like that.
It was like acronym or initialism.
But it was, it was a game where you could actually fight like,
you know, there's normally a cat like 16 players and maximum.
Well, this game was specifically designed to have like,
the cat was like 256.
Oh, you know, like, it was like like thousands of people.
And it's just meant to be like a super massive,
you know, war kind of deal.
And they shut the servers down and that.
They still sell the game full price
for like a year later.
It's like, there's a, some kind of,
I don't know if it's a boycott,
but there's some kind of people putting up like a
game shotgun notice.
Like, why are you still selling this full price?
Known for well, but they can't play it.
You know, there's no servers and there's no,
like story or anything.
Like, I don't know if they were selling that guy.
I want to say it's like World of Warcraft or like EverQuest
where people would just write their own gaming servers
and kind of kind of get public servers that way.
There's a couple of games that I've done.
One of the ones I got supposedly has a fan base server thing.
Like I think it's work time or I've tried it.
I don't know if it's because of the servers.
Most servers are gone now or I just did something wrong
and it's been a lot of time fussing with it.
It's going to be powerful games.
So one game not working, it's not going to.
There's a, the weird thing is the probably servers are
shutting down.
There's still some like muds out there that have been
in operations since like the internet was something.
Like zombie mud comes to mind.
The zombies mud that one, and I was on that one like,
you know, the reason is like last year.
And it's still thriving.
It's like, you know, it wasn't really a thing anymore.
It was like, don't tell us that.
Right.
Like, you know, beautiful text graphics.
And yeah, it was pretty good, pretty intense.
But it started having that kind of play kind of aspect to it.
We're like, you can drop some money to be like a sponsor.
So you can be like, better the gear.
Weird thing is, my brother actually,
he was playing another game after the name of it.
It was a mud.
And he did, he started like, you know, buying like,
level ups and stuff.
And at one point, I asked him like,
how would you be really, you know, spin on this game?
Because I was, I played like World War II after that time.
And, hey, then, James said, I don't believe this much.
Mom's, they're not, I got this other kind of players.
They're kind of cool.
But how much have you actually paid for that?
A little about, you know, 400 bucks.
I'm like, how long have you played about six months?
So like, and there's no graphics to everything.
Well, you know, it's been an amazing game.
You're like, you're a sucker, like, I don't know.
You know what I'm hearing is that we need to write a game.
It sounds like that.
I'm just, so this one is a,
basically a 3D version of Paul.
Look, that's never been done before.
And the thing is, you have to buy the powder separately.
And they break.
And, and you can get special paddle power.
You know what's funny is there used to be a game.
Not kidding.
Look, you, well, this one's not even that.
This one's a, I had the demo for it for Windows.
It was called Blood Pong.
And it was a mashup.
It was a mashup of Pong and Mortal Kombat.
And there was different paddles.
You could choose from, like, characters.
And they had, like, Mortal Kombat powers.
Look, there was a scorpion one that would throw a spear
into the other paddle and jerk him out of the way.
So they would miss the ball and blow it into the air.
It was ridiculous.
It was amazing.
It was amazing.
It was amazing.
But yeah, there's a, again, I want to say it's called The Cube.
And it was a, what's his name?
I'm going to miss it up, like, Peter Pong,
you were something like that.
He fairly famous, like, being a developer.
And he made this game that was strictly, like, a pay-to-play.
Like, you can do it without paying, but you're, like,
they really should pick.
The object in the game is to get to the center.
The Cube gets cute.
It's multiplayer.
So, like, the entire world was just chipping away.
The Cube gets cute.
Trying to get to the middle of it.
Whoever hits the middle gets surprised.
And then you're just like, you get the shitty acts, like,
one pixel per second.
And then you could, like, pay money to get, like,
the better pigs for each slide.
There's not shit at all.
And I think there was one that was known
to have, like, $1,000 to get, like, the ultimate go-and-diamond
pig or something like that, where you just, like,
take out entire acres per swing.
But the thought was, even if you had, like,
invested in serious money, just, like, knock out a pixel,
you could still technically do, like, the little shitty
pixel.
It's whoever hit that last pixel in the center
could get it, right?
And it lasted for, like, a couple months.
And, you know, all these people were throwing down money.
And it's like, what are you actually buying, though?
Do you know what's in the center?
Do you know what the prize is?
Like, what's why?
And that was the point of the game,
was so they could figure out how much they can push people
and just, like, work over money.
And the answer is, there's a lot of rich kids out there
and just, like, you know, they're not
earning the money, and the parents give it to them.
So it's like, you know, how cool?
I'm just going to buy this.
And the beauty of that system is that it actually
have to be rich kids.
I can just be any kids who's part of a family
with disposable income that they can tap them in, like.
But I mean, when you think about it, like,
even if they've got, like, seven bucks a week,
like, disposable income, that's, you know,
if you're actually, if your budget is, like,
right on the cusp, or you can't afford it in leeway,
like, it doesn't really matter how rich you are,
like, you've got other things needed to, you know,
put your money towards it.
And it's just as weird though, it's almost like,
now need to be catered towards that, or it's like,
just give us your money, or you don't be applying,
it's like, why happen to just be able to play again?
Yeah.
I like, well, and it's, I don't know, but like,
most of the time, the games that they're charging you,
this money for our games that don't look terribly fun,
or they look like bad copies of another game that,
you know what I mean, it's like there's no,
like, I'm not paying you anything for that,
because what you got behind your back,
I can't see what it is, and it's probably,
just a clump piece of crap, a glass piece of crap game
that it is, it's like greeners are so bad,
because it's like, you're basically throwing money
at a concept, and you don't, you know, go away from them,
even during the early days, like when,
what was it, was it every quest,
one of the first ones that started doing that,
and I was like, you know, I,
because actually, if I'm not mistaken,
you have to, you've got to go out and buy a copy of the game,
and then they get to be like a month or two free,
or something, and you can't just start paying,
and like, I'm just not cruel with that, I'm just not,
I think.
You know, either give me the game free,
and then charge me a monthly subscription,
or just sell me a game with no subscription.
One or the other, but that's like,
You're worse, because I double-dipping.
I want to say that you're worse,
you can just buy the game, and I'll ride,
and then just play it.
And I think I, I think I was like,
you're worse too, and it was, it was all right.
But like it didn't, it didn't really draw me in,
like, World Warcraft, and I didn't really play that for real,
and I was maybe, you know, I got to like,
level 40 on the main character,
just kind of like, I can't really afford to just
throw it out in the honey, you know, just a level with guy,
I don't know, I don't know how many people remember this,
but like, when you look 40, you get the flying mounts,
and you need like some serious money to like, fund that.
And I think you're like, first character,
and like, somebody doesn't buy in the corner,
and you're not getting it, and like,
you're just dedicating all your life to just,
try to sync it up enough to, you know,
fly around with this, like, griffin' or something.
So I just kind of quit that one, because it's always been a grind,
but now it's like, really obvious,
and I'm just grinding towards a build that is kind of unbeatable,
but it just keeps me like, you know,
dropping like, kind of 20 months, or how much it was.
And then that's what I just wish over, like,
you know, it was too, it was like, it's free to play,
but then I'm just kind of,
I just kind of stop playing on games altogether.
And, but like, the weird thing is,
my favorite games, like, my old games,
like Super Metroid and Super Marvel,
those kind of games,
probably went back and got caught up on like Castlevania,
like, for some reason I'd skip Castlevania
when they first came out, but the other games I play
was like, I fall out three in Portland,
and like, I don't know, there's Skyrim,
there's Oblivion, there's all these other games,
there's a new one coming up,
but it's just something about like the over, you know,
there's like more London,
fallout, they're basically the same game.
Now, you know, some company makes them
say, kind of like mechanics,
but it's just, go out there and scan them to bunch of stuff,
just see what's out there, do all the side quests,
and you just kind of like live in the world and have to do it.
But if you don't have the,
there's no way kids just run around like, you know,
just, you know, that kind of stuff to get from like,
on play, because online games,
it felt like a community, it felt more like an influence
in anything, that's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, I have like, it's weird like, old games.
I want to, I want to like like RPGs more than I actually do,
and so I'll sit down and try to play it.
Like right now, I just started,
because I've always wanted to play through,
like the original Fantasy Star,
but it's like a disaster system.
And, but the thing is, it's like,
there's a lot of those old RPGs,
like the way they were designed was in this drove me nuts,
like, because I'm very, like actually game oriented,
like I mean, shit, oh, that bottle's flying around right now,
it's like, I mean, it's very story,
yeah, it's like, let's do this like 30 minute,
you know, monologue, you know, can I do the thing?
Well, I mean, even okay with the story,
what gets me is the grinding and the way that whole thing
is set up, like some RPGs I've played,
have a pacing to them that I can deal with.
And some of them don't, some of them are like,
and open any of them, just right at the head.
Yeah, like walk around in a circle for four hours,
by the same two monsters over and over again,
just so you can level up enough to walk over here
and walk around in circles for four hours,
and that just,
it's like, it's good to have it pay so it's like,
you always feel like you're prudent,
and you can look back and be like,
I started as a blacksmith, and now I'm a king,
you know, that intro, but it's like,
when you are seriously just like,
hey, go to this quarter of the map,
and just walk in circles, you're trying to get that one item
that is like a 128 chance to draw.
It's like Earthbound, it's like a great game, right?
The like, there are items that are like super rare,
but it's like every playthrough,
you're just like, well, I gotta get the,
whatever sword, you know?
So you're just gonna find the same monster,
because like, you know, by 64 only,
you've got like a half a chance to get it, so,
and then it killed me like,
X, Y, played it like the first time you walked in,
hit it on the first go, it's like,
most people spend a good couple of days trying to,
try to get that item, so, that's cool.
Yeah, you start to learn how to,
you know, hack the right item,
and then you can just give it a kill,
and then, the, I'm not alone.
Like, I used to have different views on like,
cheating on a video game, like, for me,
it was like, some things were like,
it depends, because a lot of those older games,
sometimes you wanted a sandbox experience.
Yeah, and no, I had it.
Grand Decker, I was three,
throwing the code, all the weapons,
all the health, and just, run them on.
But like, yeah, and sometimes it's what you wanted,
especially like, you come home from work,
and you're pissed off, and you're tired,
and you use your ball of steam,
and just, I don't want to work through some
or actual motion, I've been,
and that, that, and sometimes it was too,
like, some of those old games that have like,
a cheat code built in to let you do that,
like, you know, remember, they all,
the first part of the cheat,
they all had like, going, and like,
all, and so you just, you can't be killed,
there's all the weapons, and just,
it's all stuff up, but, like,
the older systems that are like the game genie,
and the pro-action replay that,
let you, modify the, sort of,
modify the code a little bit.
Like, that firm, a technical perspective,
like, you could just put in random codes
to see if they were,
not this time, you're on a pressure game,
or something, but,
or else, well, you know, so what pops up like,
it's funny, because they're kind of like,
I try to jump, like, my head disappears.
That's kind of neat, you know?
And then,
being able to see how,
why that works, like, now,
is like, really, you know,
love them up here.
You know, actually, Jeff,
code has a turning.
There's one, I don't know if you've seen this,
but Super Mario World,
can be beaten in, like,
30 seconds.
Huh, for quicker than that.
It's like, the actual, like, record,
for, like, just normal, honestly,
you do it in, like, under 11 minutes,
you know, if you go to the server,
or, you know, or not.
But you can beat it, like,
in under a minute,
I think it's,
it's summer because it's not time,
because it's called the wrong word gulage.
You basically go to, like,
one of the first levels,
and you,
you basically forced a game to load and unload sprites
in a very specific sequence.
You're essentially peeking and poking, you know,
bites in memory,
because there's a glitch where, like,
if you try to,
if you pick up a coin as Yoshi is trying to swallow it,
it causes the game to glitch out.
And if you can set up other factors beforehand,
you're essentially riding code in memory,
so when you do that,
it'll do a job to that point.
And the instruction for you as Toto
was to, hey, work to the end.
And to see somebody pull that off is just mind blown.
I've seen, there's some YouTube videos.
Yeah, yeah.
And one guy on a stock SNES,
and in the stock game, like, no,
for the packs, he did have the,
he got a reason for what he had,
and hope to climb down a couple of buttons on pad number two.
But he did this in one of life,
was able to set up a bootloader.
And then,
basically, up to the point where he could just
run to a position and jump,
and his health or, like, the time would change to all of that.
And the values, he set there and just buy in,
wrote code into the game,
as it, like, a secondary bootloader.
And then what is also done,
he did the glitch,
and it essentially reflashed the cartridge
to have, like, other games on it.
One of which was Flapy Bird.
So he said, he played Flapy Bird on SNES,
and later he expanded it to where he had this acceptor,
then he could just load up,
like, at any time, and show you the exact values of the game.
And it's just really weird stuff to watch it,
but it's like, he,
seriously, just jail broke,
and SNES countries.
And that's cool.
It takes time and skill that we didn't have as kids.
We had time, we didn't have skill.
That was more of what is the hindsight
that looked in back.
Like, I don't know.
That was always the thing, I guess.
Like, two, there's,
when you look at the older consoles,
we tended to think of them in a way,
like, cartridges, we sort of looked at those as like,
the same way we looked at CDs or tags of VHS,
because as, you know, it's like,
there's a storage meeting,
and the console's like a computer didn't work,
inserted the cartridge, but really,
really, the way that consoles
is set up, that cartridge slot is like an expansion slot.
It's not really a, it's not really a medium reader,
like, we think, you know, thought of it as,
kids, it's an expansion slot,
and that's why things like, the SNES,
you could have games with, like, super effects chip,
and that cartridge, because that cartridge
was essentially an expansion board for the console.
And that's why you can have, like,
there's a dude, I think, on YouTube,
that's playing a SNES game on an NES.
Yeah.
Because he's got an SNES hardware in the cartridge
that's stuck in the game, so it's like,
for people to make, like, portable, you know,
Nintendo 64s, just by going in there,
and the hardware's just like, we do in a lot of ways.
Yeah.
And the thing is, too, is, like,
it's an incredibly experience of, like,
when I was a kid, and I played games,
I didn't know what the limitations were.
So it's like, I would do stuff just to see if I could.
And he spent a lot of time in waste,
and just, like, punching walls to see it,
walk on in their brain, you know,
answers, they're not, they're solid.
But, you know, we think, like,
why don't they do have, like,
health bar, and, like, I'm actually damaging the wall?
But you find a lot of glitches that were like,
and I remember one game, Spider-Man,
and one and two for, like, the original PlayStation,
you know, the first level, it's like,
the whole thing is, it was so lacking in capabilities,
like, they could render full city,
so that the plot, MacGuffin was like,
there's a cloud or not, just gas,
so they don't have to render, like,
the bottom half of the city.
Easily, you're just swinging from, like, the tops of it,
and then, you know, really think,
why am I swinging off of the top of the building,
and, like, if you're creating this around,
or whatever, remember, they don't care about that,
they don't even talk about the building,
you can't touch the ground because it's, you know,
poison gas.
But I found a thing that, on the,
like, the first level is divided into two parts,
and now, on the end of the second part,
you're just swinging out to a building,
just a cutscene, like, boss.
Instead of doing that, though,
you can crawl down the building to the fog,
and it won't kill you,
but you can then zip-wire out the building
and crawl off, so it's like,
you go underneath the trigger point to that cutscene.
Oh, yeah.
And then, you can crawl around for the back of the building,
and you know what's on the back of that building?
In debug screen, because it crashes the game,
and it seriously looks like a lens console is popping up,
you've got a white text on the background,
and it just spits out a bunch of,
the hexadecimal, and it's like,
well, did I just crash the game,
and like, what code is it showing me?
But yeah, it basically goes to a debug moment,
freezes it up, but it's just,
the fact that we can do that consistently,
kind of amazing,
because like, you don't realize the limits,
and you use the, what if it's possible?
It's like, it's like,
grant a total of three,
give me someone to get in your car the first time,
you're like, oh my god,
I should go in my car.
And then you go like, wait, they're processing,
what if I go to an Allen,
and the car starts moving,
and you're like, they actually put this in the game,
and you think you're the only one in the world
to discover it,
but it's like, yeah, you're being a prostitute,
you're at that time, and you're like,
we're giving you my money back in killer,
and like every dollar that you gave,
or you can get back in your slide,
I mean, it makes sense from like,
real world perspective,
but like, I'm used to playing games,
where you didn't have that range of,
you know what I'm just like,
now maybe you're just like,
you hear more surprises, you can't do something.
You've been listening to HECK Public Radio at HECK Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
HECK Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website,
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
