Episode: 2432
Title: HPR2432: Living with the Nokia 6 – an update to HPR 2405
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2432/hpr2432.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:53:42

---

This in HBR episode 2432 entitled Living with the Nokia 6, an update to HBR 2405 and in part
on the series Hardware Upgrades. It is hosted by Tony Huma, Tony H1, 212 and in about
5 minutes long and Karina Cleanflag. The summary is an update to my show on the Nokia 6 phone.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com. Get 15% discount on all share
hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's
honest and fair at an honest host.com.
Hello Hacker Public Radio listeners. This is Tony Hughes in Blackpool in the UK. This
shows a short show as an update to my episode 2405 about the Nokia 6. I've now been living
with the Nokia 6 for about two months. I wanted to give listeners a little bit of an update
and some of my thoughts on the phone since I've been using it. But first I'd like to respond
to Dave who said on the community news after that show that as he had a OnePlus one he was
surprised I found it in adequate. The OnePlus one is actually a great phone. My problem with it
was that it doesn't support O2's 4G network although it supports two or three of the other
networks here in the UK, EE and 3s4G network. But I use a GIFGaf sim to get my phone service and
internet service on the mobile and that runs on the O2 network and I've not been able to benefit
from the 4G offer and I didn't particularly want to change provider because I quite like GIFGaf.
Also the OnePlus was stuck in or stuck on Sudaijim mod 13.1 which is based on Android 6
and Dave gone out of business now and there's no longer any updates to the phone so
as it was now getting to the stage where it was insecure I thought it was time for a new phone
purchase although since I got the new phone I've now flashed the linear GOS onto the OnePlus one
and it's now got a secure operating system based on 7.12 Android and at some stage I'll flash
it to 8 when there's a ROM available so I can use this as a backup phone or pass it onto
me wife at some stage as a secure phone. So back to the Nokia I've now lived with it for a month
or a couple of months as I record this and I can say that I'm more than happy with it.
Some of the issues which I talked about in the previous show with the battery life I found to
be unfounded I did a few tweaks and once you configure some of the settings to be more battery
friendly such as restricting background access to the net for most of the apps battery life is
well over a day's use. At night after I've fully charged it before I go to bed I unplug it and
about 8 hours on standby at night it's using less than 1% of battery
which is fantastic I'm more than that and sometimes I wake up and look at it and it's still showing
it as a 100% so it's using very little because I've now switched off the background access
into the net it's using very little battery when it's just sitting in standby mode.
So now with a moderate to heavy use that I can get more well more than a day out of the phone so
I'm really happy with it. There doesn't seem to be any chance of the phone running out of battery
during my days use. Other people if you're watching three hour videos then you might find that
slightly different but you know for most use scenarios that I've seen people using the mobile
software I think it's perfectly a usable phone. Also the official charger and cable
if they're used to charge the phone they can give 30% 30 to 40% battery capacity within an hour
so if you are a really heavy user as long as you've got your official charger and cable with you
you shouldn't have a problem giving it a quick power boost and I've done this with the official
cable from a portable power pack as well and it seems to give a reasonable speed on that
as long as you've got a 2 amp out of the portable power pack. So we're dying to still
recommend buying this phone I would say yes it's a cracking phone if you want to a 5.5 inch screen
obviously it's not high-end tech inside but it's better than the OnePlus that I did have
optical processor so if you want to put your large format phone go out and buy a Nokia 6 so I
would say. So that's Tony Hughes signing off for this time on Hacker Public Radio and I'll
touch you soon. Bye for now.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status. Today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
