Episode: 2565
Title: HPR2565: 2017-2018 New Years Eve show part 7
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2565/hpr2565.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:51:29

---

This is HBR episode 2,565 entitled HBR 2017 New Year's Eve Show Part 7.
It is hosted by Merrius Creative Commons Works and is about 178 minutes long and can in an explicit flag.
The summary is Part 7 on the 6th annual HBR New Year show.
This is the last one.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Amazing to see all this stuff that I did was using in college just becoming affordable
so it's really cool.
I just engraved some acrylic signs with my fix car via the day.
Turned up pretty good.
What you put on them?
I was making some signs for clocks so you know how you see newsrooms with a clock and a city name under them.
Yeah so basically a little sign so I reverse cut the city name into a piece of acrylic and then that gets mounted on standoffs.
It looks like glass when you polish it.
Very nice.
And then I also painted the letters with black paint from the other side so it looks like the black is inset into the acrylic.
And then I painted it with black paint from the other side.
And then I painted it with black paint from the other side.
And then I painted it with black paint from the other side.
27 kilo ohms is not a standard value.
2.7 kilo ohms.
Yeah 2.7K that's normal.
No, 27K.
Yeah that sounds unusual.
I'm going to hubby-hour.com forward slash electronics forward slash resistor calculator link in the show notes.
But only as we continue on.
Well that's a useful little schematic about the different colors again.
Yeah and the calculator is even better.
Yes folks I am cheating thank you very much.
I didn't think there was anything cool cheating these days.
I thought it was research.
That's what I call it when I go on YouTube to do it to look at a tear down video before I start knocking about with a new laptop that won't strip down.
I always found that kind of strange in exams that especially in engineering exams that you would need to know the formulas.
And they would always refer to a manual because to just make sure that they get the formula correct.
I don't understand why just give me the book.
Yeah like of the formulas.
Like yourself Ken I started off in engineering and if we were starting to cut a thread there was no way you'd start on the lathe without having a check with your thread meter in your book and everything.
Absolutely yeah and better yet ask somebody who's still looking for course.
So yeah it's always strange when you come to an exam and you're not allowed to do all that.
I don't know I ask him questions I see so many people afraid to ask questions and work.
You know what does it matter?
Everybody makes mistakes sometimes just ask a bloody question.
Before you had to be asking the question then he's sitting there like a noona thinking you're doing something when you're just stood frozen.
Yeah.
I think these guys people have lost all they've got this fear of seeming stupid because they don't know what they're doing but until you've done it the first time.
You're never going to know what you're doing.
Exactly.
And that was the thing I used to do when I was interviewing people.
I would continue on asking questions until I got to a point where you reach the limit of the knowledge and then it wasn't that I was that concerned about where the limit of the knowledge was because you know everybody has different things.
It's just what what do they do when they get to a point where they don't know a thing.
And you know sometimes you come up with someone who is so experienced but you give them a question that could only be related to if you were working in our factory or in our industry which they're working.
And then you know they start bluffing you know okay I don't want to be working with this person.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Just a good answer to that question is well I don't know because that's industry specific but I imagine that.
That's a perfectly valid.
Yeah.
Oh I don't know but I might know a man who does.
Exactly.
Even if each Mr. Google.
Mr. Google.
You only need to be one Wikipedia search ahead of everybody else.
I heard a rumor of a chap who put up a hotspot in the meeting once with consultants.
And you know had a squid proxy and then was as things were being mentioned by the consultancy companies manager or team that the consultants were Google or going to Wikipedia.
But that's what they told us.
Very impressive guys very impressive.
Brown brown black black brown which I'm reacting without looking is one one zero hundred on.
One hundred and ten oh.
Where are you putting a hundred ten oh.
No or because it's a one K.
I'm going to say the lowest one I see is 220.
This thing is measuring one K.
I want to get one K from that.
Is the last color brown or black?
A red.
I bet the brown is red.
No they're all exactly the same color brown.
There's three browns and two blacks.
So it's either brown, brown, black, black or black or brown, black, black, brown, brown.
You know what you need is an LED light.
I do have one sorry yes.
The big magnifying glass.
This is one K.
So brown black black brown brown.
Okay now the question is do I have one K here?
Yeah two of them right there just above the little habitable place.
So tell me this Ken if you have two resistors the same value and you twist both their ends together in parallel.
What happens to the resistance?
Divided by two.
Very good.
And thank you for publicly closing me in front of 14,000 people.
I got to make sure you put them in the right direction remember.
It doesn't matter I still have you down as doing that bit scope thing you can pretend to be an actor as much as you like.
I know what you're trying to do.
I'm thinking if I if you give me wrong information here that I want ask you to do the bit scope tutorial.
I'm pressing and try.
Well life just says cool in there.
I don't completely don't think it's cool but I'm just on the humorous type thing.
No of course not.
Long suffering.
Ken is your good lady ever done a show?
Yes she has.
She's on every single show.
She's the intro and outro girl.
But she's also done several shows and she is working on a series.
But that sounds cool.
Yes it is actually.
I had the surprise in the background so she knows about this series.
Yes she does know about this series because we've been working on this thing for the last two bloody years.
It started as a request for a article.
It was a roundtable request by lost and Bronx.
And then she said all right I'll write something about that and then it turned into all right I'll write a little booklet about that.
This is going to be more of blog posts and then it's the first of a three part.
So the first book is already written.
Well may I say that the lady certainly improves the audience quality?
She improves more than that that's for sure.
She improves the quality of my life.
The audio quality is only part of that that we're allowed to enjoy.
She cooks good too.
There's three kids away past the form of entertainment.
Yes but it would get called on the flight over to Boston.
No reason you can't jump over here.
Red, red, black, black, brown.
And the brown is way over so I'm guessing it's red, red, black, black which will be.
220, 220 ohms.
Yep 220 ohms.
Another thing you can do is just look at all the resistor spots on your board and say which one does this seem closest to?
You could do that.
And kind of figure out what it should be from that set.
But we have a 26 hour after show to pull up with interesting content.
Got a top right hand corner.
It seems to be bridging the first pane of the, it's going from the ground to the first pane of the monitor.
One little LCD screen.
Only four more to go guys.
No you can't talk about something else.
There's no reason to be waiting on my resistor.
This is just something I happen to be doing while the show is going on.
Yes, we were wondering about the availability of single women in Europe.
Well, I presume the invitation to suffer what would have said.
I know this young lady who would love to meet a dashing gentleman from boss.
I could go there with the whole Amsterdam thing, but.
There are plenty of available people here for every taste.
Brown, grey, black, orange, brown, which comes out of 180k.
Brown, grey, what?
Brown, grey, black, orange, brown, brown, grey, black, orange, brown.
It comes in around 180k.
Yeah, I see one there.
180 or 1.8?
1.8.
I don't see a 1.2 in the board.
I see a 180 down at the bottom plus to the terminal pins, like a PWM logo.
When we interrupt a usual broadcasting for an announcement, that's we are coming up to, I believe, the last time zoom.
I'm not even sure where that is, but the American smell, we became the first few years back.
I saw the whole article about that.
So can we take over and tell us where the last time to actually is, because I have no idea.
Well, it's so the next time zone to go in 48 seconds is midway.
And the last one is Baker Island, which is an hour from now.
So all of you staying up for three at the end of the HBO show.
You have another hour of this torture.
But yeah, there's another hour.
Oh, I see there's one there already.
Yeah.
So who else is a 3D printer?
Not that I have a 3D.
I don't have one either, but they're not as cool as they want to.
Because they're more mainstream now anyway.
Things being not cool usually means they're cheaper, which usually means I start getting interested.
Well, yeah, I see a point.
And turn these flashing up a lot.
I see a new mistake with the client.
This 20 probably is about to say lots of stuff and things.
No, every time I mention that, I'll be hot in for a show.
You're always angling for shows, Ken.
Yep, that's me.
We've got 280 fresh slots just come available.
In one hour's time, there'll be 280 free slots available for your audio pleasure.
Not to mention the 280 that will be the year after that and the 200.
Hi.
What was your favorite show of the year, guys?
And you don't have to mention, you know, obviously it was they how to modify an ironing board.
Your second favorite show.
You laugh, you laugh, but as soon as I've done this board here, we're doing ironing with Ken.
So yeah, you prepared.
I think my favorite show and it is one of mine.
But the other reason this one of mine is because I was actually alive to do it.
And it's the show that I did post after I had my stroke.
Yes, that was about surviving the stroke.
That was a sobering show, I must say, having strokes in my whole family.
But there's so many good shows.
It's really hard over a 12-month period to remember.
You know, you'll get one that jumps out at a time and then within a couple of weeks is another one that jumps out.
I've been liking the tabletop gaming D&D stuff.
Yeah, that is pretty new and interesting.
I wasn't expecting that to be a whole series, actually.
But I think the best show is a probably a trick question.
The best show is the one that solves the problem that you're working on at that particular point in time.
Which is why we often get comments and shows that are three, four years old.
Yeah, because someone will go hunting around in the archive looking for a solution.
Bit like you do on YouTube.
2.2K.
I've just been watching a bit of the video of the actual tester.
Looks quite nice.
A little bit of kit, actually.
I saw that there were some guys that came with the three Surface Mount components soldered on.
I would strongly advise that if you had not done any soldering at all.
Because when you're starting, when you're building a PCB, you have to start with the smallest components and work your way up.
Yeah.
So you, by definition, start with the most difficult one.
I think you can also buy them preassembles in the world.
Does anyone watch the Pirates, the bilge tank from Pyramironi?
No, you're going to live?
Yeah, I can find you one.
Give you a couple of seconds and I'll get you all.
They have a regular weekly show during the where they obviously,
it's part of their sales team as well, but it shows new things that they've got for sale.
But occasionally they do tutorials on how to solder and you know, assemble some of the kits that they do.
So it's quite good.
Oh, nice.
Let me, yeah.
I've got them favorited.
I've got them find them.
There we go.
Nope, just disobey it.
No, you got it.
No, it's in there.
It's still there.
I got rid of my one.
You got really yours, did you?
Anyone get a new cool kit this year?
And yes, you know where this is going.
No, I didn't get anything for Christmas, but I went out to the auction a few weeks ago and picked up myself a nice little setting them.
I three tower.
That's a nice little bit kit.
I like that auction thing that's going on beside you.
I really am very jealous of that auction house.
Yeah, they were selling.
They were selling some SSDs.
Some 128.
Sandeys sculptures.
I managed to pick them up for 32 quid each.
Oh, nice.
They're about 50 quid.
50, 60 quid or so much.
So I've got a few of them.
But it's amazing how, you know, useful, you know, four and five year old kits still is these days.
Absolutely, yeah.
I could say a little like three tower with, I've just stuck the SSD in it.
It's got, I think it's four gig around.
I might have upgrade it.
No, I think it's four gig around.
But it flies along.
Absolutely flies along.
I think you're a bit behind the video, Ken.
He's got ease attached to an oscilloscope.
Har, har, har.
My defense, he did fast forward.
By the time we don't truncate sidelines everybody, we go, Ken is really horseing through that thing.
I could do a blue beat rather than go on.
Here's one I met.
Are you good?
Have you got another one?
Great assembled.
Sometimes I wish I will.
I may have to buy one pre assembled if this doesn't work out.
A hundred pay turns out to be.
Do you ever get any of these kits that were missing components?
What are you missing?
Did you ever get any kits that were missing components?
No, the stuff I build usually have to source your own parts.
I've got so many boxes of that stuff I can find what I need usually.
It's actually so cheap now.
I've got loads and loads of resistors and masters and stuff.
Which is actually why I want to put this together.
The bad thing is when you take stuff apart and you have extra stuff.
Put that together.
Yeah, but so long as it works, it doesn't matter.
I learned that as an early age.
As long as it continues to work, it doesn't matter when you spare parts you have.
You just made it more efficient.
Yeah, that sounds like when you pull in the laptop apart and you put it all back together and you still got a ham to the screws left.
At that point you take it and you shake it and if it's fine then you just make it more efficient.
Now you got a lighter laptop.
And then from mechanical engineering terms, that's something that you get used to.
You know, it's like electronic engineers who don't after a while don't worry about the order of the resistors.
Mechanical engineers very quickly get used to the yeah, few extra components, no big deal.
And approach I would hold my surgeon doesn't have by the way.
It's not so much the bits left over.
It's the bits that they can't find afterwards.
It's like you're up.
I like that surgeon who got caught for a laser engraving, his initials and people's livers.
Yeah, that was a ring.
Well, one part to me was going, yes, that's a ring.
And on the other hand, I was thinking, if you had asked me before I'd, dude, can the laser caught your initials on your liver?
I go, well, okay.
Go for it.
That sounds cool.
I think they sound you can.
Well, I did not say the series supernatural.
No, no.
Actually, the initials are fine.
It's when he has to put the creative commons reference on that.
Well, killed by free sulfur.
Sorry, what was that series?
Supernatural.
It's a TV show.
So it's these two brothers that go around chasing supernatural monsters.
And, you know, in this universe, there's, you know, demons and angels and monsters and spells and all this stuff.
And so they have certain symbols they put on stuff to keep the bad spirits out of this, that or the other.
Well, they have these tattoos that keep them from being possessed by certain things.
And at one point in the series, one of the angels basically tattoos on their bones, whatever this symbol is, it's supposed to keep them from being infected by something.
And they've just reminded me of that of, you know, you're going to tattoo, you're going to laser engrave something on your liver.
Well, these guys had that in the series.
Maybe that's where he got the idea.
And the last one should be a hundred and seventy ohm.
Well, that's twenty K.
I don't know.
Okay, great.
The measure is twenty K.
Well, we learned this can still hasn't a clue how this thing works.
That is no way that is red.
It looks violent.
Red, black, black.
This is why you just can't trust these color blends, balance from these key presisters.
They just have no.
This red is nowhere like that all the red.
It's pink.
Well, I find whatever measure of it.
Soldering iron on.
Don't all talk of ones.
It's just fascinating listening to your concentration, Ken.
Zombie fighters all indeed.
I did get a new soldier and that was a good move.
This is twenty five dollar one you were talking about on the review show.
How have you even heard that?
That was only posted yesterday.
Yeah, so I listened to it last night after it was posted.
I just went on the web and listened to it.
It never some ceases to surprise me that people listen to the community news shows.
I just want to listen to you slaggers all off you say, Ken, because we're not giving enough
shows. That's what it is.
A foreign domestic is in there.
Sometimes I'll miss a bit of feedback or something on one of the shows.
I don't like most people.
I don't listen to every show.
So sometimes just getting a little synopsis of some of the shows is quite good.
Yeah, exactly.
So I think we're repeating all your subsystems.
I think we're going to recommend it as the series to subscribe to if they're 70,
if the rate of shows coming in are sometimes a little bit too much for some people.
Yeah, it's a bit like a monthly guide, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly monthly digest that would be good.
And then if you, if through listening to that, you think, or I might go and actually listen to the full show on that one.
Have you ever done so?
I have.
Yes.
Occasionally.
I thought, oh, I missed a good one there.
The title didn't really speak up to what it was about.
Because sometimes the titles can be a bit dry and I think I'm not particularly interested in that.
So I don't, but I totally bother downloading it.
What do other folks think?
I've gone back and relistened the stuff that I hear on the synopsis show.
Or remind me about it and I'll go back and make a comment.
Yeah, that's the other thing.
Sometimes you'll listen to a show and you think, I need to comment on that show.
And then you just forget all about it.
And then you get reminded, you get reminded about it when you, when you listen to the review show at the beginning of each month.
Cool.
I'm sold right now just as a bad way.
Oh, components getting fixed to the board.
Bored beyond all recognition.
I don't know if due to a magnifying glass is a good thing or bad thing because now all my soldiers are trapped.
At least she got some to join.
Now that we're on Monday, I can say this obscene thing.
Why a rap?
Yes.
For those that don't know what you're on about, first go back and listen to the Paula guidance confusion one and then do a show.
Can you still get wire up?
Man, I'm regretting doing that.
Let's try a slightly thinner soldier.
Yes, but
gentlemen, would any of you know what a standard image used to test image compression software was?
No, I don't.
It was a famous image scanned from a certain gentleman's magazine who is founder passed away just recently.
Oh, yeah, this is on the Apollo thing to use that.
Got a link to the show notes or will that cause us our clean title?
I have actually seen that or a similar image used at the AI lab when they were doing some stuff with an 8086 system.
Where was that again?
Takes where MIT?
Back from the 8086 with a hot chip.
You need to do a few shows and those were serious.
What was the pace of software that we were using for compression?
Well, they were testing a new algorithm came by and they used this standard image.
Right.
Now, the fact that it was scanned and probably not registered with the original copyright holder might have been a problem.
But then again, this was back in the last century and things were a lot looser then.
BBC had that picture of a girl.
It was the daughter of the guy who just went home and got his daughter and brought her in and took a picture and then used that.
Is that the young lady that sat in the test card?
I was at the BBC training one time often.
Would would would lawn I think and they have the original there or had at least.
That was the best week of my life was one.
Anyone ever gets a chance to do training at their DVB training is absolutely one week of pure technical porn.
That's what it was.
It was the best.
The best slides were presented the presenters were.
If you ever wanted an example of how to put a thing together, it was just absolutely awesome.
Because a lot of costs really sticky out bits now.
I need to get a new pair of snips.
And my bill, this has cost me a lot of money, dude.
Actually.
The US Air Force air guard actually made not a vanguard brewer airport was flying F 101.
I saw proof that the air guard.
Not a follow was was the real moon shot.
Well, there was a moon shot in the back seat of an F 101.
Which makes a phone booth seem like Buckingham Palace.
I was in a truck that calculated a jet fighter.
So that's when I was a movie high school kid.
More recently about the turn of the century, I was behind a horse in cart.
Hard me a horse and carries downtown boss.
Surprisingly, both of them were going about the same speed.
I'm making an absolute hams of this.
Very good.
Preparing it for the show on how do you solder work?
Yeah, I'm lowering the bar on Ken console with this crap.
You can solder better.
I'm going to be very shocked if this thing actually works when we're finished.
When will that be this time next year?
We shall see you in the future.
Okay, silence.
I keep telling you if you just shut up, then it wouldn't look so bad for me.
Whose idea was to consider it live or there?
This is the only time I get to work on the truck to the back room once a year.
This new soldering door does actually make it a lot easier, especially with the small tips.
So you can do a review of the soldering iron, then.
I think Dave already did one.
He has the same back out as he.
I know what you're doing.
All right.
We're into the last half hour camp down.
Yes, the last half hour.
It's a race against time.
We'll finish his component tester.
And if this is a tattoo or a PD game, it will be tuned in tomorrow.
Let's stop it right there, shall we?
One of these half an hour times.
I mean half past times over the end, it seems.
25 minutes.
Yep.
And spoiler.
There's no way there's going to be finished in 25 minutes.
Just no towel.
Can you, this point is all.
It's starting to sound like my wife again.
So it reminds me of a good hacker friend of mine.
Howard Gus Grayden.
Haven't heard from him in years.
He had about a dozen kids.
Three years enough for me.
Thank you very much.
I was going to say that's a glutton to punishment.
Well, his wife was a little short thing.
And one of his friends at English friends said that small woman, large family,
just laughed.
And Murphy laughed louder, I think.
He was always teased about people should get a hobby or change it.
Best man I haven't seen in years.
My hands are starting to shake now.
That's brilliant.
Same for you.
I think if everything this board is going to be a perfect example of all the ways you can do solder.
I'm just coming to look at this link to the supernatural that we're just talking about that TV show.
And away it looks like a revamp of buffy.
The whole genre of that stuff.
The title of the Hollywood formula.
Something new and different with a good track record.
Correct.
Is anyone else like me?
Doesn't like all the reboots of some of the classic movies?
Well, the John Wayne classic that they rebooted a couple of years ago.
Oh, I can't think of the name of it now.
But they seem to keep rehashing old classic movies and doing poor jobs on.
Star Trek first start.
But now I'd have to disagree with you.
No, Star Trek rebooting a Star Trek was.
But they completely missed the whole point of Gene Rodden's stories.
They turned it into Star Wars when they did action.
Where Gene Roddenbury was all about the stories.
It's the same thing with the Orville verses. Have you seen the Orville little?
No, I'm TV series.
Well, we're watching the Orville.
That is taking the stories and just doing them like stories.
Basically.
Star Trek.
The next generation without any mention of Star Trek.
So how does that work?
It works by going well.
They messed up Star Trek so much that here's another universe that is similar.
Well, it is completely different.
Right, but it's got good stories.
So it's like Star Trek.
It is more Star Trek than Star Trek, actually.
So going away from Star Trek, what do you think of the reboot of Star Wars?
There was only ever one Star Wars movie and that was the first one.
And then everything else was a way to make money.
I have yet to be dissuaded by that argument.
I must admit, the original classic is still an original classic.
Absolutely, everything else.
And if you look at it from the point of view of merchandising everything after that was just an opportunity to fill the screen with something and merchandise.
Sorry, guys. Sorry all the Star Wars people out there, but we all know it's true.
Not that I have opinions on anything.
Now, I often thought it's a pity they never made a second Blade Runner.
Or, yes, or a second Highlander.
In my universe, there's only one Highlander and one Blade Runner.
Although I haven't seen the second Blade Runner.
And one matrix, to be honest.
The problem with Blade Runner is that the director rehashed it so many times.
I lost track.
Oh, well, we see original movie.
Yeah, it's hard to find it as well.
Yeah, you need to search for trailer or cinema theater edition.
Thanks.
Platoon mentioned at one point theater edition.
And then you get it.
Personally, I think it was always meant to have the, you know, the 1940s.
Yeah, this tall blonde walks past my window type dialogue.
Because if you look at the director's course, there are suspicious delays as he talks back in conversation.
Hmm.
I just remembered the John Wayne movie.
I was thinking about true grit.
Oh, yeah.
Did they rebuild that?
Oh, yeah.
They read that a few years ago.
And I don't know why.
Why they bothered.
Because they're reaching.
Well, the originals just such a classic.
I don't see.
See why?
Why you want a bother?
Remaking it.
Apart from money.
Because that's what makes you back there.
Yeah.
I am used to really enjoy going to the cinema, but since it's turned into a computer game.
I think the best moment where that, where I saw, you know, Pearl Harbor.
And it followed the bomb down at that moment.
I realized, yeah, movie going to the movies now is just watching a computer game.
And you can get better graphics by watching a computer game.
Then it just completely takes me out of the movie.
The whole 3D rendering stuff.
Right.
Yeah.
If you can't.
If your cinema, if your cinematic experience is.
Oh, I look, just go watch history buffs.
The YouTube channel.
Yeah.
That basically explains it.
I do it far better than me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Pasting it in now.
Yeah.
Basically, for me, cinema, going to the cinema is about the story.
And the CGI stuff just completely takes me out of it.
And if you want to watch one where that's, have a watch of his review of the Napoleon movie.
And you'll see one of me.
No, it's not Napoleon.
It's called Waterloo, I think.
Right.
Is that joining?
It's not one of the good things to be asking.
I can't imagine.
I'll call him in a toothbrush, you say.
Be more than that.
I'm still not finished.
I'm so sorry, Mr. X.
I have ruined this board.
I've ordered one of those cheap microscopes as if I have to spend some of money on this thing already.
But I will put in some, some photos of this and whenever at some point.
This is brutal.
There is particularly bad.
Still it looks nice and off from the front.
What next?
Cup of coffee?
I'm just don't stop in my tea.
Yeah, we've got five minutes for a cup of coffee and then we're going to go to the cinema.
Yeah, we've got five minutes for a cup of coffee and then we can pause this thing down.
Till this time next you.
Back in a bit.
Okay.
Yep, this is coming towards an end in about eight minutes, I guess.
Everybody is disappearing there as well.
No, I'm still here Sebastian.
I was wondering who are you for real.
Tony Hughes, I've done a few shows.
Over the last couple of years.
I live in Northwest of the UK in town called Blackpool.
On the coast.
Yeah, very Blackpool.
Have you been any of me talking?
I'm doing stuff.
I've been talking.
Yeah.
I've been talking more.
Yeah.
For a few years I've worked with Les on the crew on camp.
Oh, you won the crew.
Okay.
Right.
Like what's internal so I would have node.
I probably partly seen you or somewhere on there but I don't think everybody at that thing anyway.
Was an ear.
Yeah.
And you can and you go to these things and then you get people came like, I, I ate.
Hello.
the chance you but okay yeah yeah I haven't been to I've come for the last couple of events
didn't make it to Canterbury this year. No but there's another one now as well it seems as
actually the three-nose event now as well. All right when's that going to be on? I didn't know.
Yeah yeah that was that was good. It's actually near me as well for a change just sort of
very near me my local city you know sort of having to go off to Canterbury or Brussels or
Fosland which I'll be doing again which I'll be doing again in a few weeks but you know you'll
always travel somewhere else usually for these things and then three-nose live popped up in Bristol
this year. They've crystal wants to do events or they got some funding I think for this now as well
or sponsorship or whatever but yeah so that'll be in Bristol again next year but we'll crash with
bonfire like weekend. Oh right okay but that was that was actually quite good it had people you
know it has some it was very vague it to begin with what would really happen because this talks
in come up for ages and the stands all the rest of it but then it came but then it got quite a
few good speakers in there like Karen Sandler and Deb Nicholson and some there are a few other
ones as well and there's the Debian developer and there was a seasonal website it was
been quite good speakers. The stands were the stand actually. The stands was all right
that's made people mostly going for the speeches like you do for these things. Yeah very nice
three-node well the page three-node t-shirt very very very nice. The three-one was not that good but
but yeah that's something else for these conferences isn't it it's all about the t-shirt isn't it
because I've got so many of them now I really do because I've been doing Brussels and you know since 2012
as well and and then every old camp since 2012 once being on as well and I've bought a few online as
well you know you get all these t-shirts didn't you? Yeah I've never made it to anything outside the UK
I've only ever made it to UK event. I would say that Brussels I would say Fosdom is worth going to
definitely it's it's oh yeah that's that's the biggest one in Europe it's amazing it's like
how it's world for this kind of stuff really but I'll see things like old camp are much smaller
yeah and three-node live but you know like those events about 300 people at most something like
Brussels and the other hand but talking over 5,000 people every year. The record is more like it's 12
eight to 12 thousand people yeah it's massive. How much is it to go to Fosdom there? Of course
zero you just walk in. Oh right okay that's why they're only going to have a ticket so yeah you just
walk it wow but obviously you have to get there which is going to cost you you have to stay somewhere
which is going to cost you and you know yeah yes it's the most expensive free conference I've ever
built. Well why it's all the t-shirts and stuff or just staying common good commendations enough.
Yeah there was a time when I fancy that actually going over to America so one of the big Linux
conferences over there but I'm not sure I fancy going over there at the moment. Well I think
something like Libra Planet would be probably worth going to that's the free software foundation
event or whatever but yeah America's a little bit far from the UK isn't it an expensive to get to
or and so on. Yeah for those of you following along I'm putting in the transistors now
in the case of reading them and putting them into the road slot. You've got two and a half minutes
again you better crack down. Yeah if you could just shut up then I could just add them in the
you should get over to Brussels Tony if you can make it because I mean Fosdom is an experience
it's definitely worth having when you're to this stuff as I'm talking with a degree with being as
well because he's been absolutely it's not going to happen this year. Well you want to plan
it but if you can get over it is really just amazing to see life where the default is your normal
that doesn't happen to go ahead. Yeah well yeah basically yeah yeah you're hanging out with
technical people for the most part. I mean they do have a saying that if you've got a wife or
or something like that and they're not into computers what you can do as well is you can put them
on the spouses and partners talk because I've been valuing that for years as well where they
instead of going to the talks they go around looking at Brussels and stuff with a tour guide
and it's free as well for that I believe so. That sounds cool. I don't know about the wife not
being technical I'm not technical after this. Although I'll tell you something it was just a
little bit funny in a way so when I went the very first time in 2012 I've never been
training these different source conferences when you think like that so I believe I've been
traveling the board and stuff from my family not my own yeah either. I mean I've done Brussels
on my own every year since but I actually went on my older brother first year. 20 seconds and
took yeah and to fuzz them and he I parked them on to the spouses and partners tour because he's
not thought he's not gonna like want to go around down the talks and stuff but he after the first
day it was like no no bother gives the talks and I was like really well then was it that bad
and you'd be working in the primary school at the same time as well so lots of women yeah
and your show is officially over in five seconds ago yeah about 12 seconds ago
well it was a heat it was all crazy stuff and I'm going to continue on putting in this
transistor because we don't adhere to arbitrary time zones here
well we aren't having enough for show yeah this is the start of the after show
I guess it is then um after show ever we're 42 seconds into the after show
the HBR New Year show is officially over but we're still going 46 minutes in
no dear you thought I'd stop Tony you thought I'd stop
you know to listen to your show is that you'd think that you were a nice person
ah well that's just a front on a scan yeah that's just a front
yep I suffer from the same thing people think I'm a nice guy
okay transistors in anyone got any tips on how not to kill
registers when you're soldering them be careful
how do you even got any useful suggestions I would explain calling call the socket
yeah a few of them coming up shortly
I do believe that I've seen sockets for transistors as well
actually what's really weird is to see a thick film
solid state device and realize that that's what your dad had for typing
breathing on worked on thick film devices with IBM for a while one summer
okay soldering solder is where I'm set up before can you please do some of these shows
because this type of show I would listen to for hours yeah just reminiscing all about old hardware
and stuff so just start at your yeah when you first about your dad and then your entire career
spending maybe a show per year how about that so can we we can't say what I'll take that
under advisement I think I think I got some time open next December
but it's two shades or two shades well you need the most important time to fill is actually the
new year's show because I know I didn't fill it this year so I'll have to
that the show does not count as a show everybody knows this
except for my sister build yes yes leafy go in the head wait a minute that
hi since I've been sitting here and listening to something or other although then again
I'm coming from Linux log podcast so if that comes to the show this does
yeah I really enjoy that show actually well my good boy if you can you know we're available twice
a month you know the directions wrong times yeah exactly mid-level nice unfortunately
okay so when are you gonna put on time Ken when are you gonna put up the new year's show and I
also get to show I'm wondering well I'm not putting up the new year's show at all that's
hunky stepped forward for that one I will do it nobody else is gonna do it but yeah
I pay to you if it's got the way it's always oh yes good well happy new year folks I think I'm
gonna step out and crash or do something creative you could always make a PCB we could do it together like
yeah I think I'm gonna go Ken so good luck with the rest of the soldering
god and yeah hopefully we might bump into each other I might call Tom Camp if it's available
this year yeah hopefully try to bump into your old camp I'll bring my recorder anyway
and said enjoy foster him yeah yeah yeah oh you're not going this time are you I mean you're there
no no no sir I am well as you say it's yeah nearer doesn't actually mean cheaper cheaper
well well maybe but that's probably on a bit doesn't it I mean trains maybe a little bit
cheaper than going on a plane for example from Amsterdam from Holland but yeah it's
lots of hotels and all that still so final happy new year to all in Hacker Public Radio land
and see you down the road sometime well said sir well said all the rest bye bye see you Tony
see you in that minor and that's pretty much the end I guess really officially yeah I'll stick on here
if anyone joins then I'll be more than happy to chat but yeah there should be old camp
well where we assume so after what they can't what they kind of say at the end every year and
there's also a free node event now which I don't know if you even knew about yeah I did uh
good um yeah I was considering going to that but funds the last was a good man what did you say
a minute ago I missed some that was a good over no no there was something else you said but what was
that at the end you said you're thinking of going to it but something uh I was thinking funds
money cash financial strapped no not and not having enough financial resources to do
oh right yeah well this time it was I don't really have a problem as such because it's in my nearby
city for a change you know so that's great just get a bus down get a bus back stay in the place
you know but because normally you have to go off to like Brussels or Liverpool or you know
somewhere else far away yeah but that's that's on next year oh well this year I can say now
2018 that's that'll be on this year as well and it's quite good um the uh bomb finite weekend
the better had like some good speakers they had Karen Sandler Deb Nicholson some I mean
saw on the website really but some Debby and Guy believe there were the stand um
for people like Popeye there as well do you need a brand new stand but I was doing one for the
one two had a stand yes yeah we we had a stand as well in our Linux user group because we are
the local what I insisted on that we should talk to you have a stand so did a little speech thing
as well be a bit embarrassing otherwise unless you're on turf like you don't but yeah
factly where meant to be does Linux use a group so it was like uh yeah we should probably have a
stand there really so I got so got two people's helpers although it was a little bit disappointing
running stands there because at least when I we were there to be found on us were there
nine hundred percent of the time but look it wasn't like fuzz then where you know people really do
influx and go all over the stands and you stand stand stand stand stand stand here it's like
they come around the stands a bit but they really are there for talks most sorry I mean it
showed it everywhere so that's those are how it goes with these small events doesn't it
sort of old camp and I need about three hundred people ever but yeah it was a shame it was a shame
it was they went like that in a way but it was good to do that and it was very nice to it was
actually in Bristol for a change instead of going off somewhere else like I just said sorry the
layers in between them soldering as we go to no that's cool but you all always realize that
even if it's a small thing and you know there's not that much traffic you still can have that
impact for your project you know so always good thing yeah the other thing is I mean Bristol
generally is quite a nice city in England it's you know it's got nightlife it's got
it's got tourist attractions it's got my sister is it oh you got sister okay well yeah have you
been to see being Bristol ever yourself no it happens but she lives there with her kids and stuff
but yeah it's quite a nice city it's quite safe and all the rest of it generally speaking for
most part although some parts are slightly a bit more run down and all this you know more homeless
people and so on all that kind of stuff and I went up I took somebody to a and I know on
nine four or a few years I took him up to a vegan cafe up up up up there and got a little bit
scared up there because of you know you can like you really see the change of everything stuff
and yeah but um what's interesting at later on is how I hear about these Americans would come over
from you know the various places in America and how they were just talking how safe it was how
they've been down all the dodgy alleys late at night it sounded like and obviously nothing
happened you know that's that really shows a difference and some of them were saying how like one
guy it was his first time outside of America as well and he was like he was like oh Bristol is
yeah and Bristol is sort of it seems to amazing compared to what I've come from sort of thing it's
so safe it's so this so that and he was like oh he's so lucky to kind of live around here and
I thought it was very interesting because it really showed the difference um you just you know
just showed so the difference and that that was great as well I thought yeah but you have to
remember that America's a massive big place and what goes in one place does not necessarily go
on the other I mean I've been to places in the states where everybody's door is open then
they know everybody in the neighborhood and you know small towns well well yeah well yeah
this guy come from places where they've gone a begun issue and so on really it also sounds like
you know one of those places again they would argue there's no such thing as a gun issue
anyway anyway enough about guns I'm sure that's been covered in detail on the while I was asleep
well putting in the no putting in the ceramic capacitors for those of you following along
cool yeah they probably told you probably talked about that over yeah but I'm just saying in general
I'm a bit but yeah and um do you know where all comes gonna be I have no idea
however I expect it's going to be somewhere in England that's not really that's how it's not
because it's not gonna be up in Scotland very unlikely and it's probably not gonna end up in
Wales although someone like Cardiff I think you could put an old camp to be honest it's not too bad
but yeah it's gonna be in England too well the thought and hopefully a bit more south so it's
nearer to me but that depends a little bit even with the south because of how it's done
could even count because I mean southwest Bristol and then Canterbury's so good for hours
away that south east Tony was mentally mentioning north east oh north east could be that's
where he said he was from wasn't it there that pull he said that pulls quite far from most people I
think everything's really some sir if you're from the I guess it's very close
with us the trains have got going up again that's why I had it is amazing how
relaxing this doing the sport is reminds me of have you ever put a leg or set together
when we're doing what board did you say yeah I've done Lego but that's been that's me a long time
I've been putting a kiss together a electronics tester kit as recommended by NY Bill and one of the
shows and he challenged me to do one of these kits so I bought it and I have been now assembling it
for the last year on three hours seems like it started yesterday afternoon positive is quite
relaxing anyway yeah yeah you ever remember the feeling the feeling that you get while doing
it similar to putting a Lego kit together something like that not so much because I was a kid last
did back out but remember back you have no memory of being young you poor thing
I tell you what you do you go down and buy a Lego kit or an airfix airfix kit and put it together
relive your youth you could be doing that in between the talks at the stands and you can say
why are we doing this ah I'm glad you asked it's all to do with electronics but you're putting a
Lego kit together ah that's what you think I'm practicing for electronics okay officially lost
to there thank you there was a big thing there was a big travel suitcase sort of I remember from
it in 1990s when I was a kid you know that that would have lots and lots of old Lego in it
lots of old Lego pieces and there would be like a paper and more sort of thing and my brother and
my brother would sometimes go in there and play with Lego so yeah I do have a memory of Lego
and and have you seen a Lego movie or something like that was one the subject of Lego I hadn't
seen it but it was stuff like that more recently as well have you ever done airfix kids stuff like
that you know aeroplanes sticking them together from plastic bits and gluing them together
not really I'm not done not really that hard where well that's not really hard where but you know
yeah I know much of this stuff I usually ended up with a big pile of glued plastic at the end
but still it's enjoyable to do the results may not be perfect but still enjoyable to do
that said I did live in the middle of nowhere so entertainment was was very restrictive
yeah well yeah I mean it's all changed well now that now entertainment is basically
electronic devices I'm talking people in general here you know they're like book the books get
read but you know it's mostly phones and stuff now that's what happy friends say themselves
and TV and game consoles and it's so it's how things change over the years a bit
action man or all these toys that people used to play with it's not really it's not really
played with as much in general there's I mean a shop still sell toys but it's not it's kind of
one out of it it depends never really played with action man there was a bit after my time why
have I some money left over capacitors that's a question there's not bound up bound up bound up
don't panic everyone don't panic and I didn't play with an action man either but you know
there was stuff like that and I was thinking of it and I'll see there's still Barbie around
for the girls and that but and the boys there you go Barbie doll honey can't that you play with
yeah the kid don't see it I don't personally see a lot of difference over the marketing between an
action figure and a Barbie doll you know if you take Ken apart strip and down and take action
man apart on the stream though what this gave you left it marketing and gender stereotyping
well yeah well yeah well to an extent but yeah it's an action figure not a doll
then this terrier yeah gender stereotype final that's all part of it that said when my son did
dress up as a fairy when he was younger I was concerned about about you know that you would
be picked on on teased but to be honest not really it was cool as a fairy with a sword seems
absolutely fine to me so have I put these in now no one of four one of four and there's one
that one of two yep cool tip to everybody following along I should have probably done the
pastors the ceramic path you did the ceramic pastors first as they're a bit smaller than they
transistors but you live in there anyway yes gender stereotyping gender a bit of a different subject
but but I mean yeah a lot of stuff is based on gender we're clothing as well and just in general
if that's how it should be or not that is in the debate because people are people at the end of
the day aren't they but a lot of it society is gender this gender that so I think here a lot of
was in the Dutch news where they went around and priced you know a haircut for man was cheaper
than the equivalent haircut for women and shampoo bottles with exactly the same ingredients were
or priced that was a price difference based on gender but yeah I guess that's just more
of a thing but yeah political now shortly but on this network there are only two types of people
well I should have said one zero types of people but it doesn't really work in audio hackers and those
who have people who've done a show and people who have yet to do a show I will not be posing
that little bit while I'm soldering so do you hang on do you know why going to what you just
said or they don't really care don't tell me you haven't done a show after all these years
I only I only came on the new year show a few years back because it was popped up now it was
fissile web or golden who mentioned it someone I thought that might be let's see what that that's
about and then you're part of the HPR New Year tradition now we can't go on without you
doesn't mean I've done this show though no no tinted and I've also ready told you I think even in
person have we met in person I'm not sure I think we have actually I think we did because I was up
there we've definitely passed each other because I've been asked for stem and I've been
interested in stands where you've been you might have passed me or something I know you'd like
interviewed in the middle of the midget time but that wasn't me as an example now I would have known
if it was in fairness I would have known if it was you and third but yes you could do a show
in magia I've often told I've even told you before not have to do somebody can well here like
we're now having a show about me filling in resistors on a PCB that nobody can see seriously
people who listen to anything not really interested in magia as much as I was a few years back
what is that but what about top can you say um well I mean that should be enough
probably personal to extend well yeah probably more personal really plus I feel that it doesn't
um I mean there's lots lots of distros and this one great it carries on the whole magick
rendering with legacy and it's all volunteer project democratic um voting on host either teams
all the rest of it but at the same time I personally feel that it doesn't um actually in the
bait in certain ways it doesn't really in the bait it just it's just one of those distros that
takes up stream from the most part um rebrand rebrands it puts in some changes and keeps its
old tools alive some of them need updating like the installer could really do with an update I mean
the one that really gets me in the installer and the example it's really a little thing to be
fair but it does show this old software that could do with an update actually because um even now
all the years later it's still it still mentions you could slide here that's just one example but
but it just doesn't usually people actually can can actually work on the installer I think there
aren't that many actual developers who have the technical knowledge actually work on the installer
properly and what I remember um but yeah so it yeah it's just I mean it releases and it comes out
of the new versions and I've got a laptop I'm trying to set up again um kind of bullet back with
a new motherboard and hard disk and that I was going to put a bunch of on it um and I had probably
this one 16.04 and that then I was going to put my GIF up five on to it as well but to be honest I'm
also mostly using um mobile phones now or or tablets or possibly mini PCs or I will be once
if I'll have GPD pocket probably set up but then that's as well okay all of those are very good
as well you know so there's the desktop and the laptop it's like I don't really need one
personally for I'm doing most of the time but I'm actually working in tech as well so you know
like yeah I do remember the music or what you work on I'm actually working it as well but that's
that's okay I'm going to call it a night guys have a new year and can I'll uh think about doing a
bit scope bit jello it was thank you very much for all the help it was genuinely helpful or even
though you were trying you're very welcome yeah to have a think about that because it would be uh
a nice one you got your Arduino because we can put the cord up and then people can follow along um
because I remember when I did my engineering degree that we were sure the synoscopes and really
just went over my head I had no context at the time for what I was doing yes I was able to
fill do the exam and stuff but I didn't really understand why I was doing it right cool all right
have a good night talk to you live long and prosper okay night happy new year
dang the whole happy new year forgot about that also the other thing actually we're talking about
working or let's let's I mean I talk linux open source this kind of stuff I've noticed as well
is that quite simply if you want to actually work with linux open source and I'm talking about
something good with it as well it's going to give you a good wage and you know I think generally
speaking you have to be quite technical you have to not necessarily a computer science degree
but you know you've got really no technical stuff and then oh yeah there's stuff you can do
because every now and again on the Linux user group for example I've seen it in the last you know
a few years when I've been on the every now and again the emails come along and it's like hey there's
a there's a job going in this company in Bristol and and it's going to give you all this money per year
and we need to know this and that and I look at those every now and again I think yes in a different
life I I would have done that possibly or I could have you know to have done that because I would have
done to university and I would have had my computer science degree and I would have done this
and that but you know that didn't happen so I so so now I don't end up doing that basically well can
I stop you there because somebody who has employed people and occasionally has asked for recommend
people there is one thing that every employer is looking for and I'm talking about the engineers
here and the EEV blog did a very good way back a few years ago topic on this it is not about
how many degrees you have yes you'll need that in order to get into the past the HR department
and all the rest it's not about what you can do it's about your enthusiasm and your ability to learn
these are the two things that will always make you an outstanding candidate and I would always
recommend somebody yes this person has got and there have been cases where we have hired people
where somebody has got a master's degree and a thing and we have hired the less qualified person
or the person without a degree but has some experience and it's all come down to enthusiasm at the end
of the day and if you're not working in a company that appreciates enthusiasm in their employees
you already want to be working there either that's all I got to say about well well well well yeah
I mean that's some extent that's true actually with tech as well that you may not actually have
that computer science degree or whatever it is but you may have actually self taught yourself at home a lot
and then you can be like look I actually did this website or I worked on this project I did this
I did that you can kind of show that you've done that. That's what you're equivalent to me when they say
blah blah blah degree or equivalent and a lot of times if you go in and you apply to the job and you
say look I'd love to do it into you I understand them not qualified for it but I really appreciate
just having a look around your place having a talk with you and maybe there's work experience
that to be had or maybe there's whatever you can definitely get your foot in the door people are
because it is so much easier to help somebody out no matter how slow they are at learning it is
just so much easier to help somebody else is willing to learn God it's yeah you have no idea
possibly also this is something else just turn up what I imagine that did I see clucky so so far
we got sea prompt honking the boom mr. Jackson nerd or Makodi operator are there Ross
new and steambot only of course everybody except yeah I think everybody is new to accept us
except for the bots well let's see the Americans who are you doing here well they
you know they've had them year now so they are either some are probably very drunk right now
you know the early hours in the morning or they have possibly collapsed somewhere and got some sleep
and that's probably basically it and that's why they're not they're not on at the moment
I mean said although actually it's not that early is it seven something in New York yeah but for
these people yeah but uh different all the bands and whether they've got a day off or whether they're
going to oh I wonder is this going to your show going to start I remember how one year I kept
it going for good was it 16 hours afterwards remember that yeah I was very impressed with that
and it was mostly me as well because it only appeared in some of you popped on and we did it again
then then they carried on then I got went went sleep as well and then I think it went on a good
free hour or something after that as well well I'm going to keep it going until I have this transistor
tester put together and then I'm going to stop well I'm going to be less involved and right now I
have all the surface bone components in all the resistors in all the transistors in all the
ceramic capacitors and I think I'll do the electric capacitors which are polarized so we're
going to be careful about that ha ha yes anyway you said you were impressed they kept going so long
you generally I wasn't sure that way yes well okay actually he's carried on for so long something
I was like to the new show is slightly different to your regular HBR thing and I was in the
beginning I was a little bit yeah I'm thinking it's a quote waste of shows on court but it
doesn't it actually builds community so that's Kevin pointed out that so yeah it's a it's a different
beast and once my brain was able to accept that and I and also the fact that I'm not actually
responsible for posting it or showing it and we had a I had a thing where would be posted
immediately afterwards but people don't seem to mind if it comes out in April or February or
whatever so yeah chill out man chillax I do actually think that it should come out as soon as possible
personally after I thought Jen Jen me speaking then I strongly recommend I will send you the files
and you could edit it especially yeah I know especially the channels so they who shut up I know
there's like a lot editing and the show notes and stuff to do as well so it's not quite as simple
as just putting out straight away no it is not there's a lot of work involved and I'm so glad
that Hunky has agreed to do it or if he hasn't I mean we will we will do it but it's I tend to be
a little bit more brutal that I'll just split the whole thing up four hours in I mean the show
notes is that you just info and put more stuff in the show notes and then release it yeah well
this year the show notes have been brilliant I think down to Casper from the England Brothers
podcast I think it's done a lot of show notes so that makes it a lot easier and a lot nicer
yeah this Casper who's been on he's been brilliant because he's been putting music into the show
at times as well yes which was actually quite nice with his guitar and stuff but he's an
illegal alien he has you know he earned his alien brother from not of this world he's not on
I know he's not on this thing anymore but I'll not even in here in the
so the long lead of the capacitor is the positive but I didn't hear some of his stuff but I believe
he did a Ken song or something like that well I'm sure he'll hear it later on you'll listen
when he when he listen through he did like a this is what happened when Ken is not his song if I'm
correctly that I think Ken could be a song board you know just oh you owe me a show why don't you
do a show about that oh I didn't hear you doing a show about that I very nearly post my capacitor
in the wrong way wrong there that's because you're distracting I hear the BBC are going to
lock up their website without that you can't get in without a post called or without a license
number or I did not hear that but I'll be okay not the news website just go up there no just
no per well they mean that the whole you know the UK is what the TV license which is basically
to fund the BBC so yeah yeah it seems reasonable but unfortunately there's no option to pay for
that license outside of the country that would be nice well well true but that weighs around
that outside to be outside the country still get a bomb not really meant to do that but you know
well on the other hand a lot of cable networks carry the BBC so you know you could say oh well
you're not meant to do that but Norwegian TV make it make conscious efforts to make everything
that they produce they release it under a creative commons license with the idea that they're
spreading Norwegian culture so you know you could argue that as a service to the British Empire or
the British people that you would release the British programmes to the masses well I didn't
have that in the Norwegian thing that's interesting and the BBC has what it's got you know shows like
Doctor Who that I'm really going to that best meant you know it's meant to be really popular
and just because of the spot where it doesn't mean it can't be free I'm playing devil's advocate here
slightly but yeah and top gear used to be really popular I think about that as well but it's
spent money as well and did you follow up top here not really I mean what I've watched so it's
here and there and I've got into that properly what's to read the comeback series for a bit as well
around Amazon has many people moved to Amazon to watch it I assume that quite a few people probably
did they go and get Amazon to watch actually but now all these other shows as well so you know
there's so much TV in the UK can watch on TV and so on on these things truth truth of course if
you had a satellite dish and we're living somewhere that could pick up the signals they're all
unencrypted free to air so there you go but that would probably be breaking the law or something
well yes so I moved into this flat and had to obviously sort the TV license stuff out but yeah
I mean you could just the the satellite dish will just pick up whatever anyway but they know if
you're not watching it or apparently you're not watching it with TV license yeah basically I think
they don't put database of every house in the country and then subtract people who pay their
license from that and then work their way from there and there's no way to tell now if you're
watching TV or not back in the day you would be able to pick up the signal the frequencies
of the CRT I was asked in so many and worked to do a show about that but you ran away screaming
okay what's next I think the crystal the crystal I will put it in the crystal
my wife's looking at me she said the wife come on earlier or did it all for a bit before I
always out used in the background what I had to do she's just in the background teasing the slugging
she get your wife to come on to the show at some stage she will be on at some stage and we
will be sick and tired of hearing her on this project both yes yes dear whenever we get
her finished you bring your kids on this year as well it seems remember you date and I missed that
no that happened no guys yeah they're busy playing something I'll see if they can come on believe me
we've got lots of time because I've got this nowhere near finish this so you don't have to stay on
I will just continue waffling here and then it'll seem like them no no no I'm a I'm a bit bored
anyways oh thank you very much no I meant I'm not doing anything as such today there's no plans
I should have actually put in this crystal first because it's a lot lower down on the component
that's next to it that's pins are a little bit bent so we shall see and also the guy mentioned
when he was doing the video that we should really have the crystals up a bit because the tin case
can short with the pads and so we'll see how we go here okay pads are straightened and it's
some sort of tweezers yes I have to buy tweezers as well of course because yeah I thought I had
to buy another headset maybe but then yes I think you do well maybe I do I didn't know how good
is this coming out or not I don't know it's fine it was brutal there earlier on when you had the
back on the back feed was going to what you got that sort yeah because they're because those
no headphones in yeah but I was going yeah but well I was going to I thought okay HPR show I want
to use probably my laptop again I want to set my Linux up on that laptop the four hands or
as well be it sitting there and Windows again on though because I did that before I remember doing
that I sort of stood for my laptop and it was like hey when I moved to a new flat have I got my
headsets and I thought this like a good two a month or so ago you know I was like how have I got my
headset so I looked around for a headset of course like you do and it's like oh um I think it's
actually at the other house I don't have it here so like right I'm guessing I'm going to have to
check the other day around Christmas time you know for that and I'm like well I can have to buy
new headsets I guess I was like right I can buy one off I'll go and have it delivered down the
road to the august down there that's what I was going to do but I was going to get as there anyway
get food and so on you know they do and and I thought like oh actually I could probably buy one
in as the as there's like a super marketer oh yeah you don't have them in island do you
well I know what an as is because I it's like um but there are people yeah it's like who wouldn't
know one and as does well maybe they know Walmart is and and it's like the equivalent of Walmart
basically but in the UK it's called as during the UK it's not Walmart but it's actually the same
parent company I think Walmart own as there as well yeah it's weird uh so it's basically as
it's basically Walmart but in the UK we were the different name and probably maybe a bit smaller but
but yeah I went so I went to Nazareth the get and um I looked at the headset section
they had a nice little leak from the snow the night day before in the ceiling whatever that was
and it's like gaming headsets are 30 something pounds and I thought right yeah I expect to pay
about 30 pounds for this actually but I looked around a bit and there was some other headsets
and it said PC headset and it was about seven pounds which is quite cheap but I thought
that it's as there isn't it polar warry and so I thought that's probably what I want actually
all that I can save some money here actually so I bought I bought the uh that headset and then here
I am on uh you know was it denied before this was made before you know you're sure yeah yeah
something like that and I've actually opened it up take the plastic you know you just says is
get rid of the plastic and guess what I found out tell me well I was hoping to buy a USB headset
you know the USB headset that you they use plans all over like the cheap in well it's just like
it yeah it's this yeah I think it's the old model style isn't it the port yeah the audio jack
the ports the you know that the other way of doing it isn't it and that's all well my laptop
polys isn't even have these ports on it let's check that and yep there's no ports for that on
there so there you go I suppose that's what cheap means then huh but just say PC headset you know
I'm sure a lot of people could have made the same mistake you just you still just think it's
going to be USB don't you how much was that what did that cost you it was quite cheap there was
feels about seven pounds still expensive for a USB headset for like you know it wasn't it wasn't
USB it was a it was with the yeah even a thingy headset I would say that's quite expensive if you go
to the action here you can pick them up or you are three or four euros I don't know if that's
well I don't know if that's fully expensive but you know generally speaking if you buy a
and a headset and any of these the shops as the carries PC world or any of this stuff you probably
talking about 30 quid usually for for a good enough one really so I thought compared to that
that's actually cheaper but I find that doesn't have the normal USB on it oh dear right I'm doing
chip holder it's a bit tired naturally that plumble works on and plumble free although you have to
drag me into the room like a really good knock connect myself just trying to drag myself in for
some reason yeah but still you know that's an important thing and then so here's a good one
actually so yeah I was setting up the laptop as I mentioned I believe so yeah you know you do
the windows first because that's always troubles I'm sure you know your updates take ages we
go's wrong possibly all the all that but so yeah you had this new motherboard put back to windows
8.1 by the yeah HP or their partner company you really could sense since it off actually so I did
all that upgrading it back to windows 10 which stuck ages because you know it's windows and did
the updates there again all this stuff and then I was like the night I'm doing other stuff as
well so the night I'm down okay I can put Linux on here now I think and so I'm trying to do it
again on the like two nights or night before the new year shopping to us and so I'm so I put
burnt down the the burnt news 16.04.3 ISO I pull it on to a USB stick it's a sheba 32gb USB
is eight that's meant to be new from curries PC well actually but anyway I pull it on there
and I burnt it and there was few issues with that one or something they quite work correctly
I had to be a partition I used another USB stick I mean it wouldn't it's the first one that didn't
install isn't put everything on from the ISO properly the second one did but um when I load
up I had to use unit boot and I tried that as well but I load it up and I got grub coming up
from the USB stick but but when I try and load up a bunch of it's going black screen and it won't
go any further basically I'm wondering why that is I mean I disable school boot on the laptop
I'm thinking if I need to disable something else like fast boot because I'm or something like that
because I didn't think I did that this time I don't know if it's you know I didn't want my problem
it's quite oh how to know where to try that I think it's in the past disable fast boot as well
well I was looking around the BIOS maybe I need to do that but you know you want this knowing
when you can't install limits isn't it because of some silly reason but you still work fine
on that laptop no problem so I'm wondering what I'm doing wrong this time yeah
yeah it's hard to know with those BIOS because every computer is going to be different you know
yeah maybe it's just fast boot but I think I'll have to try again later one really because you know
I don't want to be sitting there with windows 10 and that's it no way not on that laptop
um and I'm I'm generally thinking actually that with my gpd pocket my ultra mini pc one of them
whatever that I might just actually do it now I'm just actually let delete windows and be
talking about because do you have a link for that gpd pocket thing you pop that in the shoelace
you can uh well you can buy it I'm sorry if you could do that that will be handy or not you're
on your phone yeah okay hold on a second yeah good point let me see gpd pocket gulf papa delta
yeah yeah gpd pocket that's and another device they will be setting up and I would recommend
anybody who who think who wants a small door things they are cool I I really lost it after one
of those one of the guys on work was gonna buy one yes I got I got the gpd xd
with um extra space because of when I sort of crowdfunded that I mean they'd already sold it with
less space I've got the gpd win as well uh which uh the windows 10 didn't last very long on that
before I kind of corrupted it because of actually there's a bug in the factory set so I did the
factories and it basically corrupted it or something and it's seven dollar people as well
so the dp pocket I now she was okay on dp pocket in the factory set a lot myself out of windows
but I know there's a way to get around that but I'm going to basically be um taking pointy
actual gpd version of a bunch who won 16.041 to dp pocket later on sometime because they actually
went was crowdfunded well I'm gonna say last year now 2017 when it was funded last year 2017
uh they you need to uh you need to give it a few times what's that the year the year the last year
was 2017 this year is 2018 it won't be just but yes uh so when I crowdfunded it last year 2017
uh they uh I'm sorry I didn't crowdfunded I didn't have money to do it at the time so I got
later on I got some extra money but anyway they they were they were they were crowdfunding it
giving it two options the windows 10 preinstalled or the Ubuntu then at 16.04 it's a dp version
how well it's slightly different so it has to it's not a standard Ubuntu it's slightly customised
and stuff uh and um I got and it said later on they were pleased with the sort of term wire
to the community for the Ubuntu and also windows so you could if you got so you could switch over
to other other one basically and so to after this the only now the only sell the windows version
anywhere that any one who said anywhere that sells it only sells the windows version
wise that I don't know I guess they've just sort of given up on the Ubuntu one or all it's because
you can put it on yourself anyway you know you've got the one that came preinstalled windows by mine
and also that apparently the dp version of Ubuntu isn't as good because of how because I
they've done it I've read somewhere but there's also a community doing like there's a 17.04
version under the community there's a 17.10 version being worked on I believe there's even things
like mates uh sorry mint mint there's a mint version not unofficial there's a I think it's
manager or linux where it's called mangero ma n j a r o yeah mangero is a nice based
Linux distribution there's that under the community as well so what I'm basically going to do
is I'm going to when you put the Ubuntu dpd version on it will wipe out windows anyway it will take
up the whole hard disk and that's that there's no option to change that I've read somewhere that's
so I'll put that on try it out first uh uh if you don't want to abuse her over the usb but I'll
put it on try it out first and then I'll probably be like okay this is quite nice and this is good
but yeah I might I may just stop grades to the community versions of 17.04 there's a lot of
videos on youtube like sort of how you do it and stuff it's some very very good youtube videos of
it strikes and and then apparently with community versions you can do a bit of windows actually
but I may or may not do that depends I'm just a bit I'm just a bit frustrated with windows again
you know I've just been doing stuff with a laptop things not quite going right away with the
update so even has a weird issue where on that HP laptop it was not um logging in for a while
poppill is getting a blue screen the death I was getting it was getting really slow and it became
okay uh you know windows is the hassle and for me I'm sure you know I'm talking about
you know after you run windows for 15 years now but you have what haven't been running it
had not because you know it's a hassle yeah yeah I mean uh you don't need to yeah I presume so but
I would probably have the same problems if I was installing BSD or Solaris or something else
I don't know and now and now I know I think no I think generally Linux is actually much more
reliable in that sense because windows it you know is you've got the issue with the updates and then
then in a reboot and then it's also going to potentially get viruses a lot easier not what it's
going to be but viruses a lot easier that's another that's a side point but as we all know who
are going to be listening to this uh that you know Linux generally works better it's more
reliable it's more stable it's more it's got better performance it you know it's generally works
better technically it works a lot better so obviously obviously certain programs can be lacking
for at times it can be windows web before but that's a side issue what did you say
just ordering a new lady but all your arguments could equally be made by Windows you know it's
by a large the only argument that can be made for Linux is that it's free and opens our
software well you know the counterargument can be made look at the heartbeat bug look at all the
things that have come out there's been a lot more targets on Linux recently than
so with the windows windows has done an amazing amount to make their software secure in the last
period of time you can't argue well well it might be a bit more secure now but it's still going
to get viruses easier or that although windows isn't completely bad or not everything and that's
actually kind of showing by something like reactOS when you think about it the kind of open source
and the windows or whatever that it's meant well you know it's meaning the health of so long but
how does that one have you yes I've interviewed them twice at Boston yeah yeah true they're
stunned there the last two years and it's kind of funny though well not funny but I remember going
to that stand that was them I believe it was last year or maybe this year that was 2017 or 2016
last year either way yeah yeah yeah or the one before you know and I went around there and it's like
oh cool yeah okay raptor s cool we got a stand and all that yeah yeah I've tried that on the
worksheet and I know in the ballot for years and and he was trying to show Microsoft Word running
in reactOS really like working properly and things like that and it's they've got laptop to test
the program and so I went on to the computer and I was like hang on a minute this is basically
crashing right away and it's like oh yeah let let let let just fix that up a bit but yeah I mean
it's a nice idea otherwise because it or would be if only it could run more windows program
it shares a lot of code we're winding apparently now do it or to an extent but you know if it could
happen if you could run lots of windows program these are in wine and well not hit and miss but
I mean just generally it works 1990 you know most stuff just works and same with some like
raptor s and I think that would be good but neither of those things are quite there yet for that
yeah but they're also always going to be chasing the chasing moving targets so
but it's actually they're always chasing moving targets as well because when it changes
but I think the windows Linux thing the battle is over at this point the war is over there's a few
battles left to fight but essentially Linux as well for now and then some well well it's one you
can say Linux is I would say that Linux has one pretty much every other technical area that matters
you know super computers or servers the robotics the NASA the all that kind of stuff the mobile
phone even if you include Android underneath that and it's definitely one the mobile phone and
tablet as well or enough so but obviously there's that one area where it doesn't lack and I'm sure
you know what I'm about to say without you saying it but I will say it is that one area where it doesn't
hasn't one for various reasons and that is of course the desktop computer the standard laptop
or desktop which is my point no I disagree you have more Chromebooks been pushed out every year
they're all Linux kernels and then you are seeing that on the desktops especially where I work
where there's quite a lot of developers that there tend to be running other macOS or Linux so
some of them are using version of windows but the point is the battleground that we have been
fighting so long for so the desktop is becoming more and more niche as time goes on as you say
yourself you're you're now recording this on the mobile device all the people who I was trying
who I was trying to convince my family to use various desktops or whatever they've all switched to
moving Samsung Galaxy tabs so they're all running the mix but you also have to think about that
and most of the people don't care what platform they're using they mostly just care about
the the applications that they're using because even even in the Linux world like most of us
will run anything from Ubuntu Debian and Arch Linux to you know Red Hat, RPM based
distro they're all relatively different and they all have their own things a granite Linux is
the underlying thing but it's it's all it's all completely different the way those systems run
but it's you know it they don't and most people don't care they just want their apps to be able
to get them as fast as possible and get them running and then you have people who don't care
at all what the underlying pinning is who just want to run their apps and most of the people who
usually they got windows with their computer and then they have the applications that they need or
want and then that's the end of it no one really cares about what the underlying system is except
for us because we care about you know how things get done and we want to try to get them done
the way we want them to get done we are the niche people that's but because we want to go that
extra mile learn the way computers and systems work you know we we we're the people who who fight
for for Linux I mean there's no but there's no reason to I never understood the fight for the desktop
because who cares you know like like you're it's it's we we're using this because it works for us
and if they want to use that and it works for them well I do care because well I do care when
it comes to me personal because when I went to work and they I said guys that would prefer to
use in Linux desktop and they said okay use whatever you want so long as you can do your job okay
that's fine and that's what I do I used in the next desktop doesn't affect me if there's any problem
with the software I need to fix it and I'll fix that on my own time if I can't so yeah everything's
homecadorian you I just the only differentiation the arguments for running Linux personal windows
versus Mac is kind of what you're familiar with it's your own personal preference but the
differentiation between all of them it is not that they're well got a good security model or bad
security model or the software or whatever because you're going to have bugs in every software
every piece of software the only differentiation between this piece of software and the other
piece of software is the license under which it was released that is the difference and it's
and the more I think about it the more important that becomes that that is the difference a
differentiation and that's all I have to say about that really it's yeah yeah and I definitely
can't argue against that it's for sure with with me it's mostly just workflow and I really don't have
have the patience anymore to deal with Microsoft's licensing which is the biggest reason why I got
into Linux is I don't want to deal with all of like I had no problem paying for Microsoft I had no
problem I purchased I've purchased a Windows XP you know Windows seven license both seven is where
I draw the line I bought a family license so I can put it on my wife my my mother-in-law's computer
that my wife's computer and I'm used it for for help another people out because I'm not gonna get
to I'm not gonna win that battle with them so I don't even I don't even bother trying so it with
with me the biggest thing though it's you know it's it's it's different obviously from person to
with you it's the licensing with me it's just workflow I've gotten to a point where I can if I
can put a machine up I don't care what the backpinnings are and put enlightenment on it I'm happy
as a clan yeah but my point is if you look back here you're saying the reason you're doing
this workflow I could argue with you any number of engineers where I work that they've got a workflow
based on their operating system or based on the system that they've developed and for them that's
a valid an argument to use windows as a valid an argument to use Linux or as valid the argument to
use BSD it's bought the thing that bites them in the boss is is the thing the tattoo mentions is
where they suddenly change it and that is that at that point where the license kicks in because
it's at that point the project X is forked off and people continue to develop an operation whatever
and you can continue to maintain your workflow whereas other people are then forced to adapt
and here is a point that if I had gotten on probably at an earlier moment I would have
loved to talk more about and if you listen to Linux look cast I've probably
brought up several several several times as the battle for the 32 bit what the hell is going on
that everyone's dropping support for 32 bits great just the other guys it's the epoch is coming
the end of time but it's it's not like it's not like there's anything wrong with 32 bit it's not
like 32 bits like broken why why are you dropping support for 32 bits because time's running out
but we need that we need bigger numbers but there's still 32 bit machines out there why not just
leave it leave support for it but I did the other day find a fork of arch Linux called arch Linux 32
so other people are you know keep in the hope alive I don't think anybody has forked a bun to
yet but I'm I'm slowly just migrating all my systems to Debian systems because I feel like
Debian is going to be reliable and keeping with 32. My head's been full out there a little bit but
okay so yeah the 30 bit thing I mean the old thing actually with Linux one the old thing
the classic line would be this actually Linux works much better with all the hardware all
the next brief life into all the hardware that was like you know the classic selling line in the past
and the bad one if you don't mind me say so well possibly but that but you know I'm trying to say
but obviously with the 32 bit being dropped by a lot of district you can understand
you're in extent why you want to do it or I can understand definitely is somebody who actually does
I said I'm not as interesting material but I do actually still I'm still on the various
mailing list so I get the I see various emails here and there about what's going on the packaging
and the quality assurance and the all that all that kind of stuff so when you follow a distro
like be it magia be it a bun to be it whatever you actually follow a distribution close to
enough on its mailing list like I've been doing with magia for last year's now you know that
actually there's a lot of there's a lot of effort there's a lot of time it takes a lot of
people to actually make this stuff happen so you have to package stuff you have to support stuff
you have to do quality assurance to make sure what actually works and is is is okay for the public
and all the rest of it so you have to test ISO and in case magia I mean they were tested they'd
still do test all the ISO manually there's no automatic testing here it's done on the small
quality assurance team alpha one alpha two alpha three alpha for all this but alpha one two
beta one two but there's all the internal ISO testing as well and the updates of test is all
tested by people manually and so you can kind of see some of the ISOs to get dropped recently but
last two years because it's like do we need it back in just two seconds slightly different example
but it was like do we need a loan or a KDE in 62 bit and 64 bit now when it was like well
then KDE has got a bit more bloated now so we're doing a seasonal drop we'll drop the ICDs
but we'll have this XFCE also we can look on the ISO itself but that's one example but
but yes because suddenly an XFCE ISO appeared into the mix instead because that would work better
with all the hardware so that's what that was done but what I was going to say is 32 bit and 64
bit I think that yeah generally speaking 32 bit should still be supported I would say underlinux
because there are actually quite a lot of 32 bit machines out there still like you you said
I don't know whether the name is but on the other hand that you can sort of understand why
they kind of want to drop these distributions these versions with architecture now because you
know it's like well it's 2018 now actually it's you know 2020 and it's like a lot of these old
computers that need really do need 32 bit are potentially going to not really be working properly
in say four five years although here's the thing my mum's gone all up to from 2005 which is
only 32 bit and oh yes that runs well would don't look still I need to update that actually
but so it's to do with the kind of the future as well it's in the effort and the work and it's like
if only a few people use it in 32 bit is it worth still having ISOs it's still worth
supporting that that architectural or if there's only just a few thousand you know it's just
a kind of debate as well but I think because it's still not still there will be distributions that
still support 32 bit for a long time to come regardless of all of this just like a bit like
just like there are some distributions that refuse to go with a time to go with system D because
they want to use the old thing you know you see what I'm saying yeah but you're talking about
like fork projects versus you know major distributions that have a great deal more backing
I mean like I said there's there's an arch Linux 32 but you know how long you had to basically
sit there across your fingers and hope that this team of arch Linux 32 are still going to keep
going keep pushing forward with their project you know and that's and that's going to be true
with with anybody else who works a project you know if I don't know I think if more people were
more vested in this maybe they could have changed their minds or swayed or something I don't know
maybe they're just going to maybe this the major projects are going to do what they're going to do
with that space as well but well yeah but I mean okay magia yeah that's that's not but you know
that's what I was talking about as well but actually even the major project something like
about let's take a bunch who has you know a great prime example of what we're talking about really
yes the bunch who are now we're going to drop 32 but I read somewhere and you might think
a bunch who's got most of desktop Linux users why why are they dropping 32 bit there's
bound to be low the people still using 32 bit above you and they're probably are but on the other
hand a bunch who is or conical I mean a bunch who is a bunch who itself desktop version does not
make conical money really or not enough so they can't drop it of course because they can't because
that's like the base of other things as well it's like they could they could drop the
abundantly phone and the and all that stuff but they're dropping 32 yeah yeah they're in the fact
that they're dropping it is going to mean that's all their derivatives which is in the fricking
hundreds I think well I might might be over speaking there but you know the many many derivatives
are all they have to drop it too well possibly but I think what I'm trying to say as well is
they're dropping it probably partly really because making ISOs 1432 bit there's no money in that
you know as a company as a conical there's no money for start to just do that and also even as
a community that's just loads of more testing work and quality assurance and all the rest of it
and and they're probably thinking well we're going to have to drop it some say just a bit like the
old you know the Windows XP argument the whole Microsoft were going to drop support in 2010 but then
they decided that they would extend it by four years probably because Vista hadn't taken off
off enough and and stuff like that as well really but they they tell the enterprises we're going to
you're going to have to drop we're going to have to drop XP support and we can't keep it supported
forever and that's basically the same with this 32 bit argument or any of these distribution
projects I mean a lot of districts have closed down there's been a lot of past
districts that have closed down for various reasons but it's not just that but you can't it's
you know it makes it difficult to support the older hardware the older things as it as time goes on
it can do and that's I think as well which is partly why they're dropping 32 bit I think some of
these yeah but the argument against that is they already a lot of the distals have already got
32 bit testing workflows in place that are rock solid over the years but but it caused you
sure and it's testing and like I was talking about it you just you have to test all this stuff
it's more worse yeah but it's automated they all pass up for magia but that's yeah but the
larger distals which are the ones who are dropping stuff have automated test flows don't they
open the Susa does all pop all pop yeah yeah partly automated I think at least but yeah
I'm sure it's all compiled automated but I'm sure they you know sending it out to people for
testing afterwards yeah and I do think I was being a bit besieged this year around about the
the epoch coming in 2038 but there's still enough hardware out there and people were supporting
a lot weirder architectures for a lot longer than i32 and i32 still around a lot of them
but I guess it's it's still all of my 32 bit systems still run just fine I mean they're like
I didn't know they're older hardware with like 4gbx RAM and you know dual core processors to like
like 2.5GHz dual core processors but you know what if I'm doing mostly desktop stuff like
using the web or even just smaller stuff like I had new audio editing on any of those machines
without any problem I'm not I'm not editing video but I have the edited video on some of my older
machines it's not great I was using open shot and open shot has been kind of flaky anyways but
it's it's still worked you know I mean but it's there's I can't see a valid reason to kill them
you know new and shiny the only the only valid reason I see is the 2038 thing and we could
start worrying about that in you know another 15 years right while considering all the all the
OSs have already been patched to deal with it so yeah baby they work well I missed something
it was a 2038 thing you know the Unix counts up every second since the first of January 1970 UTC
is epoch so that's how Unix keeps it's time at a particular point that's a 32 bit integer
and that overflows and that will happen that will happen on 3 14 0 7 in the morning of the 19th
of January 2038 which is a Tuesday what what Unix will it won't like it's anything that's a
five to go back to 1970 like everything does so if you ever see a file date with the 1970 0101
that's what happened the date hasn't been set so basically if you have a Raspberry Pi that doesn't
have an internet connection everything gets 1970 0's well I don't know if Raspberry Pi does do the
thing but they don't have a real time clock so yeah okay real time right okay finance yeah but okay
so if you chain one of these devices yourself to that date it's going to go back to 1970s when
we start there is it well it can't deal with anything bigger than 1970 that's the point the firmware
on the machine has got is only capable of dealing with a number and once that number reaches the
end it'll add a one and then it'll go back to zero zero zero zero zero one two three four remember
the Y2K yes I'm thinking yeah in this case it's a valid reason and we've got 38 years to deal with
it or less about 38 minus 17 18 now which makes it a lot easier we've got 20 years to deal with it
all the OS's operating systems have already been patched but it's at that point that the
32-bit chips become less useful not unusable it's just anything related to time keeping track of time
related to years would be an issue keeping track of time related to time since that button has been
pressed should not be about oh do you mean that you mean the chip itself so the hardware will
kind of run out yes exactly yeah and then you can't reset that clock because it'll be stuck
back on 1970 and that's it basically well you can set it from any time between 1970 up until
the first sorry the 19th of January 2023 that's another problem but anything outside that it could
be a problem you could always do the Microsoft hack on us and say well if it's closer to 19
split the difference if it's you know switch everything around the year 2000 and say well the
year 2000 then I'll I'll fudge it by adding so many days but that doesn't actually matter
they the point is if you look at an epic I don't know if if you look at epic computers now
they're still in use they still have a valid use it's just not they're not maintaining
date codes related to this is the year or if they are then you set it and it just goes
right since I was turned on I have started counting numbers and you tell me that I need to add
so many numbers to this date so you say it is the 1st of January 2018 and I've been turned on
and you set the date the 1st of January 2018 okay and now start counting and then you will be
happily able to count another 68 years without the winner problem I feel like I'm not explaining
this correctly well maybe I don't think I sort of understand but yeah and here's an internal
clock in a lot of these things and yeah when you like if you take your background yeah well what happens
to your what happens to your you have a clock on the wall with hands on it yeah yeah well yeah
I've got clocks here as well okay no no I'm just asking do you have an internal clock on the wall
at this minute so what happens I got I got I got well I got yeah I got 11.15 am five minutes
later the clock has run out yeah what do we do so the clock resets yeah it starts resetting
to 12 again yeah so we in our brains automatically adjust and we go ah the sun is out so it's 12 in
the afternoon so 12.01 means that's what the time is yeah problem is if you've got a like a
digital clock that doesn't have AM or PM on it and it says 12 you've got to ask yourself does this
clock do a AM or if it's 11.55 we don't know what's going to happen on that clock because it's 11
you know is it capable of displaying 12 up to 24 or 23.99 24 let's be honest you don't actually
know what's going to happen so with a 32 bit processor or 32 bit chip it's only capable of
counting up time to say midday yeah and then at that point do you mean like I'm using that
analogy here yeah I'm I'm I'm analogy but you sort of mean like in this case if if the if the clock
can actually show the zero zero zero zero with like midnight or if it can't show that because it's
going to go straight back to so the 11.59 59 there's no problem yeah on your display at 12.00 on
your analog clock it resets back to 12 hours before because it can only display 12 hours of
information yeah same thing happens with chips they're counting from a particular point in time
now if you have stopwatch they can only display 12 hours yeah that doesn't matter because somebody's
running around the somebody's running around the the track there yeah and you press the button
and it starts counting that doesn't matter so you have a you can regardless of what time of the
day it is you can still track that person running around the track yeah because you've got a stopwatch
you with me so they fact so long as that person doesn't run around the track longer than 12 hours
which is unlikely to happen yeah then you can happily continue to use stopwatches that can only
display 12 hours of information yeah yeah yeah okay now these clocks the 32 bit ones can only count
to a number up to what is the what is the next decimal number is 21 well it's one
by big number a 32 bit integer is assigned 32 bit integer why did it assign one is beyond me
um I didn't interrupt you but I just want to do uh I hear a lot of screaming upstairs so I've
been going to have to go back upstairs um I just want to say happy new year everybody um thank you
for everything thank for everybody it's helped this year thanks for putting this together it's
awesome well done you I I just love doing it and I love I I didn't get on this here as much as I
would like to but I just I love I love doing this every year so thank you for everybody I love
a lot more since you started taking over yeah yeah okay yeah the clock won't be able to show a
particular hour or whatever after the last out the last bit okay so it has to reset back in this
case it's not just it's not just as time as the year as well so it's going to go all the way back to
1970 which exactly I was saying but that's what happened also when you like you know you got a
battery that kind of yeah exactly and that's why it does that and that's exactly why it does
that chip but that's a problem so honky's point is like okay well we have another 20 years useful
life so these 32-bit chips can continue to operate for another 20 years without it would be
no problem yeah and even after that they can still continue to operate because saloon as you don't
care that it's 1970 what does it matter you know if your email comes in and it's 1971 you know that
it is 2036 plus a few days and you can always set the clock yeah yeah you can always reset the clock
possibly you'll probably be able to do a hack where after that time you could reset the clock
that will display correctly because you go yeah take into account they they they flip over which is
exactly what happens on all the XP machines or Windows 95 machines is that they said okay yeah
after this time we're just going to if the number flips over then you just add 50 to it and then
you're done yeah so you may not be able to use them as easily for doing a clock but you can still
use those chips for doing stopwatches for instance you use my analogy yeah it won't you won't
show the time properly unless you do a hack call ever we don't care anyway since 1971 I mean
I mean exactly so the argument is basically it's going to work properly until another 20 years or so
anyway so in that case let's keep 32 bit Linux going for another 20 years that's the argument wasn't
yeah yeah that's the argument it is a little bit premature but then you know you notice here with
Linux is that things go out in favor there will be a few people who will maintain something and then
later on something happens whereby suddenly it's really important that the code that those few
stragglers on are maintaining suddenly becomes really important like for instance the arm
people who have been maintaining arm are that all these small programs that have been running
have met the Raspberry Pi possible because xfc still exists and people go no we still have graphics
processors and we're switching to massive desktops and but these guys kept turning away
and turning away and turning away and keep maintaining their products maintaining their projects I
mean to say and then all of a sudden a whole industry develops as a result of it so yeah well
goes around comes around guys that is one thing that I've learned in in this short life of mine
well yeah well yeah some of the old stuff is still going definitely and then sometimes end up
getting used in something else something modern in a way really but you know what is modern that's
using old tech inside of it that's true yeah exactly good I can happen it happens all the time
that's what's happening in your Android it's what's happening in Arduino that's what's happening
in Raspberry Pi's so it's happening in routers well yet well yeah they take things they take an old
software part together and all the rest of it but the point is it's not all software it is maintained
software from an unpopular it's software that's become unpopular like the 32-bit stuff is not
old software it's as new software as the 64-bit stuff it's just it's not as popular it's not
maintained or wasm has maintained so these guys choose to maintain it is still you can still buy
go out and get a brand spanking you 32-bit operation system and you can take the source code for
on bulimic kernel and all the other software and you can still combine this for a 32-bit system
it's exactly as new well yeah well yeah of course you can the foods yeah then it's but yeah it's
like Marta is all around all that's to go on to living on and various things that are still
around to getting maintained the brand new touch on the UB ports that's a very different thing but
you know so I'm now putting on terminal blocks on this thing a skew but I'm not going to worry about
that that felt a little bit like a lecture sorry about that I know that's okay just tell
me to shut up lots of people do that I'll ask one question though because you were like in my
short life I held you anyway I have 49 now 49 physically 27 in my brain right okay and I've
um yeah 27 in my brain it's kind of the idea lead you're old enough to be taken seriously and
you're young enough to still be young and I'm still get excited with cool stuff that's the key
such as this soldering stuff talking to you this is cool stuff don't you think this is cool stuff
like we're living in the future seriously talking to me might not be so cool but no no
don't put yourself down dude this is always a pleasure the future um we we uh well fact and
thing actually we know we're living in the present and actually yeah I mean if you go back
sure if you're about to sort of do 90 if you go back in time machine and sort of be like something
right it actually actually go and watch the new demander that's a good point go seriously watch
take your kids and watch the new demander fencing it because there's a great bit there with the mobile
well no there maybe they'll find a two-scary they'll find the legal move you do scary so yeah
by any way what watch yourself weather but um it's a good bit there we're like a good bit or
mobile phones because he's like goes back in uh he's well that one I'm wondering if somebody
who um hasn't seen that weather they might be listening to this later on so I'll say there's a
line that's like oh mobile phones um is that something different in the future and um yeah it will
make sense why I mean if you watch your weather but um but yeah so yeah mobile phones were these big
whatever in the past in the 90s and so on and now look at it it's smartphones all over the place
sits people are basically like somebody says here early on HPR on the new issue people are
picked at these mobile phones a bit like drugs in a way or it would be drugs basically if it was
you know um and yeah mobile phones are so it's such a big thing now compared to what it was
yeah exactly I remember um um yeah I remember when having the first mobile phone and lots of people
saying oh what would you be doing you'd never be on the internet like that and now they're
completely what's happening and I'm I'm the one who is not on the internet as much as that
but every every year we go and stay in a in a historical village historical re-enactment
village and you can go as a guest and stay in the um they have a medieval area and you can stay up
there and last year I happened to be just working with a smith sitting there just listening basically
it's you know three-dimensional YouTube because if I'm at home I'd be watching the four
jean films on YouTube anyway but one of the guys was going yeah but it's uh it's uh we haven't
so busy now I think I was going no you don't it's like they had a lot harder and we have never had
as we ate time where we have been more uh more free time less things to worry about because we've
got food on demand we've got health we've got shelter we've got warmth um it's just an amazing
time that we live in and probably should remember that from time to time well it's too
some extent I know a lot of problems still well problems in that but um yes you are but remember
that a lot of these problems big though they and they are don't get me wrong there's
fucking lots of stuff that we could be doing better sorry for epping there and I do tend to get a
bit down about them myself but it's still a very very fortunate time to be living in yes we could
be cutting down on the carbon yes they don't get me started politically and all the stuff that we
could improve but what people say oh this is this is really a very difficult time that we're living in
yes it is but additionally we you're not depending on whether it's going to rain tomorrow to
determine whether your crops are going to fail or whether you're going to be able to feed your kids
for the next 12 months it's it's just completely different um different cattle
fish here in the first one I mean admittedly in other area other parts of the world these are
serious concerns to people well yeah and the homeless issue even in the world in very cities and
and very things but um well I wanted to say as well as we're talking about the time and sort of
that oh it's a great time now and and I've I mean I've been thinking about this myself here and
there you know more recently as well it's slightly into that you know I mean here we are on a
podcast you're in Holland's I'm in UK and we've had our American people on and all the rest of it
and you know if you go back to Paul the internet and so on and possibly Paul Phones a bit even
Paul they can have taken off of that as well but you know it would be such a big thing oh you can
suddenly pull some of your crops you're just highly Atlantic well I mean and and and and and now
it's like it's just no big it's like it's not a big deal because we just got this internet
thing and it's just like you know I'll see you all instant messaging email or or or pod all this
voice stuff or whatever or webcams even you know you can just you can just do it now on the on the
on the internet and people just kind of take it for granted now and for the most part you don't
really think that much about it now it's just like yeah I can talk to somebody from America
oh I can go on a webcam I can I can talk to them in text I can email them and you know that's
timed we're in now and also even the whole internet in itself I mean if you go back to when
the early you know the naughty is the early 2000 the end of the 90s and all that when the web was
only kind of just hitting off we've got dialed up and all the rest of it now we've got really fast
connection as a side point but now it's the again the websites you just go to Wikipedia and
they annoy you and ask you to donate and stuff and like emails tell me to donate you still
because I donated once but that's a side thing you know you just sort of take the web pages for
intrep for granted now you can just go on websites and it's just it's not quite as fun that once
was really an online gaming possibly as well it's like I don't really do that but again you can
just play game for people online and stuff whereas in the 90s it would have been more like oh
dial up connection oh also oh if I want to host a game and he said to say with my hardware
firewall and open my ports up or they can't connect to me and now it's just done better and
you know it's I think the signs have changed a lot in the last 20 years also in that in that
sense it's amazing really and if we could you know if we could live from ever or for that's
longer and you know then whatever you know it seems so much change probably over the years as well
more so than we're going to have to see but no it's gas I was in the hardware store the other day
and a lady walks in and puts the phone down on the counter and and then some guys starts talking
to the shop owner and showing them the exact thing the problem that they were having and
the shopkeeper was able to find the part based on you know somebody with a camera pointing
at the actual physical thing and you know that's just normal now it's gas yeah yeah yeah oh oh and
actually I'm I've decided well as little helping the older people with their computers or tablets
group which thing on Thursday morning that I've been going to at times recently because of why
I live now and stuff and even there it kind of shows that at times I sort of change or have
changed because even the like 40 plus a lot of the old you know 40 plus and pensioners and all
rest of it they are 40 pluses and thank you no no I said I said 40 plus first because it's a 40 plus
group just why I meant anybody sort of thought you were over I should have been looked there
but I'm trying to say and then I'm trying to say that even older people the pensioners as well
and all that you know are a lot of them actually using tablets and smartphones these days as well
some of them all so complete and others but it's sharing that even there that things are becoming
more relaxed I guess or more you know more like it's just a thing and it's people do it and
and you kind of and you think I've thought about this as well so the people who are like you know
20s and 30s and most but it's a teenage isn't even kids now it will the smartphones all the rest
of it it's like it's like what are we going to all be using in say when we're like pensioners or
whatever you know it's like what what all these devices and stuff and we're going to be using
you know it's like you can misimagine that and I don't think we have flying cars quite but
but you know yes we do they're called helicopters I don't understand why people don't get this
they're called helicopters well it's a car you sit in there and you drive it yeah it's just
hard to drive and very expensive but it is a flying car but they yeah but anyway I'm not like
tablets phones and all this kind of stuff it's like what are we going to have in the future but
when we are 70 or whatever what you know what's what's going to be there yeah good question
I hope there is a future yeah dinner is ready oh okay I'm going to have to pause this for a while
I'll I'll be back see you later yes that's see you next year happy new year if you're done
but well yeah well I'll put a leap on but I think people have missed you gone at the moment okay bye
that we'll see if we chat or not later but if not or whatever happy new year yeah you too
cool and I hope to meet up as one of the events maybe this year maybe the one in Bristol or
there's all campus but you know you're not doing Brussels so no no no no no no no this time okay talk to
you later bye yeah bye bye actually yes anybody just happened to be listening to this there's
around I guess not okay happy new year 2018 everyone gothnit or 20 oh actually Swedish yes
thinking okay I just speak Swedish so let's get this year right gothnit or chughi auton that's
that's what it isn't Swedish I'll hope that which is everyone now the after show is pretty much
over I think I must have to show in Swedish oh I'm not sure um after show oh anyway new year after
show when uh over young fool now the after show is over I think or pretty much with no Casper or
somebody like that to play some ending guitar music which um I will have to listen to on the actual
actor public radio uh new year show when it comes up because there's been bits here and there
that I heard and then couldn't hear and that'll be so we get um so yeah some people think it is
fun to chat to themselves on the podcast which they assume will be uh post-probably go up as well
as part of something however actually this is not as particularly fun and that is why for this
that's very for that reason as well I'm going to start doing this now although although
did I say talking to myself because actually I'm talking to you you have uh may end up actually
listening to this if anyone actually will right I'm back now I have people in the LCD screen
the potentiometer the power feed the actual clamp for the components and the header for the screen
I thought was they will put you much but maybe not them good god no this
not stop them until this transistor testers put together important differentiation there for
people listening put together is different from working very this thing is going to work
good morning from the morning she has a question now we've got my headset my phone's in
I'm not right now who was that who just joined yeah Claudio and just happy new year everyone
happy new year Claudio have I got my have I got my phones in or not can that's a question I don't know
so I was like that I was like that Claudio no you don't so far so it's funny uh we rang in the new year
I noticed that the time was going by real fast I was like it's already one hour passed
as 2018 2018's flying by like I can't believe so you're on the show last night obviously
so again you were on the show last night then I guess yeah I was on for a little bit just to wish
everyone a happy new year and my dad come over and there's just basically the small family get
together and uh rang in the new year and uh you know danced a bit we turned on some music and then
we we turned in for the night nice nice nice cool so when is Link's best when coming back
you have to ask chat about that one when are you forking off your own show
to Claudio and Michelle well one of my new years resolutions is to finally get my butt back on track
to recording episodes for HDR oh you tease yes I do but I'm I'm looking to make good
you know my name is there you go sir somebody send an insurance yeah absolutely yeah I've got the rest
of this week coffee is well before school starts up again so I'll have some time
right now I'm just waiting for the coffee to finish brewing and uh I'm going to go ahead
and go ahead and fix warm hot cup of coffee with my wife uh and uh enjoy what's enjoy 2018
good um your audio is chopping in and out at least for me just as a bite of my and I am currently
in the process of assembling for the last essentially 48 hours a transistor tester PCB
the one that um and my bill suggested I should put together so I will continue on being here
until this is done so yeah I was going to ask you if you can finish that actually
no no no no I just figured you were working hard on that one so I had to ask and as far as
the chop up in this you can thank comcast wire comcast to blame for that uh just because
well that's not good no I hear all the time from my kids so I might well join in the fun
so what what type and uh hold me I'm sure I heard before but they are all boys uh they're all
boys uh my eldest is 16 uh he should be graduating he's actually going to graduate a year early from
high school so he'll be graduating this year uh my middle one is 13 and my youngest will be 11
towards the end of this month cool and my stepson who's the eldest of the ball
he is 19 uh no my enough and I'm approaching that yeah
yeah every so often I'll uh come across all pictures of my sons and yeah I get on the nostalgic
yeah I like uh it drives my daughter crazy when I say you're this big you know I do
rub my hand over you know when there are my shoulder and stuff you know always be this big to me
yeah it's pretty much how it is small and big at the same time it's amazing amazing thing
fatherhood I don't think there's enough met up out of the fact they how important a thing it is
especially for me I've always felt that is an amazingly fulfilling thing just being a father
oh yeah absolutely yeah there are loads of well I always thought there were very few good songs
about being a father and those that the were were a little bit cringy like hey dude and stuff
yeah it is true for some reason I don't know why but I always think they're like country songs
yeah yeah I know what you mean but nothing wrong with country songs but just
no not at all as a matter of fact my life loves country my youngest likes country and you know
I'll listen now to that so I have to ask this chat who is not here what type of copy we've got
oh he would cringe at what I got it's not instant so at least it's that that's a good thing
hello this is the guy who just commented on the show saying that he misses a gas station coffee
no no no no gas station coffee for me I'll do McDonald's coffee but that's I think that's as far as I'll go
and to be honest taking it out of context which I'd never do um he was referring to the
nostalgia aspect as opposed to anything else I guess yeah coffee I'm having right now is
pretty much a supermarket brand coffee brand X I guess if you want to consider that
it's actually not too bad it does jump yeah I'm partial to brand X myself I have a cup of brand X
right in front of me and speak of which coffee is ready so I'm going to go ahead and take it in
all right and hope you guys have a good good time here recording in the happy 2018 yeah
same to you say hi to all though come likewise bye bye cheerio okay now I've got the power
cord a nine volt battery adapter and a cat memorable of those connectors are called any of power
connectors it's getting exciting now just the potentiometer the component holder and the screen to go
going to do the component holder I think yeah and I'm using a julian elect tip for doing this
and that is used blue tack or white tack in this case maybe to pull the component while
you solder it on the other side which is kind of cool it also stops the thing from
you will taste me around the press and I'm using an in my bill tip to put my project into a project
box which has got lots of little components so I've had all the resistors in various different pockets
and then I put blue tack on the top put the PCB on us and I can just attach the PCB and then move
the case itself around so that's what I'm doing it's good cool this is immensely satisfying
I'll say I hope it'll actually work at the end so that if you go could be getting
comfy as well let's see these component holder thing pins are absolutely slurped on upsolder
clean my tip every soldering and as mr x says apply heat to the base apply solder to
component withdraw solder withdraw and actually I should put a link to the show notes of that
episode fun you know all the top links for hbr is coming up as arcadadard
probably because google is downplaying the ssl stuff so anyway you need to work on that make
sure that the website is up and running in ssl also okay hcbs tls buying buying buying that
so the 24th of the 7th 2012 wow that's a while back just goes to show how long it takes me to get
around for something okay let's start in and then the potentiometer so in the alignment I've been required
just spent 10 seconds there trying to figure out why my soldering was from I think and then
realized I turned off my soldering line okay that is the potentiometer in all that
less all that is left now is the screen for did that I'm putting on some little risers that are
the active little beach keeping the thing off your desk the PCB from shorting on your desk
show them short some of them out it's very close yeah excuse me the one of the
top version so now there are two risers from PCB and there's a no female headers so if I assemble
the screen on there should be able to access to the PCB with the headers all over there and then
I'll just screw in the PCB and then solder a lot more doll and I can't screw him fully yet because
I'm going to leave some slack for the screen to stuff exciting stuff right is that is
is it done okay tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of I could probably grade you
no I won't do that to you I'll turn it on and see what happens right that was an enjoyable experience
pushing this together however now I need to look at it and absolutely nothing happened
it's not working I don't know am I bill will go grays now I can go troubleshooting but now I'm going
no I just want the epic thing to work nope nothing that I did is good
I'll check on the back here to see if there's any obvious things going on okay
who's here hey this is mango I'm on got we've got three including ourselves yeah I just
walk up and get a cup of coffee what time is it now I'm in Texas this is
845 so you got to pass quite early to you well at laughter last night yeah I guess it's early
I normally wake up a little earlier than this can I hurt your mumble and you still working on that
thing yeah I finished it but it doesn't work it's that bad solder joint you were talking about last
night there's been a few more of them since then what's the thing supposed to do is supposed to test
just almost everything yeah pretty much it is supposed to like actually give you a value for
resistors and capacitors and things yep and we'll tell you what a transistor is or diode or
die echo whatever so I am actually in dire need of one but no that's good disappointing
to say the least and I know I and my bill goes this great because now you can go troubleshooting
you know that assumes that you know what you can troubleshoot no you don't want to troubleshoot
you want it to work when you get a finish that exactly that that is exactly it yeah that doesn't
make any sense at all especially test equipment you don't want to have to troubleshoot all right I
don't even know where to begin to troubleshoot to be honest does it do anything at all nope that's
good it could also be a dodgy screen you know so screen is this thing got logic it's got enough
now it's a Arduino based device oh wow that's yes and easy that mean just got a post or something
when you power it up and doesn't do that nothing well I guess that's the place to start that you're
either this computer doesn't come up or the the screens bad
well can I check either of those things
now I've got a big pile of do on my hand yeah hashtag disappointed
nice now if there was just something very obvious that I was missing look in and trace the voltages
I don't know about voltages I mean if it's the the screens not there it's that's the kind of thing
you replace what it's just saying to have HDMI something if you can just plug in a different screen
no it's there's a link in the show notes to do to a guy putting the same video in and it's a
little on board screen type thing now let's it pins on it good check and see if there's any
current going over there when I do plug it in gotta be a thing I guess yeah and and you can
check voltages I mean voltages aren't that hard to check but then you get you got to do you find
your pins and figure out how to get your little contacts in there and things like that so
on a lot of little stuff it's easier if you can plug in a different component that does the same
thing that way I would yeah I don't have that option right now yeah that's what you have to have
okay I'm just looking at the PCB design 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 7 also goes to 8 8 goes to ground so presumably pin 1 sorry pin 1 goes to ground
be a 22k resistor so presumably if there's voltage to get enough far if this current
get enough far voltage there's power getting that far then if I leave it on the first pin and then
go to the next on the next on the next maybe something well let's just see show me yeah I suppose
you could measure voltage across that resistor what you're doing that I'd like to tell you how
much I appreciate what you do for HPR one of the things I enjoy most I'd probably listen to one
or two episodes per week and then after I listen to y'all do the the monthly roundup and you make
enough of them sound interesting that I ended up having to go back and listen to I I take notes
while y'all are talking and I go back and say oh wait a minute is that what that is that title
didn't work for me and I go back and and I enjoy you know another four or five shows that way
that is actually great to hear now it's I was hoping people would do that that's kind of the point
to the show cool not good to hear yeah yeah yeah I mean y'all are just kind of talking about them
but you obviously listen to and take it every single show and yeah it's not that hard to do
not when you've got a three hour commute every day oh my gosh
right there are zero currents going anywhere on that header for the
screen so I guess therefore that you can't be the screen which is actually good
because I have some chance of having to deal the components okay well yeah that actually
probably does make it a linear yeah okay no in my bill I still don't think this is fun
no you're right I agree with you completely I used to do a component level repair of of things
back you know very long time ago when people actually did that and nah it's not that much fun
okay so there's no current going through that there's nothing to do the screen so what do I do
what do I do what do I do maybe she well just tries it out I guess can you read a PCB then
oh yeah because there's a link to the PCB in the show notes there I can throw it in the mumbo
oh okay I'll just run get my multimeter you couldn't read
up against it into the mumbo chat and there she goes actually hold on let me
I rotated it by 90 degrees myself just made it life a little bit easier so
current comes in there close to a transistor a 9012 the thing about once it goes to a transistor I
have no idea if there should be current coming out of the transistor or not should I be doing that
what I said did you populate that entire board or is this the board that you started with and
it already was a computer I this is what I started with I scanned this physical thing it is
this physical noise and the back of it I have mirrored 90 degree or I just flipped it over so that
the tracers on the back match up with the with the top yeah I have I used to do that kind of
stuff my my degrees in the computer hardware and back 40 years ago oh well more than 40 years ago
and we actually had projects like that in classes or because the idea was to learn how to fix
computers and so we had to start by building things from circuit on circuit boards and stuff
wow yes okay so let me see where is this that is that side see this side
all it's best to continue continuity tester are a voltage meter I don't even know what the
the tools I have right now are a voltmeter are a DVM and I have a bitwise scope but
no idea do I just solder some stuff I'm hoping to work is your voltmeter a it's a digital voltmeter
yeah DVM I can do volts amps no that's working resistance and I've got a continuity tester
do you have something to check doubts or transitions with with a with a DVM do that or I mean can
you put it on like the the old meter you could get what I was hoping yeah this thing will do
oh hold on maybe I have a crappy meter that might do that one one second yes that happens I've
got a cheap meter that's got a kind of resistor checker which would have been handy to do before
I solder them and put them in yeah checking components after their father in circuit you have to
look at your circuit and see what are the other paths for that electricity to come back to your
meter so you don't oh wait this is great it's it's it's working and it's not going through your
component instead it's going around a different path and that's the problem with that well it could
even be the Arduino chip I would say start with the assumption that the components themselves are
working and check go back and check that you got that everything is there since this is a first time
this is the did it ever work or is it broken test and since this one hasn't worked that would be
the first thing I would do is not don't assume I've got a bad component so try to find that out
now that it's in soldered in instead go back and check your work and that's really just a visual
and if some of the solder joints look dodgy just touch them up yeah if possible you can test the
test them electrically I've always found that the ugly solder joints are probably not good
for the the very low voltages that you get and I mean it probably low currents rather than
voltages but the very low currents that you get in this type of circuit it doesn't take much
of anything for it to to not work do you usually kind of a flux or anything on your solder to make
it flow yeah it has the flux core and for some of them I used flux to move the flow down
yeah I find that the flux core doesn't help a lot because you end up having to melt an inch of
solder to to get enough to to really clean up a joint so you're better off touching a tiny bit
of actual so I always keep a can of flux and touch that up and that way you don't over you don't
to put too much solder it's also possible I heard you're talking about using the surface mount
things those are very some of those are just very very delicate it's not impossible to destroy
them with with your solder if you if you're if you're getting them too hot because you're having
problems with the solder so you just keep messing with it you can destroy a diode or transistor
yeah I've definitely done that that that was there for ages trying to get us right yeah that's
that is a danger with messing with them unless you let the component cool back down before you
mess with it again you know what I'm going to do I'm going to put this into a plastic bag and
send it to my bill and say okay smart ass you get it working that sounds good you enjoy it
so much I'm just going to go out and buy a new one because I I didn't enjoy the the throughhole
components but the surface mount stuff was not fun would have been fun yeah if it had just turned
on and worked a little ass pin the case yeah surface mount stuff is not for people to solder they
I've never actually done any except once or twice doing some things a long time ago but you know
the through the yeah like you said the throughhole stuff that is that's not hard to do
well I'm afraid I spent enough time I didn't know today so I'm going to have to go do some stuff
with the kids and stuff so that's that nice well that sounds like a start a new year off right
start the year off with a massive big fail no no no I mean with the family doing doing
yeah being a this year I'm going to be a good father well thanks very much yeah I woke up as
more still plugged into the thing and I was I don't actually remember what time we stopped talking
last night well when I stopped talking and and and came to bed it's guys I'm going to have to go
back and listen to the show you know I'm just going to try plugging in some another power supply
there's two ways of powering this thing so yeah let's try that I remember when they came off last night
or this morning I don't remember quite hopefully I can sleep though but yeah
well I guess it's probably time for me to get up and walk around see if anything's going on too
all I did was go to the kitchen for coffee so I guess I'll call it a date myself yeah this is
this is over really I think but and this is me puffed up but why but yeah um yep
I wonder why I'll try that she kept turning off the power until the starts working
I remember when I was in the army there's a I fixed electronic equipment and there was a
guy that we had a had a tape recorder that came in to be repaired and it was blowing fuses so
one of the other technicians not me put a phillips head screwdriver in the the
in the fuse holder and just turn on the power and watch the smoke and then when it
stops smoking he just unplugged it and then replaced everything that was burned up
he had lots of patience it was I guess trouble shooting wasn't his strong point so
he just but he could replace things so that's what he did it actually worked he got it working
he just ended up replacing a lot of a lot of the components and pretty much all the wiring
well okay I'm not recommending for for your device though I'm not sure that actually works for
this is not a solid state piece of equipment this is an old a lot of my experiences with
that kind of stuff a lot of it included vacuum tubes yeah that's a lot more resilient too
so even though I did train on repairing computers I never actually got around to doing that in my
career so funny how you you go to college and learn to do stuff and then you start looking for
a job and you end up with something different and so I wrote software for end up writing software
for about six or seven years and then that's basically a server administrator for the rest of my
career I did it more or less the same start it as a mechanical engineer and then I was just
quickly as possible no that didn't work out of right I'm gonna just leave it now for now I'm
take a break maybe come back I'll get an inspiration well good luck and happy new year I guess I'll
check out too okay let's call it a halt guys you have been listening to the hacker public radio
six annual 24 hour plus show and seriously thanks to everybody who took the time to join and thank
you all for listening and thanks everybody who put the who did out the show notes that is
absolutely awesome they look a lot better than they normally do and it was fun again was it
being on this or listening to it I am gathering all the chat logs so I'm kind of busy doing
stuff one second so yes thanks to everybody for joining and thank you to Taj and honky
Mugu for the etherpad K5 talks for doing the etherpad restore and all that stuff Kevin
Wischer and Chris Fish for the stream and thank you all tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode
of is where you go hacker public radio oh oh oh oh should we call it a day
two she's gone that's I think maybe close the whole lot down recording there's an everything
but he's still there and yeah thank you to whoever for making this happen thank you to whoever for
making this happen again closing closing closing the closes down I think yeah I think he turns
upon this later on well because all this stuff is over and really now bye bye
okay me you're still there yes I got a working actually no I didn't I didn't thank you
everybody that's this it is now 1615 on the 1st of January 2018 happy new year to everybody
and thank you very much for everybody for joining that's it's officially over
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org we are a community podcast
network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contribution to find out how easy it really is hacker public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
