Episode: 2053
Title: HPR2053: My 2nd HPR Beer Podcast
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2053/hpr2053.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:45:21

---

This is HPR episode 2,053 entitled, My Second HPR Rear Podcast.
It is hosted by Just Me and in about 2 minutes long.
The summary is, describing the taste of the unived tribe.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everyone, it's me too here again, recording for HPR with a follow on beer tasting podcast.
Let me first apologize for the audio quality of this and the next 11 beer podcasts.
They were all recorded live on my phone in the nobody knows bar.
So there is a bit of a background noise.
I just hope it's not too distracting.
The following 12 beer podcasts were recorded over a period of several months, a couple
of them, even though they were recorded at the same city.
I have chosen to break up into several podcasts, just so as to add more podcast HPR.
In a few cases, it's obvious that I get a little tongue tied, please forgive me.
I normally tend to just have one beer per setting, but the beer is so good and I'm with
friends and, as such, I've had more than one per setting at those times.
But enough of the explanations and apologies, let's get on to the heart of the podcast,
my impression of several beers.
Oh, one more thing before we start.
The beer in this podcast is Old Foghorn.
I'm mislabeled in the recording as Old Fog.
Anchor Hawking, excuse me, Anchor Brewing Company of San Francisco's Old Fog, Barley
Wine style ale, first sip is quite bitter at first, right, but then it comes out to
a flowery, light, nice flavor with a good aftertall, after flavor, not bitter, a bit sweet.
Well there you have it, not one of my better recordings, but I hope you liked it nonetheless.
So this is me too here, signing out, until next time, wishing you Happy Trails and Happy
Beers.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons' Attribution
ShareLive 3.0 license.
