Episode: 2912
Title: HPR2912: Stardrifter RPG Playtest Part 06
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2912/hpr2912.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:10:04

---

This is HBR episode 2,912 entitled Tardriff Tardriff Tardriff G playtest Part Nero 6.
It is hosted by Lost in Bronx and is about 34 minutes long and can remain a explicit flag.
The summer is Lost in Bronx and friends playtest are new original RPG system.
Today's show is licensed under a CC Nero license.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is Lost in Bronx, also known as David Collins Rivera.
Welcome to Part 6 of the Star Drifter role playing game playtest.
In this episode we have Taj, Brynn and X1101.
We do not have Cleth 2 or Brian.
This is the second playtest session.
This was about two weeks after the first one and they were not able to make it,
which was sad, but we did get X1101 and that was wonderful.
So last time the player characters obtained a job to escort some hippies or hobos off a
junkship they were found to be squatting upon.
The player characters were paid an advance and they used some of that money to prepare for their
mission back on station maltees in this star system.
They were able to rent a space boat that one of their number piloted and they headed on out to
the remote orbit of the floating junkyard where the derelict ship in question was located.
And that's about where we left it off and we'll pick it up right now.
Okay, everybody.
Today is the next part of the Star Drifter role playing game playtest.
Cleth 2 is not with us right now, but we do have X1101 and he is with us today.
What are you playing, sir?
I am playing a former stationer going by the name of Malachio Leary.
He's been a general troubleshooter and all about Ruffian.
There you go. Who doesn't need one of those?
Okay, so last time we ended up with our characters shoving off in a little space boat
to go see if they can rouse some hobos from a derelict space boat or spaceship on the other side
of the system that they've been hired to get rid of.
If it shouldn't be that hard, how hard could it be?
So that's where they are.
They're taking off gentlemen.
Do you have anything else you want to do?
You want to make any plans?
You have the deck, the deck plans in front of you.
And I will put the deck plans and the guide to the deck, the ship in the show notes for this
episode so that the people listening at home can play along.
Taking a look at that you guys can decide what it is that you want to do if you have a special
approach or anything you want to do, we can essentially fast forward.
You can see this thing in your sights.
Are all of the exterior airlocks or those like dock points?
No, only the side ones are dock points.
The emergency locks are not dock points, only the ones in a midships.
So that would be 11 and 8 on deck 2b, dock directly with either of those.
And they look to be okay, however, rest of this ship does not look to be okay.
First off, there are no external lights that is unusual.
There are no windows that is not unusual.
It's not common to see a lot of windows except on certain types of passenger liners,
or yachts, things like that.
Some fighters will have them most do not.
So you're not expecting to see windows and you do not see windows.
However, it's the fact that there are no lights, no running lights, no anything,
probably means this thing truly is a junker.
The thing that really tells you it's a junker is the fact that this ship should have
some very large fuel tanks on the outside and they're missing.
Without these fuel tanks, this ship can't go anywhere, not in regular space,
certainly not in jump space.
So it looks like things have been torn off it or taken off.
They've been selling this thing for parts and that's clear.
Well, I think we, since we know where we got to go in, there's not many options.
We probably should try to figure out what we're going to do before we head in there.
But do we, are there any other, it seems to me if these guys are kind of watching what,
you know, who's coming and who's going, they may have those areas covered.
So the question is, do we want to try to sneak aboard or do we just want to kick down the
front door and start, you know, kicking button, taking names?
Or some kind of a pincer maneuver where we do a little bit of both.
Well, if we can't dock at those other air locks, somebody's going to have to like EVA over,
which I don't know that we're equipped for that.
Well, you don't have any space suits unless you specifically purchased one or an EVA suit.
However, an emergency space suit can, can do pretty well for a little while anyway.
You wouldn't want to stay out there for hours.
You'll start to feel the cold and god only knows what kind of radiation you're getting.
But it should be fine for a bit.
There is some insulation and there is some radiation protection, some.
So is that like the simple vaccine?
That's the simple vaccine.
I do have one of those, so it is an option.
Yeah, not for me, I don't have one.
I would think they'd be standard as a piece of emergency equipment on any rental
that sounds logical to me, right?
The question is how many?
And I am going to roll six-sided die to see how many are on board this thing.
There are four of those, so all of you can go if you wanted to use these.
That's if you wanted to.
Do we want to attempt diplomacy or do we want to just go in knowing that this is probably going
to be ugly?
I want the, didn't the company try to negotiate with these guys originally or no?
All that you heard was that the company that hired you essentially they tried to purchase the
dealership, essentially the collection of junk that's in this general orbit.
That's what they own.
They tried to purchase that.
One of the things that they have to do is verify that everything is empty and free of any danger
and all that other stuff that they did walk through.
These guys came in and all you were told was that they found some people there,
those people told them to leave and they did.
The only other point that they made of mentioning is that it appears as though they had been
there a while and that the place was a mess inside.
That is all you heard.
Those are the only questions that were asked.
Just as a special note, I don't know if it's clear on the deck map,
but deck three C is on the bottom.
It's underneath the main structure and deck, what is that?
Deck one C is on top.
So that is the uppermost part and deck three C is the bottom most part just to clarify.
Is deck one towards the bow or is it stern like on top of the engine?
Deck one is those slot underneath exactly where they are to the side.
You'll notice there are little dotted lines at the top and bottom of those small sections.
Do you see those?
Yes.
Those will slot in right at that point.
Okay.
So that part is at the stern and deck three C is mostly the stern sort of in the middle.
Just looking at the map, it seems like most of the quarters would be in three C.
So if I was going to suggest anything, I would say maybe try to go in deck one and just clear
our way down.
That way we're pushing them all towards one section.
Makes getting flank a lot harder.
Yeah, other than when we go to deck two because it looks like you're going to drop down
like right in the back of it.
So you're going to have to clear forward.
This ship does have a very long projection at the bow right along Dorsal, right?
It's what they call locking pin.
And I do describe it under the Tottenberg class thing, but just briefly that locks in to large cargo boxes.
And then they can either train the boxes, have extra boxes going off of that,
or they can just move it that way.
You know, it's ungainly kind of a basically a rhino sort of look to it with a big horn in the front.
And that appears to be more or less a solid piece.
So and there is no entryway on the Dorsal or ventral of the ship.
They all appear to be on the sides.
I'm also wondering how they've got life support working if they don't have any fuel
canisters. So that might be something we need to look into.
Does anyone have engineering that might be able to answer that question?
Specifically something.
Dissocial engineering gap.
Oh, no, that does not count.
I took engineering general.
That would do.
That would do.
Could you roll?
There's no minus on this.
Just roll a 20-sided die equal to a lesser skill.
But my skill or skill level in that in that skill.
So I just took start one in that.
That's fine.
And it's equal to each skill is associated with an attribute.
So if you look under that skill, that will tell you what your attribute is for that skill.
And it would be your attribute number plus your level.
So in your case, it'd be plus one.
All right.
So it was engineering and I would have picked wisdom with that.
So it's my, oh, that's, oh, that's rough.
Not quite.
No, I have a 16-in-wisdom.
Okay, a 16-wisdom plus one.
That's a 17.
Again, it seems like you have, you know.
Oh, wow.
Rolled a 19 anyway.
Oh, you're like, I don't know.
There's like all these different ways they could have rigged it up.
I don't really know.
I have no idea how they could have possibly gotten any power.
Too many options.
Too many ways they could have done it.
You have no answer.
Anybody else want to try?
So I'm, I'm sorry, I'm trying to
equal to the number or less than the number.
Okay.
So a natural 20 is, it's old D&D style.
Yeah, old D&D style.
Natural 20 is bad.
One is good in this game.
All right, sorry.
I did not, I did not quite, I did not quite compute.
No problem.
It's backwards.
I understand it.
So no problem.
I think with a little playing, it becomes normal
because more or less every test of either a skill or an attribute
runs the exact same way.
So we kind of knock it into our brains after a bit.
Even I had trouble with it, even after I came up with it.
So then
putting, getting like assert two on something,
does that mean I would
in which, in which way does that move the?
That move, okay, basically it moves the number up.
Okay, so you have a 16, you said in wisdom?
Yeah, I have a 16 in wisdom.
Plus my level would have been a 17.
17 and if there were any modifiers,
I would modify it then.
It might be a plus because it was easy
or it might be a minus on your skill, right?
So say I said, well, you know,
it's some kind of really funky way that they've gotten
and if you want to figure it out, it's actually a minus three.
So you roll a 19, but maybe you're a plus,
maybe you have a certain plus three, right?
So you're a certain level three.
So that would have made you a 19.
You rolled it, you made it and I said, yeah,
it was a minus two on the roll or minus two on the skill check.
And that means you have a 19 total,
but it's actually a 17 and you fail.
Okay, I think I follow.
Okay, it applies to your final score.
The any modifiers that I give you apply
to your final score, okay?
Whatever your score happens to be.
And you apply your shirt level and your level on those skills.
So you're, you're a 16 plus one for your shirt level,
which would be, yeah, okay, I'm confused myself now.
It's a 16 plus one is a 17.
The plus one is your shirt level.
So if you had a plus two, it would be an 18, 19, whatever.
And I might say, well, there's a minus three on that.
So you're, you say, well, I have a 19.
I roll, you know, I rolled a 19, you know,
I only have a 17, I fail it.
And I said, well, actually, it's a very easy one.
I was giving you a bonus of three.
So you only had to have maybe a 14.
I'm not explaining this one.
I'm sorry, but as we play, I hope it'll make a little sense.
So if my wisdom was 16, I'm a cert one at level one.
That means my, I would have had to been below 18.
And I still missed that.
Yes, okay.
You want to roll low generally in this game.
All right, thank you.
I think I think I get it.
All right, we'll see what we'll see.
I'm not explaining it well.
Hopefully I'll do better on paper.
And it'll make a little more sense at any rate.
You fail and you don't know if they have power in there.
You don't know how they're doing it.
Is there anyone else who wants to try?
I don't have the skill, but I don't have a couple of questions.
Sure, so in room 20, there's an airlock there
that says it only works when docked.
Is that docked with a station or another ship docked
with a station?
Are those standardized?
They are.
Now, anyone with the right skill
might be able to mess with the mechanics on any of these things.
Understand, if you've got the engineering skills,
it might be possible with a good role
to do things with this stuff.
Can I get more specific than that?
Okay.
Is there a way to use our comms to check and see
if there's like a computer system running on that ship
that we can try to access?
You can try that.
Nice.
Does that have to be on the ship or can we do it from our boat?
No, you have the rain in theory.
You have the range if there's an open network
or any network of any kind, even if you can't break in,
you should be able to see it.
But I will need a computer's roles at that.
I'll try that as well.
Does anyone have computers?
I do.
Okay.
All right.
You guys, both of you.
There are no modifiers for this.
This shouldn't be, I wouldn't consider this
to be an unusual thing.
I mean, whenever I go someplace,
if I have a Wi-Fi enabled device,
it's easy enough for me to search if there's a network.
Okay.
Let's see what we get here.
Yeah, I have a 17 and I rolled a nine.
Okay.
That's a success.
Anybody else trying?
I have a 15 and I rolled a 10.
Okay, both of you.
You do notice one network.
It is closed by the nature of it.
It appears as though it might be another community.
That is all.
You're not seeing anything like a major computer system,
nothing like you'd expect for a starship.
Do you are seeing one community?
Would we know if it's possible to have that computer system
hidden such that that community would be the only way in?
I'm not sure what you mean.
But basically firewall,
but it's not broadcasting existence.
Well, no, there's, you can see it.
You can see it.
And in theory, anyway,
you could take the time to break into it.
If that's something you'd like to try,
however, there will be modifiers for that.
That big thing is I know how much a community costs me
and I'm not sure a space hobo should have a community.
Well, there's that.
So I'm already calling shenanigans on this.
Well, seriously, did you think you were gonna
have roused a bunch of hobos?
Is that really a good test of the start of this game system?
I would say, I'm kind of torn with just going in
or trying to hack it,
letting someone know that we're trying to hack it
and giving them forewarning.
There's also the idea of some more aggressive negotiations.
I know we said that I know they said they tried to negotiate
with these space hobos,
but there's negotiating and then there's negotiating.
You never heard them say they negotiated.
All they said is that these guys walked in,
they were walking through with their flashlights,
just doing a quick walk through
and a bunch of people showed up and said, get out.
They did.
They didn't fight, they didn't do anything.
They just turned around and walked
because these are just work-a-day guys.
They're not here to fight anybody.
I think we should get in as quietly as we can
and then do recon and see what we find
as much information as we can before engaging.
From the outside, you're getting nothing, that's a fact.
Outside of what I've just told you,
exterior of this vessel doesn't hold an awful lot
of information, it looks dead.
So the question is, how do we want to get in?
We want to just dock and hope that it doesn't notice
or do we want to try to spacewalk across
and get into one of the other air locks?
Actually, Bryn, roll your piloting skill for me.
There is a minus, penalty of minus three,
but please do that for me.
Well, there's a minus, I have a 17 and roll the 17,
so I probably missed it.
You did miss it.
No information, nothing happened, go on your way.
So you guys, have you decided what you want to do,
how you want to approach this?
You do have two docks on the side.
You have one that is meant to link up to a station
or an umbilical to a station more likely.
For that matter, the docks on the side
can hook up to umbilicals as well.
It might be possible using an engineering skill
to link up your ship directly to room 20.
Cabin 20 or none, you can sure how to describe it,
but number 20, it might be possible.
The others will not support that functionality at all,
but at when it might be possible,
since it is meant to hook up to something,
you guys might be able to rig something up.
The only thing we can do is die.
I'm up for it.
Like the way you think, sir.
And it was the worst that can happen.
So death can come in many forms.
How do you want to take this one?
Right on the note, hard back.
Old age, okay.
I think we should put on our suits.
And then give it a run.
Just in case we screwed a pooch there.
Okay, so which entry point do you want to take?
If you're going into the vac suits,
any one of them is possible.
We're going to 20.
That's my vote.
What do you guys say?
I'm cool with that.
It does put us right on the middle deck.
So we could get sandwiched if there's more than just some
hobos here.
Well, 20's at the far end.
So that there would be no one behind us,
at least there is that.
We do have a wall to put our back against and it seems like
that's the only one that's possibly easily hackable.
Or we could put somebody here, quiet, hush,
like drop somebody off and then swing around and dock
everybody else at the regular dock.
So they're worried about that while the other person
sneaking around regarding hacking the air locks.
Any one of them you can try it on,
but that one you might be able to hack it so that you can
actually link your boat up to that one,
even though it wasn't expressly made for it.
The others will, you won't be able to link up the boat
to them at all.
Not with the equipment you have on hand, just to clarify that.
In other words, any one of them it's possible to approach
and do your duty or do your worst or whatever,
but that one you can possibly link the boat up to or not.
It's up to you.
What is the time investment in un-linking the boat
if we have to beat feet out of here?
Well, need an engineering role.
No modifier, that would be something you might be able to
take a guess at, because that's really what we're talking about.
Equal to or less someone give me an engineering.
Oh, that's way less.
My target is 18, I rolled an eight.
OK.
Basically, you're looking at some kind of emergency setup
with some sort of, because there are emergency
and billacles built into things like boats in case the boat
loses power and the rescue boat comes.
You can throw a plastic kind of, essentially,
it's just cheap plastic across in a tube.
And you can go across in that if you absolutely have to.
It's not safe, but under emergency situations
you have that available to you.
It might be possible to hook that up to this thing
in such a way that you can open the door, close the door,
link it up, et cetera, et cetera.
And if you have to pull away from that,
you can just take off and it'll rip.
So in other words, there's no delay to get away,
but setting it up will take time.
I think no matter what we do, that's going to be a choke point.
Like, either if we try to spacewalk across somebody,
it's going to stay in the ship, so we're down one
or we hard duck and it takes a lot of get off
or we, you know, soft dock like that with the tube
and then, you know, got only knows how easy that would be
to sabotage or somebody gets behind us.
Margot says, I know I'm just an NPC,
but I have this question.
Why does someone need to stay behind?
We can keep it running.
I mean, you know, that's how getaway cars work.
Is this your getaway driver?
She should know that.
I'm just asking, I'm just asking you, do you want to do that?
You don't have to.
I never, I never did it in my pet.
You know, any job I did.
Yeah, we can try, we can lock the door.
I mean, especially can, it's just, just same.
Yeah, you can lock the door.
That's the thing you can do.
And no one like part and parcel to piloting a vessel,
like effectively, Brynn is the captain of this ship,
or of this boat rather, though temporarily
because he rented it, but he's effectively
the captain of this boat.
One of the things that's required is that you put in
a code of your own.
Someone would have to get in here and try to crack this system
and there's tremendous minuses to trying to crack,
you know, like to steal boats and stuff like that.
So it's very unlikely anybody could get in here
and take this thing from you without having the right codes.
It could get in here and prevent you from getting back,
but that's a different story.
It wouldn't fly very far with it.
Thoughts?
I think we try to get in that we hook up the,
the umbilical to 20 and go in quite like
and see what we can find out.
I definitely think some kind of recon is better.
And then just docking and being like,
hey, we're here guys.
Yep.
Yeah.
That's why I want to use 20
because that's generally if they knew anything about the ship,
they'll know that most people will dock on 11 and eight
and 20 would be much less likely.
It's in a cargo area it looks like.
Yeah, it's in a cargo area.
So and it looks like they wouldn't probably be in that area.
They'd probably be in the in deck 3C,
where most of the, you know,
where the kitchen and beds and things like that are.
Yeah, I say go for it.
We can set and debate it all day or we can we go for it.
Okay.
Okay, it looks like we're going to go for a 20
and whoever has the engineering is going to have to hopefully
make that roll to hook, link us up there.
So let's see what I can rig here folks.
I did do a bit of time, you know,
in addition to cracking heads, I did try to, you know,
had a lot of work with some pipes here.
That wasn't part of the cracking heads job.
A little of both, a little of both.
I used them to fix things.
I used them to break people.
So an engineering general role,
my final score is an 18 roll, a six.
Nope, I take that back. That's a nine.
This is just hard to read.
Basically, he rolled.
My number was what you said, night.
It was a nine.
Well, I mean, the final score.
My score was an 18, which is my wisdom of 16.
Cert one, level one is 18 and I rolled a nine.
That's good.
I'm going to rig up a nice little tube with this thing
and get the old duct tape out.
And you got that all spit and polish.
Looks great.
Looks absolutely safe thing.
Looks like it'll work like you won't need the back suits.
Here we go, guys.
This is the safest thing I've ever built.
Somehow, I find that not reassuring.
It only took him an hour.
I just rolled it.
So it's a fact.
I don't know, we used space duct tape.
That seems legit.
Yeah, perfect.
Yeah, it's fine.
It's made with space agent materials.
All right, let's do it.
Absolutely safe.
What can, I mean, ask for better.
If you paid the money, it wouldn't have been any better.
Yeah, I'm still in a back suit.
I'm going to have the back suit, but I'm not sealing it.
OK, OK, you have it on, but you haven't sealed the head.
So I'll only die a little bit.
They're inflate.
These elements are soft.
They're inflatable.
You put them on and it's like a balloon.
All right, so you guys go over.
There is a normal interface exterior or a lot
of interface on this thing.
It doesn't appear to have any power running to it.
You need to do another role to make this thing shine at all.
Might be possible to crank open the door by hand.
That's also a role.
Well, let's start with trying to make it open up.
Fire a die role, skill role.
Rolled a four against my 18.
OK, this does take you a surprising amount of time,
but you're able to do it.
He's there longer than it took him
to make the stupid tube, trying to get this thing
and he's cursing and swearing the whole time.
But he finally gets this thing to power up.
There are some emergency backup batteries
that are built into this whole system
that he finally had to access manually.
It was a real pain in the butt.
He finally gets this thing to open up.
He does.
The inside of this airlock has been trashed.
Plating on the walls has all been torn down.
You see it in a pile off to the side.
Rating on the floor has been pulled up.
However, there is still artificial gravity in here.
Cool.
Get in.
I guess, and close the outer door.
You can do that since he took the time to power it.
You can close it just fine.
And it will, the other door is also
it appears to be powered off the same way.
But now that he knows what to do with the first one,
the second one is easy.
That's not even a die role.
You know what to do now.
And you get that to work.
And that will cycle this airlock.
It took you a total of two hours to get through that door
and to get this thing pressured up.
They'll pain in the butt.
The whole time you're standing on essentially struts
on the floor.
You can see all the artificial gravity systems
under the plating.
You see plumbing.
You see electrical lines.
Everything, everything in this room
or in this airlock was torn apart.
Clearly, they didn't intend to use this thing.
Can I tell if it was torn apart by someone
who knew what they were doing or was more slap dash?
That'll be a die role.
Engineering again?
Yes.
This is all engineering type of stuff.
Unless there's any modifiers, I'm mad at that, exactly.
OK.
You're not sure, but you think probably
these were people who either knew what they were doing
or were told what to do by someone who did.
But they did use power tools to do it.
Actual tools, like socket wrenches and all this other stuff.
It wasn't like it was ripped up by horrible claws
or something like that.
They used, they really used tools and they carefully
took everything apart.
So deliberately deconstruct-ish.
This would not have been a simple job
and it would not have been a fast job.
You had the right tools.
It would probably take you an hour or two,
if there were two of you, it'd take you an hour or two
to do all of this deliberately with the exact right tools.
And this is all limited to just the airlock area?
Yeah, well, that's all you've seen so far.
So yes, is the deck.
It's the bulkheads around you and it's the overhead as well.
Well, let's go look around.
Yep.
There is a hatch there, as you can see.
I'm able to cycle that open.
OK, pistol low.
I am also going to have my pistols out.
And I suppose I'll have to take down the suit now
that I'm inside unless there's no air in here.
All right, you see when you look out very carefully,
first off, there should be seven freestubes there.
You see the freestubes, but they are torn apart very
similarly to the airlock that you were in.
Pieces and parts all over the place.
These could have been sold as is, each one, each unit
could have been sold on its own as used.
So somebody didn't care about that.
The deck directly in front of you going from starboard
all the way over to where 16 is on the other side.
The entire deck has been torn up the exact same way number
20 was that you were just in.
Moving along here has been difficult,
but you haven't actually been going anywhere.
But you're very slow when you're moving through this.
Otherwise, you're falling down.
You don't take any damage.
It's not like super dangerous, but it slows you down.
It's very difficult walking.
You don't have a real deck.
Also, you see two individuals at the cold passage
freestubes here to be taking pieces out bit by bit.
And I assume you watch for a minute or so,
or at least a couple of seconds.
Notice that they're taking pieces out
and just throwing them behind them.
Almost they're looking for something.
They do not appear to have noticed you.
You also notice that each one has a rifle not on them.
Closest one is between the closest to freestubes
between them, basing away from you.
So nobody's moving quick in here, obviously?
Nobody, not them and not you, as you can tell.
And if you look up, you see that the overhead
has had the same routine.
The bulkhead sides here have very systematically
pulled all the plating off and pulled out wires.
Anything that looks like there may have been space
has been dug into.
These guys have tools, power tools, you know,
like, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo,
on our pieces.
Which is probably why they didn't hear this like link.
OK, cool.
So are we talking?
Are we aggressively negotiating?
I'm going to lead over to Brandon, be like space hobos, huh?
Yeah, these don't look like no space hobos.
They're handy hobos.
It's OK.
How are these guys dressed?
Are they look like mechanics?
What?
No, they don't.
They have flight suits on and they have chest plate armor
on.
They all have a headset, too, or the two of them
have a headset.
Tools and rifle nearby.
I'm saying, I'm thinking that we kind of stay back where we are
and let them finish their business and move along.
Because I don't think we can take these guys
unless a couple of us have stunners
that could hit them both at the same time.
But they're a comm unit.
They'll be able to talk to whoever's on the other end
of those things.
Is there a possibility of using one of our comms
to like, check into their headsets and possibly over here.
There are comms.
No, there's a possibility.
But yeah, there's a possibility.
Already know that there is a network of some sort.
There's a comm network here.
Someone's got to come with a network.
Now have to scan through radio signals.
We'll see if you get any radio chatter.
Don't try that.
Is that computers, right?
Yes, computers use a computer's role.
Do a computer's role.
There is a minus two on that role.
So your number.
I rolled a five and I have a 17, so.
Yeah, no problem at all.
Yeah, you think you over here, these, not these two guys,
but you hear somebody in a local channel that's talking.
And in fact, you're hearing a bunch of voices,
just commenting back and forth.
Some people cursing somebody saying,
ah, there's nothing here.
This is a waste of time.
What am I doing?
Then you hear a woman's voice saying, hey,
just focus on the job.
Focus on the job and we'll get out of here and we'll get paid.
Yeah, what's these two guys?
So I'm thinking that there weren't the people
that were seen last time, weren't hobos.
They're looking for something on the ship.
Next time, the player characters find it a bit of a challenge
to win friends and influence people on this junk ship.
I'll see you then.
You've been listening to HECA Public Radio at HECA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows
every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
HECA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomicum computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released
on the creative commons, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
HECA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
