Episode: 2939
Title: HPR2939: Submit a show to Hacker Public Radio in 10 easy steps
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2939/hpr2939.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:36:56

---

It's the 7th of November 2019, and this is HPR Episode 2939, entitled Submit a Show to
Hacker Public Radio in 10 Easy Steps, and it's part of the series, Podcasting How-Tos.
It's hosted by Be Easy, and it's about 10 minutes long and carries the clean flag.
The summary is, this is a 10-step walkthrough of Submitting a Show on HPR.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Bet your web hosting that's Honest and Fair, at An Honesthost.com.
Hello Hacker Public Radio fans, this is Be Easy, once again, with another episode, this
one's going to be another short one.
I just wanted to give an episode and talk about, I think there might have been a couple
other ones before, but I wanted to do one as well, and that is, how do contribute to
Hacker Public Radio?
This one's going to be focused more of a how-to when it comes to using the website.
There has been other episodes about how to record.
You can use something as simple as just a recorder app on your mobile phone, audacity is
a good choice if you want to be able to do some editing, there's stuff on the iPad,
on Android, and on all that different operating systems if you want to get really complicated
as well.
This show is going to be more focused about, okay, you've created your episode and you
want to give it back.
How do you do that?
First things you do is you go to HackerPublicRadio.org, and so that after you get there, you go
to in the header bar near the top, you go to give shows, click on that, and then somewhere
down the line, you'll see a section called requesting a slot for your show, so there's
lots of good information on this page, you can read about it, how to do it, but the next
thing that you're going to definitely want to do is you go to requesting a slot for
your show, and in that section, in the first sentence, there's a link on the word calendar,
so click on that link to calendar, you'll see the current list of all of the shows that
are in the queue right now, and you'll see a bunch of spots to say available, upload now.
You click any one of those links, if you look to the left, there is a date for that episode
and then the episode number, so if you have maybe specific content that you want to get
out on something that you want to have, for instance, before given holiday or before
beginning of a new month or something, you can do that, but I recommend that if you
don't have a reason to do one at a specific date, go ahead and pick the closest available
time, because if we get to that date and there is no show, then Hacker Public Radio fails,
so I recommend going to the next available slot, after you click that slot, you will see
a screen that comes up, and it says you're requesting a show, you need to put in the email
address, this email address is something that is not shared with anyone, it's just something
that you need, because for spam and other reasons, we don't want any, there needs to be a
step between going to the site and putting a file on there, so after you put in your email
address, you'll get an email saying, click this link and you'll be able to upload your
show here, so I'm going to do that right now, click the link, and then you'll go to the
screen and say, hey, it should be sent to you, so I'm going to go log into that email service,
I have to do that, and then once you're logged in, you'll see the email, and then you'll
be able to go in there, and it says basically confirmation request, once you have your confirmation
request in there, where is it, sometimes it takes a little second for it to get there, there it is,
alright, once you see that, you click on the link, and then it'll bring you to a page, if
we haven't set up a host page before, you'll be asked to put in your handle, if you want
to upload a photo and image or anything, you can do that, and you can put in your information
about what your default license is, you can put in a profile about yourself, and then it gets
down to the content, and in the content section you're going to put a title, you're going to
put a summary, so the title gets read out by the robot voice as well as the summary, so when
you hear the episode, it'll say the episode number, and then from the ex author called
this, and then it says, and then I'll read the short summary that you put there, it says
it should be 100 characters, and then below that you can say, does your episode include intro
music, yes or no, does your episode already contain the outro music, yes or no, and those
two things are saying, so there is a way, and I actually don't think I know the way, maybe
I could be a follow-up episode with someone who knows the answer to this, but apparently
there is somewhere out in the interwebs, these are the files for the intro and outro theme,
and you can save them locally, and then embed them into your episode, and so I think there's
all those alternatives, so sometimes you hear the alternative themes where you see there are
some person humming it, or some other rendition of the themes, if you hear that, that's because
someone has clicked the yes of radio selection for either intro or outro or both, then you
have the opportunity to say, is it explicit or not, the default answer is yes, if you're
in doubt, I always try to make my episodes not explicit, just because, not because I don't
like it, but just because what I want to present when I'm presenting in hacker public radio,
and then there's a section to add your notes, oh before I get there there's also a section
on what license you want to use, and the link, so if you want to learn more about what
Creative Commons licenses do, then you can do that, and if you want to have some other license
you want to use, you can click other, and then note section, you can either put plain text,
you can put HTML, you can put, if you look below there's a format, then you can do HTML5,
markdown, get up flavored, markdown, paddock flavored, restructure text, or text attacks,
and then you can just put your notes in there, your notes can be really complicated,
they could be, you know, you could have taken an hour or two and really thought them out,
or it could just be, you know, a list of the five links that you reference in your show,
whatever it is, you know, don't make having extensive show notes a barrier for you in getting your
episode out. A lot of times, a lot of my shows, I have made some shows that have quite
extensive notes, but some of them, I know myself, I'm like, well, if I wait till I write
the notes, I'm not going to make the show, so I'd rather have, I think everyone would
rather have a show than have a, no show, because someone's waiting to write really extensive
notes. And then if you're adding this to a series, you can put it there. If it's not a
series yet and you want to become a series, you can talk about that in your episode,
and one of the maintainers will add a new series for you after a couple of episodes have been
created for that series. You can add tags, which are just ways for you to
make it so that your episode is findable in search results. And then you can upload a photo
for this episode. You can also, but the most important thing is either upload the file or
point the file, point to a URL, when someone can find the file. And I've actually successfully
used the FTP show interface, I think one or two times. I don't know, I don't remember how
I did it, but it worked. And I talked to Dave Morris about it, and he was like, how did
you do that? I'm like, I don't know, I just tried it and it worked. So that is a functionality
too. But after you click submit, depending on how long your show is, it does take quite
a while, sometimes for your show to get uploaded if it's a really big file, and you have a
slow internet connection. So be patient, don't click or reload or anything after you click submit.
And then your show is uploaded. Now you just have to wait for the date where your show is going
to be aired on hacker public radio and wait there with beta breath. That's all I want to say.
Sometimes it can be a little bit confusing, and sometimes it's just helpful to have something
quick and easy to help you get through the site. So I'll include, see, I want to make
myself make show notes about what I just talked about, but they should be short. And like I always
say, keep packing, keep submitting shows.
You've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all
our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker public
radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club, and it's
part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please
email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode
yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
