Episode: 2490
Title: HPR2490: What's In My Podcatcher 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2490/hpr2490.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:05:12

---

This is HPR Episode 2490 entitled, What's in my podcatcher 2, and is part of the series,
podcast recommendations.
It is hosted by a huker, and is about 16 minutes long, and carries a clean flag.
The summary is a current report with descriptions of the podcast I enjoy.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
At Universal Access to All Knowledge, by heading over to archive.org, forward slash donate.
Hello, this is a huker, welcoming you to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
What I'm going to do is part two of looking at what is in my podcatcher and talking about
the different podcasts I listen to and why I find them interesting, and I may or may not
get through the remaining part this time, and if that's the case, then there'll be a part three,
which I'm actually thinking is not terribly unlikely.
So with that, let's get going here.
The next one I have in my alphabetical romp through G-Potter, which is what I use for
a podcatcher, is something called Hacker Public Radio.
I don't know if any of you have ever heard of that.
Of course, we're on Hacker Public Radio.
So I'm guessing I don't really have to do a whole lot of description about what the
podcast is or why I like it, because if you're listening to this, you also listen to Hacker
Public Radio.
So with that, let's go to healthcare triage.
Now this is something that comes out every few weeks roughly, and it starts with, you
may be familiar with Hank and John Green, who are a couple of brothers who do video series
of various kinds on YouTube, like Crash Course and SciShow and things like that.
So they do a lot of interesting things, and at some point, they set up a podcast called
healthcare triage, and originally, it was originally just a YouTube video series, and
it still is.
There is a YouTube video series with a doctor, Dr. Aaron Carroll, who basically takes a
look at different issues in medicine with a focus on what does the data show, and that's
something that is very important to me, and I suspect I'm going to be doing a few shows
for Hacker Public Radio to dig into that a little bit.
It's on the list of things I want to get to at some point, but then they decided to do
a spin-off and do an audio podcast, which was every few weeks is what it appears it's
going to be.
The idea is that originally, it was a live show where they would take questions from people,
but then they decided to make it more of a sort of a straight podcast thing.
So now, it involves bringing on a guest and doing an interview.
So the first episode of the new thing was talking about sex with Dr. Lindsay Doe from Sexplenations,
then episode two is about nutrition, episode three, palliative care.
The title we're all going to die, and then episode four was about what is a nurse practitioner.
So interesting stuff to me at least, and if that's the sort of thing you'd like to know
more about, then that's something you might want to tune into.
And again, as I said before on the first episode, I'm going to put links to all of these
in the show notes.
So if you are interested, you can jump in here and sign up.
Now the next one is called The History of Rome, which I'm having a lot of fun with.
There's a fellow named Mike Duncan, who is a freak about the history of Rome.
So he did this thing, and it's like 179 individual shows that track the history of Rome from
the very beginning up to the collapse of the Western Empire.
He does mention that some people had asked him to carry on and do the Eastern Roman Empire
or Byzantine Empire, and he decided, no, it's not really, I don't want to do that.
Instead he went on to do one called Revolutions, and we'll talk about that when we get there.
But this is a lot of fun.
If you're a history freak, and I am, my first degree was in history before I got an economics,
and it's something that I continue to be interested in.
Then there is a podcast called I Hear of Sherlock Everywhere, which the subtitle is The
Podcast for Sherlock Holmes Devoteys, and that's something I've always, I've had an interest
in for many years, and so this is a show where typically they interview someone from the
Sherlockian community, and has some discussion.
Then they spun off one called Triples, because this one is, they do this like twice a month,
the I Hear of Sherlock Everywhere, and it's like an hour long, and they did spin off one,
we'll get two trifles, it's like 15 minutes, and comes out weekly.
So this is, if you're into Sherlock Holmes, you might find this interesting.
I would say it's aimed as much as anything at the community of Sherlockians, and the
Baker Street, or regulars, and things like that.
Then there's one from the BBC called The Infinite Monkey Cage, which is Tons of Fun.
There are two hosts, Robin Ince, who is a comedian, and Brian Cox, who is an astrophysicist,
and between them, they do this show, and typically they'll do a season of like, you know, eight
or nine shows, and then shut down for a while, you know, some number of months, and then
come back with another season.
And what they do on this is they will bring on typically three guests, and they'll represent
a variety of backgrounds, so the last one, for instance, they had on someone who was
a professional magician, someone who was a scientist, and so they somehow tie all of that into
a discussion of the topic, which in this case was about, you know, how magic and how that
affects the way we think about things, so it's called The Science of Magic.
This is a fun show, and you know, well worth listening to.
And inquiring minds, and this is all about science and public policy in various ways.
So it's sort of a general science thing, but it will talk about some of the public policy
aspects of this, so for instance, how do you get politicians to talk about science?
And how do you deal with climate change, skeptics, and things like that?
And there are two hosts, Kishore Nahari and Indre Viscontas, and you might remember
I mentioned Indre when we talked about cadence, because she does that podcast about music
and the brain.
So this is the original one that where I first ran across her.
And so this comes out weekly, and is enjoyable.
Then there's one called Into the Impossible.
And this is a podcast put together by the Arthur C. Clark, I don't know what they call
it exactly, Arthur Clark Institute, or something that's at University of California at San
Diego, and generally it's a discussion of something that involves science or science
fiction, because Arthur Clark wrote about both.
So they'll talk about a variety of things, so they did a science fiction one called
Fantastica.
It had George R. Martin and Kim Stanley Robinson talking about science fiction.
And then they did one on CubeSats, and that is changing the way we do things in space.
So it's quite an eclectic sort of thing.
Then there's the Kate Bush fan podcast, a pretty irregular, you know, they did basically
about eight shows between June and September, and then I haven't heard from them.
So maybe it's going to disappear, you know, I will sometimes leave something in my pod catcher
for a year or two before I decide, all right, they've gone away.
If you're not a fan of Kate Bush, you would not have any interest in this.
But if you are a fan of Kate Bush, you might find it interesting.
But you know, the focus here is about what Kate Bush fans are doing, and some discussion
about some of them maybe have met Kate Bush, or you know, had some sort of interaction
somewhere, and how that worked out.
And Linux for the rest of us, that's door to door geek, and Cody Cooper.
And this is one that is highly irregular.
So you know, they might do several shows in a row, and then you won't hear from them
for a while.
So you know, this past year, for instance, they did two shows in April, and then nothing
until August.
And they did three shows.
And then they just did one in December.
I don't know when the next one is going to come.
But you know, every time I think they've disappeared for good, they somehow come back and
convince me that, oh no, we're still here.
And you know, I know these guys, I've been on their show.
That's always enjoyable, Dora and I have been to like Ohio Linux fest together, and so
it's a fun podcast.
Next one, Linux Voice.
Now Linux Voice, you may recall, was started by some people who left Linux Format Magazine
and decided, well, first they left the magazine.
They set up the podcast and then they decided, well, let's start our own magazine, which
was Linux Voice.
And it was, you know, it was a bit of a stretch.
They were trying to do some interesting things.
You know, they talked about how, you know, share the profits, we're going to go to open
source and things like that.
But you know, it's really hard to get a magazine going.
So you know, at a certain point they kind of pulled the plug on the magazine and said,
okay, and what they did is they hooked up with Linux Magazine, which if I understand this
properly has like a German and American versions.
So they kind of moved in with the English language version.
And you know, they're still writing, but now for a different magazine.
But they've kept up this podcast.
And again, this is somewhat irregular, depending on what's going on in people's lives.
They used to be, you know, every couple of weeks and then it sort of got to, well, maybe
it'll be three weeks and then maybe it'll be a couple of months.
So the last one I see here is from November.
All right, well, we'll see what happens.
Next the muggle cast.
The muggle cast is about Harry Potter and fantastic beasts and all of the JK Rowling fantasy
world, which I enjoy.
So you know, this is probably the best podcast in that area and you know, they are pretty
regular.
They're now coming out weekly, although every once in a while there's a little bit of a gap.
So for instance, here in the United States, we had the Thanksgiving holiday and they skipped
that week, but you know, holidays are holidays after all.
But this is pretty regular and so if you're a big fan of Harry Potter and fantastic beasts
and all of that, this is when you might want to look at.
Next nature podcast.
This is a podcast put out by Nature Magazine, which is a very highly respected magazine about
science.
And so not surprisingly, this podcast is all about science.
So typically each weekly podcast and they're pretty good about getting it out each week
is going to be about maybe two or three stories about science and generally pulled from
what is in the magazine itself.
So for instance, December 21st, earth science, artificial intelligence, science fiction
in the modern era, the previous week, batteries inspired by electric eels, protein shells
inspired by viruses, modeling magma viscosity.
So if you're a science geek, then you are probably going to enjoy this and as you may
have noticed, I have a number of science related podcasts in my feed.
It's something that I find very interesting.
So I think with that, we've probably done enough for another full episode.
I'm going to stop it here and this is a hookah signing off and reminding you as always
to support free software.
Bye bye.
You've been listening to Hecopublic Radio at HecopublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hecopublic Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a like, digital license.
