Episode: 2251
Title: HPR2251: 2016-2017 HPR New Year show episode 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2251/hpr2251.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:23:08

---

This is HPR Episode 2251 entitled HPR New Year Show Episode 5.
It is hosted by Mario Stost and is about 170 minutes long and can in the next visit flag.
The summary is Haka Public Radio New Year's Eve Show Episode 5.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
You know, this is the very first time that I've seen this many people on this channel.
Usually I always see like anywhere from 1 to 3 on here and hardly ever anybody on here.
Well, Happy New Year's.
Happy New Year to you too.
Well, this new show brings out the people out of the woodwork I should say.
Yeah, we had people from open Linux community here and Jupiter broadcasting here.
Yeah, it's been pretty big today.
I was on one of the first ones they did and it was pretty awesome.
So when does Ken normally record his monthly wrap-up of the HPR15?
The Saturday before the first Monday of the month, I believe.
Though they did last month, last Thursday.
Probably earlier in the days since he's European.
Yeah, it's usually like right at lunchtime for me.
Yeah, that's probably about when I get up.
Anyone go to this year, this past year, Southeast Linux?
Oh, you're pretty faint. I didn't hear what you said.
Did anybody go to this past year's Southeast Linux fest?
All right.
I've been back there in a couple of years.
Just wondered if it was still the same.
I used to follow the 88s and a couple of southern guys that were for the bungee community members
when we had that little group for a bunch of supporters over there.
But I didn't hear anything from them later.
I know Dave dropped out quite a few years back when he did the first two, I think.
And then life got in the way and he had to bail out on that.
It's Jeremy took it over and he's been running ever since the thing.
Yeah, I think Jeremy and another guy had a podcast for a while
or a video cast and I quit doing that.
Yeah, Jeremy was doing a couple of podcasts for a while.
That's going pretty far back, I guess.
We need Linux basement back.
Dave eight is one of the first ones I ever listened to when I started Linux.
And this is stories about winning Debian on his spark or same station, whatever that does.
That's giant hardware.
Yeah, yeah, he did in the closet.
Is this any better?
I just turned it up a little bit.
Oh, a little bit.
You just sound kind of far away.
I feel far away.
Now it should be a little louder far away.
Yeah, that's pretty better.
Yeah, and chest griffin.
I used to listen to chest griffin all the time.
Yeah, well it shows my recycle bin.
Yeah, I remember he did a hundred shows and that's where he stopped.
I can't even remember the name of his show, but he had really a good show.
I think you can still find it on archive.org.
Yeah, I used to use his version of bash potter before I put my podcast on my phone.
Yeah, he was big in the Slackware.
Yeah, Helen, Dan, and Clawtooth.
It's Slackware.
Yeah, where is the old Clawtooth?
I haven't heard him on today.
Oh, he's probably got another three hours, three or four hours before his news.
No, this is before ours, isn't it? New Zealand?
Oh, is that one start first?
He's right around the beginning of it, I think.
Because the last one is what?
Why, isn't it?
Probably the last US one.
I thought Australia and New Zealand were last, but I guess they were first.
No.
Australia is definitely ahead of us by like 10 hours or something.
Yeah, by quite a bit more than I thought.
No, I thought it was a half a day ahead.
Yes, Peter.
Peter 64 used to come on at like early morning for him, and it would be like late afternoon for us.
All right, 9 o'clock to New Zealand right now on January 1st, PM.
Yeah, and what's Australia?
Oh, I thought Clawtooth was in New Zealand.
Oh, he is, yeah, but Peter 64 is in Australia.
I'm just wondering the difference in time.
I think it's about three hours in it.
Yeah, it couldn't be more than just a few.
Yes, that puts Clawtooth 13 hours ahead of us.
No, 16 hours, right?
New Zealand's 13 hours ahead of GMT.
Okay, he says 9 PM there, right?
Yeah, but he's about 20 hours ahead of me in Arizona.
Oh, yeah, right.
It's 3 a.m. here, and it's midnight there.
Yeah, it's 1 o'clock.
Okay, so you're only two, right? Two hours difference.
He might have been on the very beginning of the show.
I don't think I caught the very beginning.
I missed quite a bit today.
We had it run in the background.
And would my Bluetooth do piecing?
That's me suffering for not paying for cellular account.
Oh, I was running off the Wi-Fi from the house.
Right, but when I was out running around, I had to leave the Wi-Fi.
Ah, yes, this is true.
You don't have many hotspots out there?
Not in my car.
Actually, there's one spot where if I'm waiting to cross the train tracks,
and there's a train there, I'm right across the street from a Starbucks,
and I can get theirs.
Oh, yeah, they got Google Wi-Fi in there now.
I did half a dozen conversions here for Google's new stuff in Starbucks.
They've taken over even all the grocery store coffee.
Google, you mean?
Yeah, I guess so.
I used to just be able to get a cup of coffee,
and now I got to buy a $5 Starbucks.
Yeah, that's how much their coffee is.
Ain't it $4 a change?
Hey, you know, I got a really good Starbucks deal not too long ago.
If it wasn't free, it ain't a good deal in Starbucks, in my opinion.
Well, you know, the bag of Starbucks coffee is about $12 bucks, you know?
One day I was in CVS, and they had the bags for like $5.99,
and I said, what?
You got to be kidding me.
So I decided to get two of them, and I got the Starbucks English breakfast,
and that's the coffee that it's not too weak, and it's not too strong.
It's right in the middle, it's just right.
Every time I go to Starbucks, it's just like burnt coffee beans to me.
Yeah, don't ever get anything dark at Starbucks.
The espresso is overdone for sure.
So any espresso drink always tastes like that.
I just get regular coffee, and it tastes like that.
I'm like, oh, this is terrible.
Who would drink this stuff?
My ex-boyfriend.
I do drink quite a bit of coffee,
but man, I've been really enjoying the puerities.
A friend of mine orders them from some supplier from LA.
Other incredible.
And he's spelled that.
P-U-R maybe?
P-U-E-R maybe?
It's a type of tease, but they get some advantage.
Oh, look at this vintage, like a wine almost.
It's crazy.
Oh, that's just the tea leaves, and you put them,
do you run them through the strainer without water?
The strainer just make them in some clay pots and teapots and stuff.
Yeah, and a friend of mine sent me a couple.
I don't know, three or four different kinds.
I didn't even got to try them yet.
The different teas really need to be brewed slightly different.
Some of these need to be stressed with the hot water first and rinsed,
and then super flash brewed, and you get some real nice floral tones.
It's really interesting how they have such a distinctly different flavor profile.
Yeah, my wife is the tea drinker.
I just, any kind of plain coffee you can give me is good enough for me, except for Starbucks.
We're fortunate over here.
We do a lot of work for the coffee growers, websites, and signs and labels and all kinds of stuff.
So we get a good variety of samples from different people,
and some people we find that we likely actually buy from.
And one of the differences you can notice in a coffee whole bean is if you look in the bag,
and if there's any chips whatsoever, in other words, non-full beans,
they're not where we pay an attention to how they sort their coffee.
And so when you get a bunch of little chips and stuff, when they roast it that way,
it kind of throws the flavor off.
So you'll notice a difference actually pretty much anybody can notice the difference
in something like a Starbucks, you know, 6,000 kinds of different bean pieces and chips in there,
and one that's actually just all whole beans.
So that's something to look for if you have the ability to look in the bag before you actually buy it.
I remember years ago, we used to go to, I think it was AMP or ShopRain.
You used to have the 8 o'clock coffee.
You buy into beans and you take them up to the register and you grind them yourself.
Yeah, when I lived in Texas, the big channel there is HEB grocery store.
And before I left, they started having all these kind of bulk food kind of things.
They basically turned every store into like a semi-holed foods kind of layout.
And so they had this really good coffee and they had several different kinds
and actually the French roasts were actually good.
And you can see in those bulk bins that they're actually whole beans,
they're not a bunch of chips.
So it usually turns out pretty good.
Yeah, that's the way these were.
They were everybody raved about them.
And I mean, they weren't expensive at all.
But they were pretty good.
I think they were Colombian beans anyway.
But I don't know, they were pretty good.
They always smell good when you grind the coffee.
Yeah, if you see any of those real light pal looking beans,
you got to get rid of those, too, because they're horrible if you grind them in.
They're like runts, ain't they?
They're ungrown.
They didn't grow enough.
Yeah, I don't know what's wrong with them, but they don't roast for some reason.
And they smell cracky.
If you don't grade the beans by the size,
you can actually get, I think there's like four different sizes of beans.
But the extra fancy is like the big bean and the fancy is a little bit smaller.
Then they had just the general, which is smaller than that.
And there's one called Peaberry.
And the Peaberry is the one that everywhere except Hawaii,
they consider trash beans and they don't typically put them in.
But they're small because they're one bean per pod.
So if you think of like a cherry,
like a cherry soda, you know, cherry fruit,
each bean is a cherry, basically.
And so inside that cherry,
you get two halves of a coffee bean.
Well, the Peaberry is just one bean in there instead of two halves.
And so this Peaberry,
they've turned into a kind of a premium thing over here.
And so if you buy Hawaiian coffee and it's Peaberry,
it's going to be like $10 a bag more for that kind of coffee.
When you go elsewhere,
nobody actually uses that Peaberry.
They throw it out.
So it's kind of a weird dynamic.
I really enjoy the Ethiopian Peaberry in a light roast.
And a friend of mine buys his beans green and roasts them himself.
And he gave me some of this Ethiopian Peaberry
that he roasted earlier in the day.
And he told me it had blueberry notes to it.
And I laughed and said, yeah, whatever.
I brewed it and by God, it tasted like blueberries.
Blueberry coffee, huh?
Just notes kind of like where they say the Hawaiian taste like tobacco,
but it doesn't taste like you're eating a cigarette.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
Yeah, different coffees with the light roast.
It's kind of like tea.
Like you're talking about the tea.
If you handle it a little bit differently,
you get completely different flavors out of the same bean a lot of times.
That's what counts on how you grind it too, right?
Yeah, somewhat, but you know,
there's several different things you have to consider when you're making it.
Are you making it during espresso drink?
Are you making it as a coffee drink, French press or whatever?
They're all going to have a different grind.
And even if you take three different kinds of coffee
and grind them the same espresso grind,
they're going to taste different because you've ground them differently.
So you can kind of tweak it.
And if you've ever seen like coffee competitions,
what do you do?
What's called coffee cupping?
And then they'll go off into the weeds and they'll have the, you know,
the barista competition where they have them, you know,
make up some new drink or whatever.
Those guys really get into the weird details of all this stuff.
It's kind of interesting, but I'm not that proficient at it myself.
Even to the point of grinding them within a certain period of time
after the roast.
Yeah, usually you want to wait a couple of days before you grind any coffee
after it's roasted.
The guy that owns a company I worked for roast coffee.
And so we'll buy green coffee from places around here
and he'll order some online.
And he roasted at home.
It's always a little bit different.
And I've roasted it too.
And I kind of like a little bit darker.
He likes a little bit lighter.
But yeah, they'll taste different.
If you just handle it just a little bit differently, grind it a little bit differently.
It's kind of interesting.
I like a nice light roast in the morning,
but in afternoon cup, nice dark, rich with milk.
So it really depends on what you're looking for, I guess.
I've taken a brew to hold pot in the morning, drink one or two cups out of it.
And put it in the refrigerator and made ice coffee out of it later on in the evening.
On the summer around here, I make a pot of coffee, put it in the fridge,
then pour it into ice cube trays for my ice coffee.
That's a good idea.
Ice coffee goes way too fast though.
Yeah, I put French vanilla cream in it.
So it definitely goes fast.
We've got a nice bird grinder at work that we use for work coffee.
And then I found during the Amazon Thanksgiving sale or whatever,
they had this, one of the panels was a hand grinder.
It was a ceramic, conical hand grinder.
It's like a, you know, you turn it in your hand.
And it was like a $50 grinder for 20 bucks.
So I started looking at them.
And they have exactly the same $50 grinder for like seven bucks.
The difference is that handle on it is plastic instead of stainless steel,
but everything else is identical.
So I got one of those.
And then about a week later, it went a dollar cheaper.
So I got another one.
So I've got two like $7 hand grinders that are identical.
And stainless steel body, their ceramic grinder gears inside for 15 bucks.
And they're selling this stuff for 50 bucks.
And it's a lot nicer with the conical grinder because it's an even grind.
So you don't get that dust.
The dust kind of makes it a bitter taste if you don't filter it out.
Oh, the bird grinders are far superior.
Yeah, I don't, I just don't have room in my kitchen for a electric one.
So the integrated one is fine.
A special takes a little bit longer.
It's probably like five minutes to grind a double shot.
That's something I was off the grid for.
Go ahead.
That's something I could never get accustomed to was an espresso.
It's just not my cup tea, so to say.
I like coffee myself.
We've got a coffee shop here in town that everybody loves, but they don't serve coffee.
Everything is espresso.
And if you ask for a cup of coffee, they give you an Americana.
That's what we're going to say.
Just just making Americana with the same thing.
Port over ice, I could slightly agree with that.
I usually do a four shot espresso latte in the morning.
And then at work, we have coffee in the afternoon.
And then I might have another one at night.
A lot of coffee drinking over here.
I'm thinking that I might run a cup of coffee now before I go to bed.
Yeah, I've kind of had the back off a little bit on the coffee because of my blood pressure.
They said, uh, you drinking too much coffee.
I said, okay.
I do find it messing with my circulation a bit.
I think if I had a three or four shot espresso in the morning, I'd have art populations or something.
They'd have to peel me off the ceiling.
I think one mountain do, and it feels like four cups of coffee.
That's the mountain dude.
It doesn't do that to me.
I don't know why.
We used to drink jolt back in high school all day.
Oh yeah, jokol.
I remember that.
All the sugar twice, the caffeine.
The owner of the door of our geek still puts caffeine in his water.
Wasn't that coffee?
Well, no.
I think you had liquid caffeine that he would buy online somewhere.
And he, you know, a bottle of water, you know, a bottle of drinking water.
Nothing in it.
He'd put this liquid caffeine in it.
And he'd have that instead of coffee.
I guess.
Sounds like something door would do.
I have no problem drinking a cup of coffee and going to bed.
It doesn't bother me in the least.
Actually, lifting tea hits me harder than any of the coffee I drink.
Well, I read a while back that tea has more caffeine than coffee.
I don't know how.
Well, the heat from grind from roasting the beans does kill some of the caffeine.
In coffee, I mean.
Yes.
So the lighter the roast, the more caffeine you have in that bean.
That explains a light breakfast blend and get you going in the morning.
Yes, sir.
And the Earl Grey.
Yeah, like Picard, right?
Earl Grey hot.
So has anyone made an extra episode this year?
Your last year?
Yeah, we put out five of them a week.
No, I mean, anyone in the chat right now.
No, not I.
I'm just getting back into the forums and everything.
I didn't put one out before this year, but this year I did a few.
I figured I'd listen to you guys talk about stuff for seven or eight years before I contribute.
Well, you're putting one out now.
Yeah, you're following your two-year commitment today.
Well, I think I think I did.
I can't even think right now because I'm kind of tired.
But I think I did maybe three or four this year.
Probably the ones that you guys all decided not to listen to because it didn't sound interesting.
I'll be honest with you, I haven't listened to any in about two years.
So I have a lot of catching up to do so I'll let you know.
I don't think I've skipped anything, so I've probably heard yours too.
Started with automotive billing.
I did one on my buddy, the neighborhood cat.
And my most recent was on art appreciation.
I might have done another one I can't remember right now.
I think the heart one isn't my cue so, but I heard the other one.
I always go through the list and I pick out the ones that I'm interested in first and I fill in later on.
Ah, that was my other one was split in a block of beeswax.
Oh yeah, I can never figure out what that was for.
Why were you splitting a block of beeswax?
I'm not entirely sure what I'm doing with all of it, but I am going to make some sobs with some of it.
And I was splitting it because I only owned one quarter of it.
Oh yeah, I knew why you were splitting it.
I didn't know what the ultimate use of it was.
It'll have multiple uses.
Did you use a bandsaw?
I used a knife and a heat gun.
As in heating the knife up?
Yes.
And it was in real time.
It seemed like it was at the wrong time.
Actually now that I remember I had to chop out a bunch of that audio because it was horrible quality
that I promised I would redo for an episode.
That's it, now you have to do it.
I do.
It was one I've been meaning to do for a while about a pretty simple clay project that anyone could do and get a good pot out of it.
I guess I'll have to listen to that one.
I'm pretty sure that most people probably cut out while the heat gun was going for the second time.
But at the end of the episode there is an offer for anyone who wants to come find me and Flagstaff Arizona for a free pot.
Be careful how you tote that free pot now.
I was going to say that a lot of people go along life for free pot.
Yeah, I might build exactly.
Well, I'm going to be firing up the kiln here pretty soon so we'll be smoking some pots too.
Oh, they'll definitely be coming in droves then.
Yeah, it reminds me of a hiccup 45 on YouTube.
You always do does a shooting show or whatever and has like a gallery and has clay pots out there.
And he's like, oh, yeah, we're going to smoke us a pot.
I don't know, guns and smoking pot doesn't sound like a good combination.
We got a drive-through liquor store here that used to have the sign up.
It said ruffs guns and liquor and he changed the sign, but he still sells guns and liquor through the drive-through.
I remember when I was a kid we went out to Phoenix from when my nephew was born and my brother-in-law worked for liquor store.
And that's when Cours was not in East Coast yet.
Cours was like something new out there in Arizona and everybody was, everybody was buying it because it was like 99 cents at six back.
I think it was six months later it showed up in the East Coast for about $4.69 cents at six back.
No, I mean, they even made a movie about it.
Yeah, wasn't that smoking the bandit before?
Yeah.
Made from Rocky Mountain Springwater.
Made a movie in a song.
Well, now it's part of the reason that I'm dead.
Go ahead.
No, please don't.
You were saying?
Oh, I was just saying that around here.
They upsell Platt Paps Blue Ribbon at the bars, $4.50.
Oh my god, a little PBR, holy cow.
You have to wear a trucker hat when you get it though.
With a big old chain drive wallet.
This is a university town.
So whatever's hit is what they sell.
Oh my god, I can't believe that.
She's Paps Blue Ribbon.
I don't know, man.
And the town's full of breweries.
You can get good beer everywhere.
Yeah, but you can't get PBR.
Are we even rolling around those cool at one time?
Oh, yeah.
I'm a little seven ounce nips, man.
They were the best.
I'm going to buy eight pack of those and have four of them gone
before you left the parking lot.
Rockets are starting to fly.
What time is it there?
10.35.
Well, you all have a nice evening.
I will be back on in the morning sometime.
Talk to another bunch.
Pleasure talking to all you.
51.50.
You can tell everybody that I didn't die or anything like that.
OK, I'll pass that along, Art.
Hi, Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, everybody.
Have a good night.
Does anybody have a classic New Year's movie they watch?
Their base favorite Christmas movie seems to be die hard,
but I don't know about a particular New Year's movie.
I really think of trading places.
I never thought it'd die hard.
I guess that could be Christmas.
I always liked that die hard.
I was in New York because they had this great chase scene
on the Bronx River Parkway, which was one of my favorite roads
to drive down.
I always thought it was neat.
They were driving those giant trucks under the city.
Am I back?
You are back.
You're there?
Yeah.
Oh, my ISP has dropped me like six times in the last hour.
I'm not happy.
I'm probably going to channel my frustration
buying a handgun.
Probably Russian hackers.
Eek.
Well, then I should buy a Russian handgun.
There you go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm Makarov.
Yeah.
I'd like to say that.
Yeah.
I'd like to record some bootloaders
for some of these Android phones.
I've actually seen some videos, you know,
very highly prizing the Makarov button.
In this case, one I've been looking at is a
is a plastic transmission
lesson that's on law enforcement trade in.
Yeah.
The reason why I like the Makarov
is because the sites was perfect on that soccer.
Oh, and another good one.
It would be a M16 machine gun.
Yeah.
I'm not a big fan of VR M16.
I am in the market for a mini 30.
I was in high school.
We went to West Point, shot the M16, the A2s.
It felt like a toy.
I don't know if I'd want one of those.
You're back 50.
I am.
And screw my ISP.
I feel like that sometimes.
Well, I just walked into all kinds of problems today.
It was just right after midnight.
All kinds of stuff was like giving me trouble.
That's when you just say the heck with it and go to bed.
You know, I got really excited a couple of days ago
about I saw some cartoon on Google
or this is a picture of a little mouse burning down
2016 saying it's all years 2017.
I got really excited.
I said, man, 2017 can be great yearplough off.
Can I hit the ground running?
I'm going to do a bunch of stuff.
You know, accomplish this, accomplish that.
I always got all kinds of happy.
And then December the 31st came in
and all hell broke loose.
Like maybe 2016 wasn't so bad.
Yeah, I think I saw the same cartoon two or three times.
So yeah, you know,
I'm hoping the rest of us don't
copy your experience with 2017.
Yeah, I'm trying to hang in there.
I really am trying to hang in there
and say in Linda, man,
she's just a gem at these kind of things.
You know, it's like, I mean,
like every disaster,
it seemed like every disaster that could happen happened.
You know, and little kittens in there.
She's like, oh, this is good news.
No, don't, don't, don't, don't diss the new year yet.
I'm like, I don't know.
Maybe it's like, you know,
we were dissing it and saying how good was to be gone.
Maybe it's one of those deals you never knew
what you had until it was gone.
But I haven't given up yet.
I'm staying strong.
I came in here to do the hacker public radio thing.
I've got, I've got this setup
that's just way too complex.
And I'm trying to lighten the load a lot.
Like I think I forgot how many rows of monitors
that we counted in this house.
Mounted to walls and stuff.
But it's, you know, like, I don't know,
17 rows of monitors on the walls.
And various spots.
I mean, I'm serious.
You could, I've posted a couple of pictures
of what my work area looks like.
And it's, I think there's
when he seven monitors in this room,
it's too much.
I've got a, I've got a dial back.
And, you know, one of the things I did was,
I said, well, I'm going to get rid of that top row
and pull those machines
and just be done with it.
And I had made, I had experimented
with a mumble to Skype
to Google Hangouts Bridge
that bridged it all together.
It was pretty cool, too.
And I had it, all of it.
The sound was all hooked up with mix-minuses
using optical cables.
And so I had all of this stack
of Firewire boxes, audio boxes.
All stack of them.
And they were all, you know,
one optical going into the other,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
The ins and outs crossed
and everything.
And they had it all hardware locked
because you got to get the timing on the,
I guess you got a master chip
that sends out a clock signal
for the optical audio.
And everything else syncs up to it.
And I had forgotten about that
that the machines were sitting there
my main machine that I use
for mumble and whatnot
sitting there trying to clock up
to these machines that aren't there anymore.
And it's audio just went to heck.
And it's like, what is the deal with that?
Finally, and when I first came into the room,
my audio was just horrible.
And that's one of the reasons why
that no sooner than I got up,
I got up and turned around
to go reboot that machine.
And I kicked a stack
of 100 DVDs across the room by accident,
containing all kinds of great stuff.
And not movies.
It's all data, you know,
backups of operating systems
and beams and pillars and whatnot.
I had to find all those,
clean all the dust off
because they all hit the floor
and stack them all up
and re-number them and whatnot.
It's just been one thing after another.
Well, no, the reason I laugh
is because yesterday
I thought I was extreme geek.
I had a, you know,
I go around to the
thrift stores
and if I find
like a 15-inch LCD,
I can get for three, four, five bucks.
I'll grab it.
And, uh,
current to be the other day,
I've got to be a sense, uh,
box, you know,
doing my routing
and then I've got
another box running
Nogios,
uh, uh,
Pi2, you know,
screwed to the board
at my point of, uh,
you know,
where the internet comes in
and all that, you know,
in my, in my
in my room where the network is.
And I'm thinking,
you know, I thought,
well, I could use
a monitor in here,
uh, so that, um,
if I have, uh,
you know, cast
traffic problem
or one of these machines,
I can plug a monitor into it
rather than actually, you know,
disconnecting it
from the system
and bringing it,
you know,
into another room.
So, the way I did that,
I got like a
10-inch board hinge
and drilled it to match the
visa mounts on the back
of one of these little
monitors.
And, you know,
I just hung it,
hung it in there.
You know, I've got a board
where stuff is screwed,
you know,
uh, hardware is screwed too,
so I screwed
half the, uh,
hinge into that,
and then,
the other hinge,
I drilled out
to match the visa mounts
on the, uh,
you know,
like 13-inch
uh, monitor
and hung it there.
So I've got a monitor there
where I can plug stuff into
and, uh,
see what's going on,
you know,
but, you know,
you mentioned like 17 rows of
monitors,
and I am not, you know,
uh,
I bow to you
and you're geeked this
because I'm not,
you know, I'm not
worthy.
Oh, it's just a row of
monitors.
I mean, just bunches
of them.
It's a bunch of holes
in the wall
and I'm not,
I'm not worthy.
Oh, it's just a row of
monitors.
I mean, just bunches
of them.
It's a bunch of holes
in the wall.
I'm going to have to
patch, as I
pull them down.
I'm getting rid
of them.
It's all
work related.
I don't,
uh, I've got
a dial back.
I seriously
got a dial back,
especially when
then I are ever going
to sell this damn
place and get
out of Florida.
I've got to figure
out a way to get
out of here.
You know, people talk
about, oh, you know,
my work room looks
like a tech explosion.
My whole house
looks like a tech
explosion.
I mean, I've got
piles of,
well, I think we talked
about that in the last
Linux logcast.
I've got piles of
stuff from here
to the garage and back
in every room,
including the bedroom,
just piled high.
And I can't deal
with this anymore.
I got to do something.
I remember a happy
life when I had a couple
of laptops.
One of them was
an emergency
laptop for
when I spilled my coffee.
I got by just fine.
I don't need
a screen burn.
Well, you know, you've
heard me talk about, you
know, building the new
house.
It's like telling the
contractor, yeah, I don't
want to be more
than four feet
for reason that any
place in the house
and in the office, I don't
want to be more than
two feet.
And so, you know,
I got a network
connector or something.
Yeah.
You know, you know,
you've heard me talk
about, you know, building
the new house.
It's like telling the
contractor, you know, you
know, you've got
ethernet built into the
walls.
And then, you know, like
here, right here in the
house, about a high
level when you're
sitting down.
I've got above the desk, you
know, I've got every two
feet, a four-panel
ethernet, you know, four-
wired ethernet
connectors.
And then the rest of the
house is along four-
level.
But, you know, it's
every four feet.
Oh, what did that
happen?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
When we moved into this
house back in, when this
is a 1996, 1998, this
brand-new house, I had a
little over a mile, a cat
five put lighthouse into
the walls.
Going through the roof
space.
crawlspace up there.
Well, it's a hepproove,
it's not a crawlspace,
it's a stand-up supply
He teaped out, you know, at the time you could get two connections out of a cat five cable
because it was just, you know, you could run a hundred megabits out of each side.
Right, whether you could do full duplex or not.
Yeah, yeah.
So he ended up wiring the whole house half duplex, and I didn't realize it at the time.
And of course, you know, it wasn't that much longer before gigabits, which just came out
and flipped it in and said, hey, what the heck?
And you know, called him up and he's like, oh, I don't do that business anymore.
And so I can see why I paid a lot of money to have literally a mile, a cat five run
up in there.
And so we ended up, I've got, I've got the same situation in every wall.
There is no less than four cat five connections and two phone lines.
This is back when dial up was, you know, popular.
And we had two phone lines and four cat fives in every wall as a minimum.
You know, I mean, in some places, there's a lot more than that.
And it all turned out to be fairly worthless in the end.
We had, we made some connectors to re-duplex some of that.
And so we could run some cat five, but then some animal got up there in the attic.
And eight into the cables.
And so then we were going to do this podcasting thing where we wired up microphones and cameras
and made a little studio in the garage in the living room and here and there.
Linda and our office girl at the time made trunk cables going through the house.
And there are some six inch trunk cables going through this house.
I could, you know, I posted some pictures on Google of this stuff.
It's crazy.
And I started a slow process of yanking all that stuff out.
I am backing the machines up one last time and starting to decommission them.
And the few that I'm going to keep, I'm nuking and paving them.
And plan to put what I call no way away us.
I want just a desktop with almost nothing that nothing that phones home.
I may build the file manager and build in the notepad.
I'm mad about the little file managers like novelists and whatnot are susceptible to a drive
by an exploit where you can take especially crafted image file, for example, or sound file
and throw it in a directory somewhere.
And then you can navigate somewhere close to that directory.
And because of the file preview or whatnot, it'll go run out and try to generate
thumbnails or previews with the files.
And as it picks them up and runs them through whatever library, your exploit happens.
And some of this stuff, even if you turn off previews and stuff,
it still runs out and gets file information.
And I'm like, that's just, that's more than I need.
I don't want that.
I just need some basic tools.
And then I'll run everything in a VM and let it get crapped out by something.
You know what I mean?
I want lightweight OS and just run everything in a VM.
So I'm busy as heck, decommissioning machines.
We'll back them up the last time, decommissioning them, and then trying to get some systems put
together that are just nuked and paved and cleaned out.
It's been a lot of work.
Yeah, I noticed that from the last few times you joined this, you know, the minimalist
thing.
And, you know, when I, I believe when I ran the cable here in this house, well, the contractor
pulled all the cable, but I did all the terminations, you know, so, you know, all the wall plates.
The patch panels at the center of the network, that's all me.
Yeah, that's what I should have done, but, you know, I was busy at the time, and it is
like, you know, hey, pay the contractor guy, you know, he'll get it right.
Contractor guy's rarely get anything right.
Well, I've had one guy, he's really good, man, I mean, I was shocked at some of the work
this guy did in like less than an hour, anyway, as a long story, but like one of these
miracle workers that come in and you just sit back, total amazement at the job that
they do, and at the price they do it at, go, wow, yeah, this guy, I got kind of burned
on my, I don't guess it would have made that much of difference anyway, because whatever
animal got in there, should do half that stuff.
I have really had a problem with, I've had my stuff in the house, I think I finally got
rid of all of them here recently, but, and occasionally, you know, I have had some dead
circuits, but I think that's just because, you know, the cabling I had was made for
infrastructure, and it's not, you know, it's kind of stiff, you know, so somebody did
a real short corner on it and probably break it, but, you know, you got to look at that,
you have different cabling for going vertically than horizontally and different stuff for making,
you know, your own patch cables as far as doing your infrastructure, so, but, yeah, I
I've had pretty good looks so far.
I've got to redo the routers, I've got to redo everything, I, I've got to get a PF sense
box in here, I'm just derelict and so much stuff, I've just gotten, gotten way behind
on everything.
Well, just earlier, earlier in the day, I had old, uh, Belkin router that, you know, one
click, convert, since I had the PF sense on a router box, one click, convert the Belkin
from a router to just an access point, but I've had trouble with my Chromecast dropping
off of it and having to go back and reset it, so, you know, one of the projects I had was,
okay, I'll take one of my single board computers and, uh, you know, uh, well, I had a, uh,
Wi-Fi already built in, it was an orange pi zero, but I figured, no, that's not going
to get, gets too far, but, uh, well, yeah, uh, you know, your favorite distro are me and, uh,
they had both, uh, you know, uh, Debian and Ubuntu, and I came across this page that,
you know, it's a while back, uh, that, you know, uh, you know, add this PPA and make
you Ubuntu into, into an access point, and I thought, okay, great, but, you know, I got,
because I already had Debian on it and I said, okay, we'll, we'll wipe the card, we'll put,
uh, put the, the Ubuntu builds on it and then grab the PPA and then install the package that
said need to be in the package was deprecated. Of course, you know, there's about three years behind,
uh, and there's a, you know, there was a manual way to go through it, but they'd only done,
I think they only supported one, uh, uh, uh, uh, wireless Nick, you know, only, only one driver,
so that didn't work out either. And then I was looking today, uh, you know, you look in your email,
and new eggs, you know, oh, yeah, these are our deals and I'd wanted another, uh, you know,
unmanaged, uh, uh, hub, uh, network hub for the stuff that I wanted to throw over, you know,
on my, uh, guest network that I didn't want, you know, didn't want talking to, you know,
my network where I have my information, I just want stuff to go straight to the internet.
Right. And I've, you know, I, and I've talked about that. That's easier said than done with PF
Sense, apparently. That's one of the things I want to do. I want to create a set, you know, I've got a,
USB ethernet card plugged in. I want that to be completely segregated and it's just the opposite.
I can, I can ping everything on my own, you know, on the other network,
but I can't get out to the web. So, uh, I'm working on that, but, you know, my, my whole idea for
that was, well, plug that into a hub and 24 port hub, which is way more connections I'll ever need,
uh, for that, but I did, I did want a separate network for
internet of things, devices that I don't want talking to my network. Yeah. Anyway, I'm, I'm back.
Um, yeah, I'm back. Oh, cool, subs, subs. But yeah, I got to that point and then ordering has said,
oh, combine this with the sonic wall, uh, you know, access point. And I've worked with those before,
professionally. And, you know, uh, well, Tom Moore's always tell these and, um, you know, and, and I can't
counter him. I mean, did, you know, wow, these things are just great. So, you know, rather, rather than
setting, setting up a single war computer is like, yeah, I've got an opportunity to get to
get a sonic wall. This, this is, this is the way I need to go. So, uh, that's, that's what I did today.
Long story short. Well, to probably wait to, wait to long story to be short now, but, uh, that's,
that's how I'm going. I still want to sit down and, uh, figure out how to make a single
war computer into an access point because, you know, Linux has commands in there for creating a
bridge, but the trouble is you create, you create a bridge and then on the back side of it, you have
to, uh, numerate, uh, the, uh, um, hardware address, the MAC address for every device that's
connecting. So, you can't just put out a bridge out there like war and access point like we're
thinking, you know, uh, you, you got to grab that, uh, that the MAC address for anything connecting
to it and throwing it in there. Uh, so, you know, that's not, if that's probably the way you do it for
security, you know, have the MAC address of everything that's on your system and, uh, verify that,
but that's not, that's not the way most of us do it. Yeah, I run everything statically,
um, everything's a static address. Have you thought about using, uh, one of those bokehors?
I've heard of that, but, you know, remind me. It's a little bored, it's the size of a postage stamp
and it's got, uh, uh, open WRT installed on it, uh, by default, it's a little Linux board,
little, little MIPS controller on there. It's got Wi-Fi built in, uh, you can get a little hat
port that gets you one ethernet, but it's got, uh, five, um, it's got five neck cards on the thing,
five ports and it's a size of a postage stamp, literally. Um, kind of says about 360 megahertz.
It's got enough, um, you know, to be a router, yes, plenty of power to be a router, but it's like the
size of a postage stamp, literally, it's got built in Wi-Fi. I've got one of the original,
uh, they put the version two on sale. I just saw something over
pod nuts. They're saying it was on sale at a marriage with for $17. See that up.
Oh wow. Two. Yeah, $17.95. It's, uh, at the mini PC doors, mini PC show,
if you got a web browser. Yeah, if you want to post a link into the, uh, uh,
I'll cast planet, uh, or, or in the mumbled chat, I'd like to look at that. Uh,
hmm, yeah. I was looking earlier, you know, last week, uh, I don't know if you initiated it,
there was more than one person dropped in the, you know, the arm box that, you know,
running PF scents. And, you know, I looked earlier on arm because I have the, uh, the, uh,
banana pie router box, but, you know, it's only IP tables or, um, IP fire, you know, there's not,
you know, not PF scents for it. Yeah, I was the one that said something that I'd seen that
somebody do some sort of arm port somewhere. And it's one of these deals where I'm just kicking
myself for not better saving back. I've got it somewhere. It's somewhere, you know, but my life
is just so upside down, I stashed it somewhere, but somebody had done that. I'm pretty sure.
Well, it must not be official because you've got the official PF scents, uh, site, you know,
there's no build for arm. I know. What have I done? And, you know, there's, there's this company
selling PF scents on arm. So, you know, there's got to be a build out there for it. I have seen,
I have seen it. And, you know, somewhere I've stashed backlink for that. It's kind of like, um,
when door first, uh, I sent door, um, as first banana pie, we were playing with them and stuff.
And I found some distro that was really cool that fit on the thing. I think it was a
bend to, I think it was a bend to image, not the official one, but I was running it. And for
the life of me, I couldn't find the disc image I'd saved it back somewhere. And he's like,
where did you get that? I said, I don't remember. I said, I saved it back somewhere. I've just got
a fun where I threw that. And I'm not sure I ever did find it. Uh, well, I've got a couple bananas
pies I've never used. I've got the, I've got the router version and the pro version or reason I've
got that. Uh, you know, we were talking around on the internet about, uh, crash plan. And I said,
well, no, I don't have any place to offsite to a crash plan surfer and, you know, uh, Richard Hughes
says, of course you do. You need to do it in my house. So I got as far as buying the banana pie pro,
but not as far as buying media to go along with it. I'm so containerized. I'm in a VM.
I put some links in the chat. That'll link. Now, if I can just get it over this other machine,
I can paste it in there somehow, I guess. I gotta get hold of my life. I'll tell you.
I did the Kickstarter for the black Swift. It's kind of like this vocor thing. It's a little tiny chip.
It's got Wi-Fi and everything. It comes with WRT or open WRT on it already. And it's a dual
boot or a dual flash rom somehow where if you screw it up or you forget the Wi-Fi password,
you can hold the reset button and it goes back to factory default with all the Wi-Fi stuff reset
again so you can log back into it if you break it. So if you break it, you can basically un-brick it
because it's got the factory flash and then whatever flash you stick on it. Does it have a reset
switch on there? Is that number two or is that, uh, it's not a vocor that was called black Swift
and I think it changed the name. They're not actually a business anymore. But I got it off Kickstarter.
Okay, I've never pasted the link in the mumble, but I got it ready. Let me do that work.
Yeah, that's the one I posted in there too. Okay. Oh, I see that. Okay, uh,
Pine64. So do they actually start selling those? So I remember reading about that and thinking,
not really, I might get both of those, although they're so cheap. So you've actually got
Pine64, yeah. Yeah, I got a couple of them. They're still in business. They're actually making
new stuff. They've got a like a $90 laptop that's making up the same similar architecture.
Yeah, I read about on the OMG Ubuntu and it sounded like quite good. But it's just basically a,
a bit like a Raspberry Pi, I guess, but in a computer case or, well, I mean, a little bit like,
isn't it? It's an ARM device. That's why I mean, so it can't do certain things, but it's basically
like having a phone, but it's a computer or a tablet that's at a computer level. Yeah, it's a larger,
it's basically a Raspberry Pi about larger board and it has a, it's an all-winner chip
until the Broadcom chip. And then it's got a less good, or less fast graphic card. It's
supposed to do 4K video, but I haven't got it to do anything substantial. Yeah, it's probably a bit
like the next talk, which I do have, I hope that's how they compare it to as well, but that's a
bit different in itself as well, because that's not even a computer, really. That's more like a TV
screen source, but a laptop where you turn your device into a laptop with that when it works.
But I think it's a bit like that. Well, yeah, I looked at the next talk and passed. You still get the,
you know, the old A3x boards, which I got one, since seeing doors at OLLF, and it does work
beautifully with the Raspberry Pi Zero. Apparently, it doesn't support a lot of
resolutions, because I tried plugging into my Pinebox, and what else? So, droid, I guess,
and nothing came up, I guess, because of the resolution was not support. Oh, no, wasn't the Pinebox,
it was the, well, what is the Pinebox? Not the old droid, but the, you know, one of my friendly
arm computers, that was a four-core, and it never came up because of the video resolution.
I guess you get in there and maybe try to hammer that out, but I don't think you'd have a bunch
of success. But seems, you know, plenty fast, you know, for really thin, little client.
Well, with the RPI, with the RPI Zero.
Oh, you've got a, are we talking about something that you put on the RPI Zero into?
So, bit like the Pinebox, you thought, is that what you mean?
Well, you know, the old A3x, you know, doc that they had,
that it was made, made to go with the A3x phone, and I was able to find connectors, not even have
to solder anything, you know, to plug it in. So, with the Pine64, is it basically, the Pine64 put
into a laptop case with a webcam, I guess, and a keyboard? Yeah, and as soon as they let me order
one, I'm going to get one. I'm hoping with the EMC, there'll be enough room for multi-booting
because, you know, they're going to have version of Chrome OS, they're going to have a version of,
was Android Revex OS, you know, plus any, any, any Linux that runs on the Pine64 will run
on the Pine64 laptops. So, I'm looking forward to playing with it, you know, but probably the
huge bottleneck will be storage. And, you know, my experience, I have a Pine64 already,
and the main thing is it came out, 64-bit ARM computing, two, three months before anybody else did,
and then we had the old droids C2, we had, we had the Raspberry Pi 3 for the same processor.
So, if I know those were going to follow on that quick, I might not have bought the Pine64,
and my experience with it, I need to go back into it, is that, you know, just a support for
a Raspberry Pi being, you know, 10, 100 times, any other of the smallboard computers,
any, any image I put on there, if you'd run the, you'd run the browser, and the browser would
lock up on a couple with, you know, every single web page, whereas that had been worked out and
figured out on the, on the Raspberry Pi, but as soon as I had with the C2, you know, put E-opener
for browser, and not even anything that required a flash or whatever, just normal page, any, you
know, every second page it would just lock solid. Which browser? Firefox?
They've had a lot of problems with browsers on those ARM boards. And I didn't really have any
better experience, you know, installing Chromium or whatever. So, I've only got two ARM boards that
are just solid as a rock. And they both run a real Ubuntu Unity desktop. I think it's,
they run the 32-bit version. I haven't tried the 64-bit, I've heard that it's buggy,
but it's got real Nvidia drivers on there, and they are solid as a rock.
And, you know, part of the reason I ran Pinebox from the first put on, oh, I put that image that,
oh, the one door like so much that is like the Swiss knife of everything, it's, you know, you
make a click and every kind of server is installed. Diet? Yes, Dietpy, thank you.
That's based on ARM being. It's a good, it's a good system. I nailed it on my single board
computer podcast episode only, and so far, but just basically over the name, it's Dietpy,
yet it comes with, you know, everything in the world installed on it. But it's a good, good
system. Well, I blame myself because I was like a kid in the candy store, you know, set it up.
Oh, yeah, I'll have that, I'll have that, I'll have that, but yeah, I ran into the same problem
with the browser, you know, the browser not being stable. I haven't really found a good stable
browser on an ARM board yet. Well, aside from the Jetson, it's the only thing that reliably work,
and it's sad. I've had a lot of trouble with browsers. Now, see, I've had the other experience,
I mean, one of the first single board computers I had hooked up, you know, I had an RPI that was
never hooked up, I lost the fire, but I had, I had in one of the early old droids, and it was great,
except for browser experience, they said, you know, no, this is not going to do flash.
No, it does flash if you install Android, but no, you know, it's not hardware, it's just nobody's
written software to make it run flash. You know, I never had any trouble browsing with it. I mean,
what I usually use it for, I had a computer in my bedroom, and you know, when I wasn't watching
TV on it, I had IRC, you know, running on the O-Droid constantly in a window, and it was just perfect.
You can, you can get flash on some of these older versions, and here's, here's the trick, or
why am I going to give the whole trick, but here's the kicker that tells you it's possible. If you
can get it running on Android, on an ARM board, you're running on an ARM board, and you're running
under Linux. So it is possible to actually run that under a different version of Linux,
i.e. non- Android, but it takes a lot of surgery to do it. So it's possible. It's just, it's kind of like
running a Windows program on a, under Linux, on a 80s, 8086 machine. It's very doable. The
instruction's such there. You know, you got to get the underlying, whatever it needs to get that
done, and communicate with whatever it is that you need it to communicate with. It's probably not
going to be fun, which the wine people don't have a lot of fun I suspect. But possible? Yes. Anyway,
I thought I'd throw that out there. Painful. How about that? Well, I mean, this computer I'm
talking to you on now. It's an i3. And I'm running, oh, what is the German Linux?
Susan? Susan? Yeah. Yeah, I'm running open Susan on this. And I'm having trouble, you know,
if I hit a YouTube page with Flash saying no, Flash is not supported. And the other computer I set
up, I set up my gaming system. Somebody donated to me a Core 2 Duo. And, you know, I'm running
Solus OS on it. And no problem, you know, you know, anything with Flash, it just runs.
Well, I'm not unhappy about not having Flash. I got it. I mean, I know a lot of people like it
because you know, I'm gaming and this that next thing. I guess
video viewing. Yeah, I mean, yeah, I was very much like to have a computer without Flash at all.
But, you know, you do hit some websites and, you know, it says you can't see this because you don't
have Flash. Well, like on this Prime 64 today, I was running the Midori browser. And you couldn't
look at YouTube, but if you install Firefox, you can't. So I couldn't get a premium to run it all.
Right. You know, just talking about most of the images for Prime 64, you know,
Midori's built in. But then you go to YouTube, you can't see anything.
I just want to say, so the Prime 64 is available, the laptop is available to buy right now
on the website somewhere because I didn't see any update on that. Not yet. When you go look for it,
they say, you know, give us your email address and we'll tell you when you can get one.
Oh, it's on the email address in my pre-order thing. Right. Okay. Well, we should do that really,
for possibly. Well, they're telling us when it's available. But does that,
else, does that mean Gerulo is on a normal Prime 64? Not the laptop, not the
computer, but it's just a normal one. Yeah, this is just the two gig version.
Right. Okay. And I just think it's the same way to say Flash had an issue on Prime 64 with it.
Well, I don't know about Flash, but I, you know, I've had trouble just in any browser.
You know, other, well, I think the door is okay, but you, you know, put in fire,
but the door didn't handle Flash, but, you know, you install like Firefox or Chromium or whatever.
And you're lucky if you can hit two web pages before the whole thing walks up.
Well, yeah, I mean, maybe it's because I'm partly in Flash, but maybe talking about the Flash
all the time, too, as well a bit. Well, I mean, you know, it's just web pages not made for Flash.
You know, I mean, the door is limited, you know, to normal HTML pages and anything with an ad in
that really doesn't work, but, you know, yet, you had a more advanced browser like Firefox,
and it seems to hang on just normal pages, don't Flash pages, not anything that, you know,
requires an ad in. It just walks up and there you are. And what we think about OpenSews,
so if I miss some of that. Well, at least on my desktop, you know,
computer I'm talking to you on, originally installed OpenSews with KDE desktop,
and after a couple of updates, you know, it would, it would just hang if you try to boot in the KDE.
And the underlying desktop manager was iStubbn, which is why I'm running right now,
because if you boot into that, that was just fine. But any other desktop that I've tried to install,
I've tried to install, now I'm blanking, but I've tried to install other desktops and none of them work.
They just hang, you know, some time coming up. And iStubbn is the only thing,
and really, you know, I wouldn't have thought I would like such an old
desktop or window manager as well, but, you know, really it's doing everything I wanted to do,
except, you know, I guess it's got no QT support. So, you know, I want to run,
hold on, she had it. G-parted, you know, G-part will not run from here on this machine.
You can't run G-parted? No, I've got to run, hold, command, like F, whatever it is, F,
but I've got another one. This is a pine 64 you're talking about? No, no, this is I-3.
Oh, okay. Yeah, I haven't seen, so I never really got into that one, I think, yes, stories,
it seemed a bit too much when I tried to be years ago and all this, but plastic got a sort of
link to Microsoft, don't they, but that's, that's a separate thing. What I was just thinking
there is, I did see the MJ technology trying to crowdfund a open-source tablet or many,
what was the computer, but I think that one probably didn't work out. I was just thinking about that
again, and then I've also thought 51-50. What else have you, I remember last year we were talking
about all these various devices that you had either crowdfunded or bought, I believe, so what's
happened in the last year? What else have you been buying? Well, I'm still, I'm waiting on at least
three crowdfunded devices. Oh, and I can probably go back and get the names just a bit, but one,
one of the 3D printer, and it's one of those deals where you have three vertical tracks
that go up and down, and that's, that's how it sets, sets, sets the printer. Sorry,
and the other one is kind of like a Pi0, but it's modular, you know, it is meant or marketed
as a developer board or embedded board, like a Pi0, but, you know, you get various, I mean,
I did an article on, you know, five dollar computer that is, you know, that's actually $90
because you get the five dollar computer, and then you plug it into a board that has all your
interfaces, and then for everything else, you have all these, all these add-ons, and you get to the
point where you're doing the developer kit that has all the sensors and stuff.
There's, you know, like $90, so I have to go back and get the idea on that. And the third one is
mycroft, which, you know, thinking, you know, delaying and making excuses and delaying and delaying.
Is that the variable? Is that the variable? Yeah. Yeah, well, the, you know, sort of like an Alexa
or the, you know, the new Google thing that they have, you know, where you can talk to it and do
home automation or, you know, get answers or whatever. And I'm trying to buy some sources.
Echo. Exactly. And I bought it in that because I knew one of the guys involved in the project
who isn't anymore. And, you know, it's the Kansas, it's based here in Kansas. It's,
Lord's Kansas. It is their home shop. And, you know, I'm wanting to support that. But
it's been one thing and another. And the last thing was, you know, it's got a Raspberry Pi
in the center, but it's also got a home turn of think of the, it's got an Arduino mini.
Arduino, yes. Yeah, that's all, that's all it really does is light up, you know, the eyes and
the mouth and whatever to make it work. And they said, yeah, we put the two things together and
then we had RF interference and we couldn't pass FCC. So we got to go back and re-engineer everything.
And going article from them the other day that finally down at the bottom, they said, yeah,
you can still, you can still get, you know, if you if you paid for my craft, you'll still get my
craft. But reading through the whole thing, it seemed like, yeah, you know, we didn't ever guarantee
anybody was going to get actually get anything physical. This is crowdfunding and, you know,
seem like they're making excuses like, you know, what? Yeah, we took your money and we're
taking off now because we didn't know it wasn't enough to finally develop the product. But
they are. Well, they're manufacturing turned out to be crappy. So, however, they outsource their
stuff to got more than one thing wrong. And so now they have all kinds of problems because of it.
And they probably can't complete what they thought they could. Right, they are still saying,
you know, if you if you paid for, you know, a physical divide will get your physical device.
But they're saying, you know, hey, you know, Google's out there now and there's two or three other
open source projects doing the same thing. If you would like to donate your device to
academia or something like that, yeah, we'll change the address on where we send it to. But
you know, the whole article was in till the very end. It was very much like reading like, yeah,
you know, these crowdfunding things. We don't guarantee you actually get anything in the end.
Well, that is every one of them. I mean, you're never guaranteed you're going to get anything.
You're not even guaranteed to get your money back. I don't think. But like,
it's like crap out. They gave me 80 bucks back because I still had an ordering process.
So, I mean, at least I got some money back. But, you know, I got two devices and some money.
I just didn't get my third device. So I don't really know. Yeah, I don't work out.
Of course, I'll fund you the few things in the past two years or maybe three years now.
And it was all fine enough. It's up to one where he basically, well, one of the first ones I did
actually, that was the one I had a problem with as well in the end. And there was like a tablet
that was going to be sort of customized Android, but a bit different. And it was going to be so
quite cheap. And it was only to go go. And I thought, I was probably about the third one I'd done.
So, so I thought, oh, this looks sort of interesting. It's quite cheap. But I've got some money at
the moment. I'll crowdfunding this one. And so I went for the like, there are different perks.
Like if you buy, pay more, you get to and then we get one with site up way better battery,
more storage and all the rest of it. And, um, no, there's a cheap one, more basic one. But then
the website and the campaign was all a little bit, there were certain links broken on the website.
And I, well, when I, no, when I tried, I went for the cheap one. I tried to claim it back,
tried to get the device, but he was like, no, you need to put your detail into our pay system on
our website. The website was broken. The page is about finding out more about device for broken
and things like this. And I went to an email discussion with him and I was like, no, no,
your pages are broken here. He was like, I was like, oh, I was, I was thinking the buying
page, I was like, I was thinking the buying patron. So I would get the two devices were best
so as well. And, and he was like, oh, I can give you, I can, I can give you a patron for a discounted
price. Oh, and the Google Play voucher that was being sold in, in the campaign perks,
that actually only worked with Singapore as well on this particular one. He's told it's
hell's been an email. So he's like saying, you can buy a patron discounted price without the
the Google Play voucher. And you would end up with three of them plus to stand, plus this, plus that.
And I didn't really think it through so much originally. So I sent an email,
well, I bet you said in one sentence and said, okay, I will, I will have everything basically.
And then that's when my problem began because this was in August. So it must be about two years ago.
He's an asset shipped. He's tablet sale in September. And he got to September.
I think I had 14 days to cancel, but I email, but I was no response. Got a response to sort of late
in middle September. And it's like, oh, we've actually got a parcel for you in Singapore right now.
It's closed. We don't really want to open it up. But if you pay more, you'll get your devices
sort of thing. And you put everything on free as well. So even the tablet I paid for, that was all
frozen. He wouldn't send anything out. He used to put it like another 200 pounds out of me,
trying to get out of it still. And I sent some more emails and he's like, well, he just refuses
to send anything. And then I ignored few emails, number one on sent another email,
there's lots of massive response, but that was it. So basically this, you know, this he went off
for my money. And I got nothing in the end. And I maybe should have gone to Indiegogo and
complained about this, but apparently they didn't do anything because they go, oh, it's a crowd
fund. Did you invested money? He didn't buy it. But I lost on that one. But otherwise,
everything else is okay, even even Yola who people were complaining about. I got my, well,
my half-free fund so far. She knew about Yola. I mean, I've been at Fosdom and I met people
there. And I know somebody sort of found that. So I trust Yola. But yeah, I got a group of half-free
fund today. It's just that one other one that I had problems with. But that's the thing with
crowdfunding. Like somebody said to me, my identity as a group, because I thought it's a bit like a
well, well, West is gamble. It's about giving you money to the bookies. But in general,
I think it works, but you have to be a little bit careful, which one you go for, who you put
money into. Well, I ran into Customs Deal similar to that with my remix ultra tablet. You know,
I got a call from the Customs Service and said, yeah, we have this package for you. We've no
idea what the hell this thing is. And finally, talk to him and where it was coming from. I said,
oh, yeah, that's my tablet. And they said, well, we need, we need to verify by contacting the
company. You know, so I went online to try to give him an address or a phone number, whatever
to contact the jade people. And I was able to find something and apparently they were
able to contact him and verify what was in the box, because I eventually got it in a few days.
Yeah, jade, that's, so yeah, to deal with two Chinese companies last, what's now last year,
20 or, you know, 2015 will be my zoom. My zoom, my zoom wasn't crowdfunding, that was the
monthly remix full. And I had an issue there with what a slight issue. They sent me the wrong color.
So of the phone, I was basically at the gold and I got silver, which pulled me off the back.
Anyway, when I contacted them and I got these really bad Chinese written emails and I just gave
up on that one, but I had the phone button just a different color. But then I had to deal with jade
that same year or the year after, because I had crowdfunded the remix minis. And I had gone for
the tablet, because as well, where you get the adult tablet. And I hadn't filled in the kickstarter
stuff in time when you're supposed to do, that's annoying about kickstarter. If you crowd, you do a
campaign and the straightaway want the detail when it's not nagging you about three emails, pulling
this question out, pulling this question out, pulling this question out, but you're addressing him,
you're going to get something to one of the six months or so. And so I didn't do the question out,
so I was like, oh, should I probably fill that question out? And so I contacted, going contact with
jade directly. And I would say that they would have very good customer service, very good email
contact. And they were like, oh, oh, yes, we can send you your ultra tablet, talking about colors,
it was like, I think you've got the, maybe the different color, I was left in the stock, but yeah,
I got my ultra tablet. Well, they've now done it again, where I haven't gone to kickstarter straight
away with the remix IO. So I should be, I should get the remix IO plus the remix IO plus, but I have to
contact them again, I shouldn't get okay. But I think that being nagged on bike kickstarter to
fill that question there. And so soon, after when you'd rice, isn't even going to be going in
manufacturing for another few months or anywhere with a full. I'm going to go and can found one
mode and ask you when you get the remix IO that you do a review and put on hacker public radio,
because you know, one of the things we've run into with remix mini and the gyda ultra tablet
is that the processors and those things, I guess, are not eligible for any sort of Android updates.
Who's the type of you? But who did you want to have a view of that? You say Ken, or did I?
Yeah, you know, Ken, Ken appreciates any show.
At least asking me to do a review, is that what you're saying?
Yeah, once you get the remix IO, you know, if you wouldn't mind doing an HPR on it and talking about it,
because, well, possibly it would be my first actual popper show because there only really
beat in this sofa, which doesn't count. But yeah, I mean, I mean, the remix mini, I've never really
collected those and really never really did much when I tried to put on my next stock. That's
something I did try and do. But HPR may be getting some shows.
Yeah, I take this as my two-year commitment for HPR because I've been on 2016 and now 2017,
so I'm good to go. Well, I've got a commitment out. I promised some shows that I haven't delivered
on yet. They're coming. But interestingly, we did all the audio for the Ohio Linux Fest.
We're almost 50 different talks of an hour. And my wife listened to them and did all the editing
and blah, blah, blah, blah. And we've got a couple of Google drives that are stuffed to the
brim and they have not downloaded it yet. And, no matter if fact, yesterday I sent out a letter saying,
if you don't download these like now, I'm handing them over to Packer Public Radio because they're
on the Creative Commons license and I've got to free up this Google space and have a nice day.
So yeah, I've been asked where those were available so they're not available online yet anywhere.
They are not available. Now, they came back and said we will get on it immediately. Sorry,
we've been slow. But we really, Linda and I did that. Linda did the most part. She actually had
to listen to every talk at one X speed because it was really hard to find where they started and stopped.
And as they just ran the car, the recorders all day long. And so she had to listen to all that and
cut it all up and then door did the intros and we pasted them together and then wrote scripts to
why to they supplied scripts that I had to rewrite that tagged them and, you know, all that kind
of stuff. Then we packaged them up and we did some audio processing because it was the audio
was really not that great. And so we gave them four different versions of each of the shows and
I'm going to say there's just short of 50 in total. There's the six rooms that least six
talks per day plus Friday. So there you go. Let's see six rooms time to that's 36 plus 642.
Yeah, there's at least 50. Well, there's just short of 50. Somewhere between 42 and 48. I'm
going to say shows in total. I forget the exact count. Well, I mean, I've been mean to say thanks
to you and Linda and the door for, you know, all the efforts you put into that because, you know,
all of us who were, you know, manning the, the podcasters table, we really didn't get to see much
in the way of talks. And, you know, and, and really that's probably the best way. I mean, we might have,
if we've been a little more organized, we've only said, okay, you know, you and you, you be here
on the table for, you know, between here and here and then the rest of us will go roam. But,
you know, I really, I really think of all of us being there all the time. That was probably the
most effective way to be. Yeah, you know, people that gave the time, everybody wants the talks. And,
you know, when to put in a tremendous amount of effort into that. I just take to see it go to waste.
Plus, I had to, I had to bribe her to get her to do that work. I had to get her a whole of T-shirt
and a couple other goodies. And I just don't want to see that stuff go to waste. But it's, I had to
give you two different Google accounts to upload it all. I mean, that's how, that's how much audio
there is. It's a lot. Google gives you what? 15 gigs. I think, I think that there's two of them.
I think it's 20, 29 gigs in total. Something like that. Anyway, if they don't pick that stuff up
like shortly, which they said that they would, I'm handing it over to public hacker public radio.
That's my point. And for those if you don't know, Joe's brilliant idea this time around at
Ohio Linux Fest. I mean, previous years, you, you may have had not recently, but you may have had
tables for individual podcasts. So there might have been a Linux league tech show table or
well, there was not might have been there was. And there might have been a hacker public radio.
Yeah, thank you. And separate for all the podcasts. But, you know, Joe's brilliant ideas. Let's
just have a podcasters table and whoever wants to participate sit down there. And yeah, I have
talked to door in the intervening time about, you know, and this is a nascent idea, you know, come
up with some sort of organization that all the independent nonprofit open source podcasts could
jump in and join. Yeah, I hope that that goes places in, you know, in future years.
The Ohio Linux Fest was very pleased to trade out. What I claimed was, you know, we're
they're going to get a bunch of publicity out of the deal. If we got all these podcasters talking
about the Ohio Linux Fest, they're going to get the publicity from it. So I got them to
up a couple of tables, you know, in exchange and in previous years, everybody's been, you know,
paying a few hundred dollars to get a table. And, you know, I just got, you know, I, we
can trade talks. And so it wasn't a lot of management trying to find out where all it was mentioned
and whatnot because they wanted verification that they were getting the publicity with the tables.
But I think that in future years, that's going to be possible to continue that. I think it'd be a good
thing. Yeah, because, you know, after you left Kevin O'Brien, a hookah, and I, you know, made,
made a point of going in and saying, you know, you know, Joe provided all these mugs and stuff
for the, you know, gratis for everybody. And how much on top of that did he have to pay for the
table? And we asked the management said, no, no, you know, it was a tradeoff. If, you know, talk about
OLLF on your podcast. Yeah, yeah, it was a, it was really a deal. And we're coming back from the
doctor's office. He gave me a permission to travel. And Linda says, let's go to this Linux
Fest thing. I said, oh, yeah, I start thinking I said, well, I wonder if we could get it a little
table for the podcasters. And before you know, we had, I'd worked my magic on the phone, managed to get
a room at a hotel that was booked up and managed to get tables at Ohio Linux Fest that had no tables
left. And it worked out for everybody. Well, I got, you know, I've told people since then, it's,
you know, we mentioned OLLF on Linux Logcast. I, you know, I think the Linux Logcast just previous
to the, to the Linux Fest. And you were on there and you said, yeah, I might be able to make it
to that. And then the next thing I knew, you know, by, by Monday, you posted, you know, yeah, we've got
a table. Yeah. Yeah, it was, it was fast. I mean, I got, I think it was a Friday. I got permission
from the doctor. I came home. I wrote a door on the, on Hangouts. I said, you know, okay, I just
got back from the doctor and he's like, okay, give me the news. I can take it. And I said, well,
I got permission to go see some lug talk about raspberry pies on OLLF. I'll meet you there.
I'll meet you there. And I said, what do you think the chances are we could get a table? He said,
like zero. And I said, give me a minute. Give me a minute. I called him up and said, you know,
hey, had John, like a bunch of publicity from a bunch of podcasters. They said, we'd love that.
I said, you got to give us tables. I said, we'll do that. I said, I'll supply coffee mugs. They
said, we got just the place right next to the place where we're going to be serving the buffet
and the coffee. And I said, it's, we'll take it. Can you supply power and Wi-Fi? And they said,
you got it. I said, okay. Next day, I know we were on the wood of one excess y'all, y'all did an
announcement on the lug cast hacker public radio did some stuff. And we got on a number of other
podcasts too. That was good. Good. I'd like to see them do that again, although I'm not sure I'm
going to do the audio again. Someone may, someone else may have to take that one off.
Well, I'm pretty sure that I'm going to go to Pegacorn again next spring. Probably since it's not,
again, it's not going to be the same weekend, North Westlinx fast.
Oh, I want to go. I want to go. I want to go. Linda wants to go so bad. She loves North
Westlinx fast. I don't want to go to that. Well, at least I'm going to Pegacorn. I'm pretty sure I'll
try, I'll, you know, I'll do both. They're a week from each other. But, you know, there's people
I like to see at both of them. But I don't know if we can't do a table, it would be nice if we
just throw up a banner somewhere and say, this, this is who we are. You know, because I was born
away. I, I, you know, Kansas Linux fast. I've been promoting our podcast or independent podcasts.
And it didn't surprise me that much at Kansas Linux fast that people didn't, you know, people
didn't know anything from Linux podcasts outside Twitter and Jupyter Networks. Okay, I can accept
that. But, you know, we were sitting there at the Ohio Linux fast and people didn't know anything
about HPR or TILTS or, you know, or whatever. And that just, you know, that kind of threw me back.
And, you know, if I see, even if we didn't have a table, we'll be able to put up a sign somewhere,
you know, saying, this, this is who we are and this, this is where you can find us.
Now, I'd like to see that. When is Pinguic, when and where is Pinguic? Is a week after, a week before?
Yeah, the week after North Westlinx fast, it's like, I guess the first weekend in
April is it or first weekend in May, whichever one it is after.
It'd be, yeah, it'd be May. So, no, North Westlinx fast happens on Linda's birthday.
She's always after me to, as a birthday present to take her.
Well, definitely I want to go to PinguCon because I found out looking on Facebook, you know,
just here the other week, a Furny brother that I haven't, you know,
got together within like 30 years. He, you know, he's like 30 miles out of Detroit.
And here I've been in, you know, Detroit last two years and not caught up with him. So,
you know, definitely that's happening.
By the way, that noise that you heard, that was a, I mean, I've got a Pine 64 running Armbian,
well, a specialized version of Armbian that I built. That I put, it's a video sublayer in there,
some plugins that I managed to string up with Firefox. And it's doing multiple tabs,
multiple YouTube tabs without locking up or anything. I just thought I'd mention that because you
were saying you had some trouble with that. Yeah, well, I need to get back, you know, I had trouble
initially with the C2 and with the Pine 64. And then they got set aside for a while so I need to get
back into it because, you know, time fixes a lot of stuff. I have got this thing. And that was,
by the way, that was turned down to 0.2 gigahertz. So it's, it was a low CPU setting. I've got it
supporting a lot of video formats that it's not really supposed to support by MKV stuff.
Well, got up and specialized. I call it my kitchen sink build FFMPEG.
It's just basically a hacked up, totally hacked up version of FFMPEG. But yeah, it was,
yeah, it works. Well, a lot of us jumped on the Pine 64 because it, you know, it was the first
micro computer out there with 64 bit arm. And, you know, if I think a lot of people they
known well, the C2 or the Pi3 or whatever is going to come out in a couple months with the
same exact processor than they, you know, they might not have grabbed it. But it has an early
adopter. I jumped on it. So I jumped on it. I'm not sure it was the first, but it was the first
low cost one for sure. I know the Nvidia, they've been 64, but they didn't have a 64 bit operating
system. I think Pine was the first one to really push that they were going to do a 64 bit version
or the community wise thing. I'm on a little fuzzy on that right now.
Well, like I said, I am very interested when they come out with the, the Pine Netbook or laptop
or whatever, because, you know, it's, it's just going to, well, I think it's going to blow away
the cheap, all the ARM Chromebooks, at least people in our, in our community know how to,
how to mess with them. And the, you know, that, the, you know, the laptop where you, where you stick
a, a Raspberry Pi into it like door head and all that, you know, why, why would you, you know,
that was 300 dollars. Why would you do that when you can get one, you know, for 80 bucks with the
Pine already in there? You know, I think I said this was ARM, you know, I'm not sure that it is.
All right, one of my problems is I got so many of these boards with so many of these little cards
and I got boot crazy on every one of them. I'm not quite sure which one I've got where
running what, but I will say I've got a Pine 64. I'm looking at it right this very second.
Screen number nine. And it's running multiple Firefox tabs with YouTube videos on
every one last one of them and running smoothly with audio and video. I know that's one of the
problems that I had with ARM being on, I'm going to say Pine 64 and I know the C2 was getting
good audio and video support out of there and I had to go in and go underneath the hood and
I've got some specialized builds as I said of some video layers and I've been able to get it to work.
Why buy a notebook? That's a question about why buy a Chromebook?
I probably wouldn't unless I went and put the application, let's run full Linux applications on it
that I am spacing out on right now. I've got a Chromebook, it's on the floor,
a bunch of keyboards piled on top of it. Cruton, that's what I'm thinking of, cruton.
Yeah, definitely I would probably not get a Chromebook and accept it. I could go to cruton after it.
I got one for curiosity sake and to do a little development on which I've never really done much
and it collects dust. I haven't been really pleased with it. Everybody says they're real happy with it.
Basically just feels like a dedicated web browser.
Well, there is that and I have to admit, 90% of what I do these days is through the web.
You can't probably edit audio or something like that, make a podcast with it.
You can do a little bit of that. It has some relaxed
permissions that you can manage to get. I was surprised at some of the things I was able to pull
off on it. I've come very close to buying a Chromebook. If I had not heard about the
pine laptop coming out, I think I definitely would have bought a Chromebook from Walmart on their
Black Friday sale. I think it was an Intel, actually, not an arm for about 100 bucks.
I'm just turning it into an anti-google guy. I shut down my Chromebook and set it on the floor
and started stacking stuff on top of it. I mean, yeah, you can run a different
on a Chromebook, but it never seemed that exciting to me to mainstream, I guess, to Google.
So, Joe, if you're out of Google, what do you like for an email server?
What was that?
To Joe, what do you like for an email server if you're not using Google stuff?
I have one Google. I actually got a bunch of Google accounts, but I run my
email off of one-in-one. It's the only thing that they do right, I think. Just private pop accounts,
lots of them. Well, not really pop accounts so much anymore iMap accounts, all of those,
a lot of email aliasing. You have everybody their own email address. If you're going to
block to me past my little web page where you can write to me, I give you a custom email address.
Everybody gets one. Every company gets their own and a way I can turn them on or off
or see when an account's been compromised and just go at an old style.
I'd love to be able to do that. It is to laugh. You guys can give me the business all you want.
I have my 5150 account on Gmail, but they account under my given name that people I do business with
etc. Access is still a Yahoo account because that was one of the earliest ones that you could go out
on the web and get. Yeah, I know all the security stuff that's gone wrong.
I know you're going to say Yahoo. Yeah, just on my hand, it would be too much hassle to inform
everybody that I know and do business with, that I'm moving over to a different account,
you know, until the next degree just thing happens. I could relate with that.
I'm not alone in my handing out email forwards to people. I know another guy who does that. He says
he's got like a thousand of them. I'm not sure I'm up to that many, but I've got a lot and it'd be
a hassle to move it all, no doubt. Well, I mean, I did change my password and then, you know, if
there's nothing in those emails that I would be concerned about then to say reading anyway.
Right. I use Google, but I've got pretty much everything is outside of Google and I've got hundreds
of email accounts and, you know, they're not alias, but they all dump in the same one of three or
four accounts and then I use Google to check those and read them and reply to them so I can reply
as those people without having to log into them all separately. I still like to do it on its own
somewhere, but that's all I get it done. I mean, I'd love to have it set up that, you know, ever,
you know, the contents of our email was encrypted. Like 330 always says, you know, I have nothing to
hide, but I'll be damned if anybody's going to find that out. But, you know, but it's, well,
if you're sending an email to more than one person, a blank an email, then you couldn't do that,
you'd have to re-encrypt it for every person and just, oh, I know all you guys, you know, we could
all get together and do an encryption thing, but... Well, in 1980, for people who received
email from you, aren't going to be able to read it or encrypt it. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, emails
such a hassle. I don't know. I've got a bunch of email accounts and I have them all forwarding
the one big account that ends up forwarding them to one big place and then I end up sorting through it
all. Even my Gmail, I don't get my Gmail from Gmail, it goes through the system.
Well, I mean, there was a circuit court decision the other day. I saw, I think down in Florida,
that, you know, if you have a phone with encrypted stuff like an iPhone, that you can be
coerced up to provide the password. In other words, any, any stop, you know, the cops stop you for
anything. They're legally allowed to grab your phone and get all the information off of it.
Right. And fast for the password you're supposed to provide it to. Of course, you can always refuse,
but, you know, you would be in, you know, contempt of court or whatever if you did so.
Yeah, I'm not going to jail over them decrypting my phone. I don't think I'm principled. I am principled,
but I'm going to draw the line there and have the phone. Well, I'd like to think I might, you know,
but yeah, you're right there. I might go so far, so take the phone and slam it against the
side of the truck and, you know, say, okay, good luck. Yeah, I'd like to do that. There's a
guess until you're under a court order, you're not going to get in trouble for that, I suppose.
I don't know around here. I think if you did something like that, a traffic stop that probably
cap your ass. Probably so. Well, the last time I got pulled over many years ago, but I freaked the
cop out. I rolled the window down. I held my hands out. He approached the car.
Says, what are you doing? I said, I want you to know where my hands are.
I have nothing to hide. I'm not going to make any fast moves and I want you to feel as safe
as you can possibly feel. So did you just get out of prison or something? I said, no, I just
don't want to freak you out. He says, you're freaking me out. I said, good. I hope it's in a good way.
He actually did appreciate it. I've asked cops that and travel going to Kansas as a matter of fact.
One town will always stop that. I always have to outway patrol or whatever their ass was.
What do you do? We pull somebody over and they hold their hands out the window so you can see
them. I said, we'd be thankful, but we think that you just got out of prison or something.
Well, a couple of years ago, three years ago or whatever, I was at a gun show and bought a pistol
and that, you know, County Sheriff actually was there at the gun show and I went up to him and said,
you know, I want to make sure, you know, I'm writing everything and, you know, on the way home,
I was planning to pick up some cartridges for this pistol, but I don't want to leave it setting
on top of the bench seat in the truck where everybody can see it and it might get stolen.
I said, is it okay to slip it under the seat while I'm in Walmart?
And he said, you know, first it's, he says it's as a police officer, it's none of my business
if you have a firearm and I don't want to know if you have a firearm.
I guess I've been on the wrong side of things a couple of times too many.
Two quick stories, we used to, one and I used to sail everywhere we got a sailboat and we've
been boarded by U.S. Customs a couple of times and one time they outside of West Palm Beach,
Florida, with our kid, we lived on the boat for a couple of years and, you know, with our kids and
the dog and the cat home on yards, we're talking little kids. I mean, my youngest daughter I think was
maybe two, two or three, you know, still had a stuffed animal kind of thing.
They boarded our boat, they tore the whole boat apart. I mean, to the point we had to have it
shipped back to Texas and repaired. They tore everything apart toward the stuffed animals apart.
They had their hard-sold shoes which kind of surprised me, you know, and just
rubbed them into the deck on purpose kind of thing. But, you know, they ripped my kids stuffed toys
apart. They tore my books and tore every page out looking for, I guess they were looking for
pot or some the smallest of anything they could hang us with. They found nothing and what really
burned me up was the next day. We had gone to a hotel and called our yacht broker in Texas and said,
come pick this boat up and get it repaired. Take it back to Texas, get it repaired.
And we went downstairs. We were at the embassy suites to breakfast in the U.S. custom service was
having some sort of get together. And those guys were there in the breakfast line with this.
I was just madder than could be because I mean, this cost a lot of money and ruined our vacation.
But back on that, we had come from this little town in Texas, just east of Dallas.
And we kept reading in the papers about how they would pull people over. And we'd actually see
this where they would take the cars apart on the side of the road and just leave people with
their cars half disassembles and stuff. And we were reading where they were confiscating people's
cash, you know, and where they would pull people over and they would search the entire vehicle,
they'd search the people, they'd find a little bit of cash. The families on vacation, you know,
might carry, you know, a few hundred dollars, maybe a thousand dollars. And if you could
improve where you got the cash from, that they would confiscate the cash until you could
prove that it was legitimately gained cash. I'm not kidding you on this story. And it turned out
that they were getting away with this because the Sheriff's Department people were cross-certified
as U.S. Customs Officers. And they would pull somebody over and they would log out as being a
Sheriff's Department person and log in as being a U.S. Customs official. Then they could search
the car and do whatever they wanted to without any repercussions from damages due to some
law I'm going to say was from the 1860s that basically it's a tort act, some customs tort act
that protected them from taking things apart, for example, to examine it. And you know,
I really just started to occur to me that you don't want to mess with these people when they want
to search you. If they wanted to search your phone or if they wanted to do whatever they want to
do, give them a wide birth, let them do what they want to do and don't give them any trouble
because I'll tell you what, the minute you do start giving them some trouble, you're going to
get trouble back and knowing certain terms. And as I said, I'm a principled guy. I'd like to stand
up for freedoms, but you know, there's a point at which you might want to look at a situation
like that and say, maybe you're going to lose and there's not a lot you could do about it.
Yeah, I've never run into something like that, you know, definitely,
huge miscarriage of justice. You know, well, there's a TV show that they were making light of that
years ago. Well, the commissioner, if you remember that. You know, and oh, hey, there's this gangster.
Let's disassemble his limousine. And you know, down the tech of the engine apart and scattered
all the parts around. And, you know, and oh, we didn't find anything, but yeah, this, this,
this guy has got a ruined car now. So we can't that as a victory. I've seen it. I have seen it.
I've had neighbors that have had that happen. I mean, nice, I don't want to, you know, like,
oh, nice Christian family or whatever, but these people were a nice family who went to Florida
on vacation. And that's what they got out of the deal. I've seen it here. I've seen it back in
Texas. I've seen it all the way between here in Texas. And I know that it happens. And I
set back and read in the newspapers about it. This is really has gone on. You know, all in the
pretence, I guess it's the war on drugs or after or whatever, but it's ridiculous. I mean, they
will literally, it's so bad. Linda and I, when we travel, we carry a little cash with us.
And we carry Xerox copies of where we've cashed the check at the bank. Here's a picture of the
check. Here's the transaction from the bank. Here's the bank statement backing up where the cash
has come from because we've seen this happen. And I mean, we're about it. And, you know, for example,
our old town in Texas, a little town called Rockwell, smallest county in Texas. And I could read
in the Rockwell success, that's the name of their newspaper. They would pull people over and
confiscate their cash. They're carrying $200. We're confiscating it. Do you improve that you didn't
get that the illegal means? That's crazy. Well, I didn't realize they were doing some small
amounts. I have seen, you know, people like, well, somebody had to move across country. And they
just, you know, cashed out their bank account and was carrying it in cash and going across the
country and got stopped. And, oh, that much cash. No, you must be a drug dealer. So, you know,
when it took about three years to get their money back, I have seen that happen. And, you know,
that's why I mean, not two feet from me and my little file box down over here is a package that
we carry with us when we're like, when we went low, you know, that we carry with us to show that's
where the cash comes from. There's your pictures. You know, there's the Xerox copies. And we're ready
to go on that because we've just seen it happen. I don't know what I'd do about them taking the car
part. You know, I've seen that happen as well. I think that's just, it's abusive. You know, I mean,
if you've got a reason, if you really got a reason, you pull somebody over and they've got drugs in
the car or something maybe. But, you know, not as family traveling on their vacation to Florida,
that's ridiculous. And I've had, we've had this kind of stuff happen. I mean, it's like our little
boat. I mean, we know that, you know, if you're boating around in South Florida, you want to be
careful. You don't want drugs on your boat. You know, you got to be figuring that you will be
boarded by US customs. You know, they're going to want to look around. And you think, well,
at least people are going to be somewhat reasonable. I've got a job to do. And, you know,
let them do it. But there's a point at which the job that they do goes overward. No pun intended.
Well, you know, this kind of borders on something goes back and forth. And in,
you know, I'm a big advocate of, you know, second amendment rights. But, you know, I've always
thought it would be better, you know, if you're going to carry it in the open, so that, you know,
you're not surprising anybody in law enforcement. Everybody can see it. Everybody can see you coming,
whatever. And then I've heard other people say, no, you don't want to, you know, you walk around,
you're going to freak everybody out that way. And, you know, you don't want to, you know, put that
out there for thieves to try to take it. Well, yeah, but if you're going to argue that, then you
shouldn't have a, you shouldn't have an expensive watch or jewelry or, you know, good clothes or anything
like that. True. Well, you're talking about, you know, like carrying a rifle down the road.
Not a rifle. Well, unless I'm hunting or something, yeah, then a rifle or shotgun.
But, you know, all these instances of that was pretty much, you know, down in Texas, people were
say, you know, as absurd, it's, you know, it's, it's Texas. And you can't carry a hog leg on your,
on your hip. You know, that, you know, that's, that's where, and that all got sort of out this last
election here, that, you know, they, they did have constitutional carry for open carry and, and,
and, you know, means, means to have a carry license for, hidden carry. So, you know, that,
that's all kind of working self out. But, you know, all these things you see on YouTube or whatever,
you know, looks like crazy guys carrying their ARs into the coffee shop or whatever.
That's, that's where that came from.
You know, here we are in Texas fall places. And you, you, you can't carry a gun.
I'm reminded of when I took my family, I used to go on these summer vacations with my kids.
We go like visit all the national parks, North and West, to the Mississippi River,
all the way up in Alaska. I mean, so these trips are, you know, 13,000 mile trips. And one of
your, we went up into Canada. And we got to the border. And the ladies like you're from Texas.
Yes, ma'am, we are. She's like, you can't bring guns. Well, we don't have any guns. She says,
wait a second. You're from Texas and you're not carrying a gun. No, no, ma'am. Mr.
two children in the back seat and some stuffed animals. This is, meaning if we take your car apart,
we aren't going to find a gun. No, ma'am. And she said, I don't believe you. Well, we'll know
what to say about that except for here's our passport. We'd like to enter your fine country.
And visit your fine national parks. And she pointed me over to go park a car over there. And they
went about taking our car apart. They were nice enough to reassemble it. But they just refused
to believe that we were from Texas and not carrying a gun into their country.
Well, Canadians are very polite. So if they take your car apart, I would expect that they would
reassemble it. We're very nice about it. But yeah, I mean, Kansas is far more progressive
on gun laws. Long as I'm not a felon or whatever, you know, I could take a gun, you know,
and conceal it or well, we always could. Total gun around open carry except for a couple of
the municipalities where you're going to get shot. You know, that wasn't legal. And, you know,
when the law changed, it was like, no, you know, you cannot do a municipal law that is going to be
beyond what Kansas law is. So that took care of that that, you know, if you're in the communities
where you're going to get shot, yeah, you can, you can carry again if you want, could seal,
not concealed, whatever. It's called constitutional carry. And I'm not, you know, I know not everybody
agrees with that, but that's the way it is here. I don't have a problem with it. I'm not,
I'm not big into guns, but I think that you should be able to carry a big on that.
I always think Archie Bunker got it right when he said back in the 70s when they were having all
those hijackings on the planes. And he says, you know, you want to stop all the hijackings,
arm all the passengers. Well, yeah, this is this is my argument for open carry. You know,
what, what robber would go into a place and try to hold it up. And there's two or three guys with
guns on their hips. Well, there might be a couple, but they aren't going to last very long.
Linda puts on TV some time. I don't watch it very much, but I saw this on the news were
actually videotaped some guy that had a gun and was holding people, you know, with the gun and
going crazy with the gun. And the police officers were sitting there saying, you know, put the gun
down blah, blah, blah, blah, pleading with the guy. And I'm like, you know, that's really what's
wrong with the world is that the cops, there's there to do their job and there's a guy with this gun
and they're giving him the easy way out and asking him politely, you know, to put the reasonably
politely to put the gun down and everything when they should have just kept the guy almost instantly.
You know, so that's prior to I think what's wrong with the world is this world needs to be minus
that person. And that's it may sound cruel and you know, it might be mentally disturbed for all.
I know I'm pretty sure he probably was, but you know, if he got somebody with a gun and they're
holding it, you know, we'll cause trouble with it. You know, the police should be probably faster
to act than they generally are. I think a lot of times they generally aren't. And when they do,
you know, they empty the whole magazine into a guy, you know, we've got the castle
doctrine here that somebody comes to your house uninvited. You pretty much
what whatever you do is justified, but you know, if I've got 13 rounds in a magazine and I emptied
a whole thing into a guy, they're going to lock me up. They're going to call it excessive or something.
You know, but if you're cop, you know, that's just a standard operating procedure. And if it bounces
off and hits bystanders, whatever, well, I guess that's a clear old damage.
I actually had the opportunity to test some castle laws one time. We've got that here in Florida.
I was not as pleased as I thought I would be. I didn't shoot anybody.
Well, we were waiting for that shoe to drop, but go ahead and tell the story.
Basically, somebody came over saying that they tried to take our cat and then came back with the
cop saying that because I grabbed the cat from them, that that was not a solved battery.
That what it is when you touch somebody that they don't want to be touched in some way that's
offensive, but you have an extra battery. I think it would be if you touched them in the nose.
I think here it's the other way around, but yeah, the laws here weren't just quite as clear cut as
they were supposed to be or whatever. We got one judge that was, you know, everybody gets their
day in court, but he could see this was kind of a crappy deal by law or something. I was actually
supposed to be arrested, held or whatever, and blah, blah, but the judge bent the law and said,
nah, Mr. Rex, okay, this is bullshit. But yeah, it ended up costing a lot of money to defend that.
Defend our rights for that castle law. My house, my property, my cat basically, you know,
believe and, you know, they could still come back with the cops and say, you know,
they touched me. You know, I didn't want to be touched. They grabbed the cat from me.
It was not so pleased with the deal. It was all very silly as you could imagine, but
I don't know, call it $20,000 for the legal facility if you want to. I called it.
Well, no, I see this every day, you know, or an organization, well, they get your name when
you buy a gun online. But, you know, saying, you know, $30 a month and we'll protect you,
you know, we'll do your legal fees if you have to use a gun in self-defense or the thing.
All right. Yeah, yeah, and, uh, well, I'll bring it up for you here in a minute, but it was like,
you know, the last thing that did was a guy who, teenage daughter broke up with her girlfriend,
boyfriend, maybe had some of the boyfriend stuff, was being threatened, you know, on the phone,
very explicit bad things. And, you know, this guy was a veteran and a law enforcement,
you know, veteran law enforcement officer and said, okay, you know, we'll take this time and you
come over and we'll return what the daughter has or whatever. And next thing he knows that, you know,
something's, they come over and something's going on. The daughter's been knocked down or whatever.
And he runs in the house and gets his firearm, but it didn't holster it, you know, so he's
running back out with the firearm in his hand. So that's brandishment or whatever. And then,
you know, he's one gets arrested. Uh, so, you know, for, for assault, just not shooting anybody or
threatening him. I've seen that in two stages. Yeah, just having the guy and saying, you people get
the hell off of my property and keep going. Uh, you know, then he got arrested and, you know,
but he got, he had this insurance or whatever, which I've been thinking of, it's like 30 bucks a
month. Uh, you know, but if that ever happened to you, you'd be glad to have it, I would think. Oh,
yeah. Uh, I think, uh, the array has a similar amount of insurance if you're in an array member.
But, uh, yeah. I have seen in two different states where if you call the police on any sort of,
domestic kind of argument, I don't think I'm going to say violence, just some sort of argument
or something that somebody's going to jail. Now, it used to be that the guy was going to jail.
It didn't matter. I mean, I've seen that where, um, uh, too many times I've seen that one example was,
uh, in this little counter rock wall, Texas, we used to live in. There was, uh, uh, some drunk woman
who was giving this guy hell in the parking lot inside. But I just started at a croaker and he was
like, just leaving alone. I was just want to leave. And she was like standing in front of the car
so he couldn't back out and all this kind of stuff. It was just crazy. And there was a bunch of people
who were witnesses saying the woman was crazy and was obviously, you know, uh, an abbreviated or
whatever and that the guy had done nothing. I mean, he had done everything that he could not to touch
or not, uh, uh, you know, he just quietly wanted to leave. And she was not even letting him back
as car out. And of course, they're going to arrest somebody and back in those days they arrested the
guy. And the witnesses were pretty upset about this because it wasn't his fault at all. You know,
she should have gone to jail. I don't know, public intoxication or whatever you want to call it.
But I've just seen that time and time again, where I guess in some places they have laws that say,
you know, if you get called out on any sort of domestic disturbance that somebody has to be
taken to jail. And it's pretty unfortunate, I think, because a lot of the cases it's undeserved.
Anyway, I know you want to be careful testing the spirit of these hassle laws. They not live up to
what you might expect. Have either of you ordered the, um, I'll make it to that, or the onion
I owe. Hello, he's, he's still on this. We're, we're, we're quite, I know. Should be everybody
and listen to you off the way. You don't really walk the way because you were there.
No, I was, I was listening. Um, what to tell though? Am I back? Sounds like it. Oh,
everything dropped out. Everybody, everyone got quiet. I was asking if anybody ordered that, um,
onion, I owe, or maybe two. I, I sold that on, um, cloud funding, I think I didn't get it though.
I got one. They just sent out the, um, shipping notification. A couple of days ago.
Like, uh, onion router? No, it's, it's like the bullpower. It's a little 64 gig or 64 meg, uh,
Linux on chipboard. Yeah, it's got like the Raspberry Pi, I think, from more, from what I saw.
And I guess this time, 64 that we've been talking about as well.
But it's more like a collective vocal, it's, it's a little tiny chip, but it's big enough to put a full
Linux display on it. The only thing with things like that, um, you know, Raspberry Pi or more
Pisces for, um, even the not so much Remix Mini, but, you know, you have to, you have these little
things, but you have to always connect it to something else, which I don't like so much because
but, um, I got the, uh, I did craft from the pocket ship on your hands, so I've got,
and it's nice little case. And then you get normal tips, ascent as well. I like about one or
two of those, you know, do your own thing with, but I like having sort of a, you know, a device
that comes with a screen now, or if it's a small thing, or, um, but I suppose the Pine 64 laptop,
for example, would then be that because you get in your screen, you get your keyboard, you're
getting all that with it. Because otherwise you've got to sort of like think, how am I going to connect
to use things? What am I going to use it for? And that doesn't really pilt me that much.
I've been programming or trying to program the little SP01 Wi-Fi chips. Those are pretty good,
but they don't have much memory by default that you can increase the memory on them.
But you can actually put a micro python on them. So I've been watching the 83 videos and
putting a couple of those together. So I'm going to make a sign out of one of them.
Yeah, well, let's say you're Pine 64 then, for example, which is just like, you know, I don't
know what that is, but how do you use it? Do you connect this to a monster or, um, keyboard or,
you know, well, right now I'm using one to talk to you and it's running a full desktop.
And the other one, I'll probably put together some kind of media server.
But you need to look, you know, it's like a desktop in that sense. You need to connect it to a
screen to use it basically. Is that right? I think so. Yeah, if you want to use it as desktop,
it's just like a Raspberry Pi, but it, you know, has different features.
A lot more GPIO pins and that kind of thing. Yeah, that's that's why I thought that it's like a
Raspberry Pi. Happily, I've got two Raspberry Pi, but I haven't really done much with them so far.
I'm connected for clearly actually. Um, I shouldn't have waved, but then there was a
compartment, this being for one or more like to put together or whatever, but, but I do like devices
that give you a screen straight away now. I sort that personally. And, you know, that you can
just use it straight away. Yeah, I don't really need any more screens. I've got a tablet, a phone,
a TV screen and a computer and a laptop. Everything else could probably be headless.
No, yeah, but small devices, so like the pocket chip, for example, that's great. That's great
sample because that's called came with a sort of case thing where you can on the script,
well, it doesn't have screws actually. You can take the plastic case off, you can customize it,
you can put pen in there, use it as stand, and it has a basic touch screen there by the fault.
That's actually a very interesting thing. It's debut and base, it's devian device. So you
can basically run all the devian programs on them. It's a worth a look up if you missed that one
pocket chip or the normal chip as well, which would be similar to your pie 64.
What's the memory on the chip? I can't remember. It's a fixed spec. The hell effects are quite
basic. I think, but it's the whole point wasn't supposed to be cheap as well. Like a $9 mini
computer, however, it used to market it or $99. It's supposed to be like one of your cheap things
that was crowdfunded, but it's actually quite an interesting device. It's quite geeky as well,
and I'm that much with mine so far, to be honest, but you can do a lot with them because you can
run basically all the debut and album programs and it's got same custom interface and all that as well.
Some programs by default as well. So it came out just before the pie zero, right?
That was on crowdfunding. Yeah, that's delayed. Yeah, it took a delay before this
chip devices out, won't be missing with you or to a boy, but yeah, about two years ago or
a year ago it was on crowdfunding. It was in the go-go. Yeah, I think I just got a couple of pie zeroes
and that's kind of the same thing except it doesn't have the screen. How much is it with the screen
package? Well, they sell it on the website now, I believe, with like I'm saying, and there might
even be a slight update now. Let's have a look. I've been printing Raspberry Pi pieces with the
3D printer. Go to getchip.com. That's one talking about getchip.com.
Yeah, I have one and one thing I was talking about before I got disconnected is you guys have
probably seen that with the violence against peace officers in the past six months or so.
You know, things focused on a fully grown Facebook. You know, if you saw a law enforcement officer
in trouble and you had the means to intervene and help, would you do so? And I think we all would.
Yeah, but on the other end, you got to be thinking, you know, the other cops show up.
You got to go to your hand and you're not in uniform. You're going to get shot.
Well, you also have the problem of how does the cop know you're there to help him and not
there to ambush him from behind? Exactly. So I don't think I would. I would retreat and call
other cops and say, hey, there's this guy in trouble. Come quick. I don't see a good outcome of
an individual trying to appear to be helping a cop in trouble because unless he's incapacitated,
you're going to be in trouble of, you know, getting shot from both parties. Not, of course,
unless your police are not armed and you're not armed in which case there's no problem.
Well, then there'd be lots of yelling involved and that's so uncomfortable.
Yeah, go to trouble. Good morning, everyone. Happy New Year. This year into the last hour of the
official annual HGOR New Year show. And I'm awake. Exactly. Yeah, happy New Year, but isn't it actually
afternoon just in Holland? I think you are. Correct, Monday. Still the New Year, though.
Is it really earlier? Have you just had a lot to think? No, no, not anything to drink.
Oh, it was with the kids. We did the thing. You look around.
Let me just get up. I'd breakfast. And now it's afternoon.
Hey, kid, I finally took your advice. You should have gone to bed, sir.
Yeah, a little too well. The better not have been on you talk about gun control when I was away. 50.
God, I just brought it up again. I must have magically known you would be in the channel now.
Sure, sure. It's not about gun control. It's done non-control.
Well, I don't know how much you heard. We were discussing that. No, it's okay. It's fine. I don't
need to get involved in gun control decisions. Thank you. I'm going to go and post some shows.
I'll be back here later to wrap things up. Yeah. So 50, you said you had a chip as well?
It doesn't surprise me. That was one of these interesting crowd-funded things that came up.
You have the yellow one, the car thing.
Well, the three that I've running is the mycroft and then they're supposedly the $50
or 3D printer, which was actually $100. I've got that and I can come up with those.
And then the $5 computer that was actually $90. If you wanted to offer all the plug-ins.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I said that you have a pocket chip. You know what I said?
Oh, yeah. I do have that.
Yeah. Have you been using it properly?
Although, I mean, I think it's good. I thought I think it's pretty good for a cheap
more than a devian-based device. Well, that's what I got. You know, it was a full-elite
device. I could put my pocket. But like I said earlier, the main drawbacks I have with it on
the desktop is the desktop is only going to display the four or five options that comes with
the computer. You know, you can go into the terminal and do apt-get install, open office,
whatever. But that's never going to appear on your desktop.
Well, we need breakfast, I think you meant. But yes, I know it's that too. They have their interface
and all that. Nice to set up. Nice set up, ways and all the rest of it. This is what you can do
is your full program, all that. When you start playing room programs on, you have to,
by default, they will not go on the desktop. I think there is a way to get them to appear,
you have to let yourself. Right. And, you know, like I said, when I got it,
it, you know, there was the educational games aspect of it, you know, in the words,
there were a few games, but there was also a games editor, you know, for educating kids.
And I thought, surely, some, you know, the vice of this specs,
somebody is going to pour retro pie to it. And we haven't seen that yet, but I think it'll still
happen. I just want to check, is Jay really still about as well? Can you, can you listen to us? So,
I guess not, that'll hold a cooking career on. I mean, why would the chip discussion be going
in the podcast? Yeah, but it is a great little computer, you know, when it came out, it was like,
yeah, $50, $50, and then this computer, I can stick it in my pocket, I'm all for that.
Yes, actually, and just, it's very interesting. Did you see they had a dashboard now as well?
I didn't get, I didn't get that one, but they have that as well, four, four tile.
Yeah, they didn't seem to be innovating with more devices on, you know, on the chip website.
Did you get the old robot as well? Or did you miss that?
Adry boy. Yeah, the only thing I've got right now is the pocket chip.
Did you see the old robot as well? Adry no, but Adry boy, yeah.
No, I guess that's due to me. Well, that was just like a basic gaming device. It's a bit like
the gameboy, very small card size. And we could, the fault game was OK, but you could put
the games on through their software and there's loads of games made for Adreno.
OK, man, look at that. It's lack and white, it's like classic style, but it's this geeky,
it's kind of interesting as well. So these are games just made for the Adreno, they are
ported from something else? No, I think it's actually made for the, yeah, Adreno,
and there's a lot of games out there online for that, but I haven't actually got
brought around yet to trying to put on another game, but there's like thousands of games I believe
actually, but also black and white, sort of classic style gaming. It's, and the device is very
small as well, but I've got five of them, all I want in every color, so I've got all five.
So you've got like blue, blue, green, white, red, yellow.
Yeah, I'm not usually in the games for a bunch, unless there's lots of death and explosions.
Well, yeah, yeah, so that's not really, it's not really the thing for games or explosions,
but it for something that is a bit like the past, but it's interesting, it's one of those things.
There's also, you see only the Vega Plus stuff being around funded, the Vega Plus,
I've got one of those coming, the delayed it now because of the hardware change,
doesn't mean, but that's the old Sinclair games, sort of British thing, actually, that one,
might have seen that somewhere or missed that one, I don't know.
Yeah, probably not marked very well on the side of the pond if it was, you know,
for the Sinclair. Well, it was on the Indiegogo that one, but again, people could have missed it,
or whatever, so they've done one the previous year, I think, as well.
They're your boy, they have all the stuff on the website, so you can build your own.
Are you at that now? And you might miss some of that, but yeah, if you had a chip as well,
and he was saying how it, I think he's biggest thing, it was good, like how we're saying, but yeah,
if you put your own programs on, they don't go on the desktop, pf, and things like that, but,
well, you can ask 50 himself, yourself if you missed that.
Yeah, I heard that conversation.
Then the thing now as well is these ultra mini PCs, I've known they're called,
so basically, like I've got two of them, actually, the DPD stuff.
So, one is without Android gaming, it's like it looks like an Nintendo DS, but it's basically
set up so that you can do emulation, you can play all these different games, but then they
the Crown funded the DPD win this year as well, and I've only just received my, quite recently,
about a few weeks ago, and the DPD win was basically to have it with the game controls,
looks like Nintendo DS got keyboard on there as well, and it was run Windows 10, however,
you can put Linux on there as well, and people, when it was being crown-funded people, like,
oh, are you going to put more Linux, and it was all like, oh, yeah, probably can, but then
the hardware support would be a bit questionable as to how, how it would work from up.
So, I got my DPD win, came two weeks ago, and I know that the Windows 10, I went through the
it didn't even connect to the wireless yet, but I've gone through the Windows and set up
poison and got that far, and then I thought, well, I'm going to actually factory reset this device
because I kind of want to do the Sassup Wizard again, and it's one of those things that's good
to know it works anyway, if you can factory reset, and how that would work or not work,
and so I did that, and well, guess what happens, it didn't last particularly long, until I had a problem,
but, yeah, basically, it stopped my device from working, and it was going and spilling
around on the screen with their logo, and then I looked online and there's a bug or something,
but then I thought, okay, so that means I'm going to have to reinstall Windows, if I want Windows
on there, that's going to be a bit annoying, so I don't have an install media for this, but there's
America download, and you get Windows 10 free because it's a little five-inch device, it's small
device, so you actually get Windows 10 free, and I'm pretty legally as well, but then I put
Linux on there, I put a bunch of one there, and considering that this device was never intended
to actually run Linux, or are on there, it actually works quite well, I would say, even
even though, journey problem now, it's got a Broadcom wireless, so that means that it doesn't just
go into the wireless, which is a bit annoying, I think there's a way to hack it and get it actually
working, the touch screen works, that's fine, the rotation is on the side by default, but it can
be spun around, but the point is, and what I've got there is basically a mini PC, it's got a 64
gigabyte SSD space, it's got a next 86 processor, and it's actually quite nice, but the only thing
is the screen resolution then is a bit small, but considering the screen size and the device,
it's not too bad, but that's actually quite interesting. Upgrade around the core or something like that?
I got, yeah, there's a little computer problem there, but did you hear how he said to call something,
and then I, some stuff crashed behind that now? I was just asking, is that the small computer,
where you basically buy a core chip, and there's some things around it, and then you can upgrade
all the other pieces to make a different kind of laptop thing if you wanted to?
Well, no, it's got an Intel processor in there as well, some sort, so it's 2060 and how,
almost for it, but you can't really customize it, no, but you basically have a mini PC,
you basically have a equivalent of, say, a desktop PC, from 2010, that's how they
marketed it on the campaign to help, but it's about as powerful as a desktop PC from 2010.
Well, I recently bought, and I really haven't ever hooked up yet, the
402, which, you know, Intel processor, about the size of a couple decks of cards, and my mistake was,
you could have got it, you know, I got mine for about 70 bucks, you could have got it with,
and it's real hard drive, and I just assumed it was like a laptop hard drive,
and I had one laying around, I thought, well, I'll put that in there.
But apparently internally, it's a proprietary, like, 1.3-inch hard drive, if you buy it with hard drive,
and one person's posted on the link said, yeah, it's a, you know, it's not a standard connector,
it's like USB anyway, so you're not hurting anything to connect it to USB, but, you know,
it's a dual core, I don't think it's an item, but, you know, probably like 1.3 GHz, and,
you know, interesting computers you could carry around in your pocket, I guess, but, you know,
I wish I'd waited till I had a case, use case to establish it, because right now I don't
see anything I can do with it, I can't do it with an ARM-based computer, there's a couple
things that have come up, you know, there's that media sharing, the software that only works
under Windows, and people use, there is a thing came up a couple years ago,
so like Team Viewer, but, you know, you would pay for it without paying a huge extravagant fee,
but you'd sit up your own server for clients to be able to download it and install it,
and then only worked under Windows, so, you know, use case like that, that you've got something
only works under Windows, I can see this, otherwise, you know, I'm not sure I can justify why I bought it.
Well, okay, two points here, so, the DPC win is basically, you've got a lap, you've got a screen,
you've got a keyboard, you've got game control, hardware, you've got your mouse,
weight, making mouse, or on there, so it's like, so the hardware, it's similar to the desktop
PC from 2010, the hardware-wise, about as powerful as it is, and that also, it means, yes,
you've got USB ports and all that, you can put your external hard disk in, you can put your various
USB devices in there, but yeah, because it's got a Broadcom wireless, for example, it means
that it doesn't support it, it doesn't really work, but considering these two, these issues,
I talked about just now, okay, there's that, this rotation is on the side, but you can change
around the time running away, and it generally works really well with a bunch of, even so,
when I try, so I think that's impressive, but yeah, I mean, it was really designed for Windows,
but there are other things like that, as well, it's been the open Pandora, I think it was called in
2009, that's going to be replaced by the Pyra, that's the big Linux device, it's coming, it's
going to be quite expensive as well, there was another one that was Crayl funded that I missed,
I've had about the other week, coming what's called now, when I was looking online about these
computers, there's not that much in that market, but it's, it's an interesting area, I think,
well, I've got two of these in the devices now, so, the Android one, you can't really put
the Linux on there, we may be able to, but it wasn't really intended for that, that sort of stuff
to Android, I think, really, but the DPC win on the other hand is much more customizable, you can
put, you can put pretty much any operating system on there that runs on X86, because it's basically
a desktop PC, like I'm saying, so there's somebody, well, I think that that community will
jump up and be interested in anything that is cost effective, which, which community, there are
many PC communities, or the, well, the many PC slash open source community, I'm not sure there's a
huge, uh, many PC proprietary software community. Well, it's not, it's not so much the software,
it's more the, the actual hardware that's out there and isn't out there, because, like, like,
what I'm talking about, so the DPC win, or the DPC was the Android thing, but then there was,
there's Pyro, which is the big Linux one that is like the one that people are supposed to really
have here wanting this stuff. There was another one that was Crayl funded that I can't know what's
called, but I read about it the other week. There's about four of these things in the market currently,
I think, maybe five, and so there's not that much from market there currently, but, but the
devices themselves, that's actually pretty interesting stuff. It's a great idea there, actually,
being, you know, you could basically do a desktop PC in your pocket, or in your back,
there was, or many laptops, but yeah, I like small devices, more so than big devices. I want
something that's portable. I gotta get more portable. Yes, a lot of us, I think, have been chasing
that idea. Yeah, there's various attempts, but a lot of the stuff is actually still pretty big,
in general. I mean, if you stop talking about laptops in here and things like that,
then that's big. In our pine laptop that we're talking about earlier, even in 11,
in which that's still big device. Next talk is big, but actually the next one wasn't that big,
but in big, in the sense of big is, in general, something like the DVD win, which I was just
talking about on the other hand, that's small. That's, you know, it's about the size of an Nintendo DS,
that's a small device. That could device for what it is.
I mean, that's why I got the pocket chip. You know, something I pull out of my pocket and get
straight to a Linux terminal, you know, more than, you know, think, you know, jumping straight into
something graphical, like open office or whatever. But, you know, still not quite ready, still
carrying, you know, still need to get used to carrying it around. The pocket chip is good, but
that one, in a way, is too small to, because, you know, you could go out and you could,
that's one you could probably leave is a bit easier, depending on if you're not careful enough,
because it is quite small. Again, with something like the older boy, which I was talking about
earlier, that's the size of a, about a, about a size of a credit card, a bit bigger. That's,
again, the kind of thing that is maybe a little bit too small. You could, you could lose that,
quite easily, depending on how you're, you know, what you're doing. But, well, you can, well,
we can use a, well, you can use most small devices, but some more say to others, that's what I'm
trying to say, or we're more likely to possibly lose that one than the other one.
And someone come, come up to me and say, yeah, what can you do on the pocket chip that you can't
do on turmax on your phone, and I would not have a good reply at that point. I think I,
yeah, I think I'll probably be the same to that really, but I would say, oh, well, it's,
yeah, they've got their own interface, they've got their own wizard, they've got their own
all that, and you can actually, but I missed the software from dabbing on there anyway. But,
but yeah, it's basically just a small, um, dab, dab, dabbing device, I guess. Was that,
Dave, where you at? You got a good point on that. No keyboards on phones anymore, unless Blackberry makes
a ridiculous comeback. I've got way too many computers, but at the end of the day,
I use a lot of remote desktop and DNC. And I don't know whether I'm in front of the
real machine or not. And a lot of times I actually do use my phone to do that kind of work.
Oh, no, I want something smaller and portable. I wonder if the solution really isn't, um,
some sort of remote, go 100% remote. Maybe smooth, smooth device that will do what?
Basically remote into a more powerful device.
Well, I'll see from the MIDI PCs, that's something that I would have thought would work,
or should work as well, because we're not connecting that I haven't tried that,
but I would have thought that you can probably do that kind of thing as well with those devices
of should be able to. You can. I mean, the final solution is a Johnny Mnemonic display
that connects your phone and you can sit and type in the air and do whatever you need to
in VR. Oh, there you go. I don't know. I've got like 30 laptops. I've got it in front of me right
now. I think there's 27 screens in this room, and I wonder why, uh, really do.
30 laptops, really. Yeah, okay. Why, why, why is that 30 laptops?
Well, I spill a lot of coffee. It's a long story. I started out with the five of them,
because I do spill coffee. I bought them with warranties, and you know, they could fix them in three
days kind of thing, and I learned a long time ago that when your work depends on one of these
machines, that you better have a few of them, because you know, you're going to end up dropping one
hit breaks, and you break out another one, and you're going to end up spilling coffee on that one.
You better have a third one at least, and you know, what is cheap laptops? They were, uh,
oh, no, no, they were, uh, up to the top of the line HP laptops at the time. We'd buy them,
take them apart, put in, you know, bigger hard drives and whatnot. I bought two extra from my wife.
She has to have one, but she spills coffee too, so I got her the second one. So I ended up with five
of these things, and then, uh, I guess we bought four year warranties for them. And again,
these were nice laptops of 17 inch screens, Core i7 processors, that sort of thing. The warranties
ended, and we went out on eBay, and with a parts list, we had the service manuals for them,
and it turned out that HP had dumped, I guess thousands of these laptops to these people that
parked them out and sell the parts on eBay. So we ended up buying the part lists for, you know,
spare parts, because they said, you know, these are decent laptops, they'll live a long, long time.
And for cheap, we can just buy, you know, replacement touch pads and this, that the next thing for them.
Before you knew it, we had this pile of parts that I started scratching my head on that,
we had spare motherboards and spare screens and spare keyboards, and, uh, I bought like 20
keyboards from the factory in China for like $7 a piece. You know, we had a substantial
pile of parts, and a couple of Christmases ago, two or three Christmases ago, I decided that,
you know, I could take a lot of these parts and just put them together and have extra laptops,
and we did. And so now I've got like, I think I've got 32.
Hello, what I'm going to do with all of them. So that was just personal use, not, not a company,
not company or whatever, just, well, I do work on them. And, uh, I do have a need for a lot of
screens. I can't really discuss why, but, uh, I do a lot of graphics work on the fly in real time
for the company, uh, contracts me out. I write, so it is, it is for business as well. It's not just,
it wasn't you see buying, I mean, it wasn't you see buying that personal laptops and then,
oh no, none of this is, none of this is for personal. This is all business use. And, uh,
I've literally everywhere I go, I have to have my laptop with me in case I'm contacted and said,
I've got to do some work right that very second. And, uh, yeah, yeah, the five laptops, you have
time. It's true. And, uh, on top of that, I have, uh, a lot of servers that I administer over 300,
mostly done with scripting. Uh, most of those are remote. So, I mean, I can't tell whether I'm here
or there. Um, and I've got 21 armboards that I keep plugged up. I don't exactly know why I just
play with them. That, most of that is personal. Some of that's business about half of that's business.
That is the, uh, the work that I do, they're switching over from using airplanes to using these
little drone things, which are controlled by armboards. That's the story on that. And it
takes a lot of screens to keep all the scaling, I suppose, too many. I'm trying to, I guess,
take it. Yeah, I guess you're, I guess you got a big storage room or something, then.
I'm sorry. I guess you got a big, a big room to put the laptops and screens and
it's so much to keep up with. I mean, I've got a house full of wires and screens and cables
and I'm trying to escape it desperately. Um, it's gotten to be too much to deal with
from one little T. J. Oh, anyway. Well, there we go. That's why many PCs need to take off.
So you can have 50, um, many PCs in hardly any space at all.
You know, I play a lot with these digital ocean droplets and stuff and I see, um,
were developers use Mac minis remotely. Um, you know, they need to develop, uh, I guess for iOS,
probably most of them. And rather than buy a Mac, they just rented online to compile,
because you have to use the Apple hardware and compile on the Apple hardware and submit from
the Apple hardware and all that kind of stuff. And I notice that they, they do this remotely now.
Don't start to think that maybe that might be, uh, that might be an option for me as well,
because a lot of the stuff I do is also remote a lot of the compiling that I do for the apps that
I build is, uh, built on computers all over the world and comes back, uh, you know, it all comes
back and links on someplace else and a lot of it is done on machines that just aren't physically
here. I'm wondering if that's not really where ultimate solution lies, you know, buy a,
maybe you don't buy a pocket chip anymore. You just rent it virtually or something.
Maybe use one, maybe use one or your phone to get to it, but, uh, I come to the look in here.
I got a white Android boards and Raspberry Pi boards and the like, I don't wonder, why do I have to
even have them? Why aren't there, why isn't there a farm somewhere where I can just remote into one?
Yeah, I see a point. You spend more than access to the computer that you want access to at that time.
You know, actually, there is a place that was, uh, there's several places that were hosting
Raspberry Pi's, uh, with forward facing, I speed, uh, internet connections to them. And, uh,
you could either send them your Raspberry Pi or you could rent one by the month for outrageously
and I guess the internet connection was fast enough. Uh, might be almost as good as having one
in front of you. I've had a really good luck with using B and C to broadcast screens.
It's not the same thing, but I think they've been, you know, being some of this for gaming,
isn't there where you would, you would remote connect into some game and you would play a game online.
Oh, well, anyway, we get the game from the internet in the first place as well.
I think most of these places were hosting, um, using them for hosting web servers,
but to answer your question, I have to kind of answer a question or even make a question.
I was renting a, uh, Oderoid X-E4 in Germany hooked up to a, uh, gigabit,
internet forward facing internet connection. It was pretty interesting. I actually put a
virtual desktop on it and it ran almost fast enough where I could run, I could get a graphic
screen from it from Germany delivered right here to Florida and it seems pretty real time.
Kind of interesting for us. Oh, yeah, you can do a lot of, I mean, you could do a lot of remote
stuff, I'm sure, but it's still an internet connection as well, the speeds and all that.
Yeah, you're not going to get any good GPO work done that way, but, um, I wonder at what point
these little boards is how, you know, that you might be able to get them and they don't even exist.
Just memory, a virtual memory image of a board running somewhere.
They droplets, so to speak. Yeah.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum
computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
