Episode: 2916
Title: HPR2916: HPR Community News for September 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2916/hpr2916.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:15:47

---

It's Monday, 7th of October 2019, and this is HPR Episode 2916.
Entitled, HPR Community News for September 2019.
It's part of the series HPR Community News, and is hosted by HPR Volunteers, Gabrielle
Levenfire, Jung Baton, Dave Morris and Ken Fallon. It's about 68 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about the show's released and comments
posted in September 2019.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi, everybody. My name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of HPR Public Radio
today. The exciting Community News for September 2019 and joining me tonight are live from the
US of A.A. Presume. Gabrielle Levenfire. And the lowlands of Holland.
Ah, this me, Gerald Baton. Hi. No, that's me, Ken Fallon. Oh, you too, of course. Oh, I'm
sorry. Technically, I'm in Boston. We're one meter above sea level, so I guess I wouldn't
qualify as the lowlands of Holland. I'm from the North Scotland.
Very high heels of Scotland. Dave Morris.
And you're listening to the Community News Show. The Community News Show is a show that we put
on every month, basically random people come on and talk about the shows and anything else that's
been going on the HPR community vis-à-vis the mailing list and stuff like that. We traditionally
start this episode with a welcoming new host. So Dave, can you do the honors, please?
Well, yes, it's a pretty short list of zeros. I'm afraid I'm going to host this announcement.
Oh, how is that possible? How can it be? I don't know. Oh, man.
More than shame. Can you imagine being there listening to this episode thinking, gosh, I could have
done the show. I could have been that host if I had only tried. I'm not hungry. I'm just disappointed.
That there are so many people always saying, oh, I have a show idea. I should make a show. Well,
do it. How hard can it be? Look at me. I did it. Can did it. Dave does it. Lots of people do it.
Okay. Gabrielle. Yeah. Gabrielle as well. Absolutely. Come on. And there are so many topics.
So, so, so many topics that we want to hear about. You know, we just got to just got to pick
up a mic and do it. That's all put in the time. Okay. So, so let's go through the show's
for last month, starting off with two eight nine one, which was the HBO community news.
And we'll skip past that one because nothing really important. Oh, no. Oh, no. I think that one
was solo, wasn't it? No, it wasn't. And there was a certain joke in there that I will reference
later on. Be a rest assured. Okay. I was there. That even and completely forgot about the
community news sitting over there. Poor old Dave had to go by himself. Oh, dear. Dave, Dave.
I was sending frantic messages. Can you join me? What's happening? Oh, well, I'll just do it then.
Excellent stuff. But you did it a lot faster than the ones that I'm on. So obviously, you should
be taking over. Well, it's conversation. It's conversation. That's the thing. I think
conversations what people like to to fair degree. So, you know, but I didn't couldn't talk to
myself all that much. Well, you know, it doesn't make it more lively. But, you know, it's always good
to hear from you anyways, Dave. So, you know, thank you for holding up. Thanks a lot. So,
I left a comment, which is copyright from the Blues Brothers. Both, yes. And then John Colp says,
heroic effort. Great job on the community news, Dave. Thanks for stepping up and flying solo.
To reach out, I replied, thanks, John. I was slightly shocked at being there on my own,
but have ridden shock kind of a few times now. I've done a few shows with other co-hosts. So,
I didn't panic. It's my only face. Glad I turned it turned out tolerably well. Now that Ken has
been released by the Dutch mafia slash Yakuzzer slash aliens, we'll hopefully be back to normal next time.
Cool. So, the following day, we had Star Drifter RPG playtest part D.
So, I've come to like this series. I'm a bit of a gamer myself. So, I've been enjoying hearing
some of these live playtests, but it's also been really fun to hear about how, you know,
the different opinions people have on, you know, the mechanics of the game and how they would
rather see them come together or not. So, it's been fun. I love this entire series, but I leave
my comments to the very last episode. Yeah. Yeah. It's quite interesting to see how the
sausage is made, if that's the expression. It's good to see behind the scenes a little bit.
I'm not much of a gamer, but I'm quite enjoying just sort of being a fly on the wall here.
Yeah. A fan, definitely a fan of David Collins River as work too. So, you know, seeing an RPG,
you know, built around it is going to be kind of fun. Well, I love his universe. I must say
absolute nailed it for me. This is what science fiction is about. So, the following day, we had
what's in my box park gear and in my bill finished just like a tar pedal from Tim Timothy
Sentum. And he basically fixes some issues in there. I'll jump straight to the comments on this,
which came from Tim Timini himself, the trouble pedal. Hi, in my bill. Glad to hear you
got the trim pedal working. It came from eBay. If anybody wants to try and build one from scratch,
just search for DIY tremolo pedal, all case with 3PDT switch and 1590B. I may grab one for myself,
but first I'll go to finish rebuilding my guitar, which I promise to record a show on HPR about.
Nice try, nice try. John, shall I do the next one? John Colt says, no delay bill. Thank you so
much for closing the loop on this project. You really left us hanging with part one of it.
Very glad to hear that you got it working. I'm sorry to report that I ordered a similar kit
from China for a digital delay pedal for about $20. And after assembling it, all I got was allowed
and couldn't even get the case to close right. I don't think I'm cut out for assembling small
electronics. The instructions are exactly like you are simply a photocopy of the circuit border
about any real instructions. And in my bill replied, hit and miss. Thanks for cluing us in on the
source, Tim Timini. John, these things are tricky. Are a trick actually. I really think some
manufacturers order $10,000 plus of these from China assembled, then broaden them all for resale.
The fact really making them might as well sell a kit with all the parts and make some money
on the side, smiley face. However, you're left to your own figure, figure the thing out. Then again,
I do like a challenge. It was a fun project. At least a different cost and price of a new
microscope, which what happened with my $15 thing I sent to. And the following day we had
repairing a musical instrument case. I talked about repairing a case for a Vietnamese
done throne. Is that how you pronounce that, Dave? All right, it's the way I pronounce it. I'm
not sure how you pronounce it in Vietnam, particularly, but yeah, that'll do. I'm sure.
Yeah, I've never heard of this instrument, but it was I was really excited to hear him
test it out at the end because after, you know, it was all about the case, but the instrument sounded
kind of neat. Yeah, it did, didn't it? It's just like the China, there's a Chinese equivalent, I think,
which is like a sort of zither type of thing with lots and lots of strings that you play with
fingernails or with the plectrums on your fingers. I've seen people at the Edinburgh festival
playing these things in the street and stuff. Amazing, absolutely brilliant. I have to say that
I just like these, you know, repairing something in both, you know, the last episode with
in my bill, and this one, I just love the, you know, hearing people repairing things in their
shop. The background noise just, it's really fun. But, you know, the other thing that's that I
think just sometimes is hard to quantify is just, you know, hearing people go through the thought
process of what they're, you know, what they're fixing, how they're, how they're troubleshooting
issues as they come up. Sometimes that also, you know, I find that educational without, you know,
just a very subtle way. So I love hearing those sorts of things.
Well, it's great to hear somebody who looks at a problem and goes, I'm sure I can find a solution
to this. And they do, you know, because it makes you perhaps review things that you yourself might
might look at and think, right, that's, that's to be thrown away. Certainly, that's the case with me.
I'm much more inclined to have a go at repairing things over here or other people doing it.
Yeah, definitely 100% agree there. So the following day, we had the work of Firefighters part to
the introduction to the work of Firefighters, pretty disappointed in this episode. To be honest,
the guy didn't really try. I commented on this, very disappointed. Just walked around the neighborhood
and all four have a car parked over it. I was hoping that the solution would be to cover
fire hydrants would be to crush the cars, but the last yours annoyed.
Yeah, well, may I humbly insert my comments on that?
Yeah, being the guy making the podcast. So I put in some effort, I made a podcast, I uploaded
and this is not the first time this is happening to me. Imagine last year, Adolf Camp,
Dave comes to me, will you please put your convert your talk into a podcast? Yeah, sure, why not.
I uploaded and the first comment I get, I wasn't yours, was somebody else. The first comment had a
title. Now, this is embarrassing. Imagine me reading the title of the comment as a first podcast
saying, stating, now this is embarrassing, turns out in his contest, then he goes on and says,
I've been thinking about myself for years and I never did it and now you beat me to it and
great things. Okay, great, thanks. But, you know, the effect of the first title is not to be ignored
here. And thing happens here, I know Ken and we had a lovely dinner sometime ago, we should
repeat this as soon as possible. Yeah, but imagine me reading again the title of this comment,
stating, disappointed. And I'm like, oh, okay, what did I do wrong? Turns out I didn't do anything
wrong. He was disappointed by you were disappointed Ken by walking around the day. But
um, that's not the impression that was not my first impression as you might imagine.
Indeed, and for people who haven't picked up on the show, it was an excellent episode by our good
friend, Yuru, who was about my tier. No, but it's very good episode, like particularly
one. Why you don't turn, why you don't go in like waterholes is blazing into a house.
And one of the comments I had was on the previous episode was, you know, what happens if
fire hydrant is covered? Yeah, there was a car park there and Yuru says, yeah, well, there's
plenty of water in the truck. And, you know, by the time that runs out, they've rigged up houses
to some one, some of the cars that's available. However, yes, I was actually in the neighborhood.
In your neighborhood, they are covering the underground water.
Yeah, the car park. Yeah, but they're not allowed to park there, right?
They're not, but they do. But they do. Yeah, okay, but so from a
government planological kind of view, there shouldn't be any forecast parked on top of the
fire ends. Yeah, they do. And so it's illegal. And but didn't you say that they were starting to
what's the word for it? Make a citation for those cars? Yeah, I was there one day and there was
fire inspectors walking around with the car and they were noting how many were covered.
Yeah, because it's something that they took that were pretty seriously. Yeah.
See, you know, I think all of us were really hoping to hear from this episode that, you know,
this is why we reinforce the front of the truck so we can just ram those cars out of the way.
Well, there are hydraulic scissors and hydraulic sprays. And it's total fun to play with that and
crush cars. When whenever possible, I won't deny it. But no, on average, I haven't had the
experience of having cars parked on top of fire hydrants in the 10 years that I was a volunteer.
So I really couldn't say what would happen. But I'll address this in the next part of this
series. So just imagine you have a whole neighborhood where all the fire hydrants are covered with
cars and what then, what's the solution then? I'll cover that in the next part of this series.
Detuned. Yeah, exactly.
I knew you Steve had the comments. Do you want to cover that? Yeah, I'll do that one.
Said volunteer firefighters. You said that you're a volunteer firefighter and I'm wondering if
most firefighters in the Netherlands are volunteers. In the US, there are volunteer
departments for sure in rural and small town areas. Most of the medium to larger cities have
fire departments where the firefighters are employees of the city or county. Do not answer
that question here. Thank you. Yeah, really? Shouldn't I just? Well, just a little.
Oh, well, we keep increasing the suspense then. Make it a cliffhanger because this while
I will also address in the next part of the series. And well, it's a little busy over here.
Otherwise, I will be recorded the third episode. But I'll we'll try to do that as soon as possible.
I promise. Thank you very much. The following day, don't waste people. We don't waste shows and
comments. Thank you very much. The following day, Orange Pie Zero LTS version. This was by
GWP and he went through the Orange Pie Zero. Anyone have any comments on this?
This seems like a pretty interesting device for the money. It was my impression. I hadn't really
been following the Orange Pie, but this one is a is a small device and quite cheap. And yeah, it looks
looks I was almost tempted to go out and buy one to be honest with it, but then it would sit on
a shelf and look at you. So I didn't. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, of course, but there are so there are so many
good ones of these that are, you know, we could you could pick up every time I hear one of these,
I have to like, you know, take a step back. Okay, okay, okay, step away from the credit card.
I have so much hardware that I never use and it's so much fun to play it. Well, to buy the stuff
and put it together and then boot it up and when it runs, well, time for the next part.
Yeah, I did the same and I didn't want to do another one here. I recently bought this
Raspberry Pi 4 with four gigs of RAM and it has this heating problem and I went looking for
a solution and I found the fan shim and it's something that you just plug on the GPIO connector
and there's a little Python program to monitor the temperature and switch it on and it's very
silent and it well, it looks nice. The combination together with, I don't know, it's some some
rear case and come to think of it, I could do a talk about it but there's nothing, that's not a lot
of stuff. So I said, if you're reading my mind. Yeah, well, which part did I could do a talk about it
or that it's just just not enough. Could you talk about it? Ah, okay, right. Well, it's time
that I don't have. I'll do that in the next time that I don't have. Yeah, sure. If you do get
some time, what a lot of our hosts do is make a list and then record, you can record the
firefighting episode one and then the other one after that. So make a list, do it all in the one sitting.
Oh, yeah, that's my idea. Okay, good suggestion. Thanks. So the Star Drifter RPG Playtest 3 was the
following day we'll just jump over the house until we get to the last one. And to Katoruto,
modeling people in the Spears game. This, although it was Huskow, which kind of went over my head again.
This was an interesting, I find it interesting the way he's approaching making a game and all the
things you need to take into account in doing so. Yes, yes, I'd be insight into the components
of a game like this. I find it enormously interesting. I never really thought about it, never
wanted to make one, but it's really good to be led by the hand through all of this information I
find. And the way he's approaching, it makes it interesting that I don't know if it was in this
one or a later one where he's got, if somebody has brave versus being a coward and I've walked
a particular time. Yes, but yeah, but yeah, absolutely. So much, so much, it's fascinating.
I think in years to come when, when kids have been programmed with a Haskell gene that they'll
be looking back on this gone gosh, that guy was ahead of his time. But I'm still with this
entire series kind of hoping for Haskell by Osmosis. Yeah, me too, me too. I don't,
don't detect much of it happening in my case. So the following day we had Endeavour OS, and this
was Tony Hughes, and he did a show about Endeavour OS, which I would never have considered actually.
It'd been an arch Linux derivation, but it was a good show I thought. Yeah, yeah, I was intrigued by
this one. I have to say, I've stopped really looking at, sort of, just to watch and things like that
because I'm happy with what I have, but I've always wanted to try arch, and this sort of semi-tempting
me to have a shot at it just to see if I can live with it, you know. So thank you Tony.
Thanks Tony, Arch, the lazy man's Linux from scratch. So speaking of somebody who sits down and
records lots of shows in one sitting, I think. Ahuka, with better social media, zero one, an
introduction. And this is a new series called Social Media, looking at all aspects of social media
platforms, histories, popularity, and philosophy. And as ever, Ahuka has his own website
where you can read his blog links and there is basically his posting.
The text associated with his show. I found this an excellent show. I really learned an awful
lot of it. And it's take on, on look at social, look at there's more than just Facebook. Well,
I knew that. I mean, you know, yellow and other, but he really delves into and compares some of
those. And I find it incredibly interesting to listen to. And in the spare time that I have,
I don't listen to all the podcasts, but this one, for me, at least, will be stood out.
Yeah, yeah, agree. I agree. I, this was sort of an introduction to the rest of the series. He's
put together and made me really look forward to hearing the forthcoming shows too. And I knew
the existence of some of these, but not all of them. And I don't, I don't really know much about
what a lot of them do, apart from the odd one or two that I use. So yeah, great, great overview.
I think it's. Yeah. So I, I hope that he will also discuss at some point. I believe the names
Okuna. They used to start as open book, but then it stood out. There was an already taken
name, but this is a Kickstarter project where they promised to make a sort of a Facebook-like
social platform, but then with building a privacy. So yeah, well, you know, the development needs
to get paid. So I sponsored, I was on the sponsor for the Kickstarter project. And I, I really hope
they'll they'll they'll make it. So I will look forward to him discussing Okuna as well.
Cool. I don't see it on his list, but perhaps. Well, maybe I have the name wrong. Let me just
check online. I'll get back to it in a few seconds. No worries. In the meantime, we'll move on to
uh, HPR episode 2,901, which is describing the podcast. I listened to part three. And
Mr X really knows two things. One, how to make me happy by dragging out a topic to its full
and complete state. That's number one. And number two, my god, does everybody in Scotland
over-engineer their their podcast-listing solutions? I thought it was marvelous.
Unbelievable. Is absolutely wonderful. Yeah, yeah, he's he's a man for detail and I love it.
It's absolutely fantastic. Yeah, definitely. I think this one came out before you you met up with
him later day, right? That's right. That's right. Yeah, because when you when that episode comes
spoiler alert, you keep you keep not wanting to put spoilers to this episode. So having heard it
was just like not really spoiling. So it was cool to hear. Yeah, we were a bit confused about
the timing of everything at the time. So yeah, but yes, he's uh, wow, he's he's got a lot to say.
We had a such a long chat. We had to that to leave because we all had think we had things to do,
but it was good two and a half getting them for three hours. I think we were we were there
chatting about stuff you can imagine. Meet up again and uh, bring another recorder.
Well, we plan to do another another get together sometime later on this year. We can find
somewhere a bit quieter to go. Yeah, definitely. No comments to last on that one.
Following day star drifter part four, following day what is PM EM? I had no idea what this was.
Uh, so thanks JWP, which is persistent memory, also known as storage class memory.
Yeah, I'd heard that there were folks working on this and you know, I was interesting to hear
some updates on this. Uh, if the idea of, you know, how you would design an operating system around
this kind of memory is, is rather fascinating. I mean, you think about a computer that you can't
automatically, at least not unless it's designed to you, you can't just reboot it because
its state never goes away. That's that's kind of neat. Or terrifying.
Now this is amazing technology, isn't it? Yeah, it uh, I also had never heard of this,
but I'm looking forward to becoming available on the on the market soon. So there were a lot of
comments on that show, I don't know. There was, there was, wasn't there? There's a comment on
was it? Uh, yeah. Oh yeah, there is carry on. You can read that. I just had to do a double take
there and I wonder if I'd skip to show. Um, yeah, we had comment from Archer 72. He says,
awesome, I really hope this takes off. It would be a great addition to the next Raspberry Pi edition,
which is true. My price will have to come down quite a lot before I actually think the Raspberry Pi
is really, yeah, I think it's early days, yeah, isn't it? So now the next show is DIY URL shortening
by Flattu. Uh, without software as a service, just on your own domain, putting in a simple
HGTP Equip Refresh. And uh, to Katoruto says, clever, really clever way of doing this.
When I saw the headline, my mind started immediately working through all kinds of algorithms
will could use for shorten URLs, no, for me. Yeah, I bet. Turns out nothing complicated is needed.
So, uh, yes, it's clever, isn't it? Yeah, I like this idea. We use that on something similar on
HPR with a, uh, PHP script, but being able to do it with native HTML is kind of cool.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. No, I didn't quite know where he was going till he, till he, yeah.
No, I saw, I dug down into it, listen to the, the talk. Yeah, very clever indeed. I like it.
And two HPR hosts living in the same region finally meet up. So you could have been talking about
the podcast part three, because it was already released at that stage. Yeah, yeah. We didn't,
we weren't sure when we would get the audio together and get it into the queue and that sort of
stuff, but yeah, it was, um, it was fun. And so this is a good one. This is a good one to listen to,
too. It's always, uh, just, uh, hearing me, you know, hear you guys on so many shows, but hearing
people together on shows, this is not, you know, this has happened in other cases too. Just,
it just adds a different spin. It's fun. Yeah, I would like to listen to this sort of thing,
because you get a bit more insight into the, the people, uh, if you, in that sort of context,
it was John, Culpin, Windigo, remember listening to ages ago. Um, yeah, that's right. So, yeah.
So I was keen to do something like this if it was possible to, to do. And, uh, yeah, it seemed
to come together. Okay. So, Ken, shouldn't we try to do something similar? No,
do you remember the restraining order you have against me?
But I mean, maybe I'm the supervision or during visiting hours.
I'll give you, uh, during the hours, right?
The following day, moving swiftly along, feature engineering for draft, data-driven decision-making.
I imagine there's some buzzwords in there. In this episode, I explained feature engineering,
now you can use it to make decisions. And this was by our good friend Be Easy.
Yeah, this was not what I was expecting. It was, no, nor I.
Yeah, I was expecting something more to do with software, but this was more to do with data mining.
And I found it very, very interesting as a, as a result.
Yeah, I was most intrigued by this. I didn't know what feature engineering meant at all.
But it's, uh, it's the sort of thing I, my son's currently doing a computer science course,
which involves databases. And he, he was in touch with me yesterday and said,
Dad, I'm struggling in this lab. Any chance you could help me with this database?
So he sent me a, a light database, which, and I wasn't going to give him the answer.
But just faced with data in that form, what's the first thing you do with it? You sort of see how
it stuck together and you do various simple analyses of it and that type of thing. And I,
I think I was doing feature engineering at some sort of rudimentary level there.
You know, just, just getting, what does, uh, be easy say, hacking data to make
information is what he said, which I thought was very, very, very, very, very, very philosophical,
actually. Yeah. And it was also nice to see just how with even the barest minimum type of data,
like, you know, when transactions happen at what time and with an account, just how much,
you know, you're able to extrapolate from just just, you know, that data if you have enough of it.
Yeah, very much so. This is a perfect example of something I'm, I'm drilling into people on
work is, you know, with GDPR compliance. It's, it's not enough to say, oh, I can't identify
the customer because it takes so little to be able to identify somebody or to be able to narrow
down and to hone down that it's, it's scary in a way, I should. Yeah, no, that's very true. Yeah,
it, it becomes very easy to, to, to, uh, pick somebody out just by the signatures that the other
afternoon, so what they do, yeah. Well, oh, project, I, I, since the last year, I do, I teach kids,
well, kids, you know, uh, 17, 18 onwards, the who aspire to become a software developer. And,
so I do Python, I do Java, I do IT infrastructure. Uh, but at some point, I touch on the data,
hunger and the data, uh, uh, uh, what's your collection, collect collectors instinct or whatever,
off of those big companies, you know, Google, Facebook, etc. And these people are completely
ignorant on this subject. And the bad, the only reply I, I get, let's say, this default is,
I've got nothing to hide. And, and, and they are convinced of it. And they say, okay, sure,
what's, what's your credit card pin number? Well, I don't think I'm not going to share that.
Okay. When was the last time you had a doctor's appointment? And what was the subject of your
conversation with your physician? And did you ever have, uh, an STD? What's the reason for your
last girlfriend's breakup? What was her name? There are so many things that people like to keep
private for good reason. I mean, and, and, but they, they, they are not, there is no sense of,
of awareness on this. This, and it's completely ridiculous. And I see that all the time.
It, yeah, it is, it is. And I, I would love to see, uh, you know, a series on this and not,
I'm not qualified to do it myself. So sorry, Ken, I can't owe you a show here. But, um, you know,
I'd love to see a series on, you know, how just again, these basic, just, you know, when you have
enough of the data, even though it looks innocent enough, just how much you can infer. I mean,
we got the surface of it in this episode. I'd love to see more. Yeah. Yeah. Me too. Me too. I,
I like, I, even with the things I need deeper because I don't should qualify it enough for this,
but there should be some, maybe a listener who says, well, this is my day job. And, and, oh, please
do a show. I'd, these do a show about it. So we can learn and we can tell others about it. Yeah,
Archer 72 had a comment saying it was a nice show way above my head, but a great show.
So that was nice. So we move on to, uh, Star Drifter Part Five. And there was a comment there
also from Archer 72 saying it's a nice series. I'm enjoying the series. The banter between
everybody is pretty cool. Couldn't agree more. This is the last one. Is this the last one for
this month? No, we're up to 25. No, no, no, no, no, the last, uh, Star Drifter one. Yes, I think so.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Have you gone and listened to the future ones?
I, I think I'm up to the sixth one now. Um, which was, yeah, just haven't gotten to it yet,
but it's, it's getting interesting. Modeling options in space came. This was a, this is the one
that you were talking about Dave, Dave. This was, this was the one with the, uh, the bullying opinions
and, um, sorry, versus cowardice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was the thing you were saying before.
Yeah. Very good. Am I following him? Um, mustard on. I think I need to do that more. Yeah,
does post a moderate amount on master and I certainly follow him. In a previous life, I, I looked,
very, I looked very in detail at, at, um, Haskell. And I'm pretty sure I can understand a lot of
this, but I, you know, it's one of those things that I, I really think I have to live it for a while,
to really appreciate, you know, the richness of what he's putting into these podcasts.
Not just sort of, you know, dip my toe in, uh, but it is, it is, it is always, it's been a nice
series. Yes, he's dedicated a lot of his time and effort into this. I do applaud him for the
amount of effort he's put into it because he's, he's, he's trying really hard to teach us Haskell
along the way of describing his, uh, his, um, the game that he's building, you know, and I do,
I do applaud him for that. And he's also teaching us the whole logic of how you need to think about
doing your game. Yeah. Yeah, indeed. I'm not only that, but like other stuff relates it to
if you're building, modeling a concept, a world, you know, if it's a game or, or something else.
Yeah, all these things that you would just take for granted, you know, if you were playing the game,
right, you just, you just, it would blow right by you, but that somebody had to think through these
things in the first place. Fascinating stuff. I just, uh, joined them, I mastered on them if,
if his icon is anything like what he looks like in real life, he has a completely different
vision of him in my head. So, it was the way that it was me. That was always the way. Yes.
Onyx, basic part three, network fundamentals. Some guy trying to come on here on the network.
Closer, proprietary technology. Hoping to make a big book. Tippies. Typical, typical. Yeah,
who let this guy on? I don't know. Although I must say, this show was the first two days of
anti-sysco training anyone was ever done right there. That's what that show was.
Oh, good. I'm glad it was, it was clear enough. Yes. Well, I found it very, very clear,
and not only that, but I also found it very useful. And, uh, you managed to get through the show
without mentioning the, uh, OSI model at all. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, just point to be
greedy. Well, you know what? There's a reason for that. Actually, when I, when I learned networking,
my, my instructor at university despised the OSI model. And so he, he, he actually talked about
it almost last. So I kind of picked that, ended up picking that up just as a matter of, uh,
you know, a preference, I guess he, he, he preferred the internet model, which is, which is a
different layered model. Yes. Um, so to each their own, I suppose. Yeah. I worked in the university
where we had our own networking protocols in the UK for a number of years. Um, I can't remember
when it finished actually. I must do a show on this at some point. But, um, and the seven layer
model was, was hammered out so much until I, I just sort of glazed over listening to it. All
it was really nice to, when we eventually all decided that we would move to using, uh, IP and
stuff, although there was a lot of politics about doing that and, or not doing it. It was, uh,
it was a funny time. But no, go on. Oh, carry on. I was just going to say I love this show.
It was brilliant. And, uh, I think we need more in terms of understanding
networks. I have worked in the area of networks to a limited extent. But, uh, and so I knew a little
bit about this, but I certainly found that it, that it, uh, it helped to clarify things that,
whether I had gaps in my, in my understanding. And, uh, your toolset is just, just a wonderful thing.
I'm itching to, I haven't done so yet, but I'm itching to have a, have a play with, uh, with some
of the things that you were, you were demonstrating here. I only listened to it today, so I'm a bit,
behind on my print. But, uh, I have done stuff in Pearl where I've, uh, we were writing, uh, an
I-net-D demon thing years ago. And I've written Pearl clients to go and poke it just to prove that
it works and that type of thing. But, uh, but I had something like this. It would be a lot easier.
Yeah. I, uh, one of the things that I really was hoping with the, this in general was that, you
know, if people that, that, you know, if they wanted to pick up these, these tools that, you know,
that, that they would work, they'd be able, something that you could work with with other tools,
that, you know, you don't have to, it, it doesn't all have to be one monolithic thing that you
just, you know, put whatever, whatever that, so if you had some Pearl tools or you had Hpingery,
had, you know, that all of these things can, it's just, you know, the more they interoperate,
the better. I've found, unfortunately, that with a lot of frameworks, they don't, like, um,
you just end up using, you end up getting stuck in one and not wanting to move over to the other.
So, I don't know. We'll see. I, um, yeah. So, I, I, uh, I think you said last time that you,
uh, wanted, you were doing a little network monitoring with them. So, I actually spun off on a
tangent and, and devise a little network monitoring script. I'll, I'll put that in as a show too.
Excellent. Fantastic. Yes. Yes. It's, I, it's always interesting to see what weird things are
happening on your, your network. I didn't realize my router was constantly shouting everything around
saying, I've got, I've got IP version six, by the way, guys and, and everybody ignored him,
and they kept doing it all the time as the, the network, the house network is, is almost flooded
with this. Yeah. Maybe not flooded, but there's a lot of it. For your printer going around saying,
by the way, guys, I'm here. By the way, guys, I'm here. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's
quite an insight to be able to see that type of stuff. I love it. Okay. Glad it, glad it, uh,
it was educational for at least some. Nobody's taken me up on my challenge yet. So, I don't,
I don't know. Yeah. We, I need to get it working. All right. I, I saw your bug report. I'll fix it
ASAP. I should, no, no, don't feel free to talk to me about it, because it could very well be
something that, um, that I'm not doing correctly to get it installed. I wasn't installed on my
Debbie machine, just not on my federal. Yeah. It's probably a header that I just, uh, I have to say,
that I didn't know wasn't gonna have the same value. So I'll double check it. Yeah. I will say,
though, that before, because I installed this tool after your last show and I was thinking,
okay, well, you know, just somebody in the network's built something. So out of, out of niceness,
I'll install this offer. But after doing, after listening to this show and seeing what it can
actually do, I'm thinking, I really need to get this installed, because I can script a novel out
of stuff from my network, just by doing this. Yeah. Good. Good. And also, thanks for the useful
information like the snippets of like over this number is reserved under this numbers for that,
even that packets include this. You, you forget how much you've learned about those. It just sort
of saved a matter of a matter of, of, of no, just, you know, you just throw them off and you
forget that you had to learn them at some point. So yeah. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Uh, continue doing what
you're doing. Well done. There's a comment from Archer 72, who says interesting. I want to say
this is a very interesting topic. I may not understand it all, but there are many people here who
would take well to this subject. Keep it up. Yep. All right. We'll do. And that's our social
metrics, uh, the series from a hookah plus porra. And again, Archer 72 commenting, uh, not show.
If I was not already on messed mustard on, I would be, this would be an exciting move.
I'm, I'm definitely enjoying this series. Uh, audio cut out while they were doing the last one,
but I'm, I'm definitely enjoying these series. And I see a hookah's already got a whole bunch more
in there. I'm looking forward to the rest of it too. Yeah. This plus porra looks interesting. I'm
tempted to just go and play with it just to see if it would do anything for me. But, uh,
don't want to have too many of these things, but it's still fully tempting to, to try this one out.
The thing about the, uh, open source ones, though, is sort of the floss ones, is that at least
there's a chance that you'll be able to interconnect them. You know, you're not sitting on, yeah,
you may only be on, in a pond versus the ocean, that is, uh, what's up or, or Facebook or something.
But at least you can make a canal to all the ponds. And if we get more people on to their own
individual ponds, we can, uh, join them up to make a great lake. Okay. Technically, I know you too far.
Yes. And I said, got strange pictures in my head just at the moment. Yeah.
Yeah, you know, when you're living below sea level, you start thinking in terms of water.
But, but not just that too, but on that same note, you know, not just being able to interconnect them,
but the same idea is you're being able to add, add your own tooling to it, right? You see how,
you know, you see it has features x, y and z, but maybe you can put in another or, you know,
I have that, you know, add something to it or just do, even if it's just for yourself, at least
you have that ability when you have access to the source, right? So that's, that's what I love about
this. Or you can pay somebody to do it for you. Absolutely. Right. Maybe in beer. Indeed. Indeed.
So the last one, I think, is that last one this month? It is, yes. My internet connection.
Well, I'm not going to read this. Dave, can you read this?
Yes. You mean the summary, a bloviated harang with a smatching of spewed
expletives while describing available ISPs. So it's just, that was a very, very accurate
subtitle I have to say. Absolutely. I know it. I love these use of words.
My first job and then other ones was working for a satellite ISP.
So, yeah, and everything he says is true. So, so actually, this is something that, that I
was reminded of in this episode, and maybe you can, you can answer it. Why is the, I don't,
I understand the speed of light as a cup, but, but I did some math. It can't just be the speed of
light. Why is the delay so high going up to the satellite and down? Because of the geostation
we orbit bit. Because it's, right, Elon Musk. And this is an interesting thing.
Elon Musk is putting a new fleet of promise of a new fleet of satellites into space.
So we've got the iridium, iridium or whatever, iridium, iridium, iridium, set of satellites
are off there. And it's essentially for mobile phone use worldwide. So you have,
it can have a satellite phone, horrendously expensive because you need to pay for the satellites
on the bandwidth. So the idea there is that you have got a small connection of, of satellites.
Somebody clicking? You here in the clicking there? I think something on Jury, Jury and End is
clickety. And the idea there is that instead of having your cellular network fixed and
your moving, you know, in your car, you have the satellite phones work from the point of view
that you're fixed and the mobile network essentially is moving over your head. The point there,
though, is that there can each interconnection between the satellite and the ground station. So you
need to get to the ground station from the ground station. You go up to the satellite, the satellite
comes down to your phone, goes back from your phone to the next satellite, goes down to possibly
another ground station comes back to your, the color. So you have a lot of delays worldwide there.
Just synchronous satellites, you want to put a satellite dish on your house and to make it cheap,
you want a small dish and you want it in a fixed position. So in order other than the fixed
position in the sky, the satellites needs to be in the orbit that matches the, that matches the
spin of the earth. So all satellites are falling. So you just take a ball into space and they're all
falling. So it's falling at the same speed at which the earth is rotating. And when you do that,
it's way out. I mean, way out there. And that takes an appreciable amount of time to get out and
come back. So that's why you got such a horrendous delay. So for satellite for browsing,
it's not such a good idea for transmitting large data files at the time the use case was that it
was useful because you could center by its files over in seconds. Got it. So that's why I was
surprised when Elon Musk came up with his ideas thinking, hey, what's happening here? Well,
what he's going to do are the plan there. And I think it's probably other engineers and he's
taking all the credit. But for as time some people will say, they're going to have a connection. So
you will connect to their satellites. And those satellites will connect with laser beams to the next
satellite, next satellite, next satellite, and then drop down to the data center. So you will have a
zigzag path of light speed connections down to the data center. Oh, okay. Let's make it even
faster than cable going underground. So that's the that's the deal there.
Oh, that'll be cool to watch. All right. If in the big knife ever comes along,
no comments on the show as yes, we expect more next month.
Yeah, yes. The styling thing is causing the astronomers to to blow a gasket, of course,
because yeah, they put 64 or something up in the first, the first shot. And it's going to be
thousands. Yeah, yeah. And it's going to make it incredibly hard to run telescopes and that
type of stuff automated telescopes that have to then subtract the yeah, the these things as they
whizz whizz over, you know, it's going to mess mess terrestrial astronomy up quite a bit.
Yep. So we go over the previous comments. I believe there were three.
All right, guys. Thanks for the thanks for letting me on. I'm going to have to drop off now.
Talk to you later. Thanks, Camille. Have a good one. Thanks. Thank you. See you again.
So there was a comment on one of my favorite episodes, a hacker's perspective on schizophrenia by
cyclop. And it was by veg, veg worst, veg worst. Yeah. And it was insightful.
As someone who just started working on a general adult psychiatric ward, I really appreciate it
hearing what it's like on the other side of the curtain. I will never claim to understand
what it's like to have such a condition, but I feel like I have a better idea.
One thing we are taught is that patients with schizophrenia are more often scared than anything
else before angry violent, dangerous, manipulative, whatever negative precondition you want to put
in. And your podcast has really confirmed that for me. So thank you. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Very cool.
Very cool. Yes. Okay. I'm moving on to eight four four Sony TC222 or real to real
tape recorder by John Cup. Michael says muffled sound because of low path filtering.
Hello, John. Late comment, but I have a huge lag in listening. One more explanation of the muffled
sound when playing back at quarter speed is the inherent low path filtering process of getting
the sound on the real. Assume the original track contains tone in the 10 kilohertz range.
These become 40 kilohertz tones in the sped up version. When playing the quick version to record
them on tape, the player has to correctly reproduce those high pitched tones and the recorder
has to be able to bring those to tape. Depending on the frequency response of this chain,
I expect this to be the bottleneck. When playing a quarter speed, the highest pitch you will get
is only a fourth of the highest frequency of the recorder can handle. Regarding Michael.
I think I got that. Yeah. I'm not sure I could repeat what he's saying there.
No, no. Get the chest to the mute. Yeah. Yeah. I got to just. But thanks very much, Michael.
And feel free to do a show because obviously you have stuff to talk about.
I've been feeling here. I'm feeling this is somebody we know who has, who is a host, but yeah,
let's more have more shows, please. And splitting album tracks automatically splitting album
into tracks in Odacity by myself. And there's a common spy hipster. Thank you, Ken, combining
combined with YouTube, DL1 can pretty much acquire every single piece of creative comments,
music one has ever wanted to in a single night with this. You've sped up my workflow considerably,
also great for breaking podcasts into chunk. If like me, one has a car story with an incredibly
slow, fast forward, fast rewind function. That's cool. Thanks. Yeah, but don't have that.
So as a mailing list, discussions, Dave, the community news, oh, yeah,
passing a 5150, Craigy, that cracked me up. Not in the good way out there.
I was listening to the IRC comments of podcast panelists as you do text to speech.
And then just I heard this. I had no idea it was sick or anything. So that sucks.
Yeah, it's a pretty thing. It's not really. It's a terrible shock. I'd expected him to be going home
into retirement and beyond. You know, he's been such a prolific and enthusiastic
podcaster, such a shame. Yeah, I didn't realize he'd been ill. I don't know anything about it though.
I just took the notice down because honky had posted the show on their Linux logcast show.
And that we were reposted here. So if you don't get a chance to listen to it on the Linux logcast,
you can catch it here in HPR. Yeah, they I have actually listened to it and they did a lovely job,
I thought that, you know, it's a bit of a sort of awake for 50 and lots of respect and affection
going on there. It was great. It was a really good show. Yeah, you just, I don't know, he just
did a lot for HPR in the background. It did a lot for me personally, you know, just weird questions
I had and stuff. And, you know, you could not help knowing 50 and 50. If you listened to any Linux
podcast in the last five years, you would have heard at least a comment or something. Anyway,
it is what it is. We have no two RIP people on our on our host page. Yeah, yeah. That's an
I think that was a great idea to do that, by the way. It's yeah, we want to want to mark them
out as people who passed on and, you know, just give our respect and put in perpetuity in so
little. That's the way. It's weird. I was on, um, browsing the Twitter feed for HPR and then all
of a sudden they got a tweet from Lord Dragon Blue. Oh my god. But it's obviously a subscript
checking for Fedora News and still posting it to the channel. So,
weird. You know, Tory Pratchett has a, has a, an excellent thing where, you know,
as long as your name is, your signal is still in the, in the plaques that you, you,
you exist somewhere, I think it's a philosophy of a lot of culture. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, yeah, that's
that's rather nice, isn't it? Yeah. So, you will exist here in HPR where, on archive.org and
presumably we'll be, we'll be encased in some sedimentary rocks at some stage and people will,
will know of us, they existed. Mm-hmm. Anywho, we have, um, I was listening to Floss weekly and for
some time, I've been thinking of, uh, doing, uh, submitting HPR over there and, um, they were saying
they were short of hosts. So, I put ourselves forward. So, we will be on the 30th of October,
live at 930, uh, Pacific daylight. So, in California time, which is, uh, 16 30 UTC or 1730,
here in Hamsterdam area. And as a result, I'm tidying up the website and I'm putting together
stuff to talk about. So, if there's stuff on there representing HPR, uh, so if there is stuff that
you feel is important, um, give me a shout. They, things that I'm intent to say so far are,
when I can't find it. Well, basically, I want to go through some of the HPR pages, namely,
above who we are, bit of our history, how governments has done, how you submit a show, um,
any length, you know, the topics, series, you're, every series having those RSS feed, you know,
the general stuff we do at a, uh, all kind of, good thing is I'll be, uh,
adult camp, hopefully, all go well and, uh, get to rehearse this whole spiel stuff on a bit rusty
at the moment. Yeah, yeah, it's a good point, yes. And I'm going to need to do statistics, uh,
when we started and how many episodes and who are our hosts and, uh, how many subscribers we have
and then moving on to, it's not the subscribers, it's the host, and it's not the host, it's the,
the imp, it's not how popular a show is, the impact a show has on somebody's life, blah, blah, blah.
You've heard it all before, folks, if you've ever listened to me waffle.
I have some, uh, some, uh, listening to me waffle, yes, saying, saying the other way around,
I'm sure, but, um, the, I've got some sequel, uh, queries that, that we've used in the past to do,
we used to try and do sort of Christmas, uh, new year things of summarizing the previous year.
You want me to run any of those? Let me know. Yes, please. Thank you.
Oh, it's absolutely. Also, if, uh, if people have links, this is technically for next month,
but I want to do so, I've asked if people have links to Creative Commons podcasts, because I'm
going to add camp, I want to bring a list, you know, an A4 sheet, uh, with all the Creative Commons
podcasts that we can recommend on it, so that we have something on the table, I can print off
rings of them, and we have something on the table that we can hand out to people, and, you know,
it gets people involved, and even if they don't listen to our show, or they're not interested,
might take it away and listen to some other people's show, so it's spread in the middle of.
So if there's, uh, any podcasts that you particularly think should be on that list,
give us a shout so far we have, uh, ask Noah about voltage, BSD, talk, by the way, I haven't
checked any of these for their license, if they're not Creative Commons, then they're not going on
here. Cashmere 5, Chemical Cade Audio, uh, cchits.net, ccjam, destination limits, distra-hoppers digest,
distra-watch weekly, edXerial, escape pod, flus-weekly, free as in freedom, full circle,
canoe world order, uh, going Linux, uh, hacker media, hacker public radio,
international open podcast, jack-tech, night-wise, late-night Linux, Linux reverium,
Linux for the rest of us, Linux gamecast, Linux in the ham-share, Linux labs, Linux
loopcast, Linux spotlight, Linux voice, gamingcast, open-metalcast, PC podcast, podcast,
pseudopod, rattle radio, Sunday morning list review, tales of the unattested T, Earl Greyhust,
the bugcast, the command line podcast, the dubcast, the duffercast, if they ever released a show,
the jack-tech, Linux, Linux tech show, the source show, third row of Linux, tux-jam,
going to podcast and you random. So if there's any, any show that you listen to that is on that list,
drop us a line. Furthermore, I'll also be adding the shows from the people have already recommended
on the HPR series podcast recommendations. And we just before this show, blah, blah, blah,
should we add that to the database? Is this something useful that people would think
HPR should be doing is keeping a list of podcasts, other creative comments podcasts for
people, namely that we would check once a day and see sorted by the last release date,
that sort of thing, because we do have a sister podcast under the big red project called Hacker
Media, which could sorely do with some updating. So if somebody is interested in that whole
RSS thing and you know, wants to be able to do something positive for the community in a programming
way, then we could possibly get on to Stankdog and see if Hacker Media can be, you know,
this is something we can push over to Hacker Media where you can submit your podcasts and
keep track of podcasts. And then you have just one OPML file that you could export over there and
that's sort of flying. Anyone? Anyone? Beauty? Anyone? No? Anyone? Okay. What do you reckon, Dave?
Oh yeah, spelling. I mean, spelling mistakes or grammars mistakes as well on the website,
please, please send them to me. Okay. Okay. It's, yes. The one that says and podcast, if you can find that,
I'll, I won't leave you there. I'll send it. If I find it, I'll send it to you. Thanks.
And the calendar for next month is, let me see, October. Do I see our camp? I do. It's on the 19th
and 20th of October, as is post-gress QL Europe. Where is that going to be? Milan.
Milan Italy. So anything interesting there that I'm not seeing, Dave, let's have a look at
November. See if there's anything coming up. This is on the T, sorry, the lwn.net
for such calendar, you'll find that there are a lot of interesting stuff. Nothing's jumping up.
Nothing's jumping out. Links in the show notes. I have met some changes to the website
following BEE's latest show upload, where he showed how difficult it was to find the upload button.
And I thought it was fairly obvious, but it's, I've met a more prominent now on the main page.
Yes, I know. So that's great. That's great. Yes. It's, yeah, the trouble is we're so used to that,
so that we don't know where to think about it. And it's for a new arrival, so it can be a problem.
So yeah, great idea. And the remote report missing tags, which is, I must say, is very useful. I
used it during this week quite a lot to track down some shores, Dave. Oh, good, good, good.
So we need to maybe do other things with that, but in the, any other business I've said two things,
but tags and summaries. One is we had an update from Windigo to change to one show. I haven't
managed to do any myself, so that's just one this month. And the report missing tags.php
page, if you can call it a page document, whatever, has been enhanced, so you can
find information about tags in it. It always could, but you had to scroll through it and stuff.
But if you know, if you've seen a tag on a show, you've just looked at the main page of a show,
and you say, oh, it's got these tags. I wonder if there's any other things which have the same tag.
You can go to that page, put hash, and then the tag on the end of it, and find references to all
the other shows that have that tag on it. If there are spaces in the tag that you're choosing,
you need to replace those with underscores, because you're not allowed to have
anchors in HTML with spaces in. So the tag summaries page, so on the report missing tags section,
I would like you to split that out so that from tag summary down is tag.php or hml,
and then on every other page where we list tags, which is on every other page, we would then have
an automatically generated link for every tag to that page with the anchor.
Okay, that would be super awesome. Does that make sense?
Yeah, we haven't got that far with our discussion, but that's the perfect way of doing it.
Yeah, I will. That should be pretty straightforward. It needs to be the page needs to be PHP,
though, doesn't it, in order to get the header and footer and stuff?
Yeah, I can send you a template and then we'll talk about that and I'll show you what to do.
And what I also want to do is because a hooker mentioned this about the submitting a podcast
that could be a form and yeah, they could be, they could be, or you could do a show telling us about
your podcast. But as he will have heard earlier on from our discussion, I don't really want to step
on Hacker Media's feet and also don't want to step on the Linux link.net, which is Dunes project
over on the Linux link tech show, because those people are providing the created content stuff.
So I don't know if that's something that HPR want to take on or not.
Yeah, it's nice to be able to slurp that information from somebody else without having to maintain
it ourselves. But one thing I did think we could do, Dave, was just on every show. I'm just going
to go to a show now. So on every show at the top, we could just have something like a
submit your edits for this, fix this page or edit this page. And then I can pull in all the
information from this into a form and then you fix whatever it is in the form and then you submit
it back out. And that might text. What do you reckon? And then we can just dump that into Jason
file and send the email out with the Jason file later on. We could then process the Jason file
like we would do a normal show. And then of course, it would be a diff because you know, we would
have what the show was compared to what this is. And then we can see exactly what the diff is.
So if ever we did push this into Git, it would be fast.
Yep. Yep. The devil's probably in the detail, but it's a great idea.
Yep. Okay. And I think I need a name for what to call that edge of this page.
That's too committee.
Foundable of this page.
Anywho. Right. Enough of this. So much for our half our show for last one.
That's good. Okay. That's it then. Yeah. We boarded the other two away. They've left.
So it's you tomorrow for time. Thanks Yerun and Gabriel for joining us on the show.
Indeed. And tune in to more for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the
Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
