Episode: 2352
Title: HPR2352: Liverpool Makefest 2017 Show 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2352/hpr2352.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:35:28

---

This in HBR episode 2,352 entitled Liverpool Make First 2017 Show 5 and is part of the series
Interview.
It is hosted by Tony Huma, Tony H1, 212 and is about 3 minutes long and carries a clean
flag.
The summer is a short series of interviews that Liverpool Make First 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
It 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio with the fifth and final in my series
of interviews at Liverpool Make First 2017 held on the 24th of June this year.
Enjoy the final interviews, thank you.
So this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio, still at Liverpool Make First and I've
got with me.
Diane Tacktack.
And what's your story about today, Diane?
Well we are Melt 3D and we design, well we're all about 3D printing.
So we run workshops teaching people how to use 3D printers, how to get the best so it's
not just printing models, it's how to get the best out of them, how to print things
that you can use for casting, investment casting, we do design of components so we help people
design their own components and 3D print them, we help people adapt existing models to
customise them to what they want.
And we run a lot of workshops from kids level off to college, university students and
we use 3D printing as an educational tool.
Thank you very much, that was a very comprehensive explanation about what you do.
I think you've got a website that folks on the radio can find.
We do, it is melt-3d.co.uk.
Thank you very much, Diane.
Brilliant, thank you very much.
So this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio at Liverpool Make First and I'm here
with electric flapjack guitars and I've got the host here and he's going to introduce
himself.
My name is Michael, I build guitars as a hobby.
A year ago I had done woodwork since high school, which is a quarter of a century away
from me and through a process of starting simple and working up through different guitars
I've got to a point now where I'm building guitars from scratch entirely.
But the idea and the kind of thing I'm trying to tell people today is just start simple.
The first guitar I built, which I still play every day, I bought just kit parts and screwed
them together and just tweaked them slightly.
And then the second one I built the guitar body at Cambridge Make Space, which is a community
workshop, using their CNC router, using design I found on the internet and then kind of
built the body by rest of that by hand and I built, bought the neck and what have you.
And that guitar is now with my brother who's using it to record an album and it is just
incrementally, each time just add a little bit that's more difficult because otherwise
you'll put yourself off and kind of think it's impossible.
And yeah, that's how I got here.
So have you got your own website, Michael?
I don't.
If people are interested in seeing guitars being built, if they follow me at electric flapjack
on Instagram, I kind of post lots of work in progress kind of photos just to kind of show
how these things come together.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Lovely.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
