Episode: 2487
Title: HPR2487: Simple LibreOffice Repo for Fedora
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2487/hpr2487.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:01:22

---

This is HPR Episode 2,487 entitled Simple Legal Office repo for Fedora.
It is hosted by Toujet and is about 3 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is Simple Legal Office repo for Fedora.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hey, this is Toujet.
Making a quick recording on my way home, please excuse the quality of this recording.
Today, today I'm recording this, LibreOffice released version 6.
I like working with LibreOffice on a variety of documents and it seems like each version
keeps getting better and better.
My only complaint about it is that on my personal machine I'm running Fedora and they don't
supply a direct repo from their site.
I've seen several other people do things and it will not appear in the official repos
unless you're running raw hide until the next release version of Fedora.
I like to have the latest version of that.
And I also don't want to spend a lot of time dealing with each individual machines and
I don't want to have to take and repeat this every time a new version comes out.
So I've put together a little script that I've got running on my personal website that
connects to the Fedora file server, checks for the current versions of the RPM files,
unloads them, cleans them up and generates an RPM repo that I can then have that repo
added to all my personal machines at the house.
The big advantage of this is being an actual repo like that when a new version comes out
and gets put in there, it will appear as an update just like all the rest of the updates
I get on my system.
So I don't really have to do anything more than other than just do the DNF update on my
machines and I'm done.
To do that, it's a fairly simple bash grip running on a cron job that goes into checks
for the current version that it's looking for, which would today release with 6.0.0.
And it downloads them, puts them all into a folder called 6.0.0 on the server, makes a
link to that to a 6.0 directory and that 6.0 directory is in reference to my repo file.
The script will then keep looking for the next version, which will be 6.0.1.
Now it will not look for a major release, it'll only go for a minor release, a 6.0.1.
6.1.0 will not be picked up by the script.
The script updates itself dynamically each time in order to store the value for the next
time it runs.
It's simple, straightforward, scratches niche I needed for updating all these machines
and I don't have to worry about it.
Bringing on a cron job means that it automatically downloads and updates on the background.
You couldn't look and try to run it off of the server, I'll have links for the scripts
and everything in the show notes.
But if you try to access it off my server, it won't block you, but it'll be pretty slow
on access because of my home connection.
But either way, it was a simple problem ahead and a simple way that I fix it and I hope
you like this. Send some feedback to me, let me know what you think, and I hope to have
more episodes out soon.
Thank you.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
share a light 3.0 license.
