Episode: 2899
Title: HPR2899: Endeavour OS
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2899/hpr2899.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:56:03

---

This is HPR episode 2008-199 entitled NBROS, it is hosted by Tony HUNAK80H1212 and in about
two minutes long and Karima Cleanflag, the summer is a quick show introducing NBROS.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Make a web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi to all you out there in HPR land, this is a quick show to help out with the current
summer shortage of shows.
So over the last few months I've been busy with my new posting, podcasting career, well
it feels in the time now, I'm retired.
Anyway the distra hoppers show has been getting a regular audience and recently we decided
to branch out a little and not the review format to the audience.
You can find details of how to do that on the blog.
The most recent show was a review of the new NBROS, which is risen from the ashes of Antigas
Linux and Arch-based LS.
I decided to use this opportunity to delve in the world of Arch for the first time with
NBROS.
Mac and report, I was pleasantly surprised with the slick iteration of Arch.
Okay, when you first install NBROS or you will have is a new XFCE 4.14DE and some basic
software to get you started.
You are then expected to do a little research and to find out how to install other software.
You need to get your PC set up the way you like, but all the basic information on package
management is on the Endeavour Wiki and also on the Arch Linux Wiki.
If you have thought of trying Arch Linux but would prefer to start with a runny desktop
from install, then Endeavour OS is definitely place to start.
I have been running it as my daily driver for over a month and a full and in love with
it.
My full review is on the distra hoppers blog as is a link to the audio of the show.
So that's it for this time, this is Tony Hughes, say goodbye until next time.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution,
share a like, free dot org license.
