Episode: 2282
Title: HPR2282: Pathfinder Adventure Card Game
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2282/hpr2282.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:50:47

---

This in HP are episode 2282 entitled Pathfinder Adventure Card Game and is part of the series
tabletop gaming.
It is hosted by Klaatu and is about 41 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summer is Klaatu talks about the Pathfinder RPG franchise, the OGL license and the Adventure
Card Game.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everyone this is Klaatu and this is Hacker Public Radio.
So one more entry by one more I don't mean the final by any means I'm just saying.
This is one more entry into my gaming my tabletop gaming series.
So previously I've been talking about most recently I should say I've been talking about game books.
And I've got a lot more game books but I haven't actually played them yet.
And I don't want to just kind of do an episode about the concept of game books.
So I'm going to take a break from my game book sub series and move into a related area I guess the world of Pathfinder.
And this isn't going to be just about the world of Pathfinder.
It's actually specifically about the card game Pathfinder card.
I think there's a big long official name that I probably should be using like the Pathfinder Adventure card game or something like that.
But I either way the starting point is this thing called Pathfinder.
So there's a thing about Dungeons & Dragons that I touched on in my previous episode about tunnels and trolls and Dungeons Delvers.
And the thing is that around the turn of the century maybe they're about the wizards of the coast which is a company that owns some pretty major titles.
As far as I know they developed and owned Dungeons & Dragons and they owned and developed Magic the Gathering.
So it's kind of like if you really think of sort of the prototypical and stereotypical geeky kind of like nerdy dorky games, you know the tabletop stuff.
Like those are two of the big ones you know like Dungeons & Dragons and Magic the Gathering are two of them the classics right.
So for whatever reason I mean this is a huge company.
So for whatever reason back in about 2000 or so they came up with this idea that the game what would it be?
The game system I guess like the rules that that comprise of how you play the game should should be sort of owned by both the the creator and the audience, the community.
And they came out with this this thing called the open game license or the OGL.
They had a little bit of a crisis of faith during the fourth edition of Dungeons & Dragons where they kind of they came up with this new license that wasn't quite as generous and kind of locked a lot of things down.
But as of the fifth edition which was released beginning of 2016 of Dungeons & Dragons they went back to the OGL so they got back on the wagon or off the wagon whichever whatever that expression is.
So the open gaming license kind of I mean you know it kind of formalized what was already kind of a thing among tabletop gamers which is that when you've got a game in your possession in the privacy of your own home.
Guess what you can change things not really that big of a deal and you can even add to the game and you can you can make your own copy of the game because no one's going to burst into your house and tell you that making a Xerox copy and yes I'm misusing that deliberately just to annoy people is fine you can do that.
So so the OGL kind of formalized the idea that yes you can do that and and more importantly I think it formalized the and and sort of made it official that that other companies another entrepreneur creative people creative entrepreneurial people could could could come on with at can come with with add on content for for Dungeons & Dragons you know like you could you can come up with a book or whatever.
That that that is set in the Dungeons & Dragons rule system now you cannot set it in the in the world of Dungeons & Dragons you know like all the different all the different trademark terms like the forgotten realms and the sword coast that sort of thing you can't use those those are trademarked but in terms of like the actual way that you play all of that is up for grabs.
Which which is convenient for them because in order to know how to play a role playing game you have to purchase the rule book and that's the thing that Dungeons & Dragons is so if you're a third party and you're you're releasing a book of adventures or something or or an alternate world and you say this this book is is for use with the Dungeons & Dragons.
Dungeons & Dragons rule set or rule system or done D&D system whatever you call it then people could purchase your book and then in order to actually play it they would want to go and purchase the D&D rule book or the player guide or something to give them some idea of how to how to do this.
So it's what's good for the goose is good for the gander type of type of thing.
And anyway all of that was just kind of me raving about how great creative common open source type licenses are copy left stuff is.
But but around addition I think I think it was either version three or I want to say 3.5 which I don't I might have just made that up but around then in the dungeon and dragon universe or world.
The someone took them up on this offer of of okay you're you're an open game license let's let's fork dungeons and dragons and someone did that and that became a thing called pathfinder.
So pathfinder pretty much started just as that it was a fork and you could probably say an alternative to or or whatever of dungeons and dragons.
So the initial versions I mean I haven't read them not the initial versions but the initial versions from what I understand were you know we're just they were they were dungeons and dragons.
With with adjustments here and there being made to to account for different different things order to simplify certain areas you know it was just it's what any fork is right it's like the same thing but different.
And and since then the company that that created pathfinder which is called pie pie so PA I said oh.
And you can find their site by the way at piezo calm since then the company has really kind of developed pathfinder into its own.
I don't want to say this but essentially an intellectual property you know and and and it's kind of similar to what dungeons and dragons did with forgotten realms where you kind of even if you weren't playing dungeons and dragons you probably if you are all associated with either.
Certainly gaming at all or or fantasy like fantasy literature then you you there's a high likelihood that you'd heard of like the forgotten rooms like that's not you know if you know R.A.
Salvatore at all then you know that he wrote a bunch of books in the forgotten realm setting.
If you know computer games then you'll know that games like boulders gates gate and never winter nights and and what's that other one the other one.
You know those all kind of either use dnd rules or whatever so so it was very you kind of had a sense of like this this entity and pathfinder has done a similar thing with with their their system like the system itself is just a system and you can you can go by the book.
The set of books and you can look at them and you can have all the different stats that are available to characters you can understand what's supposed to happen in a combat scenario how you calculate different things all that stuff that's in the book but they threw out all of these books they kind of use these common characters like this common this common core set of of characters.
Icewind Dale that was the other one boulders gate went never winter and icewind Dale forgotten realms anyway pathfinder common set of characters there's veleros like sort of the the fighter warrior type.
Ciony the sorceress with crazy looking tattoos harsh the ranger dwarf guy yes a dwarf ranger believe it or not sort of yeah so they've got like this sort of cast of characters who kind of keep popping up during all the different within all the different rule books and as I learned later through a humble bundle purchase there's a whole bunch of comics from I think dynamic is the name of the comic company.
Bunch of comic books with all these with with that core set of characters running around and having pathfinder chronicle adventures and they're actually quite good you should check them out if you're at all interested although now that the humble bundles over it's kind of harder to do that but they are quite good so so piezo started kind of developing their own I don't really say lore because that's that's kind of like the history of it right so it's more of like a.
A cast of characters really a sort of story that you could follow actively within the pathfinder universe and it's I would say it was very similar to two dungeons and dragons in spirit you know it's kind of it's very much in the same van it's.
If you if you listen to to my previous episode about tunnels and trolls like one of the things that appealed to to me about tunnels and trolls was that it was very whimsical and silly and down and out are all the characters were losers and and there's a very sort of sense of very sin to a sarcastic flavor to tunnels and trolls and kind of self aware and kind of funny.
Whereas pathfinder is not like that it didn't it didn't fork dnd to to go in a completely different direction it's very much very very much a parallel kind of story so all of this has been really kind of to to introduce you to the concept of pathfinder and and what it is that's what it is it has several rule books so if you are into traditional RPGs and have people who want to play a traditional RPG.
Then you can absolutely purchase and again there was a humble bundle where like all these rule books in PDF form were available for I think I paid 15 bucks American dollars for for just like a whole catalog of rule books and comics and associated maps and things like that but unfortunately that is over now but it is a thing and and you can buy it online again you can buy it online.
go to piezo.com or you can go to drive through rpg.com and pick up a couple of different rule
books so that you can start building characters and play through some games. And they're
quite prolific like piezo. They've got sort of an initiative called the Pathfinder Society
where you can go out and kind of basically just go to your local gaming store. They may
have Pathfinder Society events running. It usually happens, you know, once every two
weeks or whatever. And you just kind of show up and play. And the idea is that they're
drop in, drop out. Well, not drop. Well, yeah, drop in, drop out. You know, you can just
go to, you can go to one game, you can go to several games across the, over the course
of a couple of weeks. You know, they're sort of, they're basically cutscenes. You know,
they're kind of like, here's an adventure with this cast of character, this new cast
of characters. There's no continuity across the story. So that's, that's kind of the idea
to enable sort of flash mob RPG, I guess, if you want to use a cliche term. So that's
what Pathfinder is and it's all, all open game licensed. So it is very much in the spirit
of, you know, the GPL, like what became OGL stays OGL. So Pathfinder itself is open game
license, which is a great reason I think to, to support it. But then again, so is D&D.
So you could just as easily support that. Either way, it's a, it's a cool universe to hang
around in as an RPG player and it's worth checking out. But if you don't have, oh, and
by the way, they have a, I forgot to mention this, they have a great Pathfinder RPG beginner
box. So if you're completely new to RPG, that's a great place to start. I mean, like my
first real live tabletop RPG, where I knew what I was doing, my very first was Dungeons
Dragons back a long time ago. But in the modern day, like, you know, where I was actually
thinking about it was Shadow Run. And that was not very friendly to get started with at
all. That was a, that's got a pretty high learning curve. Whereas Pathfinder, they've got
this beginner box, well worth the purchase. It is fantastic. It's, it just, it introduces
you to, to RPG. It introduces you to Pathfinder. It's really, really well done. I strongly recommend
it. Okay. Anyway, the thing that I actually want to talk about in this episode is the Pathfinder
Adventure card game. And this I got sort of on a, on just a whim. It was, it was, it was
on, it was being resold by someone who had done art for the card game. Like it'd actually
done the illustrations. So he was selling it cheap because he'd gotten it as sort of part
of his payment for the job. You know, they, you know, like, when, sometimes when you work
on something, they'll send you a copy of the thing. I mean, ideally, they would always
do that, but they don't always, but, but that is frequently in theory, like a benefit,
you know, oh, you worked on this movie. Here's a copy of that movie, or here's, you work
on, you worked on this, this, this card game. Here's a copy of that card game. That sort
of thing. So I got it for, for pretty cheap. And I was surprised when I, when I got it
because it was huge. It was the box itself was the size easily of, of, well, I guess let's
say like two or three pizzas stacked on top of each other of pizza boxes. I mean, it's
a really big box. And I thought, I thought it was just a card game. So I'm, I'm thinking,
okay, I'm going to open this thing up and there's going to be like a, a big board sort,
you know, it's going to be like a board game or something where you, where you also use
cards or some, you know, I kind of started inventing all this, what to expect. And finally,
I opened the box and it was practically empty. Stay with me. It's not as bad as it sounds.
So the idea of the, the box that you, that you buy is that it does have something like
500 cards or something. It's an insane number of cards. And it also has a bunch of empty
slots so that you can purchase more cards and then add it to the box. That sounds pretty
gimmicky. And I, I guess it is. But it's actually, it's, it's actually kind of cool. So stick
with me and see what you think of it. Well, you may, you might not ever know what to think
of it because unless you play it, it might not make any sense to you. But anyway, stick
with me. So we've got 500 cards in this, in this box. And the, the box that I purchased
was Rise of the Roon Lords. And there's a couple of different sets. So there's Rise of
the Roon Lords, the box. And then there are the add-on decks that you can purchase in addition
to that, right? So those are just tiny little boxes, you know, the size of, size of a cell
phone box, you know, just, just a normal size card box of two decks, two decks each. So
it's probably 104 or so cards in each add-on box. So those are the add-on box for that.
And, and if you get Rise of the Roon Lords, then you would want to then purchase Rise of
the Roon Lords add-on cards because that's, that would be compatible with your Rise of
the Roon Lords box. There's also a different box, and that would be the Skull and Shackles
box, which, as you might guess, has a piratey theme. And then you could buy add-ons for that
one. There's Wrath of the Righteous, Mummy is Mask, and I think that's it. Right, so
far. I don't know if they plan on more or not. So the way that it works is that you get,
um, you get the box, and it's a bunch of, of cards, and a rule book that's not too big,
but I will admit that it's, it took me two or three times to understand everything. It
was, it was definitely, um, it wasn't a quick, it wasn't a quick read, and it wasn't a
super easy read. There's a lot of terminology throughout the book, but me and my, my girlfriend
played it a couple of times, and in the end we, we eventually sort of got the hang of it. So,
so it, it, it's just, it's like a lot of other games where yeah, you have to play it a couple
of times before you become sort of an expert on it. Um, but it's, it's, um, it's really clever.
It's a really clever game. So the, the way that it works is that it, it, it comes with an
adventure card, I think, um, is what they call it. And it's, it's kind of like the singular card,
which essentially has your, your over arcing story arc, uh, on it. So it's, it kind of details,
so you're going to go on this adventure, which is the rise of the Roon Lords, I think. And in
this adventure, there are several scenarios. And so each scenario has its own card. And on each
scenario card, it has a set of locations and a list of, of a cast of characters. So on the
scenario card, you might have, for instance, um, the, let's say the, the, the, the abandoned farmhouse,
the, um, the village and the docks. I'm vaguely making this up because I don't exactly remember
what all of them were, but let's just say that those were the three things. And so you've got,
you've got these cards and, and it will detail for you how many enemies are in each location.
And which enemy is, which, which, which main villain, which big bad goes with that scenario.
So you've kind of got a, if you think about how you might set this up on a card table so far,
you've got kind of a pyramid structure. You've got your main adventure card at the top,
which technically you don't need because it's not, you only get one in the box. But let's just
put that up at the top anyway for logic. Um, and from there, you have your, your scenario that you're
playing. And then from that scenario, you've got your locations, which are about, you know, two or
three locations. And then under each location, you, you'll now have a deck representing the items
or, or objects in that location, in that physical location. And that's when you start kind of building
up your, your, the, the different decks on the table. So each location has not only some number of
enemy, like bad guys like bandits or whatever, but it also has somewhere in there your main villain
who you're actually up against and you're looking for. And then each location tells you how many
other things to put. For instance, some number of traps, some number of random item items,
some number of blockades, like different kinds of cards. And that's why you've got like,
literally 500 cards because you've got decks and decks and decks of various different kinds of
cards. You've got weapons, you've got items, you've got armor, you've got NPCs, you've got
bandits and monsters and villains and, and treasure and, you know, just all kinds of things. And so
you're, you're stacking, you know, you're creating like these little sub decks with a little,
a couple of cards from here, a couple of cards from there as detailed by your scenario card.
Until you come up with like this little sub deck for each location. So now you've got three sub decks
under each look or one, one sub deck under each location, which are three leading up to your main
scenario that you're playing through that time. And that's kind of your main setup right there.
That's your, that's your, that's your board as it were. That's kind of how it all works.
Now you shuffle those up obviously. So you, you know, you don't actually know where anything is
among these cards. But statistically, you kind of know what you're in for on each location.
You don't have to, but since you're the one who's doing this, you, you kind of do. You know that,
okay, I got like five bandits over here in the, in, in at the docks. And I remember that I put
two traps in there and, and two treasures and one NPC. So, okay, and over here in the village,
I've only got one trap, but like five bandits and some treasure. And then over here,
I've got something else. And, and, and somewhere in one of those decks and we don't know where
there's the main villain. There's like the big bad. So you're, the object of the game then is to
systematically find your main villain. And the way that you do that is you select a character
from the cards, from the card deck, from the hero deck. And you've got different characters. And they,
they're, they're, they're, they correspond with the, the different story elements that Pizzo has
developed for Pathfinder. So, you know, you might have Valeros to play and you might have Lem, the Bard to
play and you might have, you know, whatever, Harsk, the Ranger, Cione, the Sorceress, whatever.
So, you've got all these characters to choose from. You pick whichever one you want. And, of
course, they each have their different levels of abilities and special, special talents and things
like that. And once you've chosen your character, you place your character at some location,
wherever you want to be. And, and then you explore. Now, before you start exploring, you have to,
you have to collect gear and, and, and armor and stuff. So, you, you, once again, you kind of,
the card that you chose, the character card that you chose tells you how many, I think,
how many cards to choose from the, you know, the good stack. And so, you've got like this kind of,
this, this, this, the card hand that you've got full of, I think you have like 15 cards or
something like that. But they're not all in your hand. So, you've got like this, this mini draw
deck for yourself and kind of a stash where you can store what you actually are using. And,
you're rotating cards out a lot and you're, you know, there's a lot of different mechanics. And,
this is kind of where the rule set starts to get really complex and needs like one or two read
throughs to fully comprehend. And, but it's really nice. And I'll get to it in a minute. But,
so the actual gameplay is just you kind of exploring each location. So, you go to a location
and you draw a card predictably and you can, you know, and now you've encountered something.
So, you, if it's a bad guy, then you have to go into combat. If it's the non-playable character,
you can try to recruit them. But in order to recruit them, you, you, you have to be appealing to
them in some way. And there's usually a couple of different ways to appeal to them. Like, you can,
you can use your wisdom rating. If, if they like wisdom, then you could use your wisdom rating and
roll some die against your wisdom. And if you beat a certain number, then you, you've, you've
recruited them successfully. And if you fail, then you put them back into the, the big box,
and they go away. They, they don't join your party. If they join your party, then you get to add
them to your hand and you can, you can call upon them whenever you need them for whether, for whatever
it might be, usually it's combat. If it's an item that you find, then you, you, again, you can try
to take that item. But in order to take the item, you have to have some kind of attribute that
allows you to take that item, whether it's, you know, strength. Maybe if you find a warhammer,
you're in a need strength to be able to wield that. So, you'll have to roll a die against your
strength rating. And if you're just a, if you chose a sorcerer or a wizard or something,
then your strength role might not be so great. But maybe you do get it. And then maybe you don't
even use it. Maybe you trade it with your other player. And they get to, they get to use it because
they chose the warrior character. So there's, there's a really healthy amount like the game mechanic,
as you can tell, is just a bunch of encounters. And I think that is a major weakness in a lot of
the kind of RPG-ish card games. This and Dungeon Year included, if kind of you've got, you've got,
you've gotten zero story, essentially. And with Pathfinder, you at least, especially if you've
been following the Pathfinder universe. And I think that helps if you do. Then at least you kind
of have a notion of story because you know these characters. And you're, you're, you know, so,
so as you play, there's some empathy going on. You know, it's kind of like, oh, cool.
Valero's just finally encountered this bandit. And he totally killed them, like, split them in half,
just right down the middle. It's great. Was that too explicit? Was that graphic? I don't know.
It's all imaginary. It's not really happening. So yeah, so, you know, so, so you kind of have
like this connection to that character. Whereas if you're not following Pathfinder,
sort of the fictional Pathfinder universe, then there's not really that connection. And
by the same token, like, if you're playing Dungeon Year, which by the way I reviewed several
episodes ago, that's why I'm kind of referencing it now as if though you know what that is.
There's really no, there's no connection to any character because you just, there's no,
there's no lore there at all. There's no backstory. There's no hint of, you know, it's,
it's really just flavor text on the card. So I think in the, in solo gaming in general,
even though Pathfinder card game is not necessarily solo, it, you can play it with up to like four
or six people, I think. And I've only ever played it. No, that's not true. I've played it solo,
but I've played it with two people generally. And, and I think with those kinds of small,
small-scale games that, that kind of want to appeal to the RPG crowd, I feel like there's this
kind of awkward, unavoidable lack of story. You know, it's like, hey, come RPG, except you don't
have to have a group of people. And so you hear that and you're like, okay, cool, I'm going to get
lots of great storytelling here. And a lot of them don't have any story at all. Which, which,
you know, is, I don't know what you do with that because even if you included a book of story
stuff to read as you play or something, I mean, that, that, that expires really fast, you know,
I've read this before, I don't care anymore. So it doesn't really work, you know.
So I think in, in terms of sort of really capturing that RPG experience with a card game,
you all, there's sort of an unwritten expectation that you invest in the expanded universe of,
of the, of the game, you know, like, you can't just play the game, you have to get into the,
the story going on in that world, even though you might not be playing, you maybe, but you might
not be playing one of the main characters. But you know of these characters and, and, and, and
characters that you do recognize kind of pop up here and there. So it's, it's something that you
would have to do. I think really for yourself, if you felt like the story was lacking, you would have
to invest your effort into digging deeper into Pathfinder universe. Now that, that, that doesn't
really matter because maybe you didn't come here for the story. Maybe you just wanted a good
card game and a good card game it is. There are, like I say, there are lots of rules that sort of
slipped by me and my girlfriend the first time we played. And certainly the first time I played
is solo. It, it just, they, they completely escaped me. And we ended up kind of playing a lot longer
than we were supposed to. And it started to feel very grindy. You know, it was just like, oh my gosh,
we have so many cards to get through. And we completely missed some of the, some of the rules that
sort of said, hey, if you, if you do this thing, then you don't have to do any of these anymore
because you've done this thing. So we would have gotten through it a lot faster. And why that
matters is number one because yeah, it does start to feel a little bit grindy. It's like you're just
encountering and encountering and encountering. And there's just so much encountering you can do
before you just, it's no longer fun. It's just a numbers game. So you want to avoid that. But there's
also a, a timer mechanic. So you've got a stack of I think 30 cards, which, which they just
use 30 cards. And at first I thought there were some significance to them. They're just, they're,
it's literally just a timer, except in like one edge case where, where, where you can draw a certain
card. And it's like, if this thing is in effect, then something else happens. And that's the only
time that ever matters. But generally speaking, it's just a deck that you flip. So at the end of your
turn, you flip a card. And if you run out of those 30 cards up in the corner, if you've flipped
them all over, then the game is over and you and the, the villain has eluded you. So there is an
enforced like this isn't going to become too grindy because you only have 30 turns. That's it. That's
all. Which becomes, I mean, that's, you know, that's pressure and that's good. It's nice. And the way
that the other way that they avoid it becoming too much of a grind is that there are certain
achievements that you can do that that force the villain sort of, that that prevent the villain
from running. So what happens is when you, when you secure a location, then the villain can no
longer escape to that location. So we were never securing any location when we first played and
that that meant that the villain, every time we would counter the villain, he would just run to a
different location as part of the mechanic of the game. And we thought, this is really getting
silly, you know, and we never, we never realized that we could have closed the location a lot earlier
than, than when we did. So there are a couple of things where you can, yeah, secure a location.
And then the rest of those cards just don't matter anymore. You've, you've successfully scared
all the villainy out of that location and it's a secure place now. So that's one thing. And that
helps that, that makes the game go a little bit faster. And the strength of the game, I think, would
be, and my girlfriend felt this way as well. It really, really feels, it feels like a video game,
which almost seems like an insult to a tabletop game. You know, it's like, oh, you have emulated
a fancy video game quite well. And you just did that with a deck of cards. Good on you. It's
not like that. It just happens to be, yeah, very much like a video game, you know, kind of it feels
or I guess in a way, like an RPG where you've leveled up sufficiently to have gained a fair amount
of power because you're the hand of the deck of cards that you are handed, you know, for your
character, they, they consist of all your different weapons and armor and abilities that are appropriate
for that character. The card tells you what to get, but you can also, you can choose your own,
as long as you have skill in an area, you can choose a weapon that that suits. So you might have,
you know, like a broadsword and a warhammer and an war axe and, you know, whatever else. And
these cards you're able to play during combat. And as long as you and your other, as long as you
and another player are in the same location, you can actually swap cards during combat as well,
so that if they have a shield that you could use, they could, they can give you that.
And so it feels very much kind of like, you know, it's kind of that, that boulders gate feel
where you're just kind of, you're selecting like all of these abilities to use during a combat,
and then you're letting the combat go and see what happens. It's kind of, it's a lot of fun.
It's very much, you know, those cards are like little icons on the screen and you just kind of
invoke them and, and then you roll the die with all your little power-ups and stuff,
and see what happens. And it's cool because, you know, if you're sufficiently shielded and you've
got sufficient weaponry on your side, the outcome will change drastically. And as you level your
character up, you get more died of roll so that you become more powerful. So it's, it's, the mechanics
of the combat and managing resources, that sort of stuff is very much like an RPG, either real-life
RPG or a video game version of RPG. It's very, it feels exactly like that. The only place that
it sort of doesn't feel like that is that the story is, is just that you're hunting one person
down and encounter through a series of 30 encounters, essentially. That's, that's the weakest,
the weakest point of the game. But if you're a card geek and you really enjoy the card,
the card mechanic and you love looking at cool art and, you know, you kind of just marvel at sort
of like this world that's being built through these little glimpses that are on cards,
then this is really, really nice. It's really, really cool. Like I say, I got it for a little
bit cheaper than it should have been and I'm looking at piezo.com right now on my screen and it's
60 bucks for the main, the main card set. That's the ruin lord base set. And then yeah, like I say,
the add-on adventure decks, you know, once you finish your adventure, the adventure card, you could,
you could then add more stuff onto it. And those are going to run like, you know, probably 20 or
30 bucks, I guess. I don't know. Yeah, 20 bucks. So it's, it's, it's a lot of fun. It's a really
great design. I would say, you know, if you're, if you're thinking about like a dungeon crawly type
of card game, I would say that this is definitely a better, a much better design, honestly, than,
for instance, dungeon year, which I recently just rewrote the, the whole rule set of dungeon year,
I just completely rewrote. And it's, it's a lot better now, I think. But, but yeah, and it was
partly because of this Pathfinder card game, I kind of, I started seeing the weaknesses of the
dungeon year card game. I just kind of realized that, that yeah, that there were, there was too much
going on in dungeon year. And so I kind of adapted it and stole some ideas from, from Pathfinder
adventure card game. So I'm highly recommending this, but I'm recommending it not as an RPG. I'm
recommending it as a, as yeah, like a dungeon crawler really. And it's, it's, it's really beautifully
done. The, the world that it is set in is fantastic. So if you, if you enjoy fantasy, then I,
I recommend even sort of getting into the Pathfinder world in general. There's, there's comics,
and there's a couple of books as well, a couple of novels, not, not as many, you know, nowhere near
as many as, as forgotten realms has. And in fact, forgotten realms obviously has a lot more,
just by way of, I mean, it's got video games and other stuff. So yeah, this, this wouldn't
be as rich as that in terms of expanded universe stuff, but it is there. They are developing it.
So you've got plenty to work with. That's Pathfinder Adventure card game.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released under creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
