Episode: 2781
Title: HPR2781: HPR Community News for March 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2781/hpr2781.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 16:47:40

---

This is HBR episode 2007-81 entitled HBR Community News for March 2019 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 59 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment posted
in March 2019. This episode of HBR is brought to you by archive.org. Support Universal Access
to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another exciting episode of Hacker
Public Radio. Today this is Community News for March 2019 and joining me tonight is-
Hello, I'm Janik Tefrenske from Siderand. Yeah, and my name is Jerome Beton and I'm from the Netherlands. Hi.
Unfortunately, Dave won't be joining us tonight and actually he's decided to step away from the show
for- step away from the show. So we will continue on about that. There'll be more on the mailing
list and I'll talk more about what's happened in any other business later on. So for those of you
joining HBR is a community podcast where we talk about where the shows are contributed by members
of the community like ourselves and the community news show we go over the shows that were recorded
in the last month. So starting off without further ado, I think you really need to be
other places later on today. So the first show was- what is VNF by JWP? Yep.
It's very technical, a little bit over my head, but still it's interesting to learn
new stuff and that's the heart of HBR I think. Yeah, I think it does to networking what
Docker containers does to the fundamental shift for networking going away from physical switches
to the network being something that you can configure programmatically is basically what it was
about. Expect to see a lot more of this in the future. Yeah, use it. Yes, sorry, go ahead.
I'm sorry, I'm still clicking away. Yeah, it's a software- not software-
software- or software-networking of course, yeah, SDN. So VNF is probably something that is something
that I should think of in the neighborhood of SDN then probably. I see it was a topic from the
open network conference, NAMSAM. I did in the tent. I didn't even have time to listen to
do this podcast, so floor yours. Okay, it's a good one to catch up on. Definitely, virtual
network functions are virtualized tasks formally carried out by proprietary dedicated hardware.
VNFs moves individual network functions out of dedicated hardware devices into software that runs
on commodity hardware. There you go. So the following day we have the community news and the
ozone comment on that show. Yes, shall I read it? Please, yeah. So Mike, Mike Ray says, no, no, no,
this is likely to be an accessibility nightmare and might well render it impossible for
blind participants like me to read the notes at all. I think it's about embedding media-embedded
show notes. I admit I rarely consult the notes except for shows with a strong
hacker twist, like the shows about SSD or devs bash series for shows. Anything which is likely to
have links, such as links to GitHub repositories or fragments of code I might like to copy and paste
and fill it up with. I can't imagine that other people who refer to show notes for clicking
on links will be helped by embedding text into media files either. And while on the subject,
I have not seen this yet on HBR, I think, but when when anybody includes the output from
command line interface stuff in show notes, posting screenshots of console or terminal output
also makes it impossible for me to access the text. Keep the show notes as separate text, please,
and don't, sorry, and don't embed them into media. If you do, maybe we can have them as both.
Yes, good idea. Actually, I should add that to the general information page about stuff to
consider. Yeah, I'll do that. Normally, Dave would do this sort of thing, so,
unfortunately, I'll need to do it myself from now. One second. Okay, through the wonders of
truncate silence, you won't be hearing that. And the following day, what you really are,
lost and bronx, look back, looks back at his early days of gaming. And there was one comment to this.
Tututo says, oh wow, this was way deeper episodes than I expected after listing a couple of minutes,
really great albeit sad at the same time, just like live show reminds me time of time when I started
role playing games and how I as a dungeon master couldn't bring myself to actually get players killed,
but had to anyway always come up with some way to save them. Players had fun, but challenges,
the challenge wasn't really there. So this, did you hear that this one you ruined or? Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is typical of lost and bronx and why I always approach his stuff with
care, because even his Star Drifter series, it can be, it can go from the comic right to the
existential dread. And you never know which way he's going to go. I was walking from the bus
in Skippelreich in twerk and I was just stopped and I was crying, listening to the show,
oh my god, thank you very much. But I think Tututo nails that there is in his comments.
Wait a minute, so you work in the Netherlands, right? At Skippelreich, okay? Yes.
Okay, so and you're crying in the Netherlands as well, right? Yes, it's a very
dutch thing to do where we're comfortable with our masculinity. It has no denying that,
oh we're a sad bunch, this was sure. I choose to be one of you. I choose to be one of you.
Wilders is just born here. Okay, so just continue and I'll keep on laughing without my mic on.
Thank you very much, sir. Hi, thank you.
Do you keep explains SPF records? And this one threw me for a twist, because the show was
contributed by Platoon, but basically he just read out Diggie's Go For Post on Go For Of All Things,
on how SPF records work. Yeah. And Be Easy said, thanks for the help. I used this episode to help
me understand why some of my nails was ending up in people's spam boxes. I added the SPF records
and now all as well. Thanks. And Paul, was it Paul, Paul, Ebi? Oh, I know.
Said great explanation. It's been a while since I set up my email server with SPF, DKIM,
and DMRRC, and I'm pretty sure with a lot of things with letters in them. Since I'm about to
migrate it to another server, this has been a valuable reminder of what SPF is about. I also think
it is much clearer than every guide I read at the same time I had to set it up.
Well written by DeepGeek and well read and extended by Kletu. Thank you too.
Oh, this is actually great stuff. I mean, I'm lagging behind in my podcast listening,
but this is definitely something that I should listen to. Yes, and I won't get all the other.
No, and the SPF record is really simple. There's a lot of SPF record generator online,
and that's absolutely something you need to help on your mail server. If there's only one thing
you need, that's the SPF record. Yeah, exactly. I have my own web server and I know I should
attend and to the chore of setting up SPF. I even don't know what it is yet, but clearly
I'm going to do the podcast, listen to it, and then set it up in probably a few minutes or something.
Yeah, cool. It is drastically, I know my mail provider uses it as drastically reduced the amount
of spam. Yeah, it allows you on mail to not end up in the spam box, and it allows the
spam box to not use your server as a gateway. Yeah, excellent. And it basically uses,
so the person receiving the mail checks the DNS record for this record, and then this DNS record
will say who is and who isn't allowed to send your mail basically very, very clever. That's
it. That's exactly that. That's it, no, no chill. Oh, sorry. No, no, I just said thanks, that's all.
No, no problem. Personal password algorithms by Kalatu from this was a part of DeepGeek's tattoos
and lost wrong series about basically coming up with a memorable password that you can
that you can use. Not 100% sure. I agree with it, but it's an interesting
topic. It's one discussion. Yeah. It's one way of generating passwords. Steve says,
there is an open source project called LessPass that is trying to solve password management
problem in much the same way as you are describing. Passwords are generated in a deterministic
and albuquerit way using a master password. Some known values related to the site and some
cryptography. There are two challenges that I see to this concept. The first one that you
made reference to is how do you write an algorithm that will generate a password which is acceptable
to the policies of any site. And the second is how do you deal with sites that insist that you change
passwords from time to time in order to do that, you in order to do that, you about half to change
your algorithm, which means that all the other passwords will be broken. If these two problems
can be solved, I'd be all for this type of password management. Yeah, I haven't heard of
LessPass, so I'm going to go and check that out. Yeah, you for me also, but it's interesting,
it's an interesting slot. I'm thinking the value in this is security by obscurity, which is
never a good thing. And the obscurity of clatu doing it admittedly, he's done a podcast on it,
but say he hadn't, then it would be difficult to see that there is an algorithm. However, if lots of
people start using this LessPass concept, then you're looking for an algorithm and then you're
looking for a way to break that algorithm. So knowing this person generated is using LessPass,
has been using my website, has generated this hash. Therefore, I have enough information to be
able to crack the code, like think of enigma, for example. Yeah, I understand what you mean.
But good to think about it. Very good to think about it. I like it.
And following day, my YouTube subscriptions number three. And this was by Ahuga.
One on there that I already had postmodern jukebox, which I like. He had some
RV shows as usual, and also had some nice sign shows as well. So this is interesting.
I passed on some of these two colleagues in work, so that's quite nice.
Yeah, I've checked the site once. And I think there's also a Dutch orchestra in there,
the four from above, the Metropolitan Orchestra. Another one for the Dutchies.
Represent. Oh, Dutch people. Hold on, while I move my clugs around.
He laughs, you know, I've got herring here, and I've got, well, okay, I'm drinking Belgian beer,
but okay. So yeah, but if you're a real, real Dutchie guy, of course, you drink Belgian beer,
because let's face it, they make better beers. Yeah, it's true. It's true.
What can I say? The following day, disc enumeration on Linux, which thankfully I wasn't crying
on the bus for this one. I was, in fact, rewinding. And it's going, I, yeah, okay, I knew about
LS Dev SD Astrex. Then F-tisk list, yeah. And then- Can I be very, very, very careful with F-tisk,
because you can actually destroy the system? Yes, very, very, you just, though, have not come across.
Very interesting. And also that you have the mount as a regular user. Kind of cool, U-discs.
Okay, I didn't know. We're checking out.
Let's have comments on this episode. So, yeah, just read out some. Yeah, okay.
The Joel D commented on this episode. He said, the letters C and F, Clatu mentioned he wasn't sure
what the F in F-disc stood for. I had always been positive. It stood for format, because
those had an F-disc command. And that was pretty much its menus. However, I looked it up just now
and turns out I was wrong. It stands for fixed as in fixed disc setup program. He also seemed
unsure of the reason why the main hard disk is usually C in Windows machines. Pieces with originally
boot of the floppy drive, which was always A. And for convenience, a second floppy drive was often
added. And it was always B. So the hard drives started with C. I don't think there's any technical
reason A and B haven't been reclaimed. But when I read A column or B column in a path, I still think
floppy disk. At any rate, the whole scheme is a scheme or shame scheme. Let's go with scheme.
The whole scheme is sad and dumb. Yeah, to think that it's not DOS, you came up with A, B,
and C letters, but it's CPM. Yes, I was looking that up on the computer file right now. I saw
a video on that. The good old times of CPM. What can I say? I'm getting really old.
You're just more experienced. Yeah, you can't reuse A and B because people use them. There's
still people with floppy drives. And using A and B, I guarantee there are. And I'm pretty sure
99% of the software on Windows would crash. Yeah, there will be many reasons not to reassign them now.
You can go into Windows now and reassign the drive letters. You could reassign A and B if you
wanted, but you could do that for a long time now. But I'm pretty sure that C column backslash
is hard coded in many ways software. Absolutely.
Glad to you replies. Thank you for the info, Joel. I guess I could have looked up FDISC
thanks for overlooking my laziness. Very enlightening about the C drive. I can respect extreme
backward compatibility. So I don't mind that they don't reclaim error B. That said, the scheme
is pretty stupid. I'm surprised it stuck around, but I guess once they'd made the decision,
they just figured it was too late to change. It seemed the more I learned about historical
Microsoft, the more I feel like it was started with no prior research. But then again, maybe I'm
biased because we live in an open source world. After all, maybe back in the early 80s, you couldn't
just call up Bell Labs and ask if the way you're programming this detection made sense or not.
Well, there's one thing I would like to respond to because they mentioned that the more they learn
about historical Microsoft, the more I feel like it was started with no prior research. Although
don't get me wrong, I'm not a fan of that company and they've done some not so nice things in
the past regarding open source and standards. But in the early days, this Bill Gates guy,
there we all know and probably don't love. He was working at what was he working on? Let me think
some I believe it was he was doing assembler on a mainframe to program the his his basic
interpreter. So in a way, he knew what he was doing. And I think they see now that a lot of the code
was taken from CPM. So if that's what CPM was doing with the drive letters, then it's it will
be expected to be that. So you would then that's this classical story. Why not every PC has been
equipped with CPM ever since. And that's simply because at that time, the CPM was D1 operating
system to use for small computer systems. And IBM was going to visit him to discuss whether or
not that he would he would sell them a license to put it into there to be released PC personal
computer that 50 to 50, I believe. Or the 50 51 or anything whatever some number. And he decided
that day that he wanted to go fishing. So he went out of his house and they came to a front door
and there was nobody home and they really got pissed off. And they started looking right. If
there's anybody who had an operating system and this Bill Gates guy who didn't have an operating
system said, Oh, yeah, sure. I have one. I will demo it in a few weeks and then start scrambling
for an operating system and found QDoS from some embedded software developer. And and he he
supply he licensed it. He bought it all stuck in a lock and barrel. He bought it for probably
$50,000. And after that made a bundle selling it and licensing it to IBM. But if the guy from
CPM hadn't gone fishing, there wouldn't have been an MS DOSer. Everybody would be using CPM.
Wow. That's that's really interesting. I didn't know that. That's a true story. Absolutely true.
But anyway, like I said before, I have to leave. Next time I'll try to definitely stay here for
the for the whole duration. No worries. And as you're leaving, it's good time to introduce Joe. Joe
is joining the call. Say hello, Joe. Hey, how's it going? Hey, Joe, not too bad. How are you?
Where are you coming from today? Oh, I'm in Texas. I'm doing pretty good. It's a little chilly here.
What time of the day is it? What time is it over there? It's about 120. Cool. Okay, I'll put you
a link in the show notes to where we're at. If you want, just jump on in. Okay. Thank you.
There was a third comment on Kato's episode. Go ahead over. By Howca. Howca's title
this comment all drive letters. And he said, Kato, remember that inner show is the most powerful
first of in the universe. Yeah, very much. Nothing is permanent as a temporary solution.
And again, Dejavu and other paperless document formats by Kato, who did a remarkable amount
of shows this month. Yeah, maybe we should rename the podcast Kato Public Radio. Yeah, very close to
it, yeah. Which is good, but it also means it's bad because it means that the buildup is down to
one host. So other people should be submitting shows where possible. Although that said, I like
this show. So that's always a, always a difficult balance. Never heard of Dejavu, to be honest.
And it's a more open format for distributing scan documents, etc. And I'd never heard of it,
but it was interesting all the same to see how you would put stuff together. Any thoughts?
I had heard of it, but never I have never used it. So maybe this will push me towards using it a little
bit more. And no comments on this episode. Nope. So the following day, we had writing web game in
Haskell, Clanfree statuses. Turo Toto describes the system for recording Clanf's statuses in their
game. And this is beginning to, I'm, I'm, as I'm watching re listening to his episode, I also
am reading along because I couldn't follow it otherwise. And I think Haskell seems to be a very
visual language, at least it, it seems with arrow signs and dollar signs and stuff. So it makes
a lot more sense if you do follow along with short notes. Yeah. And to, yeah, to comment on this
episode. Clatu says, a gog and a gast. This was just so cool. The world building part makes me want
to write a script to generate random solar systems with unique planets and constellations.
I love this project. Keep going. That's the sort of comment you want to get on the show. I'm from
Clatu, no less. Yeah. And to, to to reply, yes, this made my wik. Thanks, Clatu. This really made my
wik. I try to work on the game at least a little bit every day, but sometimes progress feels
super slow. I do like building mechanisms that mimic places and their inhabitants and hopefully
eventually allow emergent stories to pop up. Until that day, it's slow work of adding one more
code to the machinery. It is giving me a massive insight into the thought process behind making one
of these games that you just go, you know, you download and you go, you could be arsed and then
you delete it just straight away. It's just the amount of work going into it is amazing. Keep,
keep up the good work and continue to post shows about it, please. A quick review of somebody who's
got a major addiction problem. This is NY Bill reviews yet another inexpensive multi meter.
Yes, that's what I'm saying. The man has a problem. And you know, I think we need to arrange an
intervention over this house. Yeah, he said he's like, yeah, he has like, I don't know,
but like, ten of them or something like that. Oh, or more. He's done a good few shows already
on multi meters here. But yeah, it's, I do admit, I like reviewing multi meters and I like his
reviews of said multi meters. I only have one millimeter and I barely know how to use it.
Well, I've said for a good multi meter. Yeah. Do you have recommendations?
And I've used them one at least every weekend. Do you have your own favors? No, I don't.
Okay, the free one. Yeah, good answer. So the following day we had navigating the maze of
RPG books by tattoo tabletop gaming and basically how the terminology needed in order to get your
first RPG book. And this I thought was useful. Insofar as you walk into a shop dedicated gaming,
it explains where you should go first to tell you exactly what what to buy. Number one, get the
rule book. So this was an episode that is obvious in hindsight, but yes. Yeah, because I mean,
let's just talk about advances don't always, it's called dungeon and dragons. Now I think
they drop the advanced, but there's like half a million books about this game. And really what
let's say this is right, you only need one. You know, you only need the the rule book. Everything
else. If you're only a player, everything else is on the dungeon master. That's right. And even
most rule books say like in the beginning somewhere, this is just a guideline to what you want.
Yeah, yeah, that's that's the heart of role-playing games. Do what you want. As long as everybody does
the same thing and the dungeon master is okay with that. I might be the only one on this
network who has never played a a role-playing game. My gosh, would be yes.
Right. Okay. There goes all my street cred. I too will be leaving H4R at the end of the month.
Okay. The following day we have embedded developer again.
Yes. And tattoo embedding hidden text. I wonder is he working secretly some sort of spy for
a foreign government and is using HPR to smuggle his his elicit messages out of wherever he happens to be?
I don't know. I don't know. Maybe. Yeah, probably this month is not a good time to be mentioning
that in relation to what happened in New Zealand. So our thoughts and the goals out to everybody
over there. Anyway, yes, this is how to put in hidden text into deja vu files.
Yeah, useful, useful techniques. As we said earlier, I have not used deja vu yet,
but the more clear to talk about that, the more I think it's a nice container.
Yeah. I'm sure somebody will someday come up to me and ask me about it and
I will be able to point them. Oh, yeah, you need to install this and do that.
And then I will look cool and people will think I have street cred when everybody knows I don't.
Hey, point them to HPR and have them subscribe. Exactly. This is Tony doing what Tony does best,
going through the software and his Linux Mint machine. Cups, G-Parted, document viewer, I use
Oh, I'm actually expecting Tony to be on here in a little while. Oh, cool. I use
ocular. Yeah, he's with me on the mintcast. Very cool. Ah, yes, you're coming on here
doing your advertising. Well, that wasn't the point. You know, I just saw that you guys were on
and figured I'd see what you were talking about. I'm sorry, I didn't catch the name of your podcast.
Mintcast. Mintcast. Okay. Should I say it like 15 more times? Yeah. Well, I'm not there again.
The mintcast. Hello, you mean the minedcast. Okay. Sorry. We're the review various different types of
mint foxes. Yes, that is correct. So there are comments on that one. No, I pretty much have
hold those software on my machine too. Yeah, exactly. This one was by, oh, we never introduced
a new host. That's what happens now. Oh, that's introduced a new host. See what happens when
you're missing with someone. Jeez, we are we're going to go now. Okay. Welcome, new host. Floyd
C, uh, poignant her, uh, a aldan P and minics. Sorry for putting in your names. This is absolutely
terrible of me. I will need to get used to doing it myself again. And welcome to the family. Yes,
indeed. I hope you stay around cause after that mess. Oh, well, didn't you tell them that once
you're in the family, you can't leave. Yes. You can't leave. This was about led asset batteries,
batteries in general and modern uses of said, I would not have not having a car anyway, as I keep saying.
This was a good discussion on the use of car of what you need to do to keep your batteries in good
health. Yeah. And we already said that in, in previous community shows, but it's, it's a subject
I don't have any interest in yet. I was listening to the show very, very carefully because it was
very well, very well recorded, very well said. So yeah. Thank you very much for this, for this
podcast. I now have a little bit of knowledge about car batteries. The thing is I don't have a car,
but I have reason to be wanting to store car batteries, led asset batteries around for long-term
emergency storage, for example. So this is always good to know. It's even more appropriate this
because I don't have the car. So my only option would be a smart charger.
So what batteries and inverters? Yeah, that's sort of thing. I don't know. I just have this
for some reason living nine meters below sea level. Fuck it possibly go wrong.
Did you mean your battery charger would be smarter than you? Yeah, I put it in a life jacket and
my battery charger is waving down the tree. Hey, I'm safe. Anyway, Tourer Toto says, good to know,
this is with short command handy. We're driving only short instances with a car,
and while it hasn't yet damaged the battery, I suspect it will eventually do do that.
I will have a look at the type of battery and see if a smart charger will be a good idea.
Thanks for the information. I wouldn't have learned this otherwise, I think. Nailed it.
Absolutely perfect. Come on. Thank you very much. And NYB posted it. So a comment. Good info.
Nice job man. I never knew about the different charging levels for different types of
vehicle batteries. I always just bought one that fit and threw it in. I'll be more careful next time.
And this is NYB who's got the electronics problems. So yeah. The following day we had also new host
Alden, Alden, how would you pronounce that? Do you think?
Alden P. Yeah, let's do that. Alden P. A summary of things I like about CJDNS
and Yagrida Lassil and the places I think they could approve. I think it's Iktrazin.
You sure? Yeah, I'm pretty sure. Iktrazin. Do you know about these
topics? Absolutely not. But the name is something I remember from somewhere.
Okay, you can read the first comment then. Mr. Smarky pants.
Okay. Fascinating by Tuturto. I hadn't even heard of CJDNS or Iktrazil before.
So I learned something today and I'm not even done with morning coffee. I would love to hear more
on what one could do with mesh networks, broad topic I know. Yes, no reason not to do a series.
Brian in Ohio says, more shows, great show. I hope you do more podcasts on any topic you
mentioned in the show. Don't hesitate to give detail. Absolutely agree. And we have the whole
series concept available. Next one. Next one. By Norris and Taita Gen2. I have not used Gen2
on well over 10 years. Could you do a show about why you are using Gen2 and how it compares to
Debian Ubuntu Fedora? You expressed some concern about your microphone but there was no problem with
your audio loud and clear. And Gavthres says IPv6 into Android encryption. Interesting.
I think that should be done in a commander data voice. Interesting. I'm right now learning how to
use wireguard for into into Android encryption. I'm wondering how it works in IPv6. Different
approach but similar goal. So very popular episode right there. Yeah, and for your information,
Iqdrasil is an immense mythical treat that plays a central role in a North
common cosmology where it is connected to nine worlds. There you go. Thank you. That will
no doubt come in useful. And in this instance, it's an end-to-end encrypted IPv6 network.
It's also good to know and that should come in useful at the next pub cruise summit.
Now, Ahuka wants to go to buy an RV and head across the states. I can see it now.
Yeah, I think he's secretly working for the RV Consortium.
Big RV. Yeah, I can see it. Yeah. He has one of my favorite channels on their CGP
grey. Absolutely brilliant. The number of tickets and work that I have posted his videos into
is getting embarrassing at this point. So yes, another good subscription. If you're looking
for some good videos, have a browse to them. I really like this format as well. I just click on
all of them and then have a quick look at the video, things and then, hey, do I want to subscribe
enough? The Doctor Who channel is of course one of the those you cannot escape.
Wow, wow, wow. Hard for me to watch that channel because I traditionally watch or have watched
as a child's Doctor Who from behind the couch. So yes. Are you mean back when I was scary?
Well, back when my brothers were watching the night was a kid. It's been scary. So the following
day, subplots in storytelling, random elements of storytelling by Lost in Bronx. Yeah. And this
was about subplots. And we've got a good comment by operator who says fun stuff. Long time listener
almost first time commenter. I want to say I always enjoyed your podcast. I don't read books or
played dungeon and dragons, but I do watch a fair amount of TV and movies. You can hear the amount
of passion and what you're in what you're explaining. I personally feel almost smarter when I can
go back and understand why a story I remember was great or horrible. Now, yeah, I agree. 100%
for that. I mean, each time it's something when you listen to the show, you say, yeah, that's true.
But until you you realize you listen to the podcast, you don't realize it. But then again,
as you said last time, each time I watch a movie in our reader book, I know what's going to happen now.
Yeah, you ruined it for me. Thank you very much. Well, I suppose we get over that.
Lost in Bronx, the man who has mastered stating the obvious that nobody ever knew. So about this
one though, he did mention that he, I think he missed one reason why you would put a subplot into
a story and that's comic relief. He didn't, he didn't mention that quite often. A story is so
heavy that you just need something, you need to give the somebody something lighthearted to not have
them, you know, just to break it up a little bit. But again, again, has me thinking as I was wiping
the tears away from my face. But again, no, not this one, this one didn't let me cry.
The next one did because what, on his quest for perfect laptop, Nightwise was looking for
for laptops to buy and it was funny. He was talking about Brussels, how's the Brussels north,
which is a shitty train station that has to be admitted. We, Dave and I stayed down there,
the first time to fast them and then we'll never again just like you designed the place to be
dingy. It just feels dingy. But yes, and then he goes, I just couldn't understand the logic
though that he was buying these expensive laptops and still was going there. So one of his,
so maybe he would need to do a show to explain that to us. Yeah, so he holds a show.
Beasy, Beesat, do you want to read Beesat's comment or shall I? I'll read it.
Computer requirements specification, high nightwise, whenever we are in the market for a new
computer, I think we inevitably want to get as close to the latest technology as our budgets
will afford. However, I think this can lead to subconscious overspecification of our requirements
as a way of justifying the purchase. A few years ago, I selected a very nice Sony laptop
that I convinced myself was exactly what I needed to support my work. Unfortunately, I'm on
foreseen breakdown of my car meant I had to spend roughly half my budget to get that fixed
and back on the road. I still needed a new laptop, but the Sony was now out of the question.
I revisited my requirements and realized that many of my most halves were really like tabs.
If it took a minute or two longer to rip a DVD, did it really matter? If it took a few extra
seconds to open a very image-laden document that was that really the end of the world?
By adopting this approach, I found I was able to purchase a Dell rather than the Sony
with what was left of my budget. And it's relatively few shortcomings were almost immediately
forgotten. That was a good comment. Although, it is bordering on a show and itself, so I will let
it go this time. So, the following day, we had a phone, a ture and adaptive in Haskell. And I
thought I was hearing this wrong as he was reading the episode, but as he was telling us the episode,
but it is, that is the name of it. I mean, I may have mispronounced it as I am one.
Funky tour. Yeah, funky tour. It's a function that returns a function.
Sounds like a German metal band. Could be. And the show notes definitely help you as well.
Oh yeah. Kind of cool. Comments by Ibiza. He said intuitiveness of Haskell.
Is it Haskell or Haskell? Haskell. I've been writing software for over 30 years,
but I find the syntax of Haskell anything but intuitive. In fact,
in fact, less so than any other programming language, I have looked at. Thanks to your excellent
show notes, I can make sense of it, but I have to say I would not like to have to develop a
project using this language. Obviously, I am missing the point as nobody would design a language
with the intention of it's being difficult to use. Perhaps you could produce, oh, the
Pupinfa. Perhaps you could produce another episode addressing the question, why Haskell?
An excellent episode for all of that. Thanks. And while I was watching the YouTube
series with the others computer file, they had Brian Kirinahan, who was the developer of Unix,
and he says that he tried Haskell but could never get his brain around it, so I feel like I'm
in good company here. But then you had two retotal replies. Thanks and a great idea. Thank you for
the comments and episode idea. Haskell certainly is drastically different language compared to many
others, and the learning curve can be steep. Sometimes I feel like I'm reading a map paper when I
want to check for some feature or learn a new thing. I'll make a note and record an episode
why Haskell at some point in the close feature. There are quite many Haskell episodes in the queue,
and I don't want Hacker Public Radio turning into Haskell Public Radio. So it might take a
month or two. We have all over the summer. I was just saying that we have some quite few shows
in the queue at a minute, but traditionally over the summer, the feed just disappears. So feel
free to completely take over the summer months. Yeah, please do so. I'll try myself to produce
episodes this summer. Alden P was back with a HTTP IPFS and Torrance, some ramblings about how
we might replace HTTP with some more robust decentralized protocols, interplanetary file system
and hypertext transfer protocol are linked in the show now. No comments on that yet, because I
think it's fairly recent. I like the interplanetary protocol thing. If for no other reason then
it's got the word interplanetary and that's it. Yeah, yeah, I think some days you will
SSH to the moon, and then yes, two oak two marks. My bucket list is over.
Been to the moon? No, I SSH to.
My SBC next cloud installed part one, The Harder. How I built a self-enclosed next cloud server using
a single board computer and a rate enclosure by Minix. This is a very nice episode. Some
get links in the show to follow as well to see what he's done. I will definitely have to grab
this episode. Not 100% sure how cheap it will be, but it's definitely yours. I was playing on my
pie this morning and having some issues getting Alexa installed on it, but I guess I could switch over
to this. If you ever managed to install Alexa on your pie, please send me the notes. Yeah, technically it's
installed, but it's not executing. Well, I was going to bring it to the Mintcast and I was going
to talk about to the guys on there about it, but yeah, I am trying to figure out what shows I want to
put on to 8PR and I know you said you were short on shows for over the summer, so. Yeah, no rush
on that. HPR is for stuff that doesn't fit on your own podcast yet. All about sharing the love here.
What was that show that you had again? Oh, yes. Mintcast. Mintcast. Is that
dot com or dot org? Dot org. Super duper. Matter of fact, Tony's in one of the other rooms on
the server. Is he stuck out there? No, he's probably waiting for me to come over and discuss next
weekend show. Cool. Well, that was the end of the shows, I think. Yes. So there are some other
comments on shows previously. The last one on tattoos go script show from the 19th of December
last. Yes. And it was a comment by Kletto himself. He said, we are stupid. Page 19 has
three tables. Two dash one through two dash three with a summary of bonus values for race,
things and class. I think two days and learn zero use the official character sheet when building
your character from for the first time. One actually read. So yeah, it was about through thoughts
about RPG character building, modern RPG police type compared to the old school and more. Yeah,
that was on the last and brown statue commentary from episodes seven or three. And the other one was
in reply to Steve, who was talking about manipulating PDFs with GS and PDF stapler. And Steve had
a comment about how he reduced the size of PDFs. And tattoo said, lad, I helps. Glad this helps, Steve.
You're not the only one. This episode helped. I refer back to it at least fortnightly since posting.
Yes. Don't be afraid to use HBO as a way to remember stuff you've done. That's what we're
that's what we're here for. Yeah, that's what I've done for my reviews and get workflow.
When people ask me, can you tell me about your get workflow or want to know better? I say go to
HPR, look for the episodes. Yeah, everything there. So mailing list, let's go to the mailing list.
Yeah, and there was a proposed change to the show upload form. Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes,
hold on. This was at the beginning of the month. So I completely have nothing about this.
So Dave was going there about tags for the shows, whether it should be mandatory or not,
and because he needs to add them at the end. And we use these tags on this on the summary page.
And we also want to make it, we're on the lookout for something HTML-wise that we can make the
tags more intuitive. It's not really for the HPR website originally, but it is for search engines
and whatever to be able to pick up what these tags were about and maybe go forward. We will
incorporate them more into the whole HPR thing. So there was quite an interesting discussion
about that. Geilverity, a well-known name in the Floss community says that it shouldn't be that
difficult to come up with some tags. And he also wanted the default option of clean and explicit
to be set so that the force the user to make choice. Yeah, I agree. I forgot to clean the flag
on one of my episodes. Okay, and then let's see. Propose changes I commented as I do.
Am I, oh yeah, as a HPR volunteer, I wanted to, okay, my concern as somebody who, you know,
posts these things is, and I need to kind of represent in the community here, is that my risk
of making more mandatory fields on the upload form is increasing the barrier. No, that's probably,
you know, that's probably not that much of a topic. So my comment on the tags is we have
old new and old hosts like using the same string for the summary show as they have for the show
notes field. So there is a risk that the tags will be so fluffier, so fluffier. Yeah, exactly. Thank
you. Here we go. Yeah, and the whole thing about the explicit tag is if that is set incorrectly,
we set it by default to explicit because if it's set to clean by accident, and it slips out, then
they, they side affected that is that HPR as a whole gets delisted from iTunes or Apple or
wherever else we put it. So we set it there explicitly. The logic behind setting is to explicit
was to force people to think about it. And of all the tags that during the upload form, you've
been guaranteed that the intro and outro might be set weird or people have not put intro notes but
clean and clean is more or less always set. It's only been on some rare occasions that I've had to
reset clean. And it's a bigger job to go from explicit to clean. In fact, no harm has been done
really. Somebody has, or the only harm that has been done is that somebody who's only listening to
the clean feed has missed your show. Whereas if it goes the other way around, then the risk to
HPR's community is that it gets delisted. So yeah, make sense. But that said, what we could do is
set it to a mandatory field. So default explicitly, that it defaults to explicit by default.
However, in your own personal profile, you can set it that when you're uploading shows,
we will check your personal profile. And if you always send in clean shows and you select that
on your personal profile, then we will set the default for you from then on to be clean. So we can
do that. So that might be a solution for people. Let me see if there was any other comments
on that topic. Some comments about FixMe tags. Kevin O'Brien says he thinks big deal and make
it mandatory for a tag or two. Lost in Bronx, wholeheartedly endorsed the idea of clean,
explicit flags and the tags. Michael Spannerbauer, external tags rather than something we maintain
ourselves. That has me thinking. He wants to be able to pick existing ones. And Dave has given
him a link to existing ones. But as I explained, we don't use JavaScript. So it's difficult to
pre-populate existing ones for people. And the problem with existing ones is that,
either you find something that's not really what you want, but because you're lazy, you're going
to pick that anyway. Or you just pick a trundum and hope for the best. So I think it's better if
we have to actually think about what we're going to put in the tags. Even though, yes, it's true,
sometimes it can end up being the only show with that tag. But that's not a problem.
If that links to say you do something about software free even conservity or some hashtag that
happens to be trending at that moment, then it's trending on our site with this hashtag. So our
site turns up as a result of having that hashtag. So that is the point of it. So that's absolutely
fine. Okay, nobody I waited until this show so that people would hear this discussion. So if you
have opinions on this, join them in a list and respond to the thread or just generally join
the discussion. And we'll see. I have no particular objection to it. I think the universal
consensus is that we make tags mandatory field and we will make the clean and explicit also
mandatory field, but allowing you to default to your own personal preference. Yeah, that's
I think that's the very good idea. So everybody can have what they prefer. Okay,
then I have a request for shows. There was a thing from Dave about the community news request
for shows. And what I'd like if you are listening to HPR and would like you're just stuck with a
topic and you would like somebody to record a show about it, then please contact the mailing list
about it or send a message to the HPR Twitter feed and we'll hear about that as well.
So backup of Android settings. This is a show I'd like to hear about. During the first time in
store of an Android phone, it's possible to restore data from a backup from an Android form,
a backup from the cloud, which is the main Google's cloud or an iPhone device. Is there a way to
backup and restore from a personally managed system? So something like on cloud or whatever,
that you could backup your Android phone to own cloud. And then when you get a new phone or you
have to factory reset your phone, you could download your settings. Anyone know about that if you do
or this spurs you to think about stuff or you think I've already looked into this and there's
no way to do it, then that's something you can talk to us about. And I would like next topic,
copy and paste under ethics, windows using and its desktops. How copy and paste is managed
on popular desktops systems like GNOME, KDE, LXQT, etc. Or even how I don't know random distributions
like pick one or random Linux Mint, for instance, might go about doing that.
Oh, if only there was a podcast about Linux Mint. Yes, so annual business. Yes, sorry to Yannick.
There was a misunderstanding about Yannick's show 2740 when it was discussed in the fabric
community issues. The show about pop OS, the subject. Yannick had spoken about previous edition
of the podcast. It was a misunderstanding in our part that we thought he had gone against our
syndication guidelines, but in fact, he had not. It was merely the same subject being spoken
about the same person on two different podcasts. So our apologies to you, Yannick, for that.
Apologies accepted. Very much. No harm's done.
Changes to the host page. The page for each host, which is host study under my case 30,
which contains a list of all shows contributed by that host with the show notes has been made
more compact. You now only see the show titles released during a duration series if applicable,
tags and show summaries. Clicking on the title itself will get you to the show itself.
A list of all hosts in alphabetical order can be found as correspondence,
or you can go to top home about hosts. From there, clicking on the show number takes you to the page
about that host. It will also link you to host pages from other pages from each show. So
the host page is linked on each show. I think the host page is better like that.
Because I was looking for some shows and the Raspberry Pi one took hold the space
with all the photos. It's a little bit like that. Yeah, and it also means that if we run
and people are linking the link directly to the show or not to a summary page or something else,
so your show is more concise and contained in a particular spot.
Dave, thanks, people for doing summaries and tags. Myself and my bill and Wendy
go sent in some tags. So there have been 32 shows about that and you can go to report missing tags.
And then that brings me to the last comment, which is I would like to tank Dave for his work here
in HBR. What's actually happened is we were contacted by, you know, that we've had to move to
Cuzz of our bandwidth to archive.org and we were contacted by Audible with a pretty good
sponsorship deal actually and it means that we'll be able to pay the hosting there and, you know,
other expenses and stuff that have been coming up from time to time. And in discussing that,
they will be requiring that we change the licenses of our shows from Creative Commons going
forward to, you can still, don't panic, you can still license your show Creative Commons, but
they will be, they will be basically, you need to read the terms and terms of the Ansible or the
Audible show upload thing. More information about this will be sent out in the mailing list as well.
And I know that some people will be a bit annoyed about this, but, you know, at the end of the day,
there's like bills to be paid and stuff. So it's not like we're going to be getting all the money,
associated with this. Obviously, if your show is, if you decide to release your show on Audible,
then, then, you know, the information about how the profit sharing will be done.
If there's any profits after the expenses, because we're entering into that deal, you will need to
contact me to get a non-disclosure agreement signed, but it's not that complicated, so I just need
your stuff like your driver's license or passport or something like that. And then your bank
account details. So going forward, we'll be doing that. And you can obviously opt out of that
yourself to be more information in the show notes about it, but basically Dave was not,
we didn't see it high on how that should be done, and he's decided to step down. And I really
like to take the time to thank him for all the work that he has done here on the network.
And hopefully, Janik, he'll be passing all his stuff over to you so that you can take over.
Yeah. There you go. Okay, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy
it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon
Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on
today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up
episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLight 3.0 license.
