Episode: 2306
Title: HPR2306: HPR Community News for May 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2306/hpr2306.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:09:10

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Hello everybody and welcome to Hacker Public Radio. My name is Dave Morris and with me tonight
for the community news show for May 9th 2017. I'm accompanied tonight by JWP.
How are you doing?
I'm doing fine. Thanks. It's warm here. I've got the back door open. I'm in the extension of my house.
So you might hear seagulls and strange noises out the back, but there you go.
So let's start with the welcoming our new hosts. We have two new hosts this past month and they are the dude.
It's a cool name and nox. Okay, so let's go straight into looking at last month's shows.
There's not much to say about the show 2281, which was the last community news, which you very kindly helped out on as did Christopher Hobbs.
But we got a couple of comments on that show and we had one from now. I'm hesitating how to say his name now.
D.O.D.D. dummy. I think that's just what Ken always said. So he's been wrote all along. He says D.O.D.D. dummy is a play on the main frame equivalent of dev. No.
In proper syntax of the D.D. data descriptor JCL statement comes from it comes from my friends trying to describe my prowess, which so the command is or the JCL statement is do D.D. dummy.
So he's got some pronunciation here. So it's is IBM JCL basically is what is what this comes from. So so let's then I gave a comment to this saying thanks for the explanation.
Thanks that helps to explain things just as an aside in my day JCL was a more generic term used on many of the main frames that I use which are I CL CDC and boroughs.
And at the university I worked at we were wooed by IBM in the mid 1980s who tried to sell us a machine to run VM CMS I think I forget what the machine was.
So I actually have no experiences of IBM's JCL happily.
Well I happen to do a new show that's coming out this month about the living computer museum in Seattle and they have all of the old main frames and backs and everything and you can get shell scripts for all those.
That sounds wonderful. Yeah I'd love to see that. Where is that?
It's in Seattle if you it's something Paul Allen did it's called living computers and you have to go to the web museum website and then ask for a shell account on the on the main frames that you want to use or the DAX backs that you want to use or I got account on an old AT&T box.
Wow that's amazing. Yeah yeah I must have a go at that. Very good.
Okay let's move on to the first show other than the community news and this was 2282 pathfinder adventure card game which was from Clare 2.
Now this is another one in his series of tabletop gaming and he's talking about this particular game the pathfinder adventure game and a few other subjects as well.
It sounds quite advanced. It sounds like sort of thing would go right over my head to be honest with you.
You into this sort of stuff at all John? Did you go away?
It had a dead space but I really enjoyed Clare 2's show. It was quite in depth. This time he did it.
Yeah this one was quite challenging to understand I found but still it's this sort of thing that if you're into that sort of thing you'd want I'm sure no doubt.
Okay let's go on to episode 2283 which is called saving money, shaving with double and single edge safety razors and this is from a guy called Dave Yates who remember from many years ago.
Yeah as soon as I heard that voice I was like oh there's my man from South Carolina Dave Yates doing his thing.
It's been a long time since I heard a podcast and it was really good to hear him again.
Yes I used to listen to him a lot. He's got very recognizable voice I think.
This is just a real smooth Southern Southern voice from America. I really enjoyed the show.
I've gone back and forth between safety razors and and chillette for a long time and it's just it just seems that the safety razor sometimes just doesn't do as good a job as the modern one for me.
But if I have time to double the double edge or single edge safety.
Yeah it's when I learnt to shave as a as a young lad my dad gave me a safety razor for sort that Dave Yates was talking about so we put a single razor blade in.
Double-edged one that he had and you know you had a little dispenser that dispensed it into the into the razor.
It just screwed together. I always wanted one of the fancy ones that you unscrewed and the top split open into two sort of doors into which you drop the blade.
But I think they'd gone by by the time I got to that. So yeah it was good to hear about this sort of thing.
I just see his electric razor these days and find that there's a less fuss to be honest.
Yeah I've been using good news a little bit but it was good to hear from Dave and I hope he starts doing technical stuff again.
Yeah yeah yeah no this was an excellent show to it's an interesting subject to talk about you know because removing a thing of hair is a human subject that everybody knows something about.
So yeah this is cool and a little bit of history as well about these particular types of razor so I enjoyed that very much.
There was a bunch of comments on this one. Do you want to share these John I'll just do the first one shall I?
Sure just a second let me open the tab.
So I'll just be doing we had one from Kuvmo I think it's how you pronounce his handle said smooth show.
Dave back from the dead like hearing from a long lost friend.
Great show I use a little bottle of shave secret and he gives a link to it just a couple of drops rubbed in and you can do a full shave.
Have a great week he says.
Okay so comment two was from DOD dummy Dave the whole time I was wondering glad to see you again Dave you made it just in time.
I don't think I could have kept in between did still edge on if you've full enough.
And that was posted on the 8th.
We lost you we lost you there.
We lost you between the first sentence of DOD dummy and the end.
But I can do it again Dave I can do it again so comment two it was posted on the.
Yeah yeah go okay all right so yeah so comment two it was glad to see you again Dave.
You made it just in time I don't think I kept kept it between the digits much longer.
The whole time I was wondering how did the rest of how did you get the rest of the family the switch I haven't shaved in two years.
But Clarky Howard claims he reuses the drazers for months without nickin' himself and then there's a link.
So next one was when Ron mechanical safety raises he said great episode made the switch to a double blade safety raise myself about two years ago.
Found a set in my local pharmacy for 20 US dollars came with the handle stroke razor holder and about 20 blades.
Two months ago was first time I had to purchase replacement blades.
That's amazing that's really good.
I quite don't value for the money.
The fourth post was by Frank and he was said welcome back to the pod square did.
Jonas says welcome back as well.
Comment five glad to hear you on the audio waves again Dave while listening I was wondering if you're going to say you got the rest of the family to switch sorry to hear no such luck.
At least you're saving a third or fourth of the previous total personally I trim rather than shave so I haven't spent money on a razor in forever.
Let's start again after this show though I like the idea of the soap stick I've not heard of that before.
Sounds like it's worth a shot remember my grandfather had a double ended safety razor.
I'm not sure what happened to it.
I'm sure his son picked it up after he passed away.
Save money on everyday things go goes saving money on everyday things goes a long way in the yearly totals.
Great show good to hear you back again.
I'm looking forward to hearing more techie or not you can do your own one there John.
Sure Dave it's a comment six it was by me Dave good to hear from you again on the airways great content.
Yeah it's nice to hear him back it really is he yeah I listen to a show and you know found it was it taught me a lot and.
The one thing that I remembered particularly I went to the states we took my kids to California area in 2011 and because.
Dave it's always drinking mountain dew I'd never heard of it before him we had to buy some and check it out we quite like it actually.
It's just just a personal anecdote.
It's got more caffeine than coffee Dave.
I know I know I know I wouldn't want to drink it you can't you can get it here but it's disgusting that so I'm glad I don't not drink it anymore.
Yeah so I keep we keep cutting out so I decided that I would start pingin www.google.com to see if it was my connection or what was going on but we seem to be cutting out a lot.
Oh no yeah you're noticing me disappear from time to time yeah correct or it could be me my internet is because it comes up from the basement sometimes that a.
Through the power I have the wall power connector thing and so it sometimes it turns itself off a little bit okay okay well I yeah.
I don't see any dropouts myself but it's not easy to be certain but there's nothing here that shows me I'm dropping out so.
Okay well this is just strange thing but normally if I if I just get set my pilot ping the ping google.com it doesn't happen.
Oh right right right okay so it sounds like it almost is something's timing out something like that that's bizarre.
That's what I think.
Okay let's go on to 2284 resurrecting a dead ethernet switch.
This was a mirror we who has a an ethernet switch which he identified had a failed capacitor.
I don't remember how he worked it out.
I think he'd already worked it out before he he talked about fixing it.
I can't honestly remember how he got there but he did point out that it was distinctly distorted
because the that's what happens to electrolytics when they when they go funny.
Well it was interesting for me that he had two that had the same thing.
That he had the same thing so he actually had two from the same manufacturer that broke the same way.
Yeah I enjoyed listening to him actually doing the debugging obviously didn't write enough down about it because I forgot details.
It was very impressive what he did.
The fact he had a scope to help him out was a significant step in the in the right direction I thought.
And he's put a quite quite an interesting picture in here which is a you can click on to see the detail of.
So having to identify it and replacing it shouldn't be too difficult to problem.
But you do need some reasonable equipment to to spot to detect it properly in the first place I guess.
Yeah so I don't think that just having a multimeter is going to work.
No I'm interested because I got an ethernet switch that they were going to throw out the university I used to work for.
And it's something like a 24 port thing but it doesn't work and I my debugging skills are not to not as good as these.
So I'm not sure what's wrong with it yet.
Anyway it was very interesting to think about how many just think about how many pies you could have hooked to that dude.
Well I know I know I was going to run the house on it you know I mean ethernet everywhere.
We had a bunch of comments on this one.
First one was from crayon.
Good job. Good job Mewi.
If only all hardware was so easy to get into and repair it says.
So I do the next one you can do the last one there John.
The second comment was from John Culp which is well done.
I love hearing this I really liked the real time fixing a broken object part of it.
But I would also like to hear more explanation of some of the stuff you were talking about
with respect to measurements using the multimeter and analysis using his telescope.
Great show.
Yes and then it comment too was from a guy named Jonathan Culp and he said I love hearing this.
It was really like fixing a real time project.
But I would like to hear more explanation of the stuff you were talking about with respect to measurements and using the multimeter and analysis on the oscilloscope.
Great show.
Do you want to do yours as well?
I just did.
I just did.
Oh I did this.
You're not John Culp.
Okay I just did John Culp.
I guess you didn't hear me.
Yeah so wow hardware really can last forever from me.
All right.
So I guess that's the end of that show.
It is it is.
We're having some communication issues here I think don't we?
Just a little bit.
Yeah.
But I can actually see the ping on my end on my end stop.
All right.
So it's a it actually goes it's actually on my end a little bit.
When you're speaking I can see the the thing the red lips that show up and then they flicker and go go black.
Which I wonder if that's got that that's a symptom I imagine.
Anyway.
I'm not I'm not I'm not I'm not mumble number per planet but okay so so let's see.
We're on 2285 which is the tick conspiracy.
And this was from the new from the new contributor.
This is from the dude yes yes sorry I wasn't sure whether you were here or not there John.
So he was talking go on.
I wonder if he's from if he's a big follower of the.
He's maybe yeah yeah yeah he he was talking about the problems of ticks and I imagine he lives somewhere rural.
And he's talking about how if you go out into your your backyard and then ticks can be everywhere and it will get on your dogs and will get on you and everything.
So we are the the lion disease is pretty bad.
Dave I was wondering if maybe from his title he's a big follower of the big Lebowski.
No idea.
Possibly so possibly so he's yeah I had not see I got a degree in biology so I know a bit about ticks but only from you know sort of undergraduates stuff.
I mean I heard and I've been in Germany they call it Brulosis and in America they call it Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
And I've had it three times and so the doctor told me that next time I get it I have to go to the hospital.
There are ticks of vectors of a lot of nasty diseases yeah and the lion disease particularly as you mentioned already is can be pretty bad.
But it's not so common in the UK I mean I've been bitten by ticks on many occasions but not to the extent that he's talking about they're not approaching my house.
They're all out in the in the woods and you know in the in their mountains and that type of thing they're not encroaching on on where I live.
So I would not like the prospect of that.
Well overall good show and I hope that the dude does something else.
Yeah yeah it's fascinating he really covered the subject well actually.
I found it most interesting so I'd like to hear more and he was very passionate about it which is always interesting to hear.
So cool so next.
The next one is HPR 2286 surviving a stroke.
And that's Tony Hughes who is telling a personal story about how he had a stroke in February and it sounded very severe from the way he was describing it.
In my notes here I wrote down he had a massive stroke.
I think he might have used those terms but he was with people who don't know.
Did I cut out again?
I think you must have must have disappeared for a second there Jonah.
Yeah I would just certainly say I really feel for Tony he was playing bridge with his wife and all of a sudden all those friends gathered around him and started pumping on his chest.
He's been pretty traumatic.
Absolutely absolutely but he he was you know handled and dealt with an emergency services called for him very quickly.
So I'm sure that that helped quite a lot but still very very frightening but he seems to have recovered it remarkably well.
So he's that's quite amazing.
Yeah so good luck Tony.
He's a great guy met him once or twice at old camp and stuff.
You must have done the same Jonah but you met him.
Well I'm hoping that I can make it this year and I hope Tony makes a trip after this stroke thing he had.
Yeah yeah there's a bunch of comments on this one.
Clinton Roy says fatigue.
Thank you for this Tony forgive me if I missed it but do expect to eventually get over the post stroke fatigue.
And shall I do the next one? Tony says in reply.
Hi Clinton yes the fatigue does gradually go away.
It's different for everyone with me it's mainly gone now but if I overdo it a couple of days in a row I do feel it.
I was warned it could last for up to 12 months but thankfully that large has largely not been the case.
And I'm fitting now that I was before the stroke having lost 22 pounds and started regular exercise by walking so sounds good.
Yeah and so comment three was by Jonas and he said great info I appreciate your sharing your story.
More people need to talk about the human side of hackers.
I'll put you in the same group as a sick club regarding.
Oh you dropped out there regarding personal stories with the sentence.
This is really appreciated.
More we talk about strokes by an injury.
You dropped out there John.
So schizophrenia depression and many others.
I think the better we the more we I think the better we all will be and I think it's important to know that we're not alone.
We have difficulties along the way thanks again.
Yeah it's a slightly harrowing story but it's still a good one.
It sounds like he's he's come through it and things look good for the future so good luck there Tony.
So next one is two to eight seven desperately seeking saving RMS.
And this is from do DD dummy or do DD dummy however he prefers it.
And this is him talking.
I'm not sure I always thought when he said do DD dummy that he worked for the Department of Defense or something.
I know I know that's what started the conversation last time.
Anyway he was talking about trying to move more towards free software in a similar way to RMS's approach to the to IT to the world.
It's been more good intentions than actually getting too far as yet.
I think it's fair to say but I'm sure he's going to press forward and follow up with this.
So it was it was good yeah it's it's a challenge but I certainly applaud his his attempt at trying.
Yeah I think I really think that perhaps he might want to do the get like a nips laptop and give it a try.
Something something that doesn't have any blobs or anything.
It might be an enjoyable experience.
Yeah yeah well good good thought.
There were two comments on this one Brenda J. Butler was the first one.
I was glad to hear your podcast about being a more conscientious free software user.
I was very impressed to hear you he started out alone without peers to talk to and help.
Have you heard of VRMS? It's a devian package maybe available on other platforms virtual RMS.
It checks what you've installed on your machine and sends you a monthly email with a list of non-free software.
So it could help with your goal of moving towards more towards the free software ideal.
I'm not all the way there myself but I'm always trying to be more free.
Read the tracking strob ULA DMA stuff. If you're Android software you can use the eftroid repo instead of Google Play.
It's all open source packages and the installer will let you see the required permissions for you install.
So even though it's all open source it's not all desirable and you do want to check the required permissions before you install.
I find I'm limited in what I can install on my phone but like you I have a bit of patience.
Yes and then comment too was an answer by DODD dummy and he said thanks for the tip.
It was rough going for me in the early years without forums chat rooms but the hardest part was me being an idiot.
I hadn't heard of virtual arms and we'll go give it a go.
I'm now installing FSF to prove distros and I think I'll give each week and I'll give one each a week and choose one.
It seems Dave that I really think that he should probably try one of those MIPS laptops from Lamote because he probably would get a really free FSF experience.
Yeah yeah yeah I know that that exists and I've used MIPS hardware back in the day but I wasn't quite clear that there were things to be had that are available now.
You should do sure about that if nobody's ever talked about it. It's an interesting subject.
Well I was going to do it but I talked to Ken of all people about it and he was just like John why would you want to slow your life down.
He said just get the best hardware you possibly can afford and use that.
Yeah yeah yeah I know I know. It's a difficult problem.
I try my hardest to do this as well.
I mean like my son gave me a phone a 1 plus 1 phone which has got a signage and mod derivative on it.
So I can restrict to a fair degree what I put on it but you can't go too far down that road for things don't work or you haven't got the interface with people and so on.
It's a difficult problem but they try trying to do it is a good thing.
So yeah yeah it's but no that's it's an interesting subject.
I would like to know more because I'd like to do more than I'm doing now.
So let's move on to 228.8 which is from you guys.
From Nox. It's from Nox and HPR 228.8 is installing and using a virtual virtual ENV wrapper for Python.
Installing and using a virtual virtual in the W wrapper for Python what I learned the hard way.
It can be honest. I'm not too sure about this.
I can't say I'm that knowledgeable about it but this is from Nox, one of our new hosts by the way so it's good to recognize that.
I think this is Python's virtual environment thing so that you can actually install packages which don't require root access.
If I understand correctly there's a thing because I tend to be more of a pearl user than Python just because I'm too old to change and I used it a long time.
Of course with a pearl handle inside the mumble room yeah I'd say you're pretty much a pearl user.
I'm afraid so but there's a thing called pearl brew which lets you do a similar thing I think.
It doesn't seem to be as elegant as this. This allows you to install a package and then the package is virtual ENV and virtual ENV wrapper.
Then you can use it by configuring your Bash Rc to source the script that you get or the shell script that you get.
Then you end up with a bunch of commands that you can use so you can make a virtual environment and remove a virtual environment and so on and so forth.
Then once you've got a virtual environment you can then install things in it as I understand it so without needing privileges and so forth.
Of course it's also a great test area for checking something out before you use it for real which sounds really good.
It says don't use sudo when installing inside the sudo virtual end which is pretty much what I was trying to say there.
Yeah it was a little confusing for me about the sudo part of it.
It seems to work out really well for Prahn.
You want to move on to the comments?
Yeah let's do that. I was quite fascinated with the thing. I must try it out at some point.
Anyway so we had the first one was from Drupes who said great episode. Very technical and cool. Please keep them coming.
Which is a good comment.
Yes and the second comment was from a basis opinion.
More Python help please. A long time programmer trying to learn Python on my spare time. Very helpful. Just what I needed.
Like that you can pay the information without an ego getting in the way.
So he's a good good explainer I think it's certainly the case. So yeah more or more please nox.
We have another one from Windigo who says excellent advice.
Virtual end was something I didn't get into until later into my learning and it made things much nicer to work with.
Thanks for bringing attention to it. Don't tell Ken or Dave but I look into doing some Django shows.
So we heard you we heard you we want some Django shows now please.
So that's good.
Right. I'm hesitating between.
Okay it's because.
Yeah so the HPR 2289.
Cindy send tell if your email has been read.
And it's hosted by.
You just fell off the world again there John I think.
He said it's hosted by and that the answer was sickflap.
Yeah.
It's working again.
Yeah.
It's HPR 2289.
Cindy send tell me if your email has been read.
And it's by a guy named sick club.
This is a lady called sick club who's also.
I'm looking at the pictures. She's got short hair.
She has. She has got some short hair.
Okay I'm sorry.
You got short hair.
So yeah.
Now this is a tool which will.
It's a thing people have been doing sort of surreptitiously in some ways.
You know some of the HTML email that you receive has got like a single pixel.
GIF or something like that in it.
Which if you view it in your email reader will make a call to that.
GIF which can then be detected as being the I don't know whether yeah.
I think she's actually tailored these so that you can go to her site and get the token effectively.
Put it into your email and then when when you send it to somebody and they read it.
It notifies because it's requesting a specific oh with a with a with a key in it.
It will notify her server.
You can go back and ask if it's been read.
So that's that's quite cool.
The way that you defeat this is that you tell your your hotmail.
Your hotmail web browser thing that you don't want to read it in HTML.
You want to read it in text.
Well yeah. When I discovered this which is some time ago now.
Because I was I was actually looking after email for a while.
And then like goodness hired somebody who did it for me.
But university level email is huge because yeah it's a nightmare.
But that was the thing we spotted early on and we we took action and warned people about about this.
And I certainly switched up HTML capability in my email client for many many years.
So but still it's still an interesting technique.
So we have a comment from Joe who says hacker.
Just just what calling out that some email clients laid to block HTML emails to go out and fetch resources like images.
Unless you explicitly allow downloads from that specific email address or domain.
It's a great security feature.
People who use it will be able to read your email without you knowing unless they mark you as trusted and allow the client to download resources.
So yeah.
I guess that's pretty much what I was just saying.
You should read the comment first.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's a very interesting thing.
Let's see the next show was from Ken.
It's taken a slip of tea there.
Right. Yes. Ken's Ken show was how to change the height of your ironing board.
Amazing life hack will change your life forever.
Yeah.
You can't.
You have to listen to that.
Did you see that?
Did you see the picture?
He's got this picture there.
I think I wrote him a mail or put a comment on here or something about it.
Anyway, it was a very interesting show, especially we'll put a picture.
Yes.
Yes.
So it's good to see how people solve problems, I think, because yeah.
So basically what Ken's doing is he's got an ironing board which has legs that can be positioned at different positions.
And each one raises the board up a bit except that it doesn't go quite high enough.
So he, the hooks into which the legs drop in order to do this.
He added another one.
It's basically what he did.
So therefore he can make it high.
He did point out and that it makes it a little less stable because the higher it goes, the closer the legs are together.
So yeah, it's...
But there you go.
Yeah.
Safety bag.
So yeah.
I was going to say something about this.
I made a note.
The...
Yes.
But my mother had what was probably the best ironing board ever.
It incorporated a seat.
So as you stood it up, there was a seat attached to it that you could sit on.
So sitting down to iron is cool.
I wish I had one.
Yes.
I wish I had one of those.
I mean, all the years I was in the army.
I mean, especially my poor wife.
That would have been fantastic because she had like a little bench.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I just really got your tool and you got a long way to bend over it.
It's a nightmare.
It's horrible.
The other solution I found is to buy as many walking style clothes as I can because they're made to be easily washed and just hung up.
And then you don't need to iron them.
That's my solution.
But that's the lazy man's solution.
So do you want to read your comment there, John?
Sure.
It's pure love.
You have no minions for that process and his subjects gathered around him like the leaves on a tree.
And then the smiley face.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I think he's the manion.
I think he's I think he's got.
How many girls does he have living with him?
You see, I do know I've forgotten.
Is it two daughters he has in his son?
I think it's two.
Yeah.
Did I say of the start of the show that Ken is mysteriously AWOL today?
We were assuming he was going to be with us, but we never heard from him.
It would have been really great because I keep cutting out, but that he'd be here.
Yeah, but it's still 2290 is still a show.
Man, we got to show that day and it was a pretty good show with great artwork.
No, absolutely, absolutely.
There's no criticism intended at all.
I think it's a great thing.
I think we should have more like that.
So little solutions that make life easy.
That is the essence of hacking.
I think anyway.
So let's press on to show 2291.
Arch on sellers.
It turns out is the name of Hannah of Terror of Souls Chromebook.
So that puzzled me a little while.
It was really hard for me to grasp really.
So she has a Chromebook and a Chromebook has to be the hardest thing to hack in the world.
Because you have to go in not only the bios, you have to change something.
Whereas if you get a window's budget thing, you just have to change the UFI and boom you're in.
Yeah, although I know a number of people who have bought Chromebooks and have hacked them
because they reckon they're really nice, lightweight, portable devices,
and well powerful enough to do what they need to do.
So it's a good thing to do.
And she's put Arch on it and I did not know, I don't know much about Chromebooks.
I was amazed that you have to remove a hardware write, protect, screw.
This thing is locked down as hard as possible.
See that's always a scary part for me is when I break up the case and I have to do the thing with the screw.
That terrifies me of course.
And so I've never really done that.
I've never really done that.
And me and Ken, we tried to get the core boot guys to do one of his PCs
and they keep on saying we have to go to our hacker space and learn how to do it ourselves
and they won't do it at the moment.
So we're both terrified to death.
No, no, I have something to do with that.
I don't think I would do it to do that.
But I all respect to anybody who does and to have terror.
She's got for doing this.
Great show notes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely, absolutely.
These are great.
I process the notes so I see them early and these are very impressive.
I thought there's a lot of dense information there that it's going to be useful for anybody who wants to do this.
There were no comments on this one.
So that was a sound of me scrolling down there.
So, okay, we'll go on to the next show.
So the next one is 2292.
A bolfering UV5R UHF, no, BHF slash UHF, Headset Part One, hosted by Mr. Axe.
Yes.
Now, he's done a block of shows on this, which he's spread out sort of one week or one a couple of weeks way out into the future.
For which we obviously thank him enormously.
And he's got this little handheld transceiver, I guess it is.
It's a radio that does UHF and BHF.
And he's sort of going through it in minute detail describing it, which I thought,
I don't know, this is going to go right on my head.
It's not for me, but I found it really interesting.
He has a way of describing things very well, I think.
And this was good.
I enjoyed this and the later ones, which I think we're going to get to.
Yeah, there's more.
There's two more to come.
I think he does one a week now, which is great.
Also, the audio quality on these shows isn't too bad at all.
He seems to have a pretty good audio quality there.
Yeah.
So there were two comments.
So Dave, you wrote a strange urge to make a show.
I had a terrible urge to make another HPR show after listening to this, 2203.
A great show, by the way.
I feel I might have an inkling about amateur radio is all about after listening to this series.
And then the next comment is from Mr. X.
Who replies.
Hi Dave, sorry for the long delay in replying to this.
I'm terrible at checking for comments.
Many thanks for the kind words glad you enjoyed it.
My comment about strangers to make a show is because he tries to do,
he does a sort of subliminal message at the end that you're going to do another.
You're going to make a show for HPR.
It's wonderful.
It's really nicely done.
And also quite funny too.
And it made me make a show.
Did you hear a noise there because I've got things noisy in the background.
Okay Dave, I'm back.
And it looks like the next show was about your bass curting.
Dave, I'm sorry.
It's my fault.
I just had a problem.
I needed to solve.
So I went quiet for a minute.
Yes.
Ah, okay.
Yes.
So now we're on a more supplementary bash tips expansion part two or two.
So this one is me trying to finish off what I started talking about,
parameter expansion and filename expansion and all of that good stuff,
which is all covered in the bash manual, but it's quite impenetrable.
And so I thought I'd work my way through it and understand it and explain what I understood along the way.
And this is the last bit about some quite complicated stuff.
I was getting ready to say that it was pretty tough for me.
Hey, can we take a 60 second time out?
Yeah, sure.
Just, and it's all gone record, but it doesn't matter.
We put the audio through a truncation of blanks of, you know, silence.
So we don't need to worry too much about silence anyway.
So, yeah, go for it.
So I'll be back in 60 seconds.
Okay.
All right, Dave, I'm back, man.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm back.
Dave, boy, this is a pretty impressive list of show that you've got here.
I think you need to take my OPI exam for me, man.
We'll just swap ideas or something.
Yeah, yeah, I know.
Some people are saying, God, this man talks too much.
Skip this one.
Skip this one.
Another one from that guy.
Anyway, this was about, you got some comments.
You got some comments.
It is.
Well, SCP is one of the things that I like to use, but I don't really understand that well.
But let's, let me go ahead and read it.
So Jonathan Cole, who's commented several times this month, said, what about with SCP?
Hi, Dave.
This was a really great excellent show, just the kind of stuff I wish I had known about for the last 10 years.
I tried something after listening that worked wonderfully as long as, as long as I was long as I was doing the list command.
But when I tried the same thing using secure copy to get the same arguments that didn't work, what I wanted to do was push all the MP3 and
on files to a given directory over to my server in a single command, excluding the HTML mark down files in the same directory.
The following command work perfectly to asteris, asteris list, asteris, asteris, asteris, all of the MP3 and augs, L.S. asteris.
I think you dropped off again.
That expression was too much.
I tried the same.
You cut out the nasty bit, but I think you could skip over that anyway.
Yeah, it was a pretty long one.
And then you replied, oh, you do your own response, Dave.
Yes, I said SCP is a bit weird.
John was saying that he could use one of these extended expressions with L.S. and it worked perfectly just to select our particular files from a set of files.
But when he tried to use it with SCP, it didn't work with secure copy.
So I said, glad you enjoyed the show.
To look into this, I did the usual thing of creating a directory, SCP test, and making files in it.
And I'm not going to read this all out because I went into quite a lot of detail trying to answer this question.
So basically saying that I found exactly what he found and I found difficulty in copying stuff using these extended expressions.
So I found a solution, but it's really complicated.
And at that point, I didn't even know I understood it.
It's the longest reply ever.
It's a show.
It's a show.
So let me just, even my summary is long, but I pointed him a site to try, but I don't think he did because it really, really unpleasant.
So anyway, I said, I then followed it with a further comment, and I tried some further stuff.
And I used, I didn't use the extended expression that I just saw was about, which John had failed with.
I used a simpler expression, and it worked fine.
And then to explain that.
And then John came back with an answer. Shall I read that as well?
Sure, Dave.
Yes, John then came back and said, details, details.
Aha!
As always, the devil is in the details. The last comment you left gave me the hint I needed.
I was put in the asterisk in the wrong place, and also using the parentheses instead of curly braces.
The following command works just like I want, and he shows a thing using brace expansion.
So he did manage to solve his problem. Well, we did it between us, I guess.
And so he, he was happy.
Yes, so the, so the next show is HBO 2294. Activities with the toddler.
Well, hold on a second.
We only got as far as five.
So I'm not going to read all of these things, but basically I said, there's many ways of achieving this, but glad it helped.
But I have started putting together a brief show about this subject because it's quite complex and it needs a show rather than comments.
And John came back and said, well, good, or something to that effect.
And then we had comment from Clackier, who said he had no idea that SCP would do brace expansion.
And he basically noticed that there were issues with this stuff with Async as well.
And so he's basically pointing out that SCP and Async and various things that try and do clever stuff across SSH tunnels.
A bit, a bit broken, or they're not as well implemented as they could be.
And I answered that. Finally, this is the last one you'll be pleased to know saying, yes, I tried this and I hit problems.
And there's a show coming, which we'll try and discover this. I keep saying brief.
This show will be brief, but it won't. It will be very long. So it's it's generated.
Yeah, the SCP Dave, at least in the beginning of it, talk about SCP and like the basics before we go into that really long stuff.
At least the first six or five or six minutes is common use of the SCP. So everybody knows what SCP is.
Yes, that is needed. I have to have to agree.
So let's push on to the next show, 2294. Did you want to speak about that?
I see him. You've fallen off.
Can you hear me? Am I still there?
I can hear you now. Yeah. Yeah. 2294 activities with a toddler. This is Shane Shannon.
Okay. Yeah. It says that he's got a list of 11 things and I really like the cat video one.
Yes. Yes. There's some great things here. I really like this. It's it was yeah, it's a it's an issue. It is a thing.
As a parent, you do have a lot of problems coming up with interesting ideas of things to do.
So having a list that you can go and think, oh yeah, yeah, I did this before I can try that one.
Yes. It's good. Yeah. Cat video is a good one.
So there were a bunch of comments on this one we had.
Okay, John. Let me go ahead and take the one from when to go. Yeah, go for it.
Yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So comment one was from when to go.
It says timely. I've got a daughter on the way. So advised from those and the trenches is always appreciated.
Comment two was by DODD dummy. Nice show for what it's worth. I smiled their most of the show.
And then comment three was by you Dave. You can go ahead and read your own.
I said this was great. I love this. It brought back such memories.
What it's worth. We collected loads of craftable stuff when my two kids are small.
I found a large box of it in the attic when I'm tidying last year.
Stuff like egg cartons, cardboard tubes, cardboard boxes, et cetera, et cetera, sticks, straws, et cetera.
You get the idea. Play was with all of these and PVA glue sticky tape and sometimes paint.
You can bet that all manner of fantastic structures were built.
So yeah, I sympathize with his list and my list was to go and get this box of stuff out and we'd make stuff out of junk.
Yeah, and then we had come in four from Jonathan Cole and he said, ride the bus.
What an excellent show. What I liked best was what I could hear you smiling when you talked about doing certain things with your daughter.
This is great. One thing I used to do with my kids when.
Oops, you've gone away again. One thing I used to like to do with my kids when they were that age was to take them riding on the city bus.
You fell off that one again, Jonah.
Oh, okay. So it's just filling up for you.
Oh, so Jonathan Cole. So he took his daughter to the Barnes and Noble.
I don't even know if there's still a Barnes and Noble anymore.
Having a destination like that.
They liked really getting on the ride to bus and it was great fun for them at that age.
Yeah, that's a good idea.
And then clacky or clarky.
How do you say clacky?
He's sweetish, so he's clacky.
Yeah, he's sweetish.
Beautiful, beautiful episode.
Tickling, love to hear the clearly audible across a microphone speaker, the internet and my speaker.
He liked it a lot too.
Great show.
Thanks for doing that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That was definitely a dad who really enjoyed having quality time with his daughter and it came across.
And that was very cool.
So MX Linux 2295 from Tony Hughes is next.
So Tony's Tony sent me a good show.
I really like this one day.
Tony's got a lot of stuff.
I mean, he read those laptops like I do.
Like I do a lot.
I can't believe he took 173 off and did this.
It's okay.
So he talks about this.
I always thought that this was sort of like from the anti-X people or the mythless people.
I always thought that this project was from like from that.
Yeah, I don't know much about it to be honest.
It sounded interesting from Tony's description of it.
But yeah, I think I looked at it.
Mepis once didn't take it, but I didn't have a need to have a very lightweight OS.
So yeah, it sounds good.
XFCE, it's good, isn't it?
Yeah.
Well, with Tony using the older thing, it's I think made as probably as high as you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's quite understandable that he'd want to do that.
Because some of these machines are going to struggle with anything very much more.
Yeah, very good.
I enjoyed this.
As always, Tony makes some great notes.
So thanks for that.
Yeah.
And I had a comment.
You know, he always finds something new to talk about.
And I even asked him about the Memphis project.
It was part of Memphis.
So it has a feel of Memphis to me.
Yeah, yeah, I don't know much about these.
So I go by your judgment there.
So next we've got Mr. X again with the second instalment of his bow thing.
He called it tonight.
I'm not sure I would say that this handset and he's talking this time.
But while he's going through the various features talking about VHF and UHF and all of this sort of stuff with loads of loads of really interesting links to it to follow up.
I've looked at one or two, but not in huge depth yet.
Well, it's so important to know it's especially with that.
So it's sort of like, I didn't know what UHF, much about UHF.
And so he put the wiki right there.
And he's got the two meter band on it and stuff.
And unfortunately, when I pulled out my shortwave, I was...
I used to be a shortwave listener because it used to be back in Germany.
There was no English.
And so I did the scan the other night.
There's not very many shortwave stations left.
Well, that's a shame.
Yeah, I used to listen to shortwave a lot years ago on a valve radio.
But yeah, still.
Now, this is good.
There's tons and tons of information here.
And he's worked really hard to put this all together.
So thanks so much for that.
So that's quite a desirable machine, in fact.
So no comments on this one.
So let's move on.
So Dave, you did the...
You did the HBR 2297.
This is us being DJs.
Yeah.
This is Andrew, who's also called Maloo, who does another podcast.
And has done a few things on HBR over the years.
You've met Andrew.
I would know.
Have I?
Yeah, he was at...
He was at Oddcamp.
You were at the last Oddcamp, yeah, weren't you?
Yeah, two years ago.
They didn't have one last year, right?
Yes, that's right.
Yeah, so Andrew was there.
He was on the HBR table with us.
So, yeah, I went over to Andrew's house, invited me over.
And we sat down in the living room there,
and we were listening to these tracks
and talking about them as we went along.
And, yes.
It was just us being DJs
and talking about some of the stuff that we like from Magnitude,
which we've done before, but hopefully people found it interesting.
I like that the links were there, so I can just write up what they want.
If I, when I like this on, I can go and click on it and get it.
Indeed, indeed, yeah.
Magnitude is good because you can listen to it.
The only slight downside is because if you're not a member,
you hear it with some advertising in it.
But, you know, you can still...
We are able to put the tracks in without advertising,
because we're both members, and they allow that.
You can put it into a non-commercial podcast.
So, that's quite good.
It was very fun. It was a good thing to do.
And we got comments on the show from Jonas.
Yeah, okay. You want to do that one?
Yes, sure. So, it was in bold, great.
Listen, thanks so much for the alternate music mix from Magnitude.
I always thought it was more classical music since that was the origin.
I definitely appreciate hearing thought on different music.
I like most of the gurney in the show.
PS, I nearly fed all my chair when I was listening to the...
Listen.
The text, the text, the speech, I think is what that is.
And he's commenting on the fact that it said,
explicit after my name.
So, it's making a joke that this was apparently an explicit show.
So, did you say something there?
Yeah, I did.
You disappeared.
So, I filled in for you there.
Sorry about that. Yeah, it was just joking saying that it was...
It was making a bit of a joke, the fact that it had an explicit tag on it.
But I comment...
My comment was, thanks for the feedback.
Glad you liked the show. We had fun making it since we were in the same room.
And actually listen to the tracks in real time.
I mark all my shows explicit since it means stated clearly and in detail,
leaving no room for confusion or doubt.
And that's what I aim for.
I don't meant to be offensive, though, unless you hate detail.
Smiley face.
So, I'm just making a point on this explicit nonsense,
because explicit doesn't mean offensive or rude.
It means something completely different.
And why the hell we have to call things explicit when we want to say
we've said a rude word in here is ridiculous and it offends me.
So, that's why I call all of my shows explicit.
Yeah, so I even sometimes just do it just in case I have a darn or a dam in there.
Yes.
Well, who's to say a thing is offensive?
I mean, I might say a word like apple.
And this is deeply offensive to anti-appelists.
You know, I mean, banal or something.
It's such a ridiculous thing.
Yeah, but then you have folks like David.
David ate six or seven years ago when his two daughters were small
and he was listening to podcasts and they go to church and stuff.
So, yeah, the explicit would be helpful for offensive or rude.
Yeah.
No, no.
I don't object to the idea of there being a message that says
you might not want your children to hear this.
So, this might contain adult language.
The explicit does not mean what it's used to mean.
It's a pedantic point, I know, but it's still...
I just like the fact that English is being walked in this way
to mean things that it's not really supposed to.
Anyway, I could rant on this as well.
I don't normally talk about it.
So, let's move on to 2298.
Shall we?
I'm sure the phantom power drain...
...diagnosing a phantom power drain on an automobile.
It's a scary topic.
This is Brian, who has done a show on clay and pottery
and stuff in the past.
And he is talking about debugging a problem on a car or automobile,
as he would say.
And, yeah, he's giving some useful hints about how to deal with this
using a multimeter and stuff.
There's a comment below, which is not much point in reading,
but he made a mistake.
He'd put millivolts in the thing.
And I changed...
Yeah, milliamts.
As the editor, I changed it to milliamts,
but I made it obvious that it'd been changed
since there was a comment about it.
So, the...
You then, Jonas, wrote...
I didn't know that.
Great info.
I didn't realize you could shoot...
...you could troubleshoot using a such a small instrument.
My truck is getting older and may need this.
And, for eventually, thanks for the show.
Now, this is what it's all about.
Having a...
...sharing bits of expertise like this is cool.
So, yeah.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So, next, we have...
...2299.
What's in my bag from Shane Shannon?
Again.
So, thanks Shane for two shows.
This...
It two shows this month.
That's fantastic.
So, this is one of the...
...what's in my toolkit type things.
And he's talking about the five items in the bag.
He takes to his job.
And he's a computer instructor.
And he has a list of things.
Flashlight, flash drive,
set a picture, dies a small notebook
and a cell phone in this bag.
So, yeah.
Cool.
It's...
It was an interesting collection.
I liked he had a Star Wars USB stick.
That was good.
And the story dies to help...
...give students a...
...ideas for writing stuff.
And he's a believer in paper notebooks,
which I quite like.
Yeah, I like that he always had a little bag with him
in this and that he still uses paper and stuff.
Yeah.
He's using bullet journal type of style of thing,
which is another topic that we could do with hearing more about, actually,
because organizing your thoughts and ideas and your to-do list
and that sort of stuff using a physical notebook
is something that could be...
could be talked about.
It's a cool thing people are doing at the moment,
but it's also a good skill to have.
So, yeah.
Interesting show.
Yeah.
Dave, believe it or not,
I sort of moved back to it.
I get sponsored by Susan Red Hat a lot,
and they always give me these mold scans,
these burning mold scans.
It's just very nice.
You use them a lot.
You use them a lot.
Very nice.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I'm a great believer in using paper
and pens and this sort of stuff.
You know, I use them at the technical stuff as well,
but I just like paper and...
It's like the feel of writing
implements and paper.
So, yeah.
Cool stuff.
So, you were next to 2,300,
2,300, the first Intel Compute Stick.
Tell us about it, then, John.
Well, I was a little disappointed with some of the comment
with the sound quality in it.
Dave, I bought a brand new Platronics headset
and I was trying to get it to not have so much echo
in it when I was...
When I talked or...
I wanted it to be sound a little cleaner.
But, yeah, with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
with the...
that was a good friend, wasn't it?
That was...
That was a good thing, wasn't it?
It's...
It...
It's...
It's sounds on...
In principle, quite a...
quite a good device, but...
Wasn't quite as good until he found a way to...
made it better.
So...
Yeah, good for you.
Sounds good, actually.
Sounds like a cool device.
The...
for you.
It was a...
It's a great little piece of hardware.
Yeah.
Yeah, it sounds...
It could've done with the picture, mind you.
Who am I to I don't know how that picture comes and sometimes that picture comes
I don't know how that happens with with my a set of there. I don't know
I really want on a set up with that or a more smaller, but I can never seem to afford one
I
Think what it is is that you have a
Gravita is that your gravita? Have you set that up at some point?
Well, did you send us a picture of your I said it? I think I think it might have been my gravita from some
Some somewhere
We haven't
I think Ken's got a thing that that goes and scans gravita every so often not very often
But and then he copies the the images and puts them on the HPL server
So I've done it myself a few times, but yeah, it's good my auntie auntie had one of those
Those I said to auntie and uncle the two of them packed in there was it's quite a sight. The front door just opens
Yeah, with the steering wheel on it. Is that the one? The steering wheel come out with the door. Yeah
I don't know I don't remember if this steering wheel came out with a door or not, but I went to a set of
Convention one time and it all happens right there in the front right in front of a car. There's no going to the back or anything
Yeah, yeah, it's great technology
It's amazing and is it like a two-stroke engine or something in there? I think it is isn't it?
It's a two-cylinder engine. Is it all right? So is it a four-stroke or a two-stroke?
You know, I think I think what they have a they have a some models that came with a Moped engine in them
Yeah, that would be the one of you think the engine in Germany. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah
So so that was a two-cycle motor and
The thing about it is is in Germany at the town
To get a driver's license
It was a little costly for some people
Yeah, it's that that's the main reason people you went for these in my
Time the fact that you could drive them on a motorcycle license. So that was that's cool
Yeah, yeah, definitely cool topic. Yeah, I broke up again
But maybe I'll do what to show about this and that would be interesting. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that would be very interesting
Yeah, I filled in for you while you well you fell off there because I do know a little tiny bit about these things
And they're very they're very good fun. Yeah, well anyway, David in Germany
It was important back then because of the
Moped license is much cheaper than a car license. Yeah, yeah, it's the same in the UK exactly the same
So let's move on to two three or one. Shall we and that's mr. X again with his third show of the month
About the the bow thing now this one he was just looking at my notes here
He was talking about frequency and wavelength
now that I I sort of know this but I thought his explanation was great and it helped me to understand it better actually
So it was good. I enjoyed that he said it was a rambling podcast. I thought it was actually
Very good. I like the style
He had to he had to go from notes. I thought it was so detailed it really really
How I think he had to have some notes on
Well, I don't yeah, yeah, yeah, but he's still got a great style and
Whether he's going from bullet points or something, but his his his he's a good explainer
He's a good has a sort of teaching style about him that's that's great
And I really liked the the story about how mains hum
Frequency time stamping was a way of
of sort of
Fingerprinting bits of audio you could tell
When and and where it was I think from the from the mains hum that's that's mind boggling. I must look into that more
I like the info about the Moped
Omnidirectional antenna. Yeah, yeah, that was also interesting
Yes, there was it was a real gem that one. I enjoyed that one a lot. So yes
Okay, no no comments, but we we certainly liked it. So that's that's good
I'm sure there are a lot of the radio guys who are appreciating this to be honest. Okay. I'm back
I'm back so there's looks to be no comments, dude
There are no comments. No, let's move on
And just that Dave Morris guy again doing more boring shows. This one was
um me trying to I just had an idea right I've been doing these shows on
Weird bash things and think in oh, yeah, it's interesting, but I'd never use it
And then I came across a need to use one
So thought I'd do a show on it. So I managed to put this one together quite quickly and this was the result. So
This is um, I'm calling it bash snippet
In the hopes I can put together other short shows on bash things and uh, I like the day because I could rewind it and play it again
And so I could get it the second time because a lot of times I'm going on
140 or 150 kilometers on the Autobahn and in the seven-minute show I can always press the back show
But if it's a 45-minute show I can't press the back button
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I still try and do do others that are short if I can
But easy I've got too much to say. This is the trouble
Anyway, um, yeah, so where they're comments on this one. Yes, we had we had a comment and a reply from me
Um, claquia says thanks
I've written a few scripts in my day that do something like first putting a glob in parentheses
Then double checking whether the array is longer than one and if it's length one check that the thing is a thing
And not just the wildcard should have used null glob next time I will
And I said to that glad you found it useful. Yes, I'm going to use null glob in scripts now for sure
There may be side effects and other parts for script. I'm not sure. So I'll turn it off once I finish with it
So um, yeah, that's I think it's good. I should'll definitely use it. I think I just said that and I so yeah
Definitely doing
Sure, I hope that was a compliment, but I never heard the end of that
Uh, John your internet is this really crappy
Tonight, which is a shame. We're we're surviving though. I think we're surviving. Yeah, it's Dave
So you're gonna do my LPI for me for sure next time
Yeah, yeah, I must give that a try one time
So last show for the month was Geddes two three oh three KDN live
Part five all about audio
He's talking about KDN live and recording audio
for when you're making um videos or whatever
So yeah, he reads. He's really well. The original material is is brilliant. Go on John. I'm sorry
This so it's what I liked was that he talked about how to mix right and so how he like was like
Sometimes you want like cafe sounds and the track part of it and stuff and it it looks like this just takes audacity to the
To the next level absolutely absolutely now this revealed a whole bunch of things. I was just not aware of
So it's it's great great from that point of view. It's uh
It's even I may never use them
It's still great to know. It's always good to know more about stuff. I think so yeah very cool
Any idea about the hardware requirements to have a KDN live uh
I don't know. I think it might have been covered a little bit at the beginning of this series
I think something reasonably beefy is is called for but don't quote me on that. I really don't know
Okay, well this this is this was a good show
I really enjoyed it because I really am interested in audio quality and so it popped up on me
Uh, an awful lot
Yeah, yeah. No, this is this is a good one
It's uh, I think there's one more to go in the the series is is done
But uh, yeah, it's it's been been most interesting
So um
We'll stop there. We've got a whole bunch of
comments relating to previous
episodes which we need to to go and check out
And that will take me a few minutes to or seconds anyway to to get to the details I think
So there was a comment on episode 2168 analogue random number generator
Which was clatu talking about ways of coming up with random numbers without using
Electronics and we had a comment from rtsn who said hi clatu. This was a fun and weird episode
Just wanted to check if you seen this and he refers to a to a blog
um
Couldn't help to think about you and this hpr episode while reading it
So I haven't looked at this this link but
It looks like it could be interesting
Yeah
Dave, I don't know where to go to look at the additional notes for April
It's for what I'm doing and I should have done this before and I never remember is to click on these various links and open up tabs
So I can check out the the comments
So what I'm doing is I'm looking at the show notes for this episode
Where it says comments this month there are eight which relate to previous shows
At the top of the of the list so um
So I'll just I'll just go through these shall I and uh come back to the at the end yes
Yeah, please if you catch up with me then feel free to join in but uh, I'll just I'll just try and uh wing it
Ken's always better at this than I am. I don't know
My brain's getting too old to handle this well. So we're talking about
I think I just took my finger off push to talk. Sorry about that. We're talking about episode
249 hpr new year show episode three and
We're looking at comment number five
And this was from frank who says
Windows on top windows actually sports the always on top function or remember this discussion
Yeah, it just has no gooey means of activating it some programs use it
Most prominently media players there are third party tools which make it available globally such as
Activate written by the staff of german computer magazine
C apostrophe t an idea how you pronounce that a quick installer in a quick English installation guide
Is that and there's link activate also brings other Linux goodies such as drago window with alt plus lmb and
Ethan william says thank you
I think I might have just done a comment that it wasn't
Made last month. Sorry about that. Oh, no problem dad. No problem
Show 2263 is freak does geek which is the two guys
traveling and along on the bus and having an interesting chat and
RTS ends as great episode
Thanks for a really interesting and enjoyable episode. I think it's healthy and important to question and consider concepts
We to some extent take for granted like how visual perception shapes our world view look forward to hearing more from you too
That's a good comment, and I really agree with that
That was a good show actually enjoyed that
next was
226
gone
What is it? I thought that it was I thought it was an excellent comment
Yes, absolutely
We're looking down 226 game books loan wolf. It's one of platters tabletop gaming shows
and
We're looking at
Shane Shannon made a comment in treating. Thank you very much. Thank you
Very oh, he probably missed the much the
For the great show and the link to the free books that kind of thing is really hard to use
So it's easy to make typos in it and not be able to go back and fix them. So do do that myself
Having problems opening the pages
Something's not behaving as it should here
No, I've just I'm just trying I was just trying to follow a comment
And I'm getting error messages
Something's not loading as it should. I don't seem to be able to connect to HPR at the moment
And I am and I'm having trouble connecting to google.com. It's not paraphrasing for me anymore
Dead yeah, yeah, sorry. I'm I'm a bit distracted because
somehow or other there's a
An invalid
URL is crept in here
Yeah, I got it
Somehow the link was to show 267 was to something called
hobby public radio dot com. I didn't know we had a dot com
Address at all. I just tried and that didn't work
So I just changed it to hack a public radio dot org and I'm getting it
But basically this
This was most unusual
But some sometimes my company doesn't take hacker public radio dot org. So yes, that there is a
There is there was an alias. There should be an alias for hobby public radio to to get around that but
I don't know quite why it's not responding
Anyway, um, this was rtsn commenting on seekplops show our digital art and basically saying good episode
Wonderful to see more art related episodes in hpr
So that was hard work to get that one. Sorry about that everybody
Yeah, it's not it's that hobby public radio link that's that's messing things up
So right now we're looking at 2269
comment four chocolate milk the show is called
and
Comment four is from
D.O.D.D. dummy who was asking a question earlier on about
Was this show a syndicated show
And uh, Ken pointed out
There's the current
syndication rules and
D.O.D.D. dummy came back and said okay. Got it makes sense
So that was it
two more to go uh two two seven one comment number two
So yeah, this is a show from
Tony Hughes raspberry pi zero w and there's a comment from
Tony in reply to droops his comment number one where
droops was excited about the prospect of using a pi zero w
And Tony says you'll be lucky to to be able to
To get hold of these for teaching a class, which is what
droops is thinking of doing because you can only order them one at a time
I don't know feeling we've covered some of these and we did we cover these last week. I can't remember
when a comment
Sort of overlaps the the list we we we do them regardless
We're remembering which ones they were can be difficult at least for me. I don't I don't think so
Hey, no, I don't know because because I look after the comments. I can't remember which ones we've seen
Which ones not so the last one was
Only half the time who did an excellent show
About having problems with the server and sawing hyper V and finding out that he had the wrong sort of raid
Somebody said up the wrong sort of raid on this discs and merely sent in a comment
Entertaining. I'm sure you know, but you have a great voice
You can read that phone book to us and I'll enjoy listening. Thanks for the show
Michael
That particular show day was probably
One of my top five ever hacker public radio show
It was a real real real jay my hope
We get some more from from him because the yeah, I really have him and the him and the model rocket guy
I should get together because I was really addicted to that I actually saved that model rocket one on my
On my iPhone and listen to it when
And listen listen to it when I need relative calm
Yeah, yeah, and what better what better applaud it. Can you have on that? That's really right
What we now do
You can't go yet. Sorry. No, no, no, no, I haven't finished yet
We look at the
And there's not much email
And there's I'm going to skim through it pretty quickly. I think basically
First email was from Ken who says
Talks about the mumbled server and saying that John new step that I've been providing the mumbled server for the one that we're using now
CH1.teamspeak.cc
But had decided to step away from
doing this
It was he's spending money his own money to manage this to keep this running
But Ken managed to negotiate that
HBR would take over
administration so he was just flagging this up
And thanking John new set of for for providing this facility that we've all used so much over the years
That's that's that was excellent news, I think
We struggled a little bit the last the last recording of this to find a server and
Hunky McGoo offers his which we used with great thanks, but it's nice to be back where we where we should be
so
There's a comment to that from
Joshua Burton Lotec
Who said thank you John to John new setter and
Basically saying he's used the mumbled server as well
and you then
replied
To that I'm having difficulty
opening properly and you said does this mean the mumbled server is back on what is the process
Do you remember that John?
Uh, yeah sure, um, I mean the the mumbled the mumbled server I had I changed it
I just did the edit and I put the one in for that you sent me uh you sent me to the new server server link
The only thing was was I got a certificate error when I
Yeah, yeah, we all do that we all do that if you um
I'm not quite sure
What I think it if it's if it's been re re rebooted or restarted or reconfigured
Then it will end up with a different it'll end up with a different
Certificate or one of storage is certificate or something. Sorry. I just got alarms going off here. Switch them off quickly
So we're running a bit long here. So we nearly finished though
So yeah, so you you were you were good you got that we got that one sorted out. It's an hour thirty seven minutes so far
It's an hour thirty seven minutes rule really really
We have Ken then saying that he nominated HBR for the 12 annual podcast awards
If you go and check that out the the time for
voting is coming very soon
Then there was a comment
Oh
Yeah
I think I've been here all the time
Okay, yeah, it's gonna be fun 38 hour 38 minutes. I know. I heard you say that before and then you just
Okay, so just just just two more things to say
We had an upgrade to the HBR server
Which might mean that the hobby public radio has gone away and that's why things are going funny
I don't know you to check that the Ken flag this up
The problems that we were we were having have now gone then
Ignoring my community news call
There's the discussion on the next ham radio roundtable has started up and there's there's some
Talk about date and the time for doing it and people are gathering around
To uh to get together to do that very thing so that would be very good
So I think that's all I have to say on that subject
So I think that means we're done. So you will be relieved and so will everybody else. I'm sure
So anything anything I know I really enjoyed it
I wrote can a pretty detailed email about a
A podcast that I was thinking about making uh, it'll be a long one
Long one extremely technical one and I wasn't exactly sure how to present it
So I hope he gets back to me in the email format and let's me know what he thinks because uh
It's it's about raid raid and exit war and how how that work and stuff sounds good sounds good
Anyway, Dave uh hey uh, so um next month. I'm not here. So Ken will have to be here because uh
I'll be in the states next month. Okay. Okay. We'll have a good one. Have a good trip
But uh, which I should get you the first week in August to cook up in the first week
August and uh, if I can get my plane ticket to all camp
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm afraid I'm not going to be there, but uh, I hope you have a good one
All right. Oh, let's see you next time. Thanks for your help then job. I and we'll catch you next time. Okay. Bye
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is released
on the creative comments, attribution, share a live 3.0 license.
