Episode: 2250
Title: HPR2250: 2016-2017 HPR New Year show episode 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2250/hpr2250.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:13:01

---

This is HPR episode 2,250 entitled HPR New Year Show Episode 4.
It is hosted by Maria Stost and in about 242 minutes long, and carries an exquisite flag.
The summary is Haka Public Radio New Year New Year Show Episode 4.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
And I'm looking forward to the Pine64 laptop that's coming out for about 80 bucks.
Because you do have the one drawback with the Raspberry Pi is, yeah, you've got to find a display to plug it into and get a keyboard and all that stuff.
And this for not a lot more money, maybe a more practical solution.
Everything's built in, not a lot of storage, certainly no more than a Chromebook has.
But I'm hoping there's enough storage to do, that's got an EMC card, but I think a gig, but I hope that's enough to do multiple boots because there is going to be a Chrome OS image.
Well, anything that will run on the Pine64 now will run and there will be an Android image.
So, you know, might be a nice road warrior computer, you'd work on it during the day and then you get back to the hotel room, not that I do that much, but flip it over to Android and use it as your media consumption device and carry around a Chromecast and plug it into the hotel TV.
You know, throw, throw your streaming stuff up on the TV rather than the 150 cable channels of nothing I want to watch.
Yeah, 50 I will say though, if you're going to do that kind of stuff, if you want a lot of multi boots, you're going to need the two giga, the two gigaboard RAM because that the one, the 512 RAM board does not seem like it can run a heck of a lot.
You're kicking around the basic devian installs, but you're going to be very RAM limited, so you're not going to be able to grab the $15 one.
You're going to have to grab, you know, the two GB board, but that's the bear boards $30. I don't know what the whole computer is going to be.
You said 80-ish.
Yeah, I think there's going to be 11 inch screen that's 80 and a 14 inch that's 90.
So, you know, I really think in one fell swoop, this is going to blow the, oh, the one you got, the big sort of boxy one you got to add a pie to.
You know, blow that out of the water and the thing came out last year.
Well, it was meant to plug in the cell phones, but for anybody in our community really wants a thin thin client computer, this is going to be the way to go.
My only hesitation.
It could just be.
Sorry, I was just going to say, talk about the next dock, I think.
Yeah.
Oh, I think I held up again, though.
I think didn't it?
Like they're warehouse burned down or something.
The next dock has shipped.
I know someone.
Well, I know a few people who have got them and have plugged Raspberry Pi's into them and they are limited in some ways, but they are in other ways quite powerful in conjunction with the Raspberry Pi.
And my understanding is that they are actually less expensive than, now, what is it?
Oh, no, actually, sorry, the Pi 64 is less expensive with the computer than it is for just the next dock.
And from what I understand, it's the same ODM in China who is making the chassis and the screen and the keyboard and all the rest of it.
So it's actually works out cheaper by the Pi 64 one with the computer as well.
So it's actually a very reasonable deal.
But my question is, I have never had my hands on a Pi 64.
Have anyone here, have you actually tested it in terms of performance relative to a Raspberry Pi 3?
Yes, yes.
I cannot give a good report.
I don't know about you, Tosh, but I can't give a good report compared to a Raspberry Pi 3.
If it's on and it's working, it's great.
I've I've I've banged online hard to see when I could get it to do and it works great.
But sometimes it just you'll start it and nothing works.
And then it'll do that for a whole day.
Yeah, I don't know what's going on.
It's almost like it has to be electrical at this point.
Like maybe I just have a bad board.
But then if it comes on, it's good.
Now, I do think having a Raspberry Pi 3 that it is a little better, especially video wise.
I think if you're going to do anything video, that's a lot better.
I wish they would release 64 bit for Raspberry Pi 3.
And I think that would definitely be the icing on the cake.
But a Pi 64 is good if it works.
Yep.
Well, I don't know about about some of those.
There's also cool stuff.
I do think within this, with this, this coming year, we're going to have thin, capable laptops like this.
Very with hardware similar to either the Pi, the Pi 64 or something like that.
Because I kind of already have one.
But with the Aspen Hiberix PC that I got this weekend.
So did Steven McLaughlin, door to gate.
This runs a remix OS right now, running on top of an all-winter chip.
I paid 89 bucks for it on the Kickstarter.
Now the final, like, if you order one now, the 135.
And it runs, right now it runs remix OS version two.
They're looking at providing an image of Phoenix OS, which is another Android-based desktop-oriented OS.
I wrote back to the company and said, hey, how about getting something like Ubuntu or something like that on it.
But I'm not holding my breath.
Prop cano slash Linux rather than Android slash Linux.
Yes.
See, that's pretty much a deal breaker for me.
I've got an Android tablet and that is frustrating enough for me.
I want real Linux on something.
Yeah, yeah, I would, I would tend to agree.
This week, although this coming week, Tuesday, I'm flying.
Well, going to Arkansas via Tennessee, because I have to fly for work.
And my personal machine and I want to take with me, it's going to be the Hiberix this time.
Just because I don't really need a full Linux machine just for, you know, wasting time in the hotel room.
But are we at the stage yet where there are any capable arm-based machines that would even compare to even the most basic X86 machine?
I mean, I remember sitting here exactly a year ago talking in this channel about the hope that I had
for a completely free, you know, open hardware machine and how X86 forget about it.
It's just not going to happen and that perhaps arm, perhaps MIPS, perhaps something else.
But are we, you know, let's forget about software freedom for a second and just talk about pure pragmatism.
Are there any arm devices that can even compete in any way with even a low end?
It just sell on, for example, X86 machine or even an atom.
I mean, as far as I can see it, not really.
I mean, the Ross Pro III, it's fun to tinker with, it's fun as a toy almost.
But even running it as a headless server, it just doesn't cut the mustard.
And give me a 32-bit old atom processor.
And I prefer to use that for my day-to-day needs.
I don't know.
Yeah, I've got a couple answers, but go ahead, bro.
I don't want to say it's all going to depend on the software that's running on it.
You know, if you're running straight up Android on it, forget it.
I mean, Android itself has its own problems with audio latency and stuff like that.
They're getting closer to resolving, especially in later versions.
But Remix is based on Lollipop.
Currently, at least two devices that I have with it on it.
And it's close.
It's close.
Unfortunately, all the higher-end chips are quite fun.
Yeah, I mean, I'm not talking about Android stuff.
I'm talking about proper GNU-slash Linux.
Well, same for that.
Yeah, I mean, there are a bunch of base devices.
You know, like you can have them tried it yet.
But I've got my Nexus 7 2013 edition.
I can run the tablet version of Ubuntu on it, but not the regular version.
See, that's kind of why I suggested to the folks in Aspen.
It says, hey, why don't you try?
You know, they look for an alternative because really a lot of these ARM-based devices
have the same issues that Android has, which is why I brought it up.
It's hard to get anything other than Android or something like that on it.
Well, I have one little, you know, single board computer that performs every task that I've put to it.
Now, we're not talking about multiple tasks at the same time, but a single task.
If you're like me and really can only do one thing at a time, I've got a little Android XU4 that runs Joel.
No, what I'm talking about, WSJT software with the deep decoding flawlessly.
And that's not an easy piece of software for something like an ARM board to run.
And it's as close to a desktop replacement as I've seen in a single board that's not in X86.
That doesn't sound like general purpose computing to me.
That sounds like a very specific task that you're throwing at it.
Well, I'm throwing, I was, what I mean by, I'm throwing a difficult task to it.
And that's the direction that I'm coming from, general computing, word processing, web browsing.
It's flawless.
And when you throw a little more difficult task, it seems to come through pretty good, but it is not.
It does have binary blobs.
So it is not a new Linux.
It is not open hardware, but it's it's pretty close.
What software is it running?
Oh, I'm running right now.
I think arch is on it.
No, no, it's not arch.
It's a.
It's got Ubuntu on it now, but the video driver is a binary blob if I remember right.
But I mean, you know, for the sake of argument, I'm not particularly interested in how much proprietary software is running.
How many blob is running?
I'm just concerned about have we got an armed device here that is running proper GNU slash Linux, be it Ubuntu, Arch, Fedora, whatever.
You know, not just basically not Android.
And it is performing to a satisfactory, you know, a usable state where, you know, compared to a Raspberry Pi 3,
which can just about possibly do one thing at a time, but it's quite frustrating.
But I mean, what I'm getting at here is, is this device that you're using anywhere near an X86 machine?
Well, I think it's a little unfair to compare the Seagalboard computers because they're, they're hamstrung out of the gate.
You're not, you're not going to get a modern mobile GPU from a $500 phone and put it in, put it on a $35 computer.
Of course, but I'm not talking about GPU intensive stuff necessarily, but at least being able to browse the web, use basic web applications.
I mean, I seem to be alone here in that I'm quite entrenched with Google as far as I use Gmail, I use Drive and Docs and that kind of stuff.
And while I have no problem using that on even a fairly low-end X86 machine, anything armed, apart from Android, I'm really, really struggling.
Well, I can compare it. Well, no, my Chromebook is also armed. It's an asus and it is armed.
The two can are fairly comparable in, in the way that they, they, they works in speed of changing.
But I do run, I can run, it's a devian on my little Chromebook and the little old droid will whip its, whip its tail pretty quick.
Okay, and how do you compare it to Raspberry Pi 3?
Head to head. I have a Raspberry Pi 3 sitting two inches from my old droid,
which is sitting about an inch from my plane 64.
Right, excellent. So please rank them for me in terms of performance running proper GNU Sushlin expert, Debbie and Arch, whatever.
Which is the best, which is the worst, which is in the middle?
The old, old droid is, in my humble opinion, the best, but it is a more expensive board.
It's, I think, a $65, $70 board. The Raspberry Pi 3, I'm quite happy with it.
It actually, it's a good little, little single board computer. I'm not happy with my Pi 64.
It just, it lags in every, in every category. It just seems, and I'm using these exact same microSD cards in all of my single board computers.
When I use, they're all high quality, you know, memory cards. So that, that's the same.
They're all on Ethernet. So that's all the same. All, all plugged into the same switch.
So, but all in all, you know, I see, and going to the same monitor because I have a HDMI switch.
And Joe, your point about the, you know, the support for the Raspberry Pi, you really can't overemphasize that because I've got, I don't have a Pi 3, I have a Pi 2.
And, you know, and I have computers that are faster on paper, the old droid C2 and a Pi 64.
And both of those, I went through like every possible image and ran into stuff where, you know, either Firefox just didn't work or you could browse to a couple pages and it would lock solid.
You know, whereas the, you know, the slower on paper, Raspberry Pi, I've never really had any problems browsing on it.
Yeah, because it's not necessarily all about the specs of the hardware. It's about how well the software that's running on it is optimized.
But the one thing that I found with the Raspberry Pi 3 is that, for me, using various generations, I used the Pi 1, Pi 2, and now Pi 3.
And I found that the, now that the CPU and, you know, the, well, the system on the chip has, has got much faster.
The bottleneck has shifted now. And it's, it was always quite bad, the, the disk IO.
But now it's shifted to the point where everything else seems to be working reasonably well, especially as the network over wireless is on a different bus from the USB now.
So your external storage can be on a separate bus from the wireless, which is directly into the SOC as far as I understand it.
And the storage is the real bottleneck there. And there are other boards available that have a SATA interface, which are, you know, that you don't have that bottleneck there.
And, and so for me, that's why the Raspberry Pi isn't massively useful to me because the kind of applications that I want to use it for, I don't, I'm not interested in robotics and physical computing.
I want to run it as a server and, you know, that kind of stuff. And without good disk IO, it's, it's not that useful to me.
Yeah, but somebody needs to come out with a single board computer with, with two SATA ports, not one because, well, I think this came up on the last tilts joke, joke and speak to that, but, you know, people wanting to do it as a backup or network attached storage.
And you think about that usually think about RAID. And if you want to do RAID, once one SATA port is not going to do any good.
Why are you using a single board computer if you're worried about high availability, you would just get two of them.
And for a RAID, I mean, technically you can have an enclosure that gives you the multiple disks in a single SATA connector. You can, you can still do that.
Oh, I didn't know you could do SATA with that. I mean, I knew there were enclosures that would do RAID over USB, which, you know, and this was before USB, you know, I speed USB C.
I mean, if you have, if you're doing software RAID, you can pretty much do whatever you want as long as you access the disks.
Okay, last time I looked at, it was a couple, he has before the fire, a couple years ago.
And I looked at, you know, USB, I was like a USB enclosure with a Raspberry Pi and, and various things that came down to, well, there was a sale on New Aga, you know, a dedicated,
a NAS box and adding stuff up, it was a little bit cheaper than what it would have been by a Pi and then by external enclosure and all that stuff.
The thing that attracts me to using these kind of devices as network attached storage is the extremely low power consumption, because there was a time when we had hundreds of watts worth of lighting going on,
and inefficient other appliances, but now, because of climate change, wherever you stand on that, it doesn't really matter.
The fact is that everything is becoming more and more power efficient, and we are getting to the point now where things like running a NAS box are actually a significant portion of our electricity bill over the year.
Whereas if you can use some sort of arm-based device, you know, a very low power arm-based device, rather than, you know, specific NAS boxes, which, okay, can have arm processing them.
But, you know, something that a Raspberry Pi or a similar Singapore computer is so low power that that's where it attracts me, but I just haven't seen something that has the kind of, where all the stars have aligned, let's say, where it is extremely low power.
It's got the ports that I need for proper disk IO, and it's also crucially well supported enough at the moment and going forwards as well.
You know, let's not forget security updates and feature updates, et cetera, going forward. I just haven't seen one that fulfills that role for me.
Well, bear in mind, also, for the Singapore computer for using a network attached storage and that sort of thing, we're in a time where network attached storage is a thing in the conventional sense.
I mean, yeah, people have been working with servers and doing high-vailability media for whatever have been doing this for years and years, but doing this in the home with your own media for entertainment value and whatnot.
That's only recently started to become something that a lot of people have been interested in.
Well, you know, you talk about, there's lots to talk about arm because if it's power consumption, even Intel's getting lower in power consumption, depending on which version of the chip you're talking about.
I mean, you have like the HP elite slice computer, which is literally the size of well, maybe a couple of raspberry pies side by side, maybe that size, but even Intel is lower.
I mean, there's a drive, not just from the power consumption, you know, used to get it plugged into the wall, but for portability sake as well, the lower the amount of power the processor uses, the longer your battery is going to use because really beyond lithium ion, they have not made any significant advances in battery technology in quite some time at this point.
John, am I correct to sum up that you want like something that's much more like an x86 interactively, but for a peripheral or a system that is really network accessible only you're okay with arm because it, you know, the whole reason that arm is very popular in mobile is its low power consumption.
In fact, the story around the original arm processor is that it crashed when all the inputs were zero and when the manufacturer, you know, the people coming up with this chipset figured out why it was because the fact that they hadn't actually hooked up the five volt, you know, whatever the positive power supply, it was running on leakage current the entire time and that was the initial arm design.
It's only gotten better since then, but it's sort of like you want, you know, a low power consuming board for your peripherals and your servers, but you want something much more interactive and responsive for your main use, I don't think you're going to find it in a lower cost board like a Raspberry Pi or a single board computer, you might have to go up to mini ITX like I do.
Well, the way I see it that surely arm is capable of doing this kind of stuff, even if you are not necessarily talking about one system on a chip at the time, perhaps clustering some of them might be the solution here because the lower power x86 stuff from Intel, my understanding of it is that although yes, they are making strides there, they're getting close to arm in terms of
electricity consumption, consumption power consumption. In terms of Linux support, it's pretty ropey quite frankly, and whereas with the lower power arm stuff, it's much better.
So I'm not necessarily thinking that a Raspberry Pi or one O-Droid or one Pi 64 will necessarily do the job, but perhaps two or three cluster together might still use less power than a similar x86 board in terms of performance.
I thought the beable cluster jokes were all dead in the 90s.
Yeah, I think you'd have to, I don't think there's that many multi-process or replicate rather, I should say, that your desktop type experience probably isn't looking for a cluster computer.
I don't think that, you know, current, unless the software was recoded to take advantage of a cluster, I don't think you'd get much, you'd get much speed out of it because you had a cluster, I think, you know, you're only going to get the performance of the GPU that the monitors plugged into and the other two are just going to be sitting there dormant or whatever else is in the cluster.
I mean, you might, and most of your software is not, you know, rather, other than folding at home or something like that is not, it is not written for, you know, a cluster computing.
Well, I'll tell like Google Chrome rendering another tab, you're going to have that network lag to get that back to the main machine where you're viewing it.
Yeah, I wasn't talking about, I wasn't talking about desktop computing here, I was talking more specifically about network attached storage and, you know, how some sort of server that's sitting on your network.
Well, even not desktop stuff.
Even with network attacks attached storage here, I mean, even if you're going with like a mini ITX sort of setup, which is what Brom has and actually what I also have as well, that's not your power draw.
Your power draw is going to be your conventional spinning discs, but that the mechanical motion of spinning that and firing those up.
That's where your power sink is going to be nine times at a time for most of what you're doing.
I mean, yeah, you're going to get more performance with with a faster CPU or, or the, you know, motherboard and whatnot, but really your sink is going to be spinning those disks.
And right now, I mean, unless you want to put SSDs in it, you're going to spend all the cash on that.
That's solving that. If you're thinking about power, then your disks are the issue, not necessarily your processing.
Yeah, my own server right now is a Raspberry Pi B plus, you know, the first generation Raspberry Pi plugged into a five terabyte USB external hard drive.
Before that, when I was living in the other place, you know, I'd actually bought an archaic rack mount server.
And it was so loud, I actually had it in an outbuilding because that, you know, my internet came in through the outbuilding anyway.
So, and then there was a wireless link from there to the house.
So, I put server out there.
So, it wouldn't keep me awake all night.
And, but as far as speed, I mean, in either way, the, the nicks were 10100. They weren't gigabyte.
But, the only time I really see lag accessing files is if I go into a folder that's got a bunch of files like my, like my ISO downloads, or even more so, my, my podcast downloads, because I never delete a podcast.
I've got hundreds of podcasts in files in one folder. And yeah, you click on that folder.
It takes a minute to come up before you can do anything with it, but that was my experience with the, you know, with the, with the server, you know, with dual, dual, Intel processor.
So, the, you know, the single processor Raspberry Pi is no slower, certainly accessing those folders that my old rack mount server was.
So, if you're pushing 100 megabit, so it's really, 100 megabit from that, yeah, network, because the Raspberry Pi, I mean, I am lucky from a Raspberry Pi 3 to get, I don't know, maybe 40 or 50 megabit tops.
And what was the network card in that rack mount server? Was it, was it PCI PCI X PCI Express? You know, at some point, you're going to have some type of busser, you know, but usually the network is a limiting factor, even on a land.
Well, like I said, it wasn't, it wasn't even that because it was wireless between the buildings. So, you know, we're, we're all Wi-Fi lag. Yeah, you're not going to see any appreciable difference between a Pi and a rack mount server.
Well, now everything's all in one building. This is before.
And you can't put a price on the silence that you get from Raspberry Pi, can you?
Well, that's true, but I mean, we were talking about power consumption and stuff, and it probably be less than having a whole Intel box in there, but certainly you're still spinning rust around, and that's going to, that's going to have some power drain.
Well, depending on if you have those at all, like, for example, Mr. Wasco, my friend, now that he lost his real honest got servers, it, I appreciate the quietness of the pie. So, by the way, 10 minutes ago, they say, what are these new years happening here?
It's 10 o'clock, after 10 o'clock now.
Exactly right. Whoops.
Of the God.
Oh, well, I agree with the fact that I went once you get those disk spinning and those fans spinning.
There's where your power consumption is.
A Raspberry Pi, Pi 3, it's about 12 watts running full blast.
Some of those, there's a new X86 based single board computer that would be, I think it's 20 watts.
That's running as taking everything that the power supply can give it, and it's probably not doing that much.
Yeah, that's that one that's been discussed on the mini PC show that both rich and I think Steve McLaughlin, door to door geek have now, you know, that was above my threshold.
If I see a single board computer, it's less than 50 bucks.
Even though I don't need it, you know, I've got, I get an itch. Oh, yeah, I'll go buy it.
But if you know that $80, $120 ones, yeah, I better have a use case before I buy that one.
But I was, you know, definitely very intrigued by it.
Have you got a chip then?
I do. I have the, well, I've got, I've got the, how is the mobile?
Let me go grab it here just a second, you know, the chip that's got the, looks like a calculator.
That's the pocket chip.
That's it. I haven't done much with it. It is just one of those things.
Yeah, full learning computer. I can stick in my pocket. Yeah, I'm buying that.
I've heard complaints that it's tricky to flash the operating system that you want onto it with the chip.
It's not as straightforward as, well, the Raspberry Pi, I mean, it's just a case of DDing an image onto an SD card and sticking it in that.
Whereas with the chip, I've heard it's not as straightforward as that.
Well, my main problem with the interface is your desktop, you've, you're only ever going to see the applications that came with it.
Yes, you can, it's deviant, you can do apt-get install, whatever you want.
But to run it, you're going to have to drop into a terminal and type it in.
And don't forget the initial pies were sort of the same way. They came with, with their own OS and people had to figure out how to do it.
The chip community is just not that big at this point.
And no community is compared to the Pi community.
Indeed.
Well, one of the reasons, you know, I got as I figured somebody eventually, you know, since it's touted at, you know, it comes with, you know, some homebrew games and stuff that somebody is going to port retro pie or something close to it over there.
But the thing is that the Raspberry Pi is the name you know, isn't it? It is the Xerox is.
Oh, yeah, I mean, Hoover in this country, you know, there are.
Oh, I mean, it's got to the point where you can, you know, I think you can slip Raspberry Pi into a conversation with regular people and have them have some idea of what you're talking about these days.
Well, you know, it's funny.
Talk about the pie.
I mean, we've been talking about it often on the last hour or so.
Even my brother knows what it is now.
I mean, he wants to build a retro pie and, you know, he is not a geek at all.
And I said, by the stuff, I help you do it.
Retro pie is a gateway drug, man.
You ain't kid. Well, his whole reason is he wanted to do classic, but you know, nobody has those.
So, hey, right.
And I don't think there's anything you can do on the Nintendo classic that you can't do if they're retro pie.
You know, and on the Nintendo classic, I'm looking for somebody to go the other way.
Yeah, put a full Linux on there.
Well, my understanding is already running Linux.
Yeah, I think it is.
Yeah, but I mean, like a full desktop or whatever to play with.
Yeah, but without the traditional inputs, we kind of be struggling with that.
It would work, though.
I hear that the Nintendo thing, the controllers are only one or two or three feet long, the cable first.
Yes, so you are sitting, getting square eyes, I was going to say.
Well, well, the pads, if you run really long HDMI cable, you don't have to mess with it.
But when you look at things like, like, the connector on it is the same as the, basically on the connector on the bottom of the WIMO,
which means the classic controllers for that will also work with it.
But if you run a Raspberry Pi with retro pie, then you have complete control whether you use it on wire.
Correct.
Loot tooth or whatever.
Or what's your accumulators too?
You can run the Atari 800 XL emulators, Genesis, Atari, you name it meme even.
Yeah, I mean, for me, it would be more about Genesis, as we call it, Mega Drive or Game Gear.
Right.
But, yeah, with this retro pie, you've got complete choice.
Whereas you stuck with just a few Nintendo ROMs with the Nintendo Classic.
Yes, it always made me wonder why, when they made that, they didn't make a space for an SD card slot or similar cartridge slot.
You know, they could have done like what they did with the Neo Geo X, which was that basically a, like a Dingo knockoff with an old Neo Geo software on it.
They could have done something like that where basically those ones delivered Neo Geo games on SD cards.
Well, they didn't want people to hack it.
They wanted a consumer device that people would buy.
Right.
And they're not interested in people hack it in.
Or actually, to go a step further, if they wanted that way, they could have made it so that basically it was just a virtual console addition, you know, which basically you could just run the classic or even.
Well, River has it is that they're working on Super Nintendo version for next year.
Oh, well, Max, I'm going to give you a very hard thing to do, would it?
It sure not sure wouldn't be with it.
It could take the same hardware and just repackage it into a SNES like mini console, you know.
Well, given that you can run N64 games on retro pie with a Raspberry Pi 3, you know, I don't think they're going to struggle with a SNES.
Nope, nope.
They actually, you know, they actually brought up the, there was a YouTube channel called middle Jesus where they just did a like a guide on collecting for the Nintendo 64 and how Nintendo 64 was one of the few consoles that actually had four game controller ports, which is pretty cool at the time.
But I'm actually surprised that this point nobody's come up with emulators for the current generation of consoles.
You would, you would think Sony and Microsoft could go a shit if that happened and start, you know, you know, get their TV lawyers out.
But, you know, they actually, they make more money off the licensing the games and so in the consoles, the consoles are like in jet printers that they're selling them in a loss.
Well, not, not the Sony, but everybody else I think Nintendo and Microsoft are actually selling the consoles and loss.
So you think they would welcome somebody coming up with an emulator.
Well, hang on, can I just counter that with for all of us on this channel who have ever done any sort of emulated gaming, where did you get your rums from?
Did you buy them officially or did you find them somewhere?
Of course, but, but you speak, you speak of that 50 the new Microsoft studio PC, the all of one they just came out with actually has the wireless dog will built into it for the Xbox one controllers.
I just found that out today.
So that could be their plan.
Well, I mean, Xbox operating system is just another version of windows and you know, it seems last few years that actually Microsoft has tried unsuccessfully to kill windows gaming.
I heard room, I heard room is that around windows eight and they were looking to stop people installing what they wanted and try and force them onto the whatever the equivalent of their app store was.
And with windows 10, you can still download any, you know, binary and, you know, EXE and install that.
And you know, that's what steam OS was, wasn't it? That whole thing was a bet hedge as it were that was valve worrying that you'd that Microsoft were going to be hostile to PC gamers, but that just doesn't seem to have
turned out, does it? And now steam OS is effectively dead and windows gaming is alive and well and thriving.
Well, I said that it seemed like for a couple of years they were trying it and then decided what it was going to work, but.
And yeah, you're all your steam box hardware. They're there's most of companies have, you know, they're still selling the Linux based ones, but they're selling the same hardware windows based as well.
Well, that's the thing. People often talk about wanting to buy from a Linux first vendor of hardware.
But if you buy say a system 76 or an entryware laptop, you can be absolutely sure that if you want to run windows on it, it's going to work 100% perfectly because all those components were made to run windows in the first place.
And if you're lucky, they'll run Linux perfectly well, but yeah, any steam box is kind of run windows probably arguably better than it would steam OS.
We would hope.
And, you know, I, you know, I'm using completely, you know, either cheaply bought or donated hardware here and very rarely.
You know, you know, 10 years ago or something or 20 years ago, you would have trouble finding drivers for everything on the laptop.
No, only things I've really ever had problems with is like an internal SD card reader, and I can get around that with USB if I need to, so it's not never was a deal breaker.
Yeah, as long as you can get your chipset, your graphics, your audio and your network running, all the other kind of stuff. I mean, yeah, it's nice to have a nice multi touch touch pad, but you can get around that with the mouse.
As long as your keyboard's working, you know, as long as you're basic stuff's working, then your extras like SD card. I mean, it's not a huge issue. Is it really?
I don't think while this is an issue anymore.
Almost always it's fine, but occasionally you'll hit a snag with it. And, you know, you want to make sure that before you purchase a machine that that's going to be working.
Otherwise, you do not want to be mod probing these days. Come on.
Well, I know in like the laptops that I have now, the wireless card is easily replaceable, and they don't cost but a couple dollars.
Well, it depends compared to the price of the overall machine, especially if you buy something that's quite powerful, then it's not too much.
But if you want something good that is supporting AC5 gigahertz, that kind of thing, then it's not an insignificant expense.
Well, you know, I just came in on the tail end of that.
My first Linux install was on a pity for tower.
And it was, you know, I already mentioned earlier that internet came in through the machine shed and then bounced to the house.
And that's that's why I had out there. And my first Linux install and I ran that for about three months.
You know, I ran a network cable to it by wanting to do it wireless. I did giga giga bit wireless card, which, you know, usually those are well supported on Linux.
And I was going to start to play with what was an NDIS wrapper to try to get it working and, you know, and then upgraded from Ubuntu 16 to 74 and that took care of it.
So I never had to mess with it.
I haven't had a problem with wireless for many years.
I know when is the last time we thought about NDIS wrapper?
Well, my thing is I don't think I've ever had a problem with wireless.
So maybe until real recently, I've always used second gen, you know, a generation back hardware.
But what I've got now is, you know, was brand new or can say top of the line, but was, you know, still being produced today.
But, you know, it's a brand that's been known to be used by people who like Linux.
Well, I was going to say that everyone here is saying that they haven't had a problem for years and years and years.
And surely that is because you are experienced enough to do a bit of research.
You're not just going to go randomly into Best Buy and Buy a laptop.
Oh, that looks pretty. Take it home and hope that Linux is going to work perfectly on it.
That's kind of what I did when I bought this one. I'm using it right now.
But no, I bought this one about, will be about three years ago this coming April.
And I didn't really do much research on it beyond the fact that I knew of random telegraphics.
You know, so in the, it was UEFI based and I even got for a time without having UEFI the secure boot disabled.
I actually had Linux running on it at the same time that I disabled secure boot and holy crap.
It was even easier to get running. So, I mean, yeah, yeah, I really didn't do much research at all.
I just bought a Dell and it worked just fine. Brand new.
I was locked.
I don't do any research because I don't buy computers. I get them handed down and the most I have to do is apt install firmware Linux non-free.
Yeah, I'm sitting here looking at two computers that, you know, an I-3 laptop that I'm talking to you on 17 inch.
And a core 2 duo power sitting here in both of them came at the same time.
It's like, yeah, my relatives are throwing out their old computers. Would you like to have them?
It's like, hell yes.
Well, my last purchase was I wanted a touchscreen in the laptop.
I had got one from my wife a while back and she said, this is great.
And you know, I played around with it. So when I replaced my laptop, just being a before Christmas, I bought something with touchscreen.
And works worked every distribution of tried has worked flawlessly with a touchscreen.
Yep. And that says something to me.
Is it a very good about Linux?
Is it a developer's book?
What was that?
Is it an Azuz or Asus Vivo book?
No, it's a Lenovo idea pad.
Interesting.
Yeah. My bell has a touchscreen as well.
And guess what else works on it?
Pinch to zoom.
That works just fine on it with the touchscreen.
On Linux.
And a bit too.
Yeah.
Nice.
You know, that works online too.
And all I can say is the folks that are developing, you know, are on the ball.
And yeah, that's one of the reasons I'm such a fanboy for Linux itself is the community.
You know, in some cases without any real except for folks like us saying, hey, great job.
That's all they're getting for developing these things and making them work.
And, you know, I don't know, I'm just a fanboy.
Well, to be fair, a lot of the people working on that kind of stuff are being paid to do so.
Either by the Linux foundation or by members of the Linux foundation, you know, the likes of Intel and Microsoft.
And that kind of thing, I mean, you know, Microsoft, not so much on devices like that.
That's more on Azure Cloud.
But still, the point remains that a lot of people, there's something of a myth that a lot of the people working on Linux,
especially the kernel are amateurs, but they're relatively very few of them.
But I was going to say that my Vivo book, my Azuz Vivo book with a touchscreen.
I think it's an 11 inch one, I say a little compact thing.
That apart from the wireless, which is a card that you can easily swap out with just a few screws on the bottom of it,
it runs perfectly well, even with Triscoll.
And that for me is the ultimate test.
If it runs well in Triscoll and everything works, then it's pretty much free software friendly, isn't it?
I'd agree with that.
I don't know.
You know, if these latest Intel processors with the huge binary blob and the BIOS, where they can, you know,
they can push an update or whatever and modify it.
I'm not sure if I would say any Intel based system is completely free and open.
Of course.
I mean, that is taken for granted.
That's anything running, any sort of modern.
If it's got an i in it, i3, i5, i7, then it's not running completely free software.
I mean, you have to go back to, I think, the Core 2 Duo is possibly, there's that one that Stormund's got, the ThinkPad,
where you can flash Libra Boot on it and you can run, I think, almost, all free software.
But then, even then, any sort of hard disk or SSD, even that's running some sort of proprietary firmware.
So it's very, very difficult to run.
Well, I would say it's impossible to run a modern computer system that is running totally free software.
I mean, I, and we talked about this the same time last year and my hope was for ARM or MIPS or something like that
or now the risk-5 stuff that's coming through.
But anything that is going to rival any sort of, even an i3 from four or five years ago,
you know, we're not going to get anywhere near that performance with free software right now.
And it just seems that not enough people care about that to push that forward to the part where we're going to get there.
Well, I mean, you know, even if you, even if you could trust the processor, then, you know, we're running media, flash media,
that all comes out of the Far East and, you know, we don't know what's built in there either.
Of course, it's all running some sort of firmware and that firmware is behind the way.
I mean, you know, we, you know, we used to talk about, you know, years ago, well, it still does it.
But I mean, you boot up Windows and, you know, desktop appears, but you're, you know, your hard drive is still running and they're doing something.
And, you know, when the processor is going and you're running, you know, just, just what is being reported back to Bill?
Obama.
Then, of course, and, you know, unfortunately, you can't, you can't pick your candidates.
I mean, the only way to have a candidate that agrees with you on 100% of things is, would be to run yourself.
And it doesn't look like this, the new administration coming in is completely anti-anonym and, you know, in any kind of personal security digitally.
No, but that is not a fan of that sort of thing.
I mean, the anonymity and the encryption stuff is not exclusives to the US by any means.
I mean, our furor here, Theresa May, in the UK, she has been, even before she was the prime minister here, she was pushing this agenda of back doors and encryption and stuff.
And, you know, that is worldwide. The powers that be do not want people communicating without them knowing what's going on.
And that's just quite logical, isn't it?
Oh, yeah, I was going to say that that, you know, we're relatively free over here in the US compared to what they're doing in the UK and other places in Europe and Australia.
Yeah, with the data retention laws, I mean, everything that I do with my connection has to be logged now and has to be available to various law enforcement agencies.
And even some not, I mean, even the Fisheries Commission has to have access to what I'm doing here and a huge list of other irrelevant, you know, government bodies.
I mean, it's just ridiculous.
Well, I mean, you folks, you would have to pay to put up a TV and then, and now I do understand that the TV is not commercially supported or at least as partially government funded.
You guys still have commercials and all that, don't you?
Well, how it works is that there are some channels that are commercially supported and some channels that are exclusively supported by the television tax or otherwise known as the television license, which is rather an all well-earned term for what is essentially a television tax.
And the BBC is completely funded by this tax.
So anybody who has the means to receive it, whether or not you are actually tuning into it, you have to pay this tax of so many hundred pounds per year, I think, you know, perhaps 150, 200 pounds a year, something like that.
But that money goes to support the BBC primarily, but also the other broadcasters who also have commercials on them, adverts, as we call it.
And so it was a case that you could stream the iPlayer. I mean, I presume that American people have heard of the iPlayer.
It's a little bit like Hulu, I suppose, but only without adverts.
And it used to be that you could stream catch-up content from that without a TV license, but that was considered loophole, which has been closed this year.
And so if you go and stream any content now or attempt to stream it, you are told that you must have a television license, you must have paid your TV tax in order to do that.
And there are sound arguments either way for whether or not we should be paying a tax, because I mean, it is quite commonly known throughout the world that the BBC produces excellent content and is relatively impartial if a little left wing, which quite suits me personally, but let's not get into politics.
But suffice to say that the BBC is world-renowned as far as we're concerned, at least here in the UK, as being quality content.
And the only way that it can do so, people would argue, is through this television tax.
And if you look at the commercial offerings in this country, they are inferior to say the least.
And if you look at the content coming out of the USA, some of the independent stuff, relatively independent stuff like HBO, which is subscription stuff, that's pretty quality content.
But then you look at the likes of Fox, and you think, perhaps it is worth paying this television tax after all.
I don't think that's necessarily fair. I think there's some quality content, but there's such a wide range of different channels.
Like for every Fox, you know, Fox will have like one or two that are halfway decent, and maybe ABC will have one or two that are halfway decent, and even HBO will maybe have one or two that are halfway decent, but you know, it's spread out between we have so many multiple channels of things.
And personally, there's BBC, I think is pretty good, but for my taste, there's a few things I think are pretty good, and maybe I haven't just, you know, checked out everything that's out there for the BBC, but you know, there are some that are really, really good and the quality is for really good is that this is a pretty high bar.
That's like almost like you were saying about the HBO quality for a high bar, but there's some of it that, you know, I can probably do without.
So talking about the scripted stuff, I'm not necessarily talking about Doctor Who and where Top Gear was before that all went wrong.
I'm talking about more the news content, for example, which is from the way I see it as unbiased as it's possible to be.
Clearly, there's going to be an agenda pushed by the people involved with gathering the news and presenting it, but my understanding is that on the international scene, the BBC is well known for being relatively impartial with news, thing that you don't necessarily see from the likes of Fox News or CNN.
And that's a different story, but I think in my opinion, all news is partial because somebody has either an opinion or, you know, to find out what the real facts are.
I don't know, you know, no one really knows what the real facts and mostly situations really are because no one's really ever given the real facts.
So it's hard to say who's actually impartial or where the best way to get in from the news would be.
And I wonder if part of what you were talking about, Joe, on the I view or whatever, being tied to the antenna subscription.
And if a lot of that isn't a way to block off the, you know, folks over here who have been accessing BBC by, you know, spoofing an IP address, of course, you got to pay for that.
If I could figure out a way to do that for free, but I never, I never have figured, figured that out without purchasing a service.
And I'm glad somebody brought up a whole the car show.
I'm sorry to talked about two minutes ago in the top gear.
Talking about my hand, you know, sorry, sorry Joe, but there's only two shows on over there that Americans care about seeing.
The clock is phenomenal.
Oh, okay. Well, yeah, and much better than any other attempt that we've had on shirt, but eventually we get that on PBS or Netflix.
Well, yeah, yeah.
Can I just address this idea?
Well, that was terrible.
I'm sorry. Can I just address the idea of whether or not these measures that have been brought in will affect foreigners access?
Not at all. If you can VPN in, if you can spoof your IP, however you do it, it's just a case of clicking.
Yes, I have a TV license and being honest that there are no, there's no registrations, no need to prove that you are from the UK.
There's no need to prove that you have paid your TV license. So these, it's really just a tick box at this point.
So, you know, it's much like they, if you ever visit a British site, I don't know if you guys get that the cookies thing.
You know, we have cookies on this website except it's just, yes, go away and then you can view it.
Oh, I didn't realize it was that simple. I figured it was like over here.
You know, if you're subscribed to cable, you know, then you can stream, say HBO or, you know, whatever extra content or, you know,
a lot of stuff is already built in the basic cable subscription. But, you know, when you're, when you're setting up that viewer under Android, you've got to go in and,
okay, log in to your cable provider now to prove that you're actually paying for this content.
Well, that may well be the case in the future, but as it stands right now on January 1, 2017, it's just a case of,
go to BBC.co.uk slash iPlayer, click on the particular program that you want to watch and then say, yes, I have a TV license and then it starts playing.
Provided you have the relevant proprietary software installed, be it Chrome or Flash or whatever.
But speaking of proprietary software, my advice would be, I haven't actually tried this because I haven't needed to because I'm here,
I would certainly try Opera, which is a proprietary software browser, which is available for Linux, which has a built-in VPN that can be used.
So I would, that would be the first thing that I would try if I was looking to watch BBC content from outside of the UK, but your mileage may vary and I have no experience.
Well, my thoughts are, I have a problem with with any of us, you know, in America, trying to get that content from say the BBC without, you know, without doing it legally.
I have a problem with that. It's fine and dandy if you're doing it legally, but when you're not doing it legally.
Well, it just goes against my, my set of morals, call me wrong, call me right. If I'm not paying for it, I don't deserve to get it.
And, you know, if I can get it legally, that's, that's how I usually do it. I mean, I enjoy the first few episodes of the expanse.
I think the first one they threw out there for free. And then I was doing it over Cody or tried and maybe it's better now every, every time I hit it, I set everything up in Cody to be able to get it.
You know, just pretty much for that one show. And, you know, every time I tried to connect it, you know, I had connection failure.
You know, the stream that was supposed to be there wasn't there. So, yeah, I'm, I'm pretty much legal on everything. Let's see, there's that fantasy series on the music channel into MTV, try to get that kind of the same way.
But, well, that showed up on Netflix later. Dark Matter shows up on Netflix eventually.
You know, I would like to find a way to get what it, what is it to sport or not to spoilers, the others, the bounty hunter sci-fi series.
Haven't found that. And I was kind of disappointed. I've got a prime membership. And last year I was able to purchase the entire season of Doctor Who once it was over. And it's over. It should be over again now.
And it's not showing up. The Christmas special is there, but not the, not the series. I don't mind paying. I think it was 25 bucks. I'll pay that much for Doctor Who.
You know, I'm, you know, these things that think, you know, a big bang theory like is 100 bucks for the whole season. No, I'm doing that.
50, I think the reason you can't buy Doctor Who this year is because there was no Doctor Who this year.
What, there wasn't another season. Now they pretty much took this year off. Yeah, Doctor, Doctor Who hasn't been on since May of 2015.
I have never seen Doctor Who because it's a children's program. Troll, troll, troll. But I've convinced that I saw some sort of Doctor Who on the iPlayer over Christmas and didn't click it wasn't interested.
Whether that was some sort of repeat re-run or whatever, but there was some sort of Doctor Who available on the iPlayer this Christmas.
But as for the morality of this, well, that is a completely personal choice to be respected.
And when it comes to copyright infringement, my thoughts are that as much as I don't agree with the current copyright system,
I think that if you are a believer in copy left or any sort of free software license or any sort of creative commons,
I think that is very important to respect other licenses which are not the same, if you heard them in.
If they are draconian, if they are old fashioned copyright ones, because if you don't respect the old fashioned licenses,
how can you expect anyone to respect the newer licenses like the GPL or BSD or whatever or creative commons?
It's a two way street as far as I'm concerned.
Well, that's a very good point. Having said that, I've stated that until I can see AXINAR,
I am not paying for any of the new Star Trek content.
Well, I hate the Abrams universe Star Trek, even though the last one looked pretty good.
And it was up at least for a while on YouTube.
They just reversed it left and right.
The picture left and right to keep, I guess, to keep it from being identified.
Very poor video on it.
I don't think they stuck a camera into the theater or whatever, the way it was framed.
So they must have had access to the original movie file or whatever.
But if something goes up there on YouTube, I like watch old cowboy movies on YouTube,
and probably 90% of them aren't supposed to be there.
But I figure that's YouTube's lookout to track the license thing on that.
And I guarantee you, when one of those old movies goes on paid content,
we're there doing a pay-per-view boom.
All of the pirated ones disappear immediately.
So they can find them and get rid of them if they actually wanted to.
But they're looking for the views.
But yeah, this new series, I'm not buying a channel just for the new series.
Even if I know.
Same here.
As a complete aside, can I just say that with the JJ Abrams universe of Star Trek,
although I'm not particularly convinced about it, what's it called?
The guy plays a lot.
Yes, I think he's absolutely brilliant.
I think that he almost saves the whole thing.
I will say this.
I loved Star Trek Bond.
I thought it was a great film, although I do think they accelerated the timeline too much.
But that's just me.
Because they're already in the Enterprise A, but that's another here and or there.
The new show, my hope is I think they are, if they're showing that on real TV,
my hope is that we turn out in some significant enough numbers
that it makes worth their while to put it on something like Hulu or even regular TV,
which I data would make enough to play on a regular TV,
which is the problem right now is you don't make it on regular TV unless you apply,
basically appeal to the lowest common denominator and we all know Star Trek does not.
Well, and they've already been out.
My understanding is that my son is at the first episode,
we'll be showing on regular TV, but then it's a subscription service.
Is it CBS or one of the CBS's own channels?
Yes.
It's going to be on their own Netflix style subscription service.
The first episode will be on regular TV, but then the rest will be subscription only,
which seems a mistake to me.
Yep, I agree.
And having made that statement about not paying for one show,
pretty much the only reason I'm subscribed online to HBO is of course Game of Thrones,
and I was thinking, well, okay, you know, the Game of Thrones,
they're not going to have any more Game of Thrones for a year,
I can cancel the subscription, and then of course they came out with
a Westworld, those bastards, you know, side to watch that.
Yeah, I didn't care about Game of Thrones.
I've never would care about Game of Thrones, and I don't care about Westworld either.
I'm not going to pay for HBO just for the one or two shows that are on it.
I wouldn't have paid for it.
No, I won't do it.
Well, there's some archive series on there, like I think was Jefferson,
and the tutors, everybody says is incredible,
that I sometimes want to go back and watch.
I just don't have enough time for everything, but, you know,
and I'm still subscribed now because I've been intrigued by the promos for the young pope.
Just to go back for a second about the Star Trek thing.
Apparently, from what I had read, the show has already paid for,
so they made enough off of doing the Netflix deal on it everywhere except for the United States.
So I have very little sympathy for them at this point,
and I am going to pirate the shit out of that show,
because you're literally just trying to screw the US audience to bolster your online streaming.
I have no qualms stealing it because you're giving it to everybody else on Netflix,
which I'm already paying for.
So in my mind, I've already paid for it because I pay Netflix every month.
Like if I was anywhere else in the world, I would get it on Netflix just like everybody else.
So I'm not playing that game.
I'm just going to steal it.
And that probably.
A lot of people, you know, on Netflix, not in the United States,
they say, yeah, we're paying for Netflix,
and we're not getting this show or that show that you guys get.
And let's just bring up at this point,
something that has been rattling around in my head for quite some time now.
And that is, there was a time when before Netflix,
when Netflix was still mailing out DVDs to people,
you know, when that was in its infancy,
and Amazon Prime wasn't really a thing in terms of streaming video.
And where piracy was running amuck,
and it seemed that the answer to this was a solution like Netflix,
or for music, Spotify,
or even Apple Music,
dare I even mention Apple's name in this, in this channel.
But it seemed that the solution to stop people pirating was to make things affordable,
rather than being, you know, 20 or $30 per,
you know, per piece of entertainment.
You would pay 20 or $30 per month and have unlimited entertainment.
But you see, the problem I see is that there is so much fragmentation in this market
that if you want to have streaming music from, you know,
from Google Play music, say, and Apple Music, and Spotify,
because certain artists are only on certain ones,
and you want to listen to all of them,
and you want to watch video entertainment,
and that means that you need to get HBO go, you need to get Hulu Plus,
you need to get Netflix, you need to get Amazon Prime,
now you need to get CBS.
Each one of them is not a particularly large fee per month,
but add them all together, and it just becomes ridiculous.
It becomes to a point where people are just not going to pay all of that,
and until you can consolidate that all into,
if it's $50 a month for everything,
then people will probably pay that.
But when you're talking about $100 plus dollars per month
to access all of this entertainment,
people are just not going to pay that,
and they're going to pirate, and you're not going to solve this piracy problem.
Well, to me too, this, you know, yeah,
the treating Netflix itself, like, well,
I remember back in the day when HBO
was worth it for just the movies,
and where we would get excited,
oh, such a such movies, finally back on HBO,
you know, this is before the time of VHS, or even DVD,
was at all popular,
and we would get excited when things would go back forth,
and then we'd go on and off and on and off,
and Netflix is very much the same way.
But to me, it's like,
if someone would just offer up all back catalog,
and they don't screw around with moving it off and on and off and on,
I would subscribe to that service,
and just be done with it, you know,
for at least for back catalog,
but, no, they can't do that, you know,
so, and I don't really feel too guilty about it,
because some of these,
some of these,
because I use the Exodus plug into a Cody,
which is excellent,
and I don't really feel, like I said,
don't feel that guilty about using it anymore.
I'm sorry, just don't,
try to be screwed with.
I think it's one thing you get involved,
but it's not theft,
and it's not piracy,
and these companies are making billions of dollars,
they're not even right.
I think what you get to a certain point,
just put a question out there,
so can I just put a question out there to everyone, right?
Supposing there was one service,
that you signed up to,
and it was, you know,
and that X is going to become important,
because that is the question for you all.
What is the X that you are willing to pay for,
all TV,
all movies,
all music,
from every studio,
every record label, blah, blah, blah,
everything in one place,
with one application,
or that this cross-platform works for, you know,
it's a sound source,
it works for Linux, blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever.
You can have this one service,
and it gives you everything you want.
How much are you going to pay per month for that?
Well, what we're discussing here is actually access
to our current entertainment culture.
So, how poor do you need to be before you
are not allowed access to that?
And going back a little bit,
I mean, my whole feeling on it is,
the, and I'm painting with a very broad bush,
and I don't want people to think that
this is big of a first world problem,
is I'm making it out to be,
but how abusive does the relationship
between content creators
and consumers have to be before you just opt out
and just say, I'm not playing this game anymore.
And I'm on the verge of that point,
where it's like, I'm just going to consume it,
I don't care anymore,
because it's been this abusive for so long
that I'm just, I tap out,
I'm not doing it anymore.
And I'm saying that as somebody who,
for the most part,
tries to do creative commons,
and tries as hard as they can to consume,
open entertainment as much as I can.
The sag reality is,
there's not that much out there,
and what is out there is a varying quality,
and I say that as a producer of content,
that is creative commons.
So it's just,
and I think Brian's coming up with a good point,
like that is a common culture,
and when does that relationship become so abusive
that you're just like,
I'm going to consume it, I don't care anymore.
But that doesn't answer the question, does it?
Like if there was a complete back catalogue
of all entertainment ever,
including up to the minute stuff,
and you had to pay one dollar amount per month for that,
and you had total access to it on any device,
I mean, even DRM-free, let's say.
This surely is a dollar amount that you could put on that,
and each person's dollar amount is surely different,
and that, to me, is a fascinated question.
What is it?
What would it take for you to do that?
And just basically kill what is called copyright infringement,
what is called piracy, whatever.
What is that dollar amount?
But you can't,
when you ask that question,
you're wanting to eliminate the concept of scarcity
and still apply economic rules,
and it just doesn't work that way.
Like capitalism breaks down at that point.
So yeah, you could put a number on it,
and I could say 75 bucks a month.
You know, I would pay that if you came to me with that,
but the problem is, once you have that plan,
that doesn't work anymore.
Because there's no supply and demand,
like everything just starts to fall apart.
I'll answer your question for you, Joe.
Currently, right now, I have Cox Cable.
I have Cox Internet TV,
and I pay $120 a month for the bundle that I have.
If I won't pay more than that,
if I could get everything all consolidated,
music, TV, movies,
I wouldn't pay more than $120.
So I was going to go somewhere between the most reasonable number
that you could probably throw out there
that everybody would grab at,
because you'd have to create,
because what I'm thinking of is if this is one service
and all the other services still exist.
So to make that reasonable,
I would think somewhere around $50 and you would be able to
get the whole amount of people,
the large audience of people to your service.
But considering that you're talking about the newer content,
so things that are like just out of the theater or whatever,
you're talking it would probably be,
the more reasonable number would be somewhere around $100.
And that's why I think Taj's number of $75 is pretty much
right where that would be.
But then again, he's correct with, you know,
once you create something like this,
it kind of, the whole system changes
and the whole pay scale changes
and you're talking about something completely different
altogether now.
Yes, in five minutes go,
Happy New Year.
And I believe it's Nova Scotia.
Happy New Year.
Yep.
One hour till New York,
which is the big one here
and Eastern time zone.
But what I'm talking about is what
would essentially amount to a tax,
much like we've accepted the TV tax
to circle back to that in this country in the UK.
If there was a certain amount that you would pay per month or per year
and then you would just get all of the content.
And, you know,
we're not talking about competing with Netflix and Amazon
and Hulu and all that.
We're talking about this would replace all of that.
This is a pure fantasy thought experiment here.
But if we had this one service that was,
you know, just had absolutely everything on it
and including movies that were in the cinema right now,
the theatre as you say in America.
You know, if you want to go and watch it on this huge screen,
you can pay a premium to do that
or you can pay your standard tax
as it were your premium.
Like you have your internet bill or your electricity bill.
It's just something that you pay
and you have all your entertainment.
And it's just something that people wouldn't even think about necessarily.
There would just be this premium that you pay.
And then it would just eliminate this idea of having to buy things.
And I suppose it's interesting this idea that capitalism would collapse
and I suppose that betrays my extremely left leanings,
which having spoken to an American a couple of days ago
who is relatively left seems extremely right of me,
I must say, as a European.
To me, it just seems like a very logical solution
to a problem that the studios and the record labels have,
that people are not paying enough for their content
and people are stealing it as they see it or sharing it
and you know, copying it whatever as we see it.
But this is just such a simple solution to that.
Just consolidate it all into one huge pool
and charge people the tax to access that
and piracy goes away overnight.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This model requires them to make more money every year.
So your tax would have to go up.
And I'm kind of curious about the BBC tax.
Do you get access to their programs
that they make in conjunction with HBO?
Hit and miss is the only answer to that.
For example, there's a show that they made called Episodes,
which they made with Showtime,
which is my understanding is fairly similar to HBO
as a subscription channel.
And that was available for free on the iPad.
That was a co-production with them.
So some of it isn't the honest answer to that.
When you reframed it and you call it a tax,
then it instantly becomes something different.
I guess it may be that betrays my American leavings.
Trust me, Joe, I'm 100% with you.
I wish this was something that happened.
Totally on board with you on that.
But I think the reality is...
We don't have to call it a tax.
You know, they don't call the TV tax here at TV tax.
That's what it amounts to.
That's the reality of the situation.
But they call it this Orwellian title of a TV license.
It's a license to watch TV.
And we could have a license to watch all this content.
The reality is it's a tax.
Well, in whatever we call it.
I mean, it is legitimately the same thing.
But the thing is,
I don't think piracy is actually the problem.
I think they just want to have a scapegoat
and blame somebody for something.
Because they have a fiduciary responsibility to,
as was mentioned, make more money every year.
And if they can't do it, they have to have a scapegoat.
And so it's very convenient to blame piracy
when they're raking in billions and billions and billions of dollars.
Nobody there's taken a pay cut.
There's no depression in Hollywood.
It's a non-issue.
It's something that they're just putting out there.
To make examples of people to scare them
into spending more money.
Now, you can make the moral argument of,
is it right to take things that are not freely offered?
I would argue, no.
Does that always stop me?
No.
Just being honest.
But it's, I mean,
sitting here as an American,
we can't even get our shit together
to have a healthcare system that works.
So I can't imagine us ever doing anything.
Well, I don't know.
Maybe we would do something as trivial as entertainment
before we do healthcare here.
Now that I say it,
that actually does make more sense.
Well, on the problem, I see with,
with something like that, although,
I guess you'd call it on paper sounds pretty good.
But in, in, as it works,
it sure does, has not worked for the artists in music.
You know,
if you go to most of the outlets that you can legally buy a song,
pay a couple dollars or whatever it is,
those artists are not,
are not, you know,
making the money they should be making.
It's the people in the middle.
And, and you pay about the same price for,
for each,
each song.
If you did that with other forms of entertainment,
you know, video entertainment,
the,
what is available would severely get limited
because,
because of the money,
the money would not go to a,
a movie such as Star,
you know, Star Trek that we brought up,
that costs a lot of money to produce.
If they were basically getting the same thing on the back end,
as a movie that is shot in,
in, let's say just downtown Atlanta,
with no special effects,
and, and basically get the same amount of revenue.
I don't think it would,
it's, it's not Apple.
It's not Apple's tech,
and Apple's,
it is Apple's and Orange's,
the different products need to get back,
a different amount of,
of money,
and if you,
if you,
if you did something that was one price for everything,
the, the motivation would go away to produce,
some of these movies,
television shows,
that some of us really, really enjoy.
Yeah, but,
especially in the,
in the music industry,
and, and just knowing people,
who are musicians,
of being a musician at one point in my life,
I know people now,
who make a living as a musician,
that never would have been able to before,
because they were not able to break into the industry,
like they couldn't get,
with record label,
and get publicity and stuff.
And, and the idea that the music industry makes less money now,
than it did before,
has nothing to do with music in general,
and it has to do with,
the music industry doesn't control,
the methods of distribution anymore,
where they used to have hooks
into the radio stations,
and radio stations were the way that music got played,
and you had to buy an album,
you couldn't just buy singles,
and once the internet happened,
and it became more distributed,
and people were able to do more,
yes, less people make a lot of money,
but more smaller acts are making more money
than they ever had before.
And, to me,
I would much rather see that happen
than see it the other way around,
and I'm sure the same thing would happen
in a movie industry,
or any creative industry.
I think,
we've seen this model happen every over and over and over again,
this disruptive model.
People who are,
we're consolidating all the wealth and people,
yes, Jennifer Lawrence,
who I love,
she's from where I'm from,
and she's a great actress,
whatever, she might not make $14 million for her next movie,
she may make $100,000,
and okay,
what do I hear?
The movie's still gonna get made,
because she's still gonna have to have a job.
Like, it's just scales change,
if that makes any sense.
Well, that too, I mean,
when it comes to the music industry,
it's always been my understanding that,
most of the time,
when artists meet their money,
they make more of their money out of their performances
than they do out of the actual recordings and stuff,
and I may be completely wrong with that.
And when it comes to comparing that to piracy,
I don't know about any of you guys,
but a lot of my music growing up,
I had a cassette tape,
I put it into my little boombox,
and I would record it off the radio.
You know, was that considered piracy?
It's the same concept.
I didn't pay for that album.
I didn't pay for that single or that song.
I just recorded it off the radio,
and I just played that same song,
and I recorded off the radio over and over and over again.
And yet you,
and yet you guys guys live,
the ones that you really liked,
and bought their t-shirts,
and other merch and stuff,
and supported them that way, right?
Right, you had the,
sorry, go ahead, Brian.
Oh, I was just gonna say again,
we're talking about artists here,
and artists are gonna be creating their art regardless,
and all of the great musicians were musicians
long before they got rich,
and the culture is there,
the monetary is a secondary aspect to it.
And if you're doing it purely for that,
then you're probably gonna suck,
and most of the stuff that people really enjoy
is because the artist would have made it anyway.
Amen.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, look at the fan-made Star Trek stuff.
What's it called Star Trek?
There's a name for it,
which is a sort of continuation
of the original series,
the 61,
and from what I've seen of that,
that is pretty,
you know, it's really good.
And that's made on a shoestring budget,
and instead of relying on expensive digital effects
and all the rest of it,
they rely on story.
And if you limited the budget of the newer Star Trek,
okay, it's not gonna be this huge visual spectacular,
but it's still gonna be good
if the people making it want to make something good,
and if they're passionate about it.
And 50 has heard me have this rant several times
on different shows.
And those Star Trek fan productions
are 100 times better
than anything I've got made
with a huge budget from Star Trek proper.
Like, I would much rather watch those fan productions
because they're better Star Trek
than the drivel that they put out
in theaters in the last 10 years.
So, you know,
money is not equal to quality.
Well, and I'm back.
I'm shaking my fist at my ISP,
but about at least once a day,
they go full stop.
But, yeah, the two major ones
are Star Trek new voyages,
and Star Trek continues.
And there happens a stuff on new voyages
that, you know, they're, you know,
really, they're special effects,
at least the space scenes and all that,
are far and beyond the original series,
because they can do everything digitally.
And new voyages has, you know,
had most of the, you know,
a lot of the characters from the original series.
I mean, they have one story behind that of
William Wyndham.
He didn't actually die.
He went to the future,
when his starship went through the big
cornucopia.
Or rather, he went to the past thing,
and, but they've had George the Kai.
They've had,
oh,
check off.
Blanking here,
after a few beers. They've had a lot of people come in from the original series and star
in that. If all you've seen is continues, go look for new voyages. I mentioned AXINAR
before with this whole draconian thing and I will say, Paramount is legally on their
side. They're not doing anything that they don't have the legal right to do. I will say
that, but there's a lot of these series that I've enjoyed over the years that are not
going to be able to continue. I mean, a Star Trek continues, I said, well, we're going
to try to work in this framework and see if we can't go on. Star Trek, new voyages,
nope, we're done. We're not making any more. We're hoping that Paramount will let us release
the ones that we already have in the can after they're edited, especially because they did
have like a Kickstarter or a crowdfunding thing. The fandom, it's like, at least we would
like get it out there to the people who gave us funding. And of course, if it gets released,
it'll eventually get out there on the web someplace. Those are the highest quality, but there
are various ones out there of differing levels of quality. If you want to look for a whole
series of them, look for do search on hidden frontier. They were next generation, Voyager,
sort of that period in history after, set after the Dominion War. And you can tell because later
ones, the video call gets a little iffy because they didn't actually build an enterprise bridge
or whatever. They're going in green screen, obviously, when you look at it. And then super
imposing stills from the original series behind them. But those are fairly good. And there
is like half a dozen different series they did back in the between 2010. I don't think there's
anything they've done recently. They're all out there on YouTube now. And there's various
individual ones that unfortunately only did two or three episodes that aren't half bad.
Sounds like I've got a lot to check out because I don't only heard of the other one. But yeah,
4.23 am. Long, long, long pass by bedtime. It's been great talking to you all. I only
meant to stay for half an hour or 45 minutes. And here we are several hours later. So yeah,
it's been good talking to you all, but it's very much fun for me to go to bed. So yeah,
quick plug for late night linux, which is my new show to replace linux loadouts. I couldn't
not plug that. But yeah, otherwise, it's been great talking to you all and it's pretty
sure soon, hopefully. Nice Joe. Happy New Year. Happy New Year.
Let's do it. Yeah, thanks for joining us, Joe. I didn't realize that when I'd come to an end,
so I'll be looking for the late night linux. Yeah, unfortunately, Paddy didn't have time to
do it anymore. His work circumstances have changed and he was doing a lot of the pre-production.
And he didn't want to do kind of half a job of it. And we decided that it was time to move on.
So Paddy won't be with us, but Jesse and I will be continuing with failing widely, who is
a guy who knows his staff. He's sys admin and some time coder and also Ike Dockety of the
Solus project. He's going to be joining us as well. So we're hoping that it's going to be a
pretty good show. Well, I have a lot of respect for you guys by going out and not taking over
linux loadites name and going out. And I like to call it. You guys forked the program
in a good way. And I will be listening because I've always enjoyed your guys' text on linux
and technology. Yeah, and after talking to you last year, I really enjoyed the Joe Reds. So
as long as that lasted. It's not it's not dead yet. It's you know, it's never been a regular
schedule show. It's been whenever I feel like it kind of thing. And you know, it's just time
permitting. So I will hopefully get back during that at some stage, but you know, it's just
it's one of those things where I have to I feel like I have to have something to talk about.
You know, I'm just going to get on and talk about nothing.
I guess you never heard dead random. I don't think I have, but I get the idea with it, but now I
mean don't start now. Well, the thing with the Joe Reds podcast was that it was always like an
audio blog and you know, I had various people helping me out on it and people move on and they
get busy and do other stuff, you know, and I'm busy with my own stuff. And the thing is that once
I get this new show late night lyrics running, I'm hoping to have more time because I'm hoping it's
going to take me less time to do than a lot of it's ever did, but we'll we'll soon see how that
works out. And thanks for the mention of dead random that just puts a smile on my face and TJ's
as well. I'm certain, but not in that in that same respect. As far as you're here, you know,
if you liked dead random, you need to look up you random was a urnm.info. It's a great show,
you know, it's it's sort of like dead random is a show about nothing. I mean, they touch on
tech, but it's not necessarily the center of the show. It's just they do it once a month and
what they bring up that they want to talk about that's that's been going on and
been very much in the same vein as dead random, but not nearly as nasty as we were.
Oh, nobody's calling me a certain name. They're not calling each other certain names.
Pok put a nickname on me that I hope will go away. You mean kidding, did he?
Guess what's going to be in the next episode of your episode of your end?
Okay.
See, if you hadn't said that, it wouldn't be out there anymore.
You are right.
Now, it's been great talking to you guys in here and I'll back out to bed. So, yeah,
I will speak to you guys soon.
I do.
See that's it.
Yeah, sorry John. Every time I see you on IRC or popping into a show, I want to say
kitten titties. So, I'm glad I got the opportunity tonight.
Well, yeah, I figured if Pok would have been here, he would have brought it up a lot earlier.
And where is Pok?
He might be at work.
Oh, okay, okay. I hadn't talked to him in a while.
He's been working this crazy schedule, which is actually the genesis of your random,
because we were doing the HPR audio book club and we just couldn't schedule it to where it would
work to do that because of just it would be weird hours for him to record. So, we were like,
oh, well, we're just going to do our own thing. And so, you read up and spun out of that.
But, supposedly, and I'm going to say it on HPR. So, this is true.
He is going back to days after tonight, I think. And so, the HPR audio book club should be
coming back and he got a new computer, which means the old episodes will be coming out soon.
Oh, excellent. I have heard the program and enjoyed it. And I look forward to more.
It's pretty good. Pretty good. I enjoy those things. In my work, I listen to podcasts all day
because I work by myself out in the middle of nowhere. So, I'm fortunate. I can listen to stuff like that.
Uh, has Jonathan, they do been in all day? I meant to be on all day and didn't work out that way.
No, I've just been thinking of the past half an hour or so.
Oh, yeah. If I looked at my screen, I could see you were there.
So, Jonathan, you want to tell us about the new book project?
Well, I didn't come on to advertise everything that's going on.
Like I said, just hanging out listening to you guys soft and hoping to run into some old friends here.
So, yes, but now you've been invited to talk about it. So, it's not like a blatant plug.
I guess so. Uh, yeah, I started. I mean, people that do know me or know me a little bit
or whatever might not know a lot of them and my kind of story. But, you know, I'm Jonathan Nito.
I'm the developer of So Darkening Linux. And, uh, yeah, I'm a blind Linux user,
but I wasn't born blind. I got into car accident when I was 14 and lost my sight from that.
And at the age of 15, my father passed away and at the age of 18, my mother passed away.
And so, I've had an interesting life, especially those four years as an interesting stretch.
But I've had interesting life even past that. And so, a lot of people for probably the past 10
years are just like, and you should write a book about the stuff you've been through and
kind of how you got through it or whatever. And I was like, yeah, I guess so. I don't know.
My life isn't that interesting. I mean, everyone has their trials and tribulations they have to
go through. You know, and I've heard plenty of stories that other people have been through.
And I'm like, I'd want to go part of that. And, you know, but so, anyways, I did kind of start
writing the book like a few years ago, but I really kind of finished it off. I would say,
yeah, I pretty much finished it like the six months ago. So now I'm looking at doing itself,
self-publishing it through Amazon, you know, get on Kindle, do print on demand stuff through Amazon.
So I'm looking at doing that. So I launched Indiegogo campaign. And right now almost 200% funded.
I set my goal at a low level only for crowdfunding kind of marketing purposes, because that's sort of
my gig is I actually do marketing for crowdfunding campaigns. So I understand the mechanics behind
crowdfunding. So I purposely set the goal low so I can start writing iron on Indiegogo's algorithm.
So I'm almost raised $1,000, but I probably really need like $5,000. So I'm almost at 200% now.
I got about 48 days left or go to sell 48 days left. So I still got a long time left. But,
yeah, so if any, you know, if anyone wants to check it out, just go to Indiegogo and you get
search vision. And the kind of the subtitle is, you know, Jonathan Aino, a blind guy who gained his
vision by losing his sight. So that's what the books about just kind of like my life, what I've
been through, where I've been and kind of where I'm at now. What can I ask for you to go and have
an audio version of it? I did stumble across the other day, as I was looking through the Amazon,
self-publishing kind of platform thing. It looks like they actually do offer
you to get an audio version of your book done. So I need to look a little more into that to see
how the pricing on that works. When I looked that was really kind of brief overview, I didn't dig
into the nuts and bolts of how it exactly works. But it looks like that would be a possibility,
which that would be interesting. But I hope so, because I think that would be, and I'm just
my two cents. Since you're a blind person, I think a lot of blind folks would like would enjoy
hearing your story. And if you have or have problems with that, I'm sure there's some folks in
this community that could help you make it into an audio book. Yeah, absolutely. What we're
going to say could you also speak? Well, that's a great idea by John, because I mentioned that
to you the other day, maybe a lot more people in the community would be open to an audio book version,
rather than a physical or even a reader device version. But for you, it would be kind of awkward
because if you were going to verbatim read your own words, you'd almost have to
you know, you'd almost have to have your reader voice read your text for a paragraph or whatever,
and then stop that and then repeat that and and repeat the process.
You know, personally, I think that if Jonathan really wanted it done, there's enough of us
we can each take a chapter and just knock that out. Yeah. Hey, man. Yeah, I totally volunteer
for that. And I think that's what John was inferring. So yeah, that'd be a great HPR project we
could throw out there on the mailing list or, you know, just everybody because I'm sure everybody,
you know, in the whole podcasting community would want to pitch in. In fact, you're going to we do
that. If you do that, you're probably going to have to refuse people. I definitely need the
silky tones of peg wall reading one of my chapters. Are you got a buddy? Just keep in mind,
just keep in mind he's going to be doing it without any pants. You think me to the Joker for that.
That has anybody ever seen that show Brooklyn 999? All right, it's a show on box. And apparently
it's put out by a company called they got him. All right, no one bring up Brooklyn 999.
Illuminati confirmed. You forgot the hashtag. And welcome, Bokey. We're just talking about where
the hell is Pokey? Yeah, I know. I he's got to he's got to find his microphone so he can
jump in here. It's probably it's probably between the seats of the Miata. Not much room between
the seats of the Miata. Oh, and I saw one of those go by today and my goodness, I couldn't get my fat
button one of those. Oh, okay. Well, we're not supposed to be on a face with your name with
Salarius when you're like, what's wrong with women? Like, I went to this girl's house and got naked
in front of her fireplace and she went to the bedroom and called the cops saying she doesn't know me.
True story. Exactly. Let me let me tell you guys what happened the other day when it's grocery
shopping. All right, a lot of the time I am I'm pretty awkward. Like, I don't mean to be
say it as though. Like, things just happen. All right. Like, I'm trying to get a box of rice down
because like tomorrow there's football on and me and some friends are going to cook and I was
going to make jambalaya and I was like, I don't want to spend like a whole lot of time cooking so
whatever. So I got the rice and there's little boxes of rice packed up next to it. I pull one box
down and the little tiny boxes they just fall like dominoes like right in my face. So I'm embarrassed
about that and there's a woman just kind of stand there watching that happen and you know how
sometimes you say things and the tone is just all wrong than how you intended.
But I tried to play it off as a joke and just go, oh, you saw nothing. You know, like that.
But it came out of his blood. No, that'd be even funnier. But the way it came out was you saw
nothing. So I'm like, oh, shit, I just like threatened this lady on accident. I'm just like,
I'm just going to leave. Because a couple of hours I were like this other lady, she uh,
like, you know, sometimes people go to what I'm going to call the wrong way down Isles, you know,
they go like the opposite of everyone else. So that like the person on the other side of the Isle,
you're like walking like in tandem with them and you're like, what do we do here?
Well, we were side by side the entire Isle and I looked at her and was like, hey, you want
to race for pinks? And she got like all like mad. Like I don't know if she didn't know what pinks
was, you know, but uh, yeah, that was my trip to the grocery store the other day.
You need to stay home and just order groceries to your poor man. My favorite part of that story is
I can now say time and the best part is it was Jonathan's joke.
So you know as a community with respect here when we didn't say time during your book pitch.
Exactly. Exactly. I know Brom was on earlier and I was trying to jump in when he was on too.
Oh, yeah, that reminds me. I was off because ISP kicked me and back on. I need to see if I can
email John, uh, no, uh, Jay Newsletter, uh, because the, I guess there's a 20 person cap. So
there's probably people clawing to come in. Yeah, I was, I was trying to get in really
and it was walking. He was like connected. Then it was like disconnected. So many people in
room was like, oh, all right. Hey, happy New Year, you guys. Pokey. What's up, Jonathan? How
you been, man? Dude, how's everything going? Um, ups and downs, baby, ups and downs.
Today was a pretty good day. Are you living free or dying still? Yeah, pretty much.
I mean, that's our only two choices here in the United States. Pokey, you're sexy mofo. How
you been? Uh, well, I've been, I've been still loving you, Mr. Whirley. You know it, baby?
So I just want to let you know ahead of time, I publicly committed you to things on, on this
life. So just, just don't come me later, Brokey. Uh, my idea. It's, it's not the first time,
how you doing, Taj, and, uh, who was that? It was kitten titties. Oh, hey, on how are you, babe?
Hello. Oh, you guys have had to forgive me. I'm a little punchy. I'm on about my 30 second
hour in a row of, of not sleeping. That's not even the record. No, I know it's not,
it's not the record, but I've been up for 32 hours. I'm just getting started. No, there you go.
I, I have a new mission and you guys are going to love this.
I need to find a, um, an oscilloscope emulator that runs any Android.
Well, if I knew if one of those even was, I'd help you out. Oh, yeah. I mean, I found an
oscilloscope emulator, but it only does a single trace. I need the one that'll show a oscilloscope
music art because that HPR episode is life changing. And I, my daughter and I just installed a,
an Android stereo in my car today, not in the Miata in my winter car. And I need an emulator
on that thing so we can do oscilloscope music in the car. That sounds absolutely awesome.
Oh, thank you. Oh, thank you. Sorry, Brian, I talked to her. What was that?
I was just saying that was a great episode. I enjoyed it. Yeah, it was a great episode. As,
as anybody, like, not checked out a oscilloscope music since here in that episode or has not heard
that episode. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. You know, sometimes I think that
fireworks and foreign countries are nicer. Well, if you can see from a foreign country, yeah,
they, they almost have to be. Well, like, for example, Dubai and certain oriental countries,
oh, in England, yeah, like London. But oriental, not the pre, that, not the preferred
nomenclature. It's in the east. We just had to refer to us as the occidental. And then it's fair
again. Oh, boy, 16 and a half minutes here. You're on the east coast, too? I'm on eastern time.
Yeah, me too. Me, three. I am also. And I'll probably check out in a minute to ring in the
New Year with my lovely wife. Oh, you know what I should do? I should grab myself a great big
bowl of ice cream. Word. All skies laying down by my feet. Nice and cozy and comfortable.
That a cat? Yep, she is. Yeah, I was really worried. That was a kid for a minute.
Why was it not yours, Peggy? You don't have to worry. If I had kids, you should all worry.
I don't know. Little Peggy's running around seems like fun. Do you really want the gene pool to be
that you're adversely polluted? It's one of those things like when you just set back and watch
mass chaos happening and just just revel in it a little bit, it'd be cool in that way.
Yeah, we need the east coast. We're good. When you when you drive by a mass of car accident, you know,
as long as you keep it contained in the Indiana, you can't get any worse than it already is.
Yeah, but don't you know the state motto? Indiana, we're going to move.
It's true. How's that working out so far? Still stuck in Indiana. Yep. I almost was that
mass of car accident, probably like five times on my way home just just now. That's so good. Don't do
that. Just lack of sleep for a stupid driver's. Lack of sleep and maybe in the stupid driver driving
with lack of sleep. You're going to say they do call damage driver out there. Yeah,
and there's weather too. We got quite a bit of slick stuff on the ground. We got dumped on
yesterday or the day before. I forget because night shift, but it's snowing again up there. It's
very slick. Yeah, being on the Cape, we miss all that. Oh, you must be getting rain then.
Hey, you're in my neck of the woods. Actually, we got some rain. I think this today. Today was
Oh, you lucked out. Yeah, this snow coming down now. It's just very slippery stuff.
Yeah, we got rain too. It's going to be in the finish here like all the week.
Yeah, back before Christmas, we had about a week about 20 below, but now it's 40s and 50s
in the day. It's pretty comfortable. I live in Flagstaff, Arizona. We got two feet of snow
the other day. I was shoveling it with t-shirt. We use shovels up here.
God, I was hoping someone grabbed that. Actually, we don't even I don't even use a shovel anymore.
It's all snowblower. I thought you were going to say that's what your kids were for.
That was just about to say I have a 14 year old. No, my kids live at their mother's house,
so they don't come here to shovel. I tried recruiting a couple 12 year olds. They're worthless.
Yeah, I don't get that because when I was 12 years old, me and my buddies walked around the
neighborhood with shovels, you know, begging people to let a shovel for, you know, 10 bucks
of driveway and we split it. That's really all depends on the need money or not.
Well, we didn't, I mean, like need need money. We wanted candy and video arcades.
And we're able to shovel and it wasn't a big deal.
Well, that's it. These these kids today, you just set them down in front of Netflix.
Oh, is there a show where they can watch shoveling?
I just like to point out that 5150 was the first one to say these kids today.
Well, I'm probably the oldest one here right now.
You're you're wondering dangerously close to get off my lawn.
Yeah, you damn kids.
You know, 50 with my bad shoulder, I'm claiming an extra 10 years.
And all allow that. And I have the eyesight of an 80 year old.
Oh, he's got you.
I think with my knees, I could add 20.
Pulled the trump card in the pair of them.
Boy, people are starting to set off fireworks here where I live and it's not even new to use up.
Yeah, they've been going all night here.
Yeah, it's pretty low threshold for me wanting to blow stuff up.
So I can imagine going off all early.
Hey, I heard you were talking about Manjaro and about having an LACE kind of spin.
If you're interested and you could actually create your own Manjaro ISO with LACE.
Manjaro's build system is awesome.
And you could go to their GitHub page and you know, just do a clone of their kit repo.
Get repo. And when you look at their build system, they literally have profile.
They what they do is everything's called profile.
So they have like the next FCE profile and LXQT profile, LXCE profile, bungee.
Like there must be at least 15 profiles.
They already have a basic sort of, you know, things set up.
Hang on a second, get a phone call.
Yeah, Peggy, you're enrichment that, that ain't fireworks, that's gunfire.
May very well come to you.
No, it's fireworks.
It just came to a sledgehammer.
Hold my beer.
That reminds me back when I was taking the, uh,
Cisco class at the local community college,
which the predominant major was rodeo, I guess, at the time.
I think they've recently dropped that, I heard.
But, uh, you know, when it went in their, one of their computer labs,
and one of the girls in the class, a couple of years older than I am, you know,
we're all adults, mostly, but, uh, you know, said, oh gross, there's, there's, uh, mud on the floor.
All for somebody's boots, and I look and say, that ain't mud.
Yeah, guys, that picture there, that's guy.
Holy crap, sky is my cat, Kermit's, like, twin.
Oh, really?
Yeah, like, Ternel twin, but yeah, yeah, looks, looks awful lot like my cat.
I think that looks like Penelope.
I think it looks like she's left.
Yeah, I could see that from where you're standing, Jonathan.
I've been wanting to get a cat, but I need to, I need a cat who's afraid to go outdoors,
because I've ever got out of this house.
The coyotes would have it in a minute.
Well, that should make it afraid to go outdoors if it could last too.
Good enough to get a cat.
Don't know when you're in process, they're when you're in process of elimination.
Just get a bunch of cat and be whatever survives.
It's your cat.
There you go.
Hey, she's a very, she's a very good mouse or two.
Yeah, how many weeks could it take 50?
Well, I mean, that was wild.
It's keeping seeing, you know, brand new house and kept, uh, seeing mice, catching mice.
I think I finally got all the mice.
They're not even going to bring the cat.
Sorry.
Well, I always had cats at the old farm, you know, you didn't have a choice.
You know, it was a farm.
Cats, we're going to show up.
Hey, 50.
Speaking of the old farm, I don't know if I ever asked you what happened to your buddy who was living in the
the secondary building.
He's still there.
I mean, I didn't want to kick him out.
Uh, going to save like $90,000, I guess if I take it over that place, but I wouldn't be very happy there.
It's not, you know, uh, it's probably half the size of space I have now.
Yeah, yeah, you were, you were describing your spread before and it sounded real nice.
And, you know, I, I did live there for probably four months and really wasn't too bad because,
you know, three quarters of the time he was gone.
Uh, the poor, the poor guy he, he works for, uh, US government agricultural agency.
And they had a hiring freeze and the, uh, uh, you know, the manager for the next county over, uh,
quit and they told him, uh, congratulations.
You're now the manager of two offices at the same pay.
Sound about right.
Man, they didn't even give him a raise.
No, he's about as high as he can go, you know, without going like state level as, uh, you know,
as far as promotion.
So no, they don't, they didn't give him any more and, you know, he's out, he's out there more
than he is here, living in hotels and stuff.
I mean, I'm glad he's around because he, you know, he, uh, you know, we knew each other in the
turning college for real good friends.
That's, that's why he wound up in that house.
But, uh, you know, if it was me, I could, I would have told him what they could go do
with themselves a long time ago because he's been offered, you know, jobs at banks.
You know, he's a loan officer essentially.
And, you know, he could work for a bank probably for three times when he's making now.
Yeah, but then who would certify all the kale is organic.
Not much kale organic or otherwise, uh, around here, but yeah, I guess you, I mean,
I mean, he likes the job.
He's comfortable.
He's comfortable where he's living, but yeah, you know, and he's, you know, he's told,
I could not do two jobs and do them to the quality that I was doing the one job.
You know, and I guess the government's okay with that.
Two, there he's, I've been.
And of course, he's run his dad's farm and his uncle's farm and all that stuff on the weekends.
Yeah, how many years did I work for the government?
I got written up every time I tried to impose quality on them.
Well, just like security convenience are, are two ends of a, uh, unbendable steel rod.
I imagine quality inconvenience are, are similar.
And the uninformed jerks will always pick convenience every time.
A perceived convenience rather than actual convenience.
Good point because when somebody screws up all your stuff because, you know, you didn't
enact the proper protocols that that's not very convenient.
Well, I was lucky.
I've been away from the keyboard more than I meant to today or more than I planned.
And, uh, you know, I've gotten to talk to most of my favorite people tonight.
Uh, one minute to happy new year here.
Uh, 50 seconds.
Oh, mine just ticked over.
We're not on the same time server.
Mine just ticked over.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
There's only one way to know for sure.
Somebody go outside and check the 2016 dumpster and make sure the fire's out.
Yeah, I'm on the same time as Toronto and New York.
Wow, it's 2017.
It was not that long ago.
We were joking that like, you know, about the song 1999 and how far in the future that was
going to be.
And now it's, you know, 18 years past that.
Man, they're going firework crazy outside right here.
Why am I out?
Well, I'm just glad in three more hours, uh, 2016 can't get anybody else.
And the continental United States force.
You know what I hate about the firework shows on New Year's Eve.
It scares me.
I was going to say all the copyright infringement.
Two freaking commercialized.
Other ads for McDonald's and the fireworks.
Oh, they got to throw commercials right in the, you know, and then shit.
Well, that's it out.
I think that's about an accurate description.
Yes.
Oh, they got the famous song in New York, New York.
Must be watching New York.
Texas.
Oh, I noticed this year when it comes to the London fireworks.
They didn't have the fireworks shooting out a big band this year.
Around me, they drop a pine cone and they do it twice.
They just dropped it now at 10 o'clock and then they'll do it in two more hours.
I interviewed this guy that was running a crowdfunding campaign in Boise, Idaho.
And they actually do a potato drop.
They have this giant like metal potato with all these like crazy lights and everything in it.
And they do this potato drop.
But they do the ball drop in New York.
It's this huge event that they have out there.
Hey, you know, you, you, you don't have any fireworks.
They're just dropping a mere ball.
The potato drop is way better than the ball drop.
Exactly. That's what I'm saying.
If New York had an apple drop, like they, you know, I could see them competing.
But no, a ball doesn't compete with a potato when it's their state pet.
Exactly.
And it glows ahead like a like a laser showing something in the middle of that.
I guess it's pretty insane.
Can you read the potato afterwards?
Are you mashed?
But no, if we had an apple drop, I toss a MacBook off the top of the large building.
Hey, oh, not bad.
Yeah, who wants to drink beer and eat ballskins?
Idaho wins this one.
There you go.
Well, not even fifth jumped on that one.
Well, I've been thinking a couple minutes.
We ought to, uh, I wasn't on all dates.
Probably been mentioned.
But, um, you know, I kind of briefly, uh, touched on the people of 2016 took from us.
And I think it probably would be appropriate to take a couple minutes and think of Matt.
I think it'd be appropriate to take a couple minutes and think about all the people that we love
that passed away.
Yeah, Lord D was one of our community, though.
Yeah, I know.
We spoke about him a little earlier today for a moment.
I learned some stuff that I didn't know before, that he's got a nas set up,
that he's been filling up with stuff for his five-year-old daughter,
so that she can know who he was to.
I didn't know that.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, when you talked about him earlier, kind of remind me of preacher over our over at Linux
distal community.
I really missed that guy like crazy.
I'm still debating on whether I'm going to make his memorial service.
It's a little bit of a drive, but I think I'm going to try to make the time if I can.
My guess is he'll regret it if you don't.
There are several instances, specifically with him, that I regret.
Because it is close enough that I should have been there a couple times that I wasn't.
So, uh, I'm probably going to make this one.
Yeah, part of the reason that I've been awake for 32 hours is because when I got home from work,
we went to a funeral this morning, so it's been the year for it, I guess, hasn't it?
I'm going to reiterate what I said earlier, a little story about what Buckminster Fuller said
when someone asked him about death.
He said that he wrote a letter to an old friend he hadn't seen him many years.
He got a phone call back from the guy's wife, sorry, he's no longer with us.
Buckminster Fuller said, I beg the differ, or I wouldn't have written him a letter.
I got a friend like that.
Oh yeah, I heard that Father Mulkehi died.
You guys remember Father Mulkehi from Mesh?
I do.
Yeah, and now I did Carrie Fisher die.
Her mom died about the same week that she died.
Yeah, you know, I kind of miss my mother.
Sometimes I wish she was still alive, but then in a way, I guess I'm glad that she's dead
because I don't think she'd like this world the way it turned out.
Come on, it's not done yet.
When I'm done to get the hell off planet, yeah.
Well, unfortunately, right now it's the way one we got and we got to deal with it as it is.
Unfortunately, that's why I stayed inside a lot and stayed away from people.
I don't think it's as bad as all that.
I don't think it's as bad as everybody says.
I'm looking forward to 2017.
Now, I think too many people focus just on the negative things they see on TV and the newspaper
and they really just kind of fail to see the awesome things in life.
Yeah, yeah, I agree.
I mean, you know, connect to the Middle Ages or whatever, you know, the entire injustice
or even injustice that was here in this country 40 years ago.
You know, I'm very optimistic because, you know,
we, yeah, it's easy to get depressed because, you know, we have instantaneous news from around
the world. We literally see every sparrow when it falls and it's easy to get down on that,
but we don't, you know, we're not thinking about all the progress we've made just in our own
lifetimes.
Yeah, my suggestion is just simply stop reading the news.
I, for too many times, there's too many news stories and things.
I just get me way too ticked off and there's absolutely nothing I can do about it.
So my answer to that was just stop.
Hey, Amen.
Hey, I broke shit over there.
I threw on shit across the room over that.
I do not read the news anymore.
I do not watch the news anymore because it's just the same shit, just a different day.
I mean, somebody robbed it, bang, somebody killed somebody.
Somebody did this other stupid thing.
It's just the same shit, just another day.
Yeah, there's some horrible guy damn people out there and I don't really need the details of it.
These people that wake up and the first thing they do is pick up a newspaper.
I look at them like, oh my gosh.
Well, our perception definitely shapes our reality.
And I'm not prejudice.
I hate 80% of humans.
Heck, man, if I walked out my door.
Next door, drug addicts.
Downstairs below me, alcoholics and drug addicts.
In back, in the corner, alcoholics downstairs all the way in the center, alcoholics and
heroin and crack addicts.
You think Tony's got proof?
Correct.
I'm an overeater.
Does that count?
Yes.
Good.
I knew I'd make some lists in 2016.
You mean 27?
What the hell are you?
I'm in 2016.
Oh, wait a minute.
Okay.
The clock hasn't clicked over yet.
Geez.
Well, those people get with the rest of the world.
Only the east coast matters, apparently.
Third, right.
Yeah, I mean, you Indian, folks.
You're so yesterday.
Excuse me.
I'm on these standard times, so I'm on this.
I'm in 2017.
Thank you.
You know, I don't think that's going to change my opinion all that much.
It really shouldn't.
I mean, you're pretty legit, what you said.
So it's okay.
Just keep on, keep it on.
No, no.
I've said it before.
I've never met anyone from Indiana that I didn't like.
Have you met Pegwall?
Didn't not face face, but you know, he's sent me some things with his scent on it.
Wow.
I'm pretty sure if he didn't like me, he wouldn't have my phone number.
Aren't we closer to the year 3182 by the Discordian calendar?
I'm going to say yes.
Oh, I have a cool calendar story.
I think I told it on you, random.
Did I tell the calendar story, Tash?
I don't know, maybe.
My kids, my two younger kids started getting into music
and records and record collecting.
And I scored like three big boxes of LPs.
And there was some good stuff in there, including some Star Wars LPs.
And like I even a picture disc.
But also there was a Star Wars calendar from 1981.
It was still unwrapped in the package.
And I was like, wow, my son's going to be so lucky to get this calendar.
And my wife walked in and I showed her and I was so proud of all these
like Star Wars records in the picture disc in the 1981 calendar.
And she goes, hey, that's the year I was born.
Thanks.
A picture disc, do you mean like laser disc or something?
No, it's a vinyl LP with a picture printed.
It's either embedded in the surface or it's just under the surface.
And the surface is clear.
Those are really neat.
Yeah, it's super cool.
It's, you can look it up on eBay.
There's loads of them on there for pretty cheap actually.
But it's got, it's, it was for return of the Jedi.
It's got a Ewok on one side and Luke Skywalker with the lightsaber on the other.
Oh, boys, guys got Sam and Pate.
Then I was, I was looking the other day to see when the next time that calendar will be usable.
In case she decides to take it out of the cellophane.
And it was usable in 2015.
And it won't be usable again until 2026.
I think I think it's every, it's like 11, 11 and 7 or 7, 7, 11, something like that.
So she's got a few years to decide when she wants to open it.
I always opened everything that I ever had.
We were talking about fan fictions earlier.
And I'd like any video producer out there who wants to do it.
And I'm sure others would agree.
I wouldn't mind seeing a Star Drifter film.
You and me both.
I'm just the guy to play Ejok, too.
Yeah, I think we know one of those.
It might have to be like animated because otherwise it would be such a huge task.
Well, we do happen to have an animator in the room.
What up, we?
Oh, shit, we could actually like, we could actually do that with like the community.
That's crazy.
I got distracted. What were you guys saying?
I was being happy.
He was more tearing you for a 12 year project.
Have I ever signed you up for anything you didn't enjoy?
I'm going to plead something.
Whatever, just go with the man.
If it's funny, I'm in.
There's a potential for funny.
Oh, yeah, I love the part with the barrels.
Funny.
Yeah, funny at my expense is still funny.
Boy, she sure is enjoying that salmon pate.
Can't trust that combination of words.
There's one with a silent letter that shouldn't be silent and one without a silent letter that should be.
Welcome to French.
Wow, I mean, you spell so much faster than I do.
Speeling B champion.
So I took the opportunity to watch some of the things, the new year things they do on TV.
Yeah, I'm glad I haven't been watching that the last handful of years.
I would say I'm surprised, but I'm not.
Is it just crappy live music and then they talk a lot and then they show by our works more on the world?
There wasn't even that much crappy music.
I was hoping for more crappy music.
I wonder if anybody pulled the PBS
club that they did on the July 4th where it was too cloudy.
So they played some other fireworks and didn't tell anyone.
I remember that.
That was great.
If you guys stand there watching it, who knows the difference anyways?
Oh, wow.
They had fireworks at the Wild Horse Saloon in Nashville, Tennessee.
Oh, wow.
And they're drinking a legal moonshine there.
There's nothing illegal about moonshine unless you try to sell it.
Hey, art.
Long time no see.
Art's texting.
Maybe it's never Mike.
Wow, it's good to hear from you, but
it's art v61 if anybody doesn't know him.
All right, arts Mike is not working.
I had the same problem when I showed up too hard.
I couldn't, I couldn't find my headphones and didn't have another mic that worked.
And Mike is such a lazy guy.
That's things I haven't talked to art in a long time.
It's good to see you around though.
Yo, yo, yo.
Hey, Rich.
Thank you, Rich.
Happy new year, guys.
Thank you, you as well.
So I'm printing my way into a new year.
That's the only way to do it, man.
So I printing a torso differential.
It's going to print like 50 something hours.
Oh, that's the best kind of differential.
It's the one in my car.
In the Hyundai, you still have the Hyundai?
Yeah, I got the 2015.
I had a 2013 and they made me a deal.
I couldn't refuse on the 2015.
Okay, still the Genesis coupe.
Nice.
Yeah, I got a Torsen and a Miata too.
It's very nice.
I didn't really say had those.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I think they started putting them in like 98 before that.
There was a viscous limited slip.
And then I think it was from like 98 or 99.
No, 98, there wasn't a Miata in the States.
99 to 0.03, I think.
There was a Torsen.
And then after that, there was like a crappy,
I think it's electronic or something.
Why would you go electronic?
The Torsen's so good.
Yeah, the Torsen's perfect.
Well, the electronic one or whatever they put in afterwards
could handle airborne a little bit better,
but I don't know why anybody wants to go airborne.
Well, the downside on the Genesis coupe
is it's too much of a nanny.
And like you hit a pavement seam
and the wheel spins a little bit,
boom, it chops the throttle dramatically.
Yeah, they're.
Oh, say the Miata doesn't need any of that.
You got to work so hard to get wheel spin to happen.
They don't, they don't chop anything.
Yeah, it's just way too much nanny.
A cubic TJs just drop it off now.
I can see it loves you though.
Yeah, yeah.
Least you left with a flourish.
I can't believe you're just now dropping in rich
because we start, we start off 4 a.m.
talking about guns just so I could, I could irritate, uh, uh, uh,
can.
Yeah, well, I printed a few.
I've actually, I was wondering if he tried printing lowers yet.
Oh, yeah, yeah, I printed a couple A or 15 lowers already.
And they're not going to explode in your hand.
I haven't tried that.
I am definitely not firing it.
Piece of stringle fire it.
I just haven't figured out how we're where to do it.
Oh, but what I, what I did print, um,
a couple of cool things.
I printed Picatinny rails for my PS90
and I picked up like four 30 round mags for the PS90
instead of sawing the spacer out.
I printed a new floor plate for the magazine.
That, that was pretty cool.
Yeah, I saw that on Google.
Yep, yeah, I'm pretty excited about that.
So the spring is not stretched too far on that?
No, no, it's the same spring, same part number.
So whatever state, recorders, you can't have more than three rounds, um, you know,
that's compliant for that particular state.
Did you say you're printing a differential for your car?
No, I'm printing a differential that's in my car, you know,
the same pipe.
No, it's just a hunk of plastic kind of a demonstrator or, you know,
kind of conversation piece.
Okay.
That, yeah, I'd like to have one because as much as I love the Torsen
and its effectiveness, I've seen exploded pictures.
I've seen build pictures.
I still cannot comprehend how it does what it does with just a couple of twisted gears in there.
Yeah, it makes sense.
Like there's a couple of YouTube videos on how it works and like, uh, for five minutes
after you watch the YouTube video, you'll perfectly understand it.
Yeah, I mean, I know that it works and I understand the principle.
I just can't, most things, most machines that I'm familiar with.
I can imagine them in my head.
I can, I can picture them working.
I can see how they work, not the, not the Torsen.
So for me with the Torsen, it's not that it actually works or how it works.
It's who figured it out.
Bob Orson, of course, but I mean, what, how did all of that gel in the guy's brain that,
oh, yeah, of course, I can do a 90 to 10 split and differentiate that and
these gears will do this and they'll rotate that way, you know, or it'll lock if both
they're rotating at the same speed.
And I mean, that's just crazy brilliant.
Yeah, it was a complete lie by the way,
of course, and it's sure for torque sensing as nothing is not a name.
Um, gosh, why can't I, I have the name in my head earlier today.
I can't think of it right now.
Hey guys, I just called up.
See, man, I wish them a happy new year.
Well, that Torsen is pretty interesting.
I just pulled it up.
It's made by Gleason Corporation, Vernon Gleason.
Okay, that, that's, I remember Gleason.
There, there was another name also associated with it.
Now, I can't think of it right now.
Yeah, no, if anything, it's under engineered.
It's really, really simple.
It's construction.
It's, it's very strong too.
But all I can tell you is they work great.
It literally senses, well, the wheel with more torque or with more traction.
And it sends more torque to it.
And yeah, they're great.
So the, I, I can definitely feel every day I drive the car
because I make a left off my dirt road onto a paved road.
And I can, you know, feel it going through, you know,
the process of the one wheel slipping, you know,
the inside wheel slipping and the, you know, differential picking up.
It really is fantastic.
Although I got to say I've been taking it a lot easier on this car than the other car,
because I, I went through the tires pretty fast on the other car.
My brother has a shirt that says kill all tires.
Yeah, when they were cheap, but I was okay.
I put my snows on my car the other day before the storm,
and I'm missing half of my studs.
You got studded stud tires, where are you from?
I'm in Arizona.
What?
Flagstaff Arizona, we got two feet of snow in the up day.
No shit.
Well, we're at 7,000 foot elevation.
Hey, I mean, I'm through there.
I, we're, we're going to go.
Was it?
Yeah, yeah.
I drove through there on the way to the Grand Canyon.
Well, then you have to come through Flagstaff to get the Grand Canyon really.
Pretty sure.
I have to look at a band.
This year, I got my first set of like actual snow tires,
instead of just using all seasons and holy smokes.
What an incredible difference.
Just on a front wheel, on a front wheel drive car.
Oh, yeah.
Or better than the all seasons were on my all wheel drive Subaru.
There, there, there's so much better.
Oh, absolutely.
I felt the same thing.
I drove through my whole life until I got given this set,
and their Swedish made for the sod.
I can just jam my brakes to the stop sign and stop.
Are they the Hawk Politas?
They're not, and I can't actually remember the name of it.
They're made in Sweden for the sob 900.
They're an old pair.
Someone had in their garage.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I had, I was doing photography in a blizzard on Long Island,
and I had, I think it was like an 86-ter cell with the front wheel drive.
It's so tires.
I'm going down the LIE, and there's cars and trucks all on the side of the road,
like balled up.
I'm just like going down the road, no problem.
I never thought that they were worth it,
but they are certainly worth it.
Yeah, as long as you take them off in the spring, because they'll just melt.
Well, that's why I'm missing most of my studs,
because when it snows, you've got two feet the other day.
The road's just unclear today.
Yeah, that sounds alright.
I considered that when I bought mine,
so I went with studless snow and tires.
I got the Bridgestone Blizzax, and they're still just,
they're so much better than anything I've ever driven in the snow before.
Actually, when I got the 2013 Genesis coupe,
I had to drive back to Long Island to work,
and I was driving through snow, and I was in bumper to bumper traffic,
in Washington, D.C. at night, and I'm stalling the car out all the time.
It's like one of those, you move a few feet, stop, a few feet, stop.
It was awful, and those, you know, I bought the car in Palm Beach,
certainly it wasn't good tires for snow.
Although, let's see, I don't think I drove the car today.
I drove the truck, it was actually kind of relaxing to drive truck,
no shifting, you know, just kind of comfortable, and one foot driving.
Oh, it is killing me to drive an automatic this winter.
Kill with me.
Yeah, you rather drive a stick in the snow?
I'd rather drive a stick anywhere.
I enjoyed the break from it.
Yeah, you know, when you drive a stick, you save more gas.
Not the way I drive.
Actually, a lot of the automatic transmissions,
now you're getting better mileage on them.
The, at least with the Genesis coupe, they have a neat speed automatic,
and it gets better mileage.
Yeah, I shift late anyway, so I get better mileage in an automatic.
Yeah, I can, the Genesis run down to less than 16 miles to a gallon if I'm aggressive.
Wow, that's impressive. I've never done that good.
You know, the truck, I'll get 16 all the time.
I average 22 to 24 in the Miata, and the maximum it gets 20 to 22,
because it's only about two miles a gallon worse, and it's got to weigh twice as much.
Miata, twice as much than what?
No, the maximum is not a way, but twice as much as in Miata.
Yeah, it's going to say, the only thing wrong with it,
you completely cut their rich, you must have been saying,
there's something wrong with the Miata.
Oh, no, no, the Genesis coupe, it's 3,500 pounds.
If they got it below 3,000, then you're talking.
You know, you got 350 horsepower, and it's slightly below 3,000,
that would be a great car.
Yeah, it was, it's still an impressive car, but I see what you're saying.
Yeah, if you get them asked out, I mean, definitely.
Now, the interesting thing is, when I used to be in the Porsche
club, I had a 924 Turbo, which was, the car I had was pretty beat.
It was probably only about 150 horsepower.
And I was drooling over like the 944 Turbo S, and I think that was 240 horsepower.
I'm like, I got 100 horsepower, the car I was drooling over,
but I looked up the braking distances, and the braking distance was like six feet shorter on that,
you know, 1989, or whatever year it was, 924 Turbo S, I had 944 Turbo S.
So the, I, and I guess it's just the pads that they have on it,
because I mean, you got the big frickin' brembo, multi-piston calipers,
and everything on the, the Genesis, I'm just shocked.
I'm sure, sorry, that's 944 Turbo.
I did a head gasket on one of those last year, and it was really interesting,
that I guess it's the 951, they call it.
Correct.
Correct.
It's, um, when you pull the head off, I'm not sure if you're familiar with the normal head,
you open it up, and you've got your cylinders, and you've got coolant passages and oil passages.
Oh, the cylinders are sleeved.
The, it's completely inter-floating.
The whole thing is hollow, and the cylinders are just these floating sleeves in the middle.
It's really interesting.
Wow, man, Australia and Moscow's fireworks this year isn't that good,
and, uh, Dubai is overkill.
Dubai is where the money is.
Oh, I pretty much know all about Dubai.
I've done a great big study on that place.
You know, an engine that I checked out recently that floored me was the, um,
the, uh, Nissan Armada, the, the throttlest engine.
It's got variable valve lift.
Have you guys seen that thing?
I've heard about it.
It's a little, a little too mechanically complicated.
For my liking, I'd like to see how the thing holds up long-term.
But, um, you know, I suppose to just use in solenoids for valves.
It's, it's a pretty good solution, and it, um, I think it's going to,
I think it's going to perform real well.
I just, I'd like to see how it holds up long-term.
Did you see Nissan's variable compression engine?
No, I remember sob designed one, like 10, 15 years ago,
that was really impressive.
But no, I have not seen Nissan's at all.
Yeah, it's for, it's for one of their infinity models.
My brother used to work at the car dealerships.
He used to tell me all about it.
Sounds really interesting.
It's mechanical, basically.
Good night, Tommy.
Yeah, now I wonder how they, they get the, you know,
variable compression.
So you got to change the, the CCs of the cylinder.
Head.
Stroke length.
Yeah, that's, that's what the, the way saw I did it.
They basically had, um, the, the engine block was hinged.
So the, the cylinders were on a hinge.
The engine block was stationary.
The cylinders were on a hinge, and it swung up and away from the crankshaft,
which, um, changed the compression, changed the area above the piston.
That makes your valve timing difficult.
Cause you know, that's a good way to change our belt or whatever it is.
Bell chain or gears.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I'm not sure how they handled that.
I don't recall.
Well, they, the pivot, the way the head's pivoted,
it was probably on the axis of where the chain or belt would go.
So it would maintain the, uh, same tension.
Yeah, we're almost half, it would have to be, but there's two sides to every belt.
So it'd be tricky to, like you said, to maintain the tension.
And that engine, uh, the one that saw up designed was also, uh, supercharged,
and they could change the amount of charge as well as the amount of compression.
So they could run anything from like, you know, they said,
Rubben alcohol, the diesel fuel, or any mix in between the sensor would figure.
Yeah, and it was, I think it was diesel too.
I don't think it was spark ignited at all, but you could run gasoline.
You could run, you know, uh, what is a J, J 10, the jet fuel.
They didn't care.
It could run anything.
Yeah, well, uh, you know, diesel jet fuel,
kerosene, home heating oil, almost the same stuff.
Yeah, it's real close.
It never made a production though.
Is the Nissan engine, did that make it the production?
I think it's plans for production.
So that's a cool solution if you're turbo charging,
because when you're not into the turbo,
you can run a higher compression ratio around the street and get good performance,
you know, good throttle response.
And then when you want the turbo for the top end,
you can back off on the compression and increase the boost.
Right.
I can tell you a home heating oil is essentially just, uh,
summer diesel these days because, uh, you know, they, they used to have it separate,
uh, because you wouldn't need all the fuel out of it is and all that stuff.
Uh, for home heating oil, but it got too expensive to tank it separately.
So, you know, home heating oil and diesel fuel is the same thing these days.
Fitty, how do you heat the house?
I'm all electric.
Dad and I didn't trust propane.
Electric.
Damn, you got a nuclear reactor in your backyard?
I wish, uh, and it it, you know, it struggles.
It's a heat pump, so it struggles on really cold,
definitely got a couple of these, uh, oil, you know, electric radiators you turn on.
Uh, but, you know, I had the guys that put him out there out here, uh,
earlier this, uh, fall when it was fairly between, you know, when you didn't have to run anything.
I said, you know, it's not quite getting it.
Can you guys add anything?
They said, and they said, well, you know, part of this, the heat, you know,
the heat's coming in from the ceiling rather than from the floor.
And, uh, conventional home.
So they said, just run the fan all the time.
That ought to do it.
But it, it's, no, it's not getting it any better than it did last year.
So, uh, they did say I could put additional burners in the, uh, in the heat pumps.
So I might do that, uh, over the weekend, talking to friends.
They got you a thermal and you think about that running in the floor,
which we didn't do because, uh,
again, in the interim before, you know,
for yet all that set up, you know, it would have to be burned off propane and we didn't do it.
Uh, but, uh, you know, my friends were talking about,
yeah, they're just, uh, popping water out of the lake and running it through the heat pumps.
I'm gonna look into that.
Cool. Yeah, we, uh, you know, basically in Florida,
you'd, we would have 50 degrees this morning.
And if you do run the heat, it's basically just a heating element in the AC ducts, you know,
kind of like a hair dryer.
Because when you were saying you had a lecher key and I'm thinking, you know,
you got something like I got, you know, you're out of your mind.
But, uh, I, I have a keep pump for the hot tub and if it's, if it's below 80, it's just not worth running it.
Hey, I'm new to everybody. I am. I go. I need to get some sleep.
Happy New Year, man.
Thanks. Yeah, my wife's gonna wake me, get up and, uh, take her spin class tomorrow.
Hey, it was, it was a good talk and everybody. I'll see you guys around.
Good talk to you, man.
I asked my wife, I'm like, who do you think's going to be in your spin class tomorrow?
She said you and this other lady.
Yeah, I wondered the gym I got you was going to be open tomorrow.
I should check that.
Lot of them too. You know, they, they do that figuring, you know,
New Year's resolution type people coming in.
Oh, yeah. Oh, crap. That means there's just going to be crowded and shitty for the next two months.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Right. That's correct.
How far are my choices to get there?
Um, me, my gym I could just go, um, um, three or four miles away from where I live.
But I probably drive to that because I usually go to there on the way to work.
Fortunately, I'm going in like three, 34 o'clock in the morning.
So hopefully I don't get the, the rush of, of dumb dunes at the beginning of the year.
Nah, you're not batterally. I would doubt it.
But yeah, there, there's a couple of machines I like to use at the gym and then, you know,
you see people hogging them and if, if the machine's not in motion, I get out of the chair
or off the machine, however it is.
And you see people like, yeah, you know, I was waiting to use the machine.
I used a couple of machines.
I'm watching guy walked away from it.
I go over, use the machine.
It's like I was using it.
I'm like, funny thing.
You weren't sitting on it.
I'm like, uh, I'll, I'll do a couple of reps and it's all yours.
But it's funny how people get territorial over a machine.
It's like, dude, I pay the same membership you do.
You don't own this machine.
People on the machine, that's funny.
Yeah, some people like to run their do, do cycles, right?
So they'll do just four machines in a row, different sets on each of those.
And, but if you go, if you go to the top, I'm where everybody else is,
you're going to have to be flexible.
Well, that's, see, that's why socialism doesn't work.
Because the absolute, I will not sit on a machine and check my phone.
If I'm done, if it's not in motion, I'm off the machine.
If I sit, I'm sitting at a chair somewhere.
This reminds me a lot of the, uh, MIT AI lab stories about the AV
cart battering ram to get in the office.
Hey, that, uh, less the video I put in the box.
The top town greatest fireworks in the world in 2015.
Oh, that's cool.
Oh, that's cool.
Take a look.
So I wedged out of my daughters and I, I give her my old macro.
It was a 2007.
I think it only has four gigs of RAM.
And, uh, you know, the OS is old.
And there's not a lot of current stuff that you can run on it.
So I threw upon two on it.
And, uh, you know, loaded up good.
I had to, only thing I had to do manually was install the Wi-Fi drivers.
And, uh, that's working fine.
But I, I thought it had more RAM.
I don't know what I was thinking exactly.
But four gigs, I guess it's going to be decent enough, you know,
not, not any kind of heavy hitter, but it'll, it should do it.
Yeah, Rich, uh, this is kind of in your neck of the woods,
because they're doing it down in Disney World.
But have you guys seen the articles on the Intel drones that they're using to
kind of sort of replace fireworks, you know, like put a thousand drones in the air
of blinking lights?
Yeah, I've, I've the articles.
I haven't been up that way, and I, I'm kind of boycutting Disney,
because they fired all of their IT heat workers and brought an H1B people.
I got a buddy down in, um, Brazil who choreographed some of those,
actually using Blender.
Uh, this is a couple of years ago.
Uh, but yeah, that was, I didn't know they were, they were doing that in Disney.
Well, they, they have like, nightly fireworks at Disney.
So it might be cheaper to do with drones.
Well, I think you get those complaints, because, you know,
I, and, and I'm with you, Rich, you know, Disney is an asshole company,
uh, for far enough, all their IT.
Uh, and it was the guys really controlling the rides and stuff.
And, you know, you would be in a bunker, some place,
you know, throwing switches and controlling the rides.
And those are the guys you got replaced, not the people you would see out in the arc.
But, um, and I can, I can blame Pokey, I guess, uh, it was, it was after we did, uh,
the audio book on down and out in the, uh, Magic Kingdom.
Uh, I started watching ride videos because I was, uh, you know, I, I looked back and thought,
yeah, I can't really remember the time.
I was in both parks, but I was too young to remember that stuff.
And, uh, so, you know, it went from that from the guys, you know, hanging out in the parks,
doing history of the parks, you know, whatever.
Where am I going?
I was, you know, so those, those guys I still watch, uh, but, uh, you know, one of the guys
growing up, he was like, you know, live, grew up a mile away from Disney.
And I, you know, in California, and I would say, yeah, I wouldn't, you know, uh,
if, if I was a mile away from Disney and they said, oh, fire works at midnight every night,
I would sue the sons of, uh, whatever.
But that area, it's built up there.
It's not that you, nobody lives there.
It's just hotels and other, you know, uh, attractions in the area.
So there, there's no residential homes within, you know, a few miles of Disney.
Not like the geniuses who are trying to fire, fire works off near my house right now.
Ah, bridge, I'm sorry.
There's, there are people two, three miles away.
Seriously?
Seriously, that's where my mother lived before she passed.
You could see the fireworks, like, like, almost as good as you could see them at the park.
Yeah, this guy still works, works videos and he wants him while I go out with a camera,
a night, you know, but I don't, you know, I guess the flashes probably wouldn't bother you
if you're already asleep, but I think the booms would.
Well, it's at nine o'clock.
So it, it's not too late.
Okay, I think it has been nine and, you know, now, now I take it, actually,
I don't think it's nine o'clock.
It's like 57 or something like that.
It's ain't been, I moved away.
There'd be some years ago, so, but, uh, yeah, you get used to it.
I mean, I lived, um, or I could see the fireworks every night, growing up.
Okay, you could hear the booms, but nobody, it didn't bother anybody.
So John, where'd you move?
First, the South Carolina, our North Carolina, then the South Carolina.
So you didn't move to the cold north, anything like that?
No, no, just to the deep South.
And I've seen pictures of the nighttime shows, you know, where you're in the, uh,
the main street of Disney, and they're throwing all this stuff up on the walls.
So it's just, you know, mind blowing, and on the castles and all that stuff.
Yeah, I hadn't been to Disney Land in five years, and, uh, you know, if you stay away for two or three years, it totally changes.
Yeah, they're doing fireworks almost in my neighborhood here.
And, uh, I think right after midnight, I almost sounded like some gunfire shotguns going off.
Well, I mean, with Disney Star, it was, you know, pretty much the train running around the outside,
and then, you know, riding a donkey on the inside, it wasn't much else going on.
It was amazing. They kept going long enough to get rides in place.
Oh, I'm trying to remember. It's far back as I can remember. The monorail was there.
Um, when I was, let's see, I'm trying to remember none of the real big rides, but, uh, a lot of them came
pretty quick. Well, I, I was never at Disney until like two years ago, and as a kid, you know, a little kid,
I always wanted to go to Space Mountain. I heard about when it opened, and I was all excited.
I went on the ride twice, nor I was pretty good. I was there the first day it opened.
You know, I got a front row seat to almost everything in town here. I got a front row seat to all the
fireworks in the city, front row seat to, uh, well, I can hear the, um, the train every single night,
you know, going by, I can hear the boats coming into the city. Yeah, I'm in a nice, uh, spot.
What city is that? Port here on. Uh-huh. And sometimes we do hear gunshots. They're probably over
there by about 10th and pine. I thought that was in your neighborhood. Well, 10th and pines close
enough. It's like, uh, I don't know, 10th. Let's say I'm at about 8th and 9th town, and then go
the other way, about four or five blocks, about 9th and 10 blocks away. Yeah, my neighborhood,
it's just the fellow redneck's target shooting. Yeah, it's funny. What I, I saw, I was living in town
in Jupiter, Florida here, and I asked a Jupiter town cop. I'm like, hey, what's it like in Jupiter
farm? So he's like, you a gun guy? I'm like, yeah, he's like, well, you take care of the problem,
and you call the share. Like, okay, then. That's really nice spot there. Jupiter. I've got a good friend
mine that lives there. I, I got to tell you, I, one, I, I love where I am. If, if I love the house,
love the area, um, you know, I got an 8th and a quarter here. I'm 20 minutes from downtown,
you know, Palm Beach, and you know, 20 minutes from the ocean, and it, it's just, it's far enough
out of town. Like, I can see every stinking star in the sky at night. You know, there's no lights,
there's nothing. Yeah, that's nice. Flagstaff, they deem themselves the first dark sky city. All
our streetlights are amber, and it's for the observatories that are around here. It's really nice.
Yeah, there, there are no streetlights here. Flagstaff, whoo, last time I was through Flagstaff,
I didn't think I was going to make it down the mountain. It's snowed, and they said it wasn't going
to snow. Oh crap. Oh boy, it was fun. So they say there's two times people who can predict the
weather around here, and that's fools and gods. Yeah, I, well, I grew up on the shore on Long Island,
and you know, the weather was very stable. You know, have the ocean moderating a lot of the
temperature swings, so you don't get any vast temperature swings, and it was always very predictable,
and very stable. And then when I started consulting, and I'm in the middle of the country, and you
got the weather changing, you know, within 20 minutes, it's that, that really threw me.
Yeah, I was, well, I actually surfed in the morning, and, and snowskied in the evening when I was in
college, but I don't miss Southern California.
What, what's so funny is my daughter, you know, my wife and I are diehard conservatives, and my
daughter loves California, wants to move out there. Can't wait to go there again. All, all of that.
No, yeah, that'll wear off quick. Oh, if she, if you're in Orange County, that's a very
conserved for California. It's ultra conservative, but by other standards, it's just pretty conservative.
Yeah, I don't like California. It's too well and crazy.
When I was younger growing up in New York, we used to reference the rest of the country as
anything west of the Hudson. All right, so growing up a long aisle there, you're so used to
like the Yankees winning the World Series. It was almost like, what? They didn't win?
When I went to my first consulting gig in Louisiana, it's like, and we're number 10 in the country.
It's like, what? 10? No, there was one number that counted, and it was one, and that's all
you ever heard about New York, but ever bragged about being anything other than number one.
I sure missed the food. Nothing else. So I was in, I took my daughter in Times Square
and her and a couple of friends for her by mitzvah. And in Times Square, it's just like tourist
trappy. All I wanted was a good New York bagel and a good piece of New York pizza. I don't know
where they got the bagels and pizza from that I went to. I worked at 51st and Lex, and I get,
you know, a bagel and a toast to bagel with cream cheese and a cup of coffee for like a buck 75.
And, you know, I paid like five bucks for the stinkin bagel, and it must have came from lenders,
you know, was awful. Yeah, I can't even find anything that resembles a bagel around here.
Panera usually has a pretty decent bagel. Oh, the greatest bagels in the world. Now,
the greatest one in the world when I was little was a garlic bagel. The greatest one in the world
today is everything bagel with all the different types of seeds on top of it. And the greatest thing
to have on your bagel is smoked salmon cream cheese. Oh, yeah, that sounds good. I always preferred
smoked salmon and cream cheese to the smoked salmon cream cheese mixture. Yeah, well, I go to Myers
and get the tub of the Philadelphia smoked salmon cream cheese. Oh, well, whatever works. I spent a
year out on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington, and now I just can't eat salmon.
You done with it? You mean Washington State? Yes, at fish and season, it was just nothing but
barbecues of just fresh salmon all day long, and I just can't come near anything fresh like that
in the middle of the desert. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you know, I used to live there. I used to live in
Mount Lake Terrace, and also in Everett. Yeah, I was in Montessano just inland from Aberdeen.
Yeah, I had a favorite Vietnamese restaurant that I used to go to almost every day.
Actually, stuff has completely changed out here in the last few years. You know, you know,
seven or eight years ago, if you wanted to go in the grocery store and get fish, you know,
fish sticks was all you could get. And now, you know, we got Latvia and salmon and all that stuff.
I was talking to Tracy Holtz today about growing to floppy on my backyard.
I was going to say, I hear Perth can get you a higher omega-3 yield for your troubles.
Okay, yeah, I don't know anything about fish one way or another, just for going, you know,
I got some property. What do you got to take a shot to do it in there?
The Tiki Hut, yeah. Yeah, my pie of wires hanging out in the Tiki Hut.
All right, folks, I'm taking the opportunity to say happy new year to Central Time,
and I'm tapping out. You guys have a good one.
And from Central Time, I appreciate that. Thank you for being here.
Sweet dreams. Yeah, I'm going to pay all my, my wife's going to make me jump on a bike early in the
morning. Oh, good luck at the new year. Yeah. All right, guys, happy new year to all.
They're cropping like fly. Yeah, I've seen a dude man in here, but I haven't heard him talk
pros on here earlier. Yeah, they're broke. Apparently not. Yeah, they're tank.
Just got Mike Burst gunshot in the distance. Well, I'll say, they're, they're,
either lighten off fireworks or shooting guns all even here.
Police get on them pretty quick. So they tend to go one shot and then they wait a few minutes.
You know, I should have went to my safety deposit box and got my three guns out. I could have had a good time.
But you know what, I got three bags of fireworks here that I haven't even shot off yet.
There you go. Well, the wife and I were coming back from supper
earlier. And I guess it was about seven o'clock Eastern, probably a little bit earlier than that.
And they were shooting fireworks off, had a good little show right after I got in. So,
I got home. So of course, here we have the good, the good fireworks that
the rockets and stuff. Well, I was, that was a big change when I came to the south.
When I'm growing up, we just had the little things that shoot off sparks. And when I found out
you could buy stuff that went up in the sky, man, I was like a kid again. My Gia Joe guys never
did like fireworks very much. They lost a few battles. We used to go to Tijuana growing up and
get to firecracker since we caught some havoc with those. Yeah, I keep getting disconnected,
so it's not my fault. I was going to say hello to Art. And you know, mention a few
podcasts, like whatever happened to Art. So good to see you here, even if you're not talking to Art.
How about this? Can you hear me? Oh, yeah. Okay, well, now I'm talking.
Just wanted to come on and wish everybody happy new year. I'm monitoring it during the day
off my phone, so I hear a lot of people I know. And happy new year to you, sir.
Well, that's good. I'll be able to report. Yeah, I talked Art to the other day,
he's alive and well. Yeah, I'm transplanted to the south. I said,
so I had 50 plus years of that cold. I don't want to have nothing to do with the snow or anything
like that. That's one of the things I love about Flagstaff is I still get the four seasons.
But like I said earlier, I got two feet of snow and got to shovel it in a t-shirt because
the sun came out. When I lived on the Olympic Peninsula, there were 10 days a year that they didn't
rain. And here, there's 10 days a year that the sun doesn't come out. Well, I got pictures of
snow on my grill, so that counts for me. And two hours later, it was gone.
Long as you got the change, that's important part. Yeah, it's been cold down here. I'm down
subcarolina, too. It's been cold. It's been a cold on and off winter, but the other day was 70.
Today it was in the 50s, so that's winter to me. Yeah, this morning, it was 20 to have
I hit my place and wow, that's cold enough for me. Yeah, the low freezing, I don't go outside.
That's my body says, no, sorry. Yeah, here in the middle of the country, we avoid most of the extreme
stuff except tornadoes, which are not good. Have been getting a few minor earthquakes recently.
I guess that's all of the fracking and stuff, but there are other extremes of this country. Do
scare me. You go up too far west and everything's shaking all the time. You go too far east or
they're throwing hurricanes at you. Yeah, we had a bootcamp here. Yeah, I second plane about
the hurricane, but it made me a lot of money. What do you do, John? I work or I'm in telecommunications.
I do a point of sale repair and stuff, so yeah, it did well for me, too.
I didn't even notice it. You got to see this fireworks display here. This is the year
that they had the fireworks shoot right out of Big Ben. So you're over there in Britain right now?
Who me? Yeah, I would have called. No, I'm in port here on Michigan. I'm just looking at fireworks
displays all over the world in different years, too. Okay. Is an England just right across
the pond from there? No, England's quite a ways from where I'm at. It's across the other pond.
She's by the medium pond. Is anyone drinking anything New Jersey? Well, I'm drinking the last of my
Belgian dubel from the Wichita Brewing Company where I visited the other night.
After that, it's back to cheap beer or something out of a bottle.
I found something called Tripp in the Woods. It's a sear and a baddoven aged in barrels apparently.
There you go. What you do is you click on that and you look right in the center of the map
and there's port here on. Then all you got to do is zoom out and you'll see why I'm at
and comparison to England. I'm still a very long ways from England. I was just joking because you're
on a body of water over there. Yeah, Jay Ruehl. I'll be able to get that that's a sequel through
at some time because I see sear and a baddoven beer here. Yeah, I hadn't seen it in the shop before.
There's a little store in a little town about 30 miles from here that has all kinds of
specialty stuff every now and then. Yeah, my local liquor store doesn't do too bad a job,
but it's nothing like the selection if I go into the city. So is that aged Belgian? Is that a
little wheat beer? Yeah, I suspect it is. It just says Belgian. It doesn't say wheat necessarily,
but it just says Belgian style. I didn't really talk about anything but that it's Belgian ale.
Usually when something's cascades, that usually just deferred to the barley in my mind anyway.
I came home from the river the other day, you know,
really two versions of the same beer. I also, the other grower,
brought home a salad, which it was based on the same Belgian
doobl. You know, it's just the, they let some wild bacteria get to it.
That's tasty. Well, I've enjoyed both of them this week. Well,
got brought home Wednesday night and said, oh, well, I'll save that for Saturday when I'm on the show.
So this is just the tail end of it. Man, I bet you that was the best fireworks display
that I ever had is in 2012. I've had a couple of resorts on my way home and every so often,
somebody will pay a bunch of money and rent out the resort and have a bunch of fireworks.
Last year was like a solid month every other day to fireworks down the hotel.
Well, Jay Ruler, you do know if any of us ever do get a Hawaiian vacation, we're staying at your house.
Well, if I ever get a house, you're certainly one of them.
Helen, why? I'll crash under your tree in my hammock.
The other kind of slowly usually takes them along to take people off property.
Did your economy just shoot somebody?
No, it wasn't sure if I peed up a little late, but happy new year from Central Time Zone.
We've been dodging rainstorms trying to pop our fireworks, but it cleared up like before midnight.
So we're celebrating and I hope y'all are having a good one so far.
Happy new year from Eastern. Yeah, happy new year listening.
What's the, what's the win and lottery numbers over there?
Your economy, where are you at in Central?
Down just outside New Orleans.
Oh, okay, it's a little bit of travel for me. I'm in South Central Kansas.
Okay, yeah, I forgot y'all, you're in Central also.
But New Orleans is definitely a destination to go to. I've been there before.
Yeah, I've been there time to tune myself.
I mean, that's the most fireworks we've heard yet.
All right, sorry if that was directed back in here much right now.
Well, I think you get the vote for most festive.
Yeah, just leave your mic open. It's going to be another four hours before I hear that.
Yeah, I got the neighbors. They don't do anything really on new years, but
for July, you know, fired off mortars all night long.
Well, as they keep pointed the other way.
Always remember the most memorable fireworks displays are the ones
when the two gets knocked over or they get pointed the other way and no one gets hurt.
Yeah, they're the ones you can laugh after the fact.
I still remember bollocks in the 70s and the no good cook bottles.
Hell, we used to let them off your hand doing me a cook bottle.
Those are the ones that killed my GI Joe guys.
They were holding them too tight, right?
Well, they were strapped to them.
They're just holding them wrong.
Yeah, they were apple firework.
Hey guys, you want to know what I heard today?
Dependent.
I heard from rotten corpse that IG, which stands for infinitely galactic,
it's not going to be doing any more Linux videos anymore.
I guess he's just going to be doing windows and Android and Mac.
To the dark side.
That's because everybody's smart around the Linux.
I've just been watching the Legos gaming videos.
We don't need no stinkin videos.
Can't watch him on the command line anyway.
That's right. No video there.
Not entirely true.
Some of those like cockazine and those other ones
to get the ASCII videos pretty neat.
I think it's called ASCII can.
I was actually referring to that the other day
and the person I was talking to had no clue what I was talking about
because they'd never used dial up.
Oh, I used dial up a long, long time ago.
Thank God I'm not on it anymore.
I don't know, I got time warning.
I feel like I'm on it sometimes.
I'm on the newer fiber optic.
Yeah, my fiber is still wool.
Not me, I'm on nylon now.
That's a proprietary fiber.
Of course, I have enough sand down here.
I probably should make my own glass.
Hey, what's all that sand?
That is self-carolina.
South Carolina, wow.
You got that much sand down there?
After the hurricane we did.
You guys should build a beach.
Good idea.
We have sand in places you don't want sand.
Oh, I've had sand in places I didn't want it before.
That's no good.
But somebody called that.
I was looking on Distrawatch the other night.
Came across Black Arch.
I'm not sure if any of you guys ever heard of that one.
That's a one that's similar to...
It's for a pen testing, mainly.
But it's got a lot of other reverse engineer tools and stuff.
But the neat stuff was as well.
While you're doing the install, it asks if you want the graphical.
And you've already watched it install lots of graphical tools.
But it's really asking if you want the desktop manager.
And if you say yes, it just goes nub, nub, nub, nub across the screen.
And then at the end, when you're totally done, it says,
finish successfully installed,
backdoring your system now.
Nub, it was it was entertaining.
It wasn't incredibly smooth as far as installing art.
If you want a bunch of extra tools that you probably didn't want,
like it comes with a couple browsers and all sorts of stuff.
But it went smooth and it runs on an old...
I guess I could call it a single board computer.
It's the motherboard yanked out of an old aspire one that sits on the back of my TV running Cody.
And it runs faster than my WNC did.
That's sweet. That's built up a backtrack, right?
I think it's just built straight off a arch because it's everything's done with Pac-Man.
Yeah, it was about four or five of them distributions out few years ago.
Yeah, I'm near shaking my virtual fist at my ISP because
I've gotten used to them dropping offline about at least once a day or more.
And it's been like five times in the last hour.
You're streaming too much monitoring you.
Supposedly I don't have a bandwidth cap and the only thing I'm doing right now is
mumble, which is very thin.
They probably think it's some downloading software you got there.
Yeah, I'm sure they probably think it's something nefarious.
Well, I routinely have to restart my cable modem just about every day.
Or the speeds will just go down, creep down to nothing.
Yeah, that's been my experience, but this was a dead stop.
Like I said, five times in the last hour, but even streaming, you'll start seeing buffering,
buffering, buffering, and you do an online test to see your speed and about half or
a third one, spook paying for, you know, then I go and reset the whole thing and it all comes back.
You think it's the ISP or potentially a router issue?
Definitely, I speak as I've changed the router to a P.F. Setsbox.
And, you know, when a P.F. Setsbox I have actually has a couple wireless nicks built in,
but P.F. Sets is not recognized them. So I'm thinking it's driver versus Linux versus
BSD issue. I may trace that back, but I was looking for
any way today on, I found a sale on New Egg on unmanaged switches because, you know, I put
in a USB plug for the internet for everything that, you know, really I can't manage locally anyway,
so mine as well not be touching my network and just going out to the cloud.
And I just had a surveillance camera on that, but I want to add my dumb TVs, which are smart TVs
to that because they don't really need to be on the local network.
And anything else, internet of things that I pick up later, but they did have a,
looked like a real good discount. I had to throw away the discount and came with, you know,
cable for the thing, but discount plus that in the Sonic Wall AP. And I've had, you know,
in my professional life, I've had really good luck with those. And, you know, installing
them in schools. And I thought, yeah, that's where I've been wanting for a long time,
is a Sonic Wall access point. So, yeah, I clicked on that and went with it.
If you listen to the sunny morning Linux review, that's one Tom Lords always says, you know, it is
a great product and I got to agree with him on that. I was trying to set up a pie as an
access point because I used my backup Belkin router configured just as an AP.
And I keep having trouble with the Chromecast falling off of it and having to reboot it,
reboot the Belkin to get the Chromecast back. So, I know it's in the Belkin and, you know, I use
it for a while as my primary router and never had this trouble. But, you know, once I
slaved it to the PF synths as an AP, you know, I've been having trouble and thinking, well, I need to
do something. And I would like to know how to just do a simple access point, wireless access point
in Linux because I'm going to keep pursuing that for my own knowledge, but even though I'm buying the
one, I say true wall, man, right, but, you know, access point. But, you know, because it should be
simpler if you go in, you know, you do most of searches for access point in Linux and it'll talk
about bridging, but you go into bridging, you know, bridging is really easy, but you find out that
you have to put in the MAC address of every wireless device that is going to connect to that bridge.
So, that's not exactly what I was looking for.
You mentioned you had a Chromecast. I was given one of those, so I gave it to my brother and
his household's been using it a bit. And I noticed that it does a really interesting session
hijack where they can start playing, say, something Pandora or whatever from their phone.
And then they can leave the house, take the phone with them, and it just keeps going.
Oh, yeah, definitely jumps over on the Chromecast, which can be a problem,
you know, as you find out on your Android device and you've lost control of the Chromecast,
and it just keeps playing the next video in the next video. Or if you cancel it, then,
you know, suddenly a same video comes up on your Android device in place.
So, it's a little bit weird. You know, it was working really well, and it's a little more glitchy,
and I'm afraid, you know, marketing this to non-technical people, you know, we're used to hammering on
problems and getting them to work. But, you know, I'm thinking, you know, if the Chromecast,
the first time it glitches out, and, you know, you throw something up on there and it doesn't play,
which I get a lot, you know, and you have to keep working at it. The average Joe is just
going to throw this thing in the trash and say it doesn't work. Yeah, that's what I was thinking
too. And that's kind of where they are at now in their user land world. It's causing them
too many issues. And that's why the server is better. And it's also a software. You know, I tried,
oh, when I first got back in HBO and doing the Game of Thrones and, you know, pay,
well, I actually canceled the first time. It was so bad, you know, paying to get in the Game of
Thrones or, you know, with their app. And it was just horrible. You know, it would take you
four tries to get connected. It got back into it this year and it was like three tries to get
connected. Now, now it's working pretty good. But, you know, it was like if I was going to talk
to the developer's man, you know, take care of your shit and make this thing work or nobody's
going to use it. Sometimes I just wonder about their quality of all their stuff. Anyway,
like I was listening to an old episode of Hard Drive died and they were talking about the USB
flash memory and how the nan chips are just basically out of the junk pile for our retail market.
Because no one's going to complain and if one in a million does, who cares? Well, you know,
failure rate of one in a million eight to bad. Well, that's not the failure rate. That's just
the complaint rate. Okay, I see you there. Because the average show is just going to throw it
away. He's never going to get on and complain. And the contrast that with the article about the
guidance computer on the Apollo, where they wouldn't even consider running the chip until they
could run five thousand without with them all matching specs. Well, look, look at that. And then
the failure rate on the shuttle, I'm convinced, you know, of the tiles and stuff. Because originally,
that, you know, the whole enterprise dodo that they kept throwing off it, you know, it kept throwing
tiles like confetti every time. And then they finally got, oh, we've got this new glue. We'll go
with that. But I think from the beginning, you know, they sent people up and they knew eventually,
we're going to lose some folks. I think it was on one of the Atari retro podcasts. I don't
interview with a guy. I guess they used to work with Atari or whatever. But in the last 20 years,
he's made his money from the SD market. And basically, what he is saying they did is they take the
bad SD cards that they can buy for pennies. And they put two or three of the bad chips together
into one USB device. And that's your USB, you know, four meg, you know, sandless cruiser,
you get a Costco. And they just made a fortune off on all these second hand bad chips and put them
together in such a way so they're good enough and chip them out. Well, I didn't even know there was
a secondary market for SD's. I just, I've just been throwing mine away when they screw up.
Well, at the chip level of manufacture, I'm sure there's some kind of testing. And so what they do
is the ones you have to pay, you know, 100 bucks for, you know, 64 gigs are the super high quality
spec ones. And then all the $10 ones are the rejects. And they just cobbled together the pieces that
work into a workable chip. And they sell that to you. They're the other thing. It's kind of similar
like what you were saying there that they were saying on my hard drive style is that they take
the chip. And if it if it's a 64 gig chip and they know the failure rate on their sectors is
going to be high, they'll brand it as a 32 gig chip and have the firmware only allow 32 available
at a time. So it takes it that much longer to fail. I'm just going away that they you could have,
you know, a little fingernail size device that you could have multiple chips in there under the
plastic. I think it's amazing. I just redid my brother's phone and I pulled the SD card out 128 gig.
Yeah, see, it's always been my experience on the high end, whatever they had, you know,
you had a huge failure rate. I had 64 USB thumb drive and it died really quick.
I've only had 164 gig SD chip and 16 gig SD chip die on some Cody boxes. But other than that,
I haven't had any SD failures. I think I had a USB key die, you know, so we're really going to go,
but they won't put it in pretty good so far. Well, for me right now, 32 seems to be the sweet spot.
We got to remember two with all the EMF around. They're not too friendly to magnetic and seems
that there's a lot more magnetic properties around our houses than we ever had before.
After I just got a great tool in there to read the sensor data from your Android phone,
and most of them have the ambient magnetic field sensors, and there are a lot of fun to play
with with the kids to show them what's going on in the house. Always like a detector, you mean?
Yeah, my NFU's got a bunch of magnets we were playing with and we're just going around
to electronic devices with my phone and you could tell some of the magnets are really strong
if you got like two feet away, they're spiked on the graph and it gives you a visual graph.
Oh, that's me.
I just remember that the hard drive in the first computer I bought was Eddie Meg,
and I've got files that are bigger than that now. Oh, shit, one picture's bigger than that.
Yeah, time, I thought that was huge for hard drive. It was. It was. Like my first one was 10
mags. First computer had 2k of memory. I think I had an old machine had what 12 mag hard drive in it,
and that was real hard to come by. I got an old compact lap up downstairs that's maxed out at 64
mags ram. It's from 96 and the thing is built so incredible. Well, so much better than any of my
new ones. It's been around forever. Yeah, you can tell just but a weight of it. I mean, it's amazing.
No ethernet or Wi-Fi. That was the ethernet was on the docking station. So I have a hard drive
for me to try and to get something on now. Yeah, mine had a dial of motor and built in it.
Yeah, the first laptop that I had was monochrome. It did have ethernet on it.
I remember my time X and Claire with the tape recorder. Yep, I had one of those.
I played just some of those at my friends as I thought they were the coolest things in the world.
Yeah, that's what that's what I like as very pie because it kind of resembles the whole concept of
looking up TV. I had a sim player. I sold the original TRS-80s right after they came out.
Daniel trash 80. Yeah, they were four and four at the first ones and then they went to 8k and 8k
and 16. I think by the time they stopped doing the original one.
Yes, stupid me. After my sim, Claire, I kind of got away from that and went to the electronics
just doing electronic stuff and then couldn't get into that field because I knew too much to get
an entry-level job and well, the rest of the history took me 35 years to get back into electronics.
Oh, I like electronics. I like gadgets and radios too.
My parents used to get so mad I'd go around garbage and picking up old radios and stuff and bring
them home and take them apart. It's the other word. Take the speakers out, cut the resistors off
boards. Oh, I can remember box old tubes. I used to have basically down to the TV store and
test all the tubes on their tube testing machine. Oh, man, I haven't seen one of those machines in
years. I haven't even seen any of those tubes in years and I used to have a good time with speakers
and also lamps. I like to make fancy lamps. Yeah, I used to be the local kid who they'd bring
the the TVs that weren't working and I'd take all the tubes out, take them up to the drug store
test them and tell them how much the tubes would cost and make a dollar or two in the in the process.
Hey, you guys ever see one of those portable record players, the tube type?
Oh, yeah. It kind of almost reminds you of a mini suitcase, kind of.
I had a portable radio at one time with tubes in it. Yeah, to be careful of carrying that around a
bit. Yep, yep. Well, one of my amplifiers has got three tubes in it that I will use on the air
ever once in a while. I used to like watch and looking in the back of the TUC all the little light,
light enough on the tube, watching them go dim when you shut it down and then I found out that if
you test your own wires in there, you could get the electric you did and I'm like, that's interesting.
Yeah, I was working on a TV. My father said, well, it keeps on going out. So I had the back off.
It's probably 12 years old and touched touch the wrong place and probably had 40,000 volts and
threw me up against the wall. And my dad said, did you fix it?
I remember a guy by name of Paul Herne. He had a TV of shop down in Detroit and he used cell TVs
and work on them and stuff like that. And he used to have this testing wire that he would, you know,
touch from this point on the inside of the TV to another point on the inside of the TV. And you
know what? He lit up a few times. He was probably trying to discharge that big old capacitor for
where he stuck his hands in there. Friend of mine did a real interesting thing with some of those
old TVs with big fat glass lens on the front. He went out to the woods and they were collecting
obsidian and pressure flaking and arrowheads and spear points. And he found this TV on the side of
the road, took the glass off and it was so thick, he got these gorgeous pressure flaked spearheads
out of that TV glass. I'd never seen anything like it. He made him out of it, you mean?
Yeah, with the pressure flaking techniques with it, a deer antler. And they were using deer antler
and copper rod because the copper is nice and soft too. But it's really interesting to watch it happen.
Here, the university has a Colorado Plateau studies degree. And that's one of the main parts is
they go through all the primitive technologies from the Plateau.
Well, this is be raging against my ISP because I got dropped from the mumble server and walked
back in the back of the house to reset the uplink for like the fifth time in the last hour.
And we're wearing a wireless headset. Back the time I got there to reach a switch could hear you
guys again. So, you know, if you if I drop out in the middle, it's not of my doing.
And we are about five minutes away from celebrating New Year's Eve mountain time.
Oh, cool. Three minutes on my clock. Yeah, that's what says on YPC, close to two minutes.
Looking at the wall clock, it's not quite as accurate. Yeah, in three minutes, it'll be two o'clock
am here. Yeah, it's about time for me to hit day. I think it's almost time for me to get a shower
and have a great big bowl of ice cream. Oh, no, too late for ice cream. I just had me a root beer
dinner or a with dinner, I should say. Oh, you already had your ice cream. Oh, you have a black cow.
No, it was white. Yeah, my pet peeve is all by ice cream and it'll sit there in the freezer and then
time I use it's all full of ice crystals. Okay, if you have like a ginger ale beverage,
our burners with like vanilla ice cream, that's a Boston cooler. Now, if you have it with root beer
and W, then it's a black cow. All right, I'll take your word for it. Sounds kind of good with the
ginger. Yeah, that made me think I'd like that. Oh, the ginger ale type ones are awesome.
You know what I miss, they had a Canada dry green tea ginger ale and it only tastes good
in the cans. In the cans only. That's the only way I buy it. And for some reason, I can't see
them anymore. I mean, I want it to stop selling them. That's the aluminum paste you get.
And happy New Year to the mountain time zone of the United States. Happy New Year. Happy New Year from
Eastern. Sounds like something like a late attendant, which they have been New Year from Eastern
Airlines. You guys really cracked me up. Well, just say bye bye. I like to do on, uh,
Saturday night live. I watched that show. Uh, I've tried a few times and it's, it's just not funny.
That's what everybody says. Uh, most of on TV is not really even funny anymore.
Yeah, I guess it's generational. I mean, uh, YouTube was touting these guys as being really funny
on the red channel. And I only got into that because it was 90 days free. I need to cancel it, but it's
like then these guys and they did their stick and it was like, no, that's not funny.
Yeah, when I was a kid growing up with mom and dad, my favorite comedy on TV was like, uh,
the Honeymooners and the Bowie boys. Oh, yeah, a little rascal.
Oh, you like my parents? Anybody past, uh, Carson was not funny, you know, they, they would never laugh
at Letterman or, uh, Leno, you know, I, you know, I like Leno, but the guys are on their now. No,
uh, it's not worth watching, but, uh, you know, so I guess it's definitely generational.
Kids these days, you know, if I long, you know, well, most of the stuff that people laugh at,
I'm just looking at what the hell you laughing about, you know, I don't get it, you know,
and, you know, I don't like just, I don't like like, oh, what's the word for deluded funny,
and I don't like medium funny. If, if I'm going to have funny, I'm going to have like nuclear
meltdown funny, the kind of funny where you laugh so hard that you actually fell off the couch,
you know, funny. Uh, the, the funny that is so funny that my cat laughed at so fucking funny,
you know, uh, like George Carlin, like, uh, Jeff Dunham and Pina, you know,
Yeah, I'm with you right there. I mean, of the recent late night host, uh, you know, I do laugh
at Craig Ferguson. Of course, he's not on anymore, uh, when I'm a fellow Scott, but, you know,
he kind of ran out of steam when he, uh, ran out of the crazy, uh, yeah, I was so drunk and
screwed up stories part of his career. I wouldn't even know who's doing any, John,
and I, John, nightkitten to these, I don't even know if I should, uh, let me crawl this day.
Well, Joe, I'm glad you could jump in. No, I think, I think you're taking up the
yeah, I think you're taking problems, Joe, and in fast pursuit, you're, you're breaking up
electronically really bad. I mean, we're getting electric static and that's about it.
Okay, it only took me about two hours to get mine fixed.
I had some incredible old doctor who sighed five feet back from my mic earlier,
so I grabbed someone's phone.
Yeah, we caught on to that. Has anybody seen any of those fan reedits of the doctor who
stuff like they took all of the scenes with his wife and put them into her chronological order,
which sounds kind of interesting. No, where they post that. I saw it up on some torrent sites,
about a year ago. Oh, that was the life of, uh, what was your name? It's kind of like, just a
whole bunch of episodes together, right? Peace it. I believe so. Yeah, I think I watched that.
I'm gonna find the new year, the Christmas show. The Christmas one where it gets its 13th
life one. I don't know, whatever was the Christmas one this year, I gotta find where it is.
Oh, they did a Christmas show this year. That was my understanding. I haven't run across
that yet. I'm so far behind. I just found out that Stephen King wrote a dark tower book back in
2012. Yes, I'd say you're a little behind. Yeah, I think that that one about the, uh, that
truck and the vehicles running around at the truck stop. I think that was a trip.
Yeah, he writes them some crazy shit. Yeah, well, he said one time that the stuff that he writes
about is the stuff that he had nightmares over. I can believe it. I really enjoyed him writing
himself into the dark tower. Those were some of the great scenes portrayed himself as such a loser
junkie. Well, supposedly he's supposed to make a appearance in every single one of his movies.
Yes, I believe he does. Looks like he borrowed that from Hitchcock. I never did make it through
any of his other books, except for the dark tower series, but that one was good.
It's like Stanley in the Marvel movies. I used to read his books a lot at one time.
That's odd. I think I've read everything but dark tower.
Well, I know I'm missing a lot of the references in the dark tower because I haven't read his books.
And I made it, I made it 800 pages through the stand three times and then put it down each time.
Man, that would take me like two years to read. I read about three or four pages down full sleep.
I can't stand falling asleep reading. I never know what I read and what I didn't.
Yeah, I get more from audiobooks than trying to read him.
Yeah, I really got it. I got an audiobooks quite a bit and yeah, that's what bothers the hell out of me
is when I read a couple chapters and I can't, you know, sometimes I can't even read two chapters
in my fall asleep. Lately, I haven't read any fiction, but audiobooks have filled that for me.
Yeah, I'm a sci-fi junkie. I get a lot of good stories on audiobooks from new writers and stuff.
Oh, I love space type sci-fi and stuff about time travel.
I do a lot of audiobooks. Sorry, so I've been wanting to bring up. What are we all watching
now that the, you know, sort of network programs are on their mid-season hiatus,
which didn't used to be a thing? That way moves over to British humor.
I've got movies on my external hard drive.
I sure laughed at that show people of Earth.
After looking at that, is that like just a satire series?
It's a comedy about a writer who does a story for a newspaper about a group of alien abductees,
but then he gets abducted.
Well, I dropped it in Netflix on, uh, wasn't the Magicians, which is sort of a more adult version
of Harry Potter, uh, and Narnia? I tried that one. I had a good time having it keep my attention.
It gets so good. I really enjoyed it myself.
It jumps around a lot in the beginning.
Yeah, maybe stick with it a while. I think it'll grow on you.
And then of course, I've got my subscription, so just the other day, I finished the man in the
high-tower, uh, season two. I did start that. I was surprised that they did a season two
the way they ended season one. I'm even more surprised if there's going to be a season three,
because it really does seem like an ending to it, but I guess the books are there.
Yeah, I was wondering if anyone read the Philip K. Dicks.
And I predicted it'll probably be like, uh,
gave a throat if they get to the point where they run past the books, they will just make stuff up as
they go along. That might not be a bad idea anyway. I was kind of surprised that they continued on.
It seemed like that they ended it pretty well with this first season. I've made it through the first,
about three quarters of the way through the first show of the second season. And, uh, yeah,
let's see where it goes. I've been wanting following water, channel zero, and good behavior.
It was all pretty good. And then the third one I've jumped into on Hulu is the uh,
library ends. It's not going to leave me with a sense of loss. You know, like I did, you know,
dendon magicians in the end of a man in the high castle, because it's more separate,
uh, you know, episodes rather than a continuing narrative. I like the library. The librarians
is incredibly stupid, but I definitely enjoy watching it. It's entertaining. Yeah, I watch the
original movies, you know, the librarian and I thought, well, it's got to be bad, but it turned out okay.
Well, that's me. I will watch bad sci-fi before I watch a good drama. You know, I watched, uh,
uh, Ravens, no, it's not, uh, uh, you know, the one of Batman's daughter, uh, I don't know,
Batman's daughter, but, uh, you know, you, you did have Oracle in their Sentinel or wherever,
crippled, uh, Batgirl, uh, I watched that and, you know, admittedly, that was not the greatest
one. Sirens, sirens, that was it. Uh, you know, and various other things. If there's stuff on,
if there's stuff on two channels, I'm going to pick the sci-fi one.
Most of the time around too. I've decided though that I'm go into watching these, expecting them
to be really horrible, and I'm pleasantly surprised by any redeeming quality at all. So I get to
enjoy any show rather than being disappointed later. Yeah, with the, with the code and stuff,
there's just too many things to watch. It's, it's unbelievable. I still like Supernatural too.
I think it's 12 season, I think. To that same kind of, and it, in reference to the shows and the
movies about books and how they never live up to the books, I solved that on myself a long time ago.
I now expect them not to live up to the books. I want them to not live up to the books and I want
them to be different than the books. So I get a new story. Yeah, they almost have to be, you know,
I mean, when it's portrayed up on a picture, then it is. And the book has to be much more narrative.
But, you know, like they say, pictures worth a thousand words.
I mean, a few weeks ago, I was at the hospital. My doctor was named Crowley. And that, you know,
that's, that's how I associated to, uh, remember who, who it was.
Yeah, I think that's not a good combo.
Well, I busted a gut on that one. Did you ask him where his mom was? Yeah, I didn't,
I didn't call her Queen of Hell or anything. The wicked witch.
That reminds me of my ex-husband's mother.
Coming in on the five o'clock broomstick.
Yeah, I, I, I used to call it the bitch of Buchamel.
Oh, I have to remember that one.
Well, she was the mother of my second husband. Uh, but she was a mean evil bitch.
I'm waiting for someone to put taxi on streaming somewhere.
Oh, but you can find it on Cody.
On Cody, probably, maybe not on the add-ons that I got though.
I've been pretty much, uh, using Exodus almost exclusively.
But there are quite a few shows that don't have streams, like the Woodwright's workshop.
That's a great British show. I'm not allowed to see it here, though.
Allowed as an above stream, here you mean?
Well, there's no sources available on that add-on.
I could probably find some other way if I really needed to.
I could go searching around and find where it is available through another add-on.
I would imagine.
I believe in Zen. Zen's got a good, uh, good, uh, amount of content.
So I take it, Brian, you're heavy into woodworking?
No, but I used to do a lot of it. I used to do furniture restoration and it's just interesting
watching people do stuff with their hands.
I like watching them use the old tool, the draw, draw knives and stuff like that.
Yeah, I'm a tinker from way back.
Well, I think that's probably a common, uh, you know, uh, description of everybody who's in
open source because you got to play with them a little bit.
Yeah, the only problem is I can't type on a keyboard very well, so I have to use my hand as
like hammers, stuff like that.
Are you exaggerating?
No.
Okay, I'm pretty poor type as myself, but I don't have to use my hands as hammers.
Uh, I was a mechanic for a long time, you know, so it was easier to hit something with your hand.
Hey, I was a Chrysler Certified Mechanic. We got a lot of stuff in common.
Yeah, I like Chrysler. I have a Dodge truck.
Yeah, my favorite are Chryslers and foreign cars.
Complete of Detroit engines.
I grew up at the drag strip, but I specialize in European cars when I do my mechanic.
I got the Volkswagen Jetta Diesel.
How's that European?
That's almost European to Volkswagen, but one thing with the Volkswagen's, I never understood
why they put plastic parts on the Volkswagen and the same exact part made out of aluminum on the
Porsche.
Weird.
I used to have a Porsche couple of them. I often used to buy my parts of the Volkswagen dealer.
Instead, when I could get an identical part, pay a whole lot less.
But on some of that stuff, it mattered what country the metal part was made in.
For example, the German chrome was often a whole lot better than the Brazilian.
I could never understand why they put Volkswagen pedals in a Porsche.
Oh, they shared a lot of the same parts.
Like their wonderful door handles that never failed.
True.
My Volkswagen's in my Porsche more than any other car I've ever owned.
I'm sad I've gotten rid of both of them.
I didn't get rid of the Volkswagen Jetta that I had really, but I got T-bone by a drunk driver
in an intersection, spun me around and threw me all the way onto the sidewalk.
Thank God no one was there.
And I just climbed out.
So the safety is my number one concern.
I drive an old sub 900, which in today's standards is not very safe.
There's no airbags or ABS, but I could roll it down a cliff or hit it in moose.
Yeah, that's like they said for the longest time. Volvo was the safest car built.
One thing about a Volvo, the engine on those suckers can usually turn over at least three times.
VW maybe two times.
I bought my daughter an old Volvo.
It was beautiful leather seats.
That was a really nice car and that was her first car.
And she turned 18 and traded it in.
I think she got like $300 for it and it was worth many thousands and on a new little sports
car that she ended up owning I think about nine months before it ended up getting
on like repossessed.
So she went from a paid off nice Volvo to walking and nothing.
Oh, and she drove out of here on her 18th birthday burning rubber saying,
Adios, I'm not going to college.
Okay, but she since finished college and came back and said that that was one of the biggest
mistakes she had ever made and that she misses that car.
You know, we will.
Well, they got to learn some time and some time instead of being overly motherly or overly
fatherly over them.
Sometimes you just got to let them make their own mistakes.
Yeah, we did, you know, but that wasn't any letting her make mistakes.
It was just, you know, that's what she chose to do.
Okay, and of course she ended up regretting it and coming back and saying,
how sorry she was blah, blah, and she pulled her head out of another word.
Some, you know, all's good, but, you know, she learned her lesson and we remembered ours
because we were my wife and I were both interesting children, the way to say it.
Yeah, I go the other way.
I always car purchases.
I always regret the ones I didn't buy.
I was in college up there at the school.
I went by a place and they had a, you know, 68 charger and they wanted $3,000 plus my car
that I had, which was a 74 newport.
And I was 73 newport.
I drove the Holy shit out of that thing for years.
But I just didn't have the $3,000.
And, you know, it was a 383 automatic no, no breaks on the charger.
But if I bought that thing, you know, you know, fix it up, it'd be $10,000 a car today.
I had a 70 road runner.
Oh yeah, that's another one I regretted.
My dad got a loader when the car was in the shop and it was like a 71 383 road runner.
It was an automatic and, you know, I was a dumb kid and he was saying,
yeah, we could get this car for you.
Is it no, no, I want a 440 car.
Yeah, so that was another stupid, stupid mistake I made.
I had a 71 challenger too.
I was another, that was a pretty, pretty fast car.
I had a 67 Dodge Cornout.
Oh, that's a great car.
I used to go to racetrack and watch this teacher race a 64 Cornout with an Emmy in it.
Mine had a 446 pack.
Yeah, this was a, this was a factory Emmy in an old Cornout.
I couldn't believe it.
Clubs as I get in my shop, I do have an Elbrock 6-pack manifold for a 440 sitting around.
That I got, you know, sort of worth the money off eBay.
I actually found back in a day that a 2 barrel was, if you got the right 2 barrel,
was better than the 4 barrel.
Yeah, I think probably the most trippy cars I ever had was the Amorata,
the Estera and the Proxima.
I do have and I need to get back to it.
A absolutely pristine 1954 door New Yorker.
And that's what I want to drop in.
You know, I would like to drop in the V10 if I could find one cheap,
but uh, sure that, you know, the 440 and the 6-pack would do.
Want to put electric motors in there.
Don't maybe come bomb your house.
That's not right.
You know, there was a cute little joke back then.
Knock knock, who's there?
Estera.
Estera who?
Is there a better way to drop 137,000 in one place?
My brother had a Gremlin would have V8 in it.
And man, that cart would wick it.
Oh, that's another thing.
I, you know, I'd love to have a Pacer, you know,
if either a 401 or you drop a Chrysler into him, 440, uh, you know, and yet,
they did, they did have V8 in the Gremlin.
You know, uh, you know, I keep thinking back to the early 70s when
every magazine article was, you know, V8 in the Vega or V8 in a Pino.
And it's like, well, we've got this whole range.
You know, you've got, you've got Mavericks, which are the same, you know,
essential to the same thing is the original Mustang.
Uh, you know, you've got that, oh, what was the Chevy version?
Uh, but there was one.
Pinova?
No, not Pinova, they had, uh, lighter than that.
They had a, they had a V8 that was not much bigger in a Vega.
Hey, do you guys remember the Pacer?
Well, that's what you said, you know, I, I would love a 401 or a big, or a big Chrysler in a Pacer.
Fishbowl.
You know, to me, the Pacer looked like it was pregnant about to give birth to two VWs.
Looks like a VW bus that was in a crusher.
I know, it was not very esoteric, but yeah, you could, you could really drop some horsepower
in that sucker.
I think enough room to put a motor in the back of it.
It was wide enough.
Yeah, you could have, uh, you know, get, get a bigger, uh, rear end.
You could have grabbed it out of a caddy or a Chrysler or a Lincoln.
Yeah, they had a real, real small engine compartment, though.
Yeah, but I've seen big blocks in a Gremlin.
So if it gets, if it gets in a Gremlin, you could do it in the Pacer.
I don't know, Gremlin had that square nose on it, so.
Like, man, the Mercedes-Benz buy-out is a, is Dera?
I don't know, I don't follow them, high-end places.
No, because I see something that looks exactly like an S-Dera, but it's got their Mercedes-Benz
logo on the front of it.
Yeah, Mercedes and Chrysler were together shortly, and then they split apart again.
Yeah, that was back when I got back.
What, wait a minute.
Well, I heard that Mercedes bought out Chrysler.
Did they separate again?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Family or Chrysler separated from Mercedes back in, I don't know, 2005 or something.
Yeah, but my old buddy's gonna be out of the job.
The general consensus of the problems with the, you know, the charger and the,
and the magnum, etc., you know, it had a Mercedes for your end,
and then you threw that behind the new heavy and just shattered it.
Wait a second, I got a 2007 PT cruiser that I bought right before,
or right around the time, Daimler owned Chrysler, and they offered a free lifetime engine replacement
or powertrain warranty.
For the original owner, as long as you own the car, it had a powertrain warranty.
And we just got an engine, a brand new engine for it from them.
In the past year or two, Mercedes was still handling, or Daimler was still handling that.
And we had some little short-block problem and they set an entire long block in a crate.
I mean, it was like top to bottom, long block, right down to the oil filter.
I mean, it was way long-block and just dropped it right in and said, have a nice day.
Well, they do stand behind their products. I'll give them that.
I mean, that's probably parts they had sitting around when they, you know,
when they bought a big company, that was one of the big things.
Well, it was one of the issues I had with my truck when I bought it in 94.
They had tires. They had the thing with tires. They had warehouse for like two or three years,
and six months after I had the tires on a truck, they started flitting.
Okay, what company was that they was just talking about?
That was Chrysler.
All right, Wikipedia's got since 2009 Chrysler has been under fiat.
Yeah, that's all right.
Diesel 6 is now, you know, what if you took the, the coming six and dropped it in a crossfire?
It probably go right to the ground because it couldn't hold it, waste a damn much.
That's what I got in my pickup.
Well, that's true.
You know, I know that that you go across bumps and out in the pasture and stuff,
and in the diesel pickups that you bust your frame.
That's why they went to a four cylinder.
When they put the diesel in that Jeep Liberty for a short period of time,
it was a Mercedes four cylinder.
Yeah, during every day, you're over on Mototrend Channel,
you know, they dropped a Cummins four cylinder into a Jeep.
C.J. like model.
Factory, they had one in a Liberty for, I think, two years or so.
They were hard to get.
I love the first one.
Well, I remember the first official diesel in the Dodge in like 1975,
they had an international diesel in there.
Then they switched to the Cummins, but you know,
right back in the 60s, if you want a special order,
you can get the Perkins, you know, British diesel that was very fuel-fishing and not terribly powerful.
Yeah, noisy as hell.
That's one of them on a welder, man, and that thing used to rattle and shake.
Well, that's more information because I have got like bodywork,
darn near pristine 68-dodge half-town.
I'm thinking, well, it's got a 318 in and I could rebuild, but, you know,
what I want to put in, so I want to drop a 440 or, you know,
period time, you know, get a Perkins and build the hell out of it and drop it in there.
You'd better off, you get more horsepower out of that 318, might rebuild in it.
Okay, well, I guess that answers all my questions on that one then.
Well, I know guys that took, they took pistons and swapped them to side
and could increase the power of the engine.
318s got a lot of tricks you could go on them.
Oh, well, you know, 318 is the most bull-approved engine ever made in my opinion.
No, a flat six.
Oh, wait a minute. I love a 318.
My car has low mileage estimates 750,000 miles on the engine.
Hey, my dad had a Dodge Polar with a 318 engine on it and I'll tell you what,
I don't care what happened, that car would always start up.
It could be the coldest winter or the hottest summer.
I don't care what weather it was, that sucker always started.
Yeah, they had them in the factory high torque starters in the man.
They would crank over fast.
Well, I do have a 225 in a old saddle like that.
Well, somebody before the guy I bought it from had converted this four-door into like a
Ranchero type, you know, made a pickup out of it.
It was, it was really a bad, bad conversion.
So, I paid him for what I thought the engine was worse.
So, you know, I think I paid 150 bucks or something like that.
But, you know, the engine turns over runs like a dang top.
Anyhow, that Dodge Cornette, that was my very first car.
The one you see in this picture was my second car.
I was Joe there. Joe, Joe Carr?
Yeah, I'm here. I'm just seeing what's going on.
Oh, man, I was hoping that I would catch up with you.
You know that guy's channel on YouTube I was talking about.
And I gave you a link to one of his videos.
Yeah, I checked it out. Turns out he used to do a lot of fake videos, but he's not anymore.
Yeah, that's why I wanted to catch up with you because I found out that all those videos
on his sites are bullshit. I mean, on his channel, I mean.
Yeah, he used to do a lot of fake videos from what I saw.
And a lot of them have it listed right underneath that this video is a joke.
Yeah, I'm so sorry about that. I thought it was for real.
No worries. Happy New Year's.
Oh, happy New Year's to you too.
How's it going, 50?
No, that right. There was my second car.
I mean, my third car.
Oh, my.
I think we might have lost 50 again.
No, I'm still here.
Uh, I can miss early.
My first car was a 73 new fork with 400 and a two barrel carburetor.
And I just raised against the universe.
Why would you put a two barrel carburetor on a big block?
Uh, and now I have the parts that would fix it, but it got burned up in the fire anyway.
Uh, second one I really owed what and still have is a 52 Dodge half-todd.
I just need to rebuild the engine and it are well probably a different, different engine.
But, you know, I have, I have always had great luck with the, with the old Chrysler flat heads.
I, you know, you just throw gas at them and turn them over and they start.
1968 Plymouth Fury 3.
Oh, my father had one of those.
Was it the police center?
We have them both.
Well, back then, we used to buy most of our taxi cabs from municipal auctions,
and that's how we got that one.
I worked with a guy that had one of those, uh, 67 interceptors with the 440s and
mine had a 318.
This guy used to have to put it up on a lift and pull the wheel off for changes,
port plugs, or the wheel wells.
I'm getting that kind of excited to get to go fix someone else's, uh, because they need a clutch
job done. And those are breeze pops right out under the hood 45 minutes by yourself. You're done.
What? Do a clutch?
Yeah.
Only crap.
Transmissions under the engine, chain driven.
So you slide the shaft out, pop, slave cylinder pressure plate, everything right out the hood.
Oh, that's nice.
That was the first thing that actually attracted me to these cars is how easy they are to work on.
They're just engineered totally different than everything else.
Like a Subaru.
Oh, kind of.
Well, the engines and backwards belts are up against the firewall.
Yeah, well, well, what up would it be, MW, MW motorcycle?
I don't know how much that you caught, you caught because, uh, my ISP
nuked out on me, but it, you know, I figured out some point to 60 Chrysler's.
If you took that front subframe, it was just exactly the, the inside with the subframe was
just exactly the outside with of the frame on my 52 pickup.
And that, you know, I, I had some idea in the past of, you know, solid off the,
solid off the frame on the pickup and sliding in, you know, in the pin suspension,
suspension and, and a big block and overlapping the frames and well-loomed together.
That sounds great.
There's a guy around here who's got an old smoky in the bandit firebird that's on top of a jacked-up GMC truck.
Yeah, I'm not a big fan of the frame on frame for real drive things, but they are interesting.
Oh, it's fun looking at, watching it go down the road.
I don't know if I'd want it, but it looks like fun.
I mean, I, I, I really want the dual Cadillac from the last Mad Max movie.
Years ago, and a friend of mine did bodywork, he took a, I think it was about a 72 Camaro,
put it on a 64 Chevy pickup frame.
Now, that was my fourth car, but the only difference in between the car I had in that one,
was mine was two years newer.
Yeah, it used to be a really major car freak at one time.
I'm not so much into it anymore, but what I like doing, and I'm going to do it again someday,
I like getting like one of those DVD minus R plus R disc or whatever, and putting a whole
shit load of totally awesome looking cars on it. And then you could take that disc and put it
inside your DVD player and watch all the beautiful pictures on your TV.
I usually put all my pictures in a drive on my Google Drive, and then when Chromecast goes to the
display screen, when you're not watching it, it scrolls through your pictures, and if you want,
you can have pictures from the internet or just your pictures. That's kind of neat.
It's you, Joe, you missed the great single board computer debate where we were today.
Oh, I'm sorry. I walked into all kinds of technical problems. My Zoom reset,
2014. I've been taking computers out of the system here, and we had hooked up a mumble,
the Skype bridge between two computers using optical links, and I took that computer out and I
walked in to join the crowd here, and I had no audio whatsoever. And I guess when I heard
when I came in here, the audio was just crapped up when I did get in, ended up having to reboot
and reset stuff. And wow, man, that is just one disaster after another.
I was really hoping 2017 would just go off without a hitch, and it started with a big
fizzle here. So what was the, what was the hike to the conversation?
I was mainly Joe Res, and the guys talking about which single board computer was
more performant than the other, and why they liked which one best. I think they kind of all
agreed that for the price, Raspberry Pi was it, and then probably an ode release for
actual performance. Raspberry Pi is a good board. Well, the three I like, it's a pretty strong board,
we should have a little bit more memory. Kind of a lot of nice operating systems available.
The Oderoids have some performance, but the GPUs almost unusable, unless you use one of the
Oderoid OSs, those have a little bit too black, they're very rolling, very, very, very rolling.
Let me tell you what's just my opinion. I've been doing a lot with the 964 V, I got an external
skicker going on it. I didn't realize that you had to have a module set up file in the right
place, and then I could port my audio through the headphone jack instead of the HDMI, so that
was built in, but I didn't know it until I found that you had to put this file on. That was good.
I like the Pi and 64, so I've got a couple of them here, and they run, well, one of the two
runs very reliably, I think, well, I think I got a flaky board out of one of them, but I do like it,
just walking sometimes, and it's just dead after, I think I need to reflow it, I think it's just
really a connector, maybe, maybe it's just a little weak on the power, but I like the Pi and 64s.
I could die at Pi on my zero, and at day eight runs great.
Yeah, I tried to die at Pi on the Pi, when I first got it. I didn't stick with it very long,
because I wanted to try, I don't want to, I just hadn't had time to go back to it.
If that installs some stuff for the gig, it's easy.
I've been nuking and paving everything, and including the boards, but looking for
to try not a lot of distros, trying to get away from the pre-made ones and get closer to the source.
It's been tough finding a good all-around distribution for all the different boards. It was just not one.
You've been listening to HECA Public Radio at HECA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy
it really is. HECA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicum Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the
Creative Commons, App Tribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
