Episode: 2567
Title: HPR2567: Son of Hunky Punk
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2567/hpr2567.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:48:22

---

This in HBR episode 2,567 titled Sun on Hunky Punk, it is hosted by Claudio Miranda and
in about 4 minutes long and Karina Cleanflag.
The summary is, I follow up on my frost episode by covering Sun on Hunky Punk, a men machine
interpreter for Android.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com, get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hey everyone, this is Claudio M recording a follow-up episode to episode 2473, where I talked
about Frots, which is an interpreter for those old tech adventure games from the 80s, like
Zork and Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
In this episode I'm going to talk about Sun of Hunky Punk, which is an Android application
for playing these games.
Now I was turned on to this by Brom, over on the Aghast Planet IRC channel on the free
node network.
And this is called Sun of Hunky Punk because it's a fork of the original Hunky Punk, and all
of these I'll provide a link for in the show notes.
You can actually grab Sun of Hunky Punk on Google Play or on Eftroid, which is how I got
it.
So once you've downloaded it and installed the application, if you open it you'll notice
that there's a list of games already pre-installed.
One of them, incidentally, is Adventure, which I covered in episode 2334.
So when you select a game, you'll be presented initially with the details of what the story
is all about.
You'll see an image of what would have been the cover art back in the day, or it'll actually
show you the screenshot of what the gameplay would be like on an old computer.
You'll also see the title of the game, the author, or authors in terms of more than one,
a summary of what the game is about, and you'll also see some other information like
when it was published, the genre type, and some other information as well.
At the very bottom you'll notice there's an open button, and touching that will throw
you into the game.
Now the nice thing about Sun of Hunky Punk is that right above the soft keyboard, you're
given a list of pre-set commands that pertain to the game, and you can actually scroll through
them.
So this makes it very convenient when you want to type in a command, you don't have to
type it in manually, you can just select that, and go on.
Now I wanted to see if I could get Zork to run on this like I was able to on Frots.
So Sun of Hunky Punk actually provides a folder called Interactive Fiction, and that's where
all the pre-set games, the pre-installed games are located, and this is where you want
to drop your own text adventure game if you have one.
So what I did was I took my copy of Zork, I dumped it into that Interactive Fiction folder,
launched Sun of Hunky Punk, and when I scrolled to the very bottom, I was happy to see Zork
shown in the list.
Selecting that gave me the details of the story, and on this one because I've already
started a game, I have two buttons.
One is the open button that I mentioned earlier, and the other is the restart button.
In this instance, if you have the two buttons there at the bottom, open will drop you into
the where you last left off in the game.
And the restart button does just that.
It restarts you back to the very beginning of the game as if you've never done it as
if you're starting from new.
Now the other feature that works well with this, which also worked with Frots, is that
Sun of Hunky Punk, just like Frots, will recognize the save and restore commands that pertain
to each game.
So for example, I could touch open in Zork 1, and end up where I last left off in the
game, but I can decide, you know what, I want to go back to a previous point.
So I can use the restore command along with the name of the game that I saved, and that
will restore the point where I saved, which is nice.
So be sure to give Sun of Hunky Punk a try and let me know what you think in the comments.
As far as iOS or even Windows Phone is concerned, I don't know if anything like this is available,
but if you have any of those devices, be sure to check your respective app stores and
let us know.
And record an HPR episode about it, because HPR is in needed shows.
Anyway, this has been ClaudioM.
You can reach me on IRC, on the ACAST Planet channel, on the free node network, as ClaudioM.
Or you can email me at ClaudioAtLineXpacement.com.
Thanks for listening.
You've been listening to HecaPublicRadio at HecaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HecaPublicRadio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution,
share a light 3.0 license.
