Episode: 2218
Title: HPR2218: Cool Stuff pt. 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2218/hpr2218.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:49:52

---

This in HPR episode 2,218 entitled Kualtzevd-5, it is hosted by Curtis and Kins, C-Prompt,
and in about 15 minutes long, and Karimaklin flag.
The summary is, C-Prompt talks about some more Kualtzev for you to enjoy.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Anastos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15,
that's HPR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananastos.com.
Hey everybody, this is C-Prompt North Carolina for Hacker Public Radio.
I wanted to do a real quick episode on some more cool stuff that I have come across.
I haven't done an episode in a while, and that work has been very taxing on my ability to stay
awake and do anything else other than just work. But you know, that's a good thing I guess.
Got a job. But anyway, let's talk about some cool stuff that I've come across.
The first thing is an Android app. You probably can get this for iOS if you use Apple products as well.
But I was looking for a web browser for my phone, and I was getting really annoyed.
I was trying to read articles one evening.
And every time that I would go to one of these websites,
there would be these crazy pop-ups and ads everywhere.
And you know, it just drove me away from reading the article in which is a shame because I'm sure
the article was fantastic. And I searched for a long time and used a lot of different browsers
and a lot of different plugins for Android that were supposed to help block ads.
But I just resulted to testing browser after browser after browser on known pages
that caused me issues using either Firefox or Chrome or something like that.
So the browser that I ended up settling on so far has been Opera Mini.
And it is obviously a mobile version of the Opera browser, but it has really nice built-in ad blocker.
It will show you down at the bottom of the screen. The number of ads that it has blocked so far
for that page and whatnot, it's been really nice using that browser.
So much that I was thinking about actually trying the Opera browser on my desktop,
but so far I've been just using Vivaldi, which is actually developed by the Opera Guys,
I do believe, but that's a different story. But inside of the Opera Mini, it has a native ad blocker,
which is pretty much the whole reason that I've been using this web browser. It has a nice
statistics on it. Once you go to the site, you'll see down at the bottom, if it's blocking an ad,
it's like a little shield and it'll have the number of ads that it's been blocking.
You can touch that and see how much data savings you have saved, how much data you have saved
with that website blocking those ads and such. It's been really nice to be using that web browser.
There's actually a website that I found that would test the ad blocking abilities.
So I'm going to put a link into the show notes, put a link in the show notes to that website
that you can test your browser and see how well it's doing on blocking ads actually.
A couple of things that it's nice, it has a built-in night mode.
So you can enable the night mode. So I read a lot of stuff at night with all the lights off
and just sit there and read through news until I get absolutely exhausted and can't stay awake any longer.
So you can actually go in and enable the night mode and it reduces the
I guess the backlight on the browser. I don't use that a whole lot. I actually use a different
app to do that, which I'll talk about at some point. It's been pretty nice.
So yeah, so if you're looking for a browser that is really good about blocking ads,
has some nice little features as far as the night mode and stuff like that.
Give Opera Mini a try. I'm sure it's in the Play Store or the however you download stuff
in the iOS device. Give it a shot. The next thing that I wanted to talk about is a website
that I found. I was needing to get some info on some fonts. I need to get like the unit code
of certain characters and stuff like that. And I know that there's stuff that's built in that you
can install and have stuff, but I just I didn't want to have to install anything to use.
So but this website that I found actually proved to be really useful. You can select a font
that is local on your desktop and it kind of loads it into the webpage. I'll be honest with you.
I have not looked at the source or anything. I really haven't looked into how it's doing that, but
I imagine it's just some Node.js or whatever you would use to do that. Actually, it says down
at the bottom. Now that I see it, this is powered by OpenType.js. So I'm going to look into that and see
what that is all about. But anyway, I'm going to put a link in the show notes to this site.
It's really handy. Like I said, you can it has some nice features. You just click the big
button that says select font. Go to your fonts on your local PC and it loads it into it. It gives you
a listing on the right side of all the glyphs and everything. So you can just click on them.
And then it will show you the character. It will show you the name of it. It will show you the
Unicode. It gives you a lot of information about that one glyph within a certain font.
But it helped out. You know, I was able to just load it up. I saw the character that I wanted to
define as a Unicode. I was able to just pull it in real quickly and get what I needed. It was fantastic.
So yeah, this is, it's on github.io. I love the name of this site. It's Blue James Bond.
I don't know. Blue James Bond.github.io slash character map. I'll put a link in the show notes
to that to that to that website because it was really handy.
Let's see what else we got here. The last thing is some music. So my music range is pretty wide.
I like a lot of different styles of music. I studied classical in college.
But I also studied jazz. So probably, probably real close to classical music. My favorite is jazz.
I just absolutely love the old jazz guys. But one of the newer jazz musicians that came across
that I have been absolutely loving listening to his stuff is a guitarist out of Israel. He was born in
Israel. And then he went to the, moved to New York and went to the new school for jazz and
contemporary music. And from there, he has recorded a few albums. I think maybe, I want to say maybe
five or six albums so far. One album that I've been listening to of his lately is his newest.
It's called HOMES, H-O-M-E-S. Absolutely gorgeous music.
Jazz guitar, basic drums, bass guitar. Obviously, it's all instrumental stuff, but yeah,
this guy is absolutely incredible. I want to put a link in the show notes to his website,
as well as a YouTube search for his stuff. Some of the stuff that he has on YouTube, I haven't
really been able to find a recording of it. An actual audio recording. It looks like it's only on
YouTube. I couldn't actually find a video of it other than YouTube, but he does some stuff on
the New York Jazz All-Stars, which is kind of like a festival type of thing. Really long video
on YouTube of him playing with that. There's also some stuff that he did with his trio.
Absolutely fantastic stuff. So if you like jazz or if you just like absolutely gorgeous
rocking, then just really good music as far as guitar goes. This jazz guitarist, I mean,
he is awesome. His name is Galad Hexelman, and I probably budget that, but whatever, I'm American,
so we're allowed to do that. But yeah, check out Galad Hexelman, and I'm going to put a link
in the show notes to his website, his Wikipedia article, as well as his search for him and YouTube
to list a bunch of his stuff. So yeah, if you like, if you're really into good music and stuff,
just check this dude out. So yeah, so that's three things. I think that's pretty good. We've been
going for 12 minutes or so. I like to keep these little cool things or cool stuff, whatever it's
called. Kind of short. I like to have them just be a teaser. I don't want to give too much
information on all this stuff. I don't want to have anybody go in with any type of biases as
far as what it might be. I want to just kind of use these to plant the seed, and hopefully it will
become of interest to someone something that I've talked about. So that's why I kind of keep them
short and succinct. So check them out. So we got Android app, which I'm sure is for iOS as well.
Real good browser, Opera mini. We've got a cool website. If you need to do some information on
fonts and you don't feel like downloading anything, just keep this site in your back pocket.
And while you're doing all this, be sure to check out some really cool jazz by Gilad Hexman.
Hope you all enjoy, and thank you for listening this far, and have a great day. Thanks, bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is part of the binary
revolution at binref.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
