Episode: 2541
Title: HPR2541: Microphone Wind Screen Demo
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2541/hpr2541.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:09:53

---

This is HPR episode 2,541 entitled Microphone Wind Cream Memo.
It is hosted by Lost in Drunks and in about 6 minutes long, and Karima Clean Flag.
The summary is Lost in Drunks demonstrates the effectiveness of his new Microphone Wind Cream.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Lost in Drunks, and today I am checking out a new purchase that I have.
It is a windscreen for portable recording devices, it can also fit over certain types of microphones as well.
I am outside in the woods near my home, and it is a windy day today.
There are some of the trees and bushes here. It is a windy, windy day.
Now I am recording this on a Tascam DR40, and the windscreen is called a MOVO WS9 Furry Outdoor Microphone Windscreen Muff for portable digital recorders up to 3 inches by 1.5 inches WXD.
The WXD would be with by depth.
That appears to be the entire title or name of this thing. It goes for $14.95 on Amazon.com.
I was using up the very last of my Bitcoin, so it really didn't actually cost me too much.
I am now broke when it comes to Bitcoin. This thing has a pretty remarkable effect on the recording quality and protecting from the wind.
Now you can probably hear the wind as a sound going through trees and just overall.
But the effect is dramatic when you take this thing off, and I will do that in a sec to give you a sense of it.
Just a brief description. When you open the box, you figure for $15, this thing ought to be really nice.
Well, it is disappointing when you first look at it. It is a strange thing. It looks like a triple from Star Trek. It is furry like that.
The bottom has an elastic band around it. There is no solid piece on this. It is stretchy. That is how it is able to fit different types of devices.
It is a bit of a job trying to get it onto the task cam. I have tested it on my other device, which is of a similar form factor.
That is the Zoom H4N Pro.
I have also tested it on a condenser microphone that I have that plugs into a cable, and that also works really well.
It is a bit tight, but it did go on. I will be testing this with regular microphones as well, but it is really kind of strange.
For $15, you can say, how could this possibly be worth it?
Well, if you don't have a need to record outdoors, it probably isn't worth it, although it is a good tool to have, just in case you need to.
If you do podcasting, especially if you do interviews where it might be windy, so you are doing it outside somewhere, or maybe underneath a blower, or something like that.
In some place, wherever there is going to be wind, this thing can be very handy. In fact, it is indispensable.
Could you make one yourself? I think probably you could. The fur on this appears to be artificial, but I suppose if you are a hunter type and you have access to rabbit fur or something like that, it might work, I don't know.
I actually did make one for a small microphone, just using yarn. My wife crocheted, and I had her crocheted just a little knot of yarn on the end of a little stretchy sock type thing that we sewed up.
Then I teased out the yarn with a comb, like just a comb for your hair, until it was all fuzzy at the end, and I slipped that over the microphone, and it actually worked really, really well.
Considering it cost nothing, it was just scraps we had in the house. It is possible to make something like that. Now that one was small.
If you want something that is going to fit over a recorder like this, it has to be bigger. That is certainly a bigger job.
But I was really impressed with this thing, and I think you will agree that, in point of fact, it makes a really big difference.
I will take this off right now, and then I will continue talking, and you will hear what it is like without.
So here I am, here comes a breeze, and the difference I think you will find is startling, and pretty impressive overall.
Just take this thing off. It is just a rubber band around some cloth with some fur, but it is really pretty good, and I am actually really impressed with the results.
Again, would I recommend it for the average user? Probably not, but if you have a particular use, I think you can just hear the difference that there is in fact a really good reason to have this, or something like it, when you are conducting interviews or doing any kind of recording outdoors.
I will be testing the other microphones, probably unless there is some startling change, or something that really needs updating.
I don't think I will necessarily share that information, because I think it is very easily deduced.
But I just wanted to share this little sound test, as it were. I am not necessarily endorsing this particular product.
I like it quite a bit, but you may well have a need for something else, something that fits a different form factor, or whatever.
So, or you may not have any need for it at all. However, I cannot recommend this sort of thing, highly enough, or a particular use case.
At any rate, this has been lost in Bronx, and if you have any comments on this episode, please leave them in the space for comments on hacker public radio, or better yet, if you have an opinion about this, or if you have experience with this yourself, please go ahead and do an episode of your own.
You have opinions, you have interests, and we want to hear about them.
Thank you for listening. Take care.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareAlive, 3.0 license.
