Episode: 2241
Title: HPR2241: HPR Community News for February 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2241/hpr2241.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 23:35:07

---

This is HBR episode 2,241 entitled HBR Community News for February 2017 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is hosted by HBR volunteers and is about 35 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment posted in February 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair
at an honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Pallan and you're listening to another exciting episode of Hacker
Public Radio. And this is the Community News show for the month of February.
I do believe so. Joining me tonight is Dave. Hi Dave. Hello and it's it's March but we're doing
February. Yes, yes. I'm glad I'm not the only one who's confused. That's good. And for those of you
joining for the first time Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast where the shows are crowdsourced
from the community. So if you listen to HBR, feel free to do a show and submit it to us. This we
are doing Community News show which is just stuff that goes on in the community. Dave and I are
two of the generators here at HBR and the community is basically based on what everybody agrees
is the way forward, usually on the main list. That's not very eloquent, Dave.
I was just watching you. Yeah, yeah, but it's it's a community and therefore everybody has a size
that's basically isn't it? Pretty much. Okay, so yeah, we're going to February. It seems only
to me, I can't even remember doing Chang. Oh, yeah, we did before. It was the night before
the night before Fostem and not a creature. It was moving.
Yes, yes. That's right. He was all done in a bit of a rush last time. I think that was fine.
Yeah, I had a and then off to Fostem. Oh man, that was that was hectic, that was and still not
recovered from that. Yeah, yes, it sounded like you were busy. Okay, let's go through the shows and
the idea behind this show is that once a month we will go through and at least give some comment
on the feedback on the shows because people are terrible at giving feedback.
Always try and give feedback on the shows. It's the coolest thing that can happen in your day,
especially if you like the show. Go ahead and give some feedback. At the moment, we're having
some website issues. So you sent off the show notes and I changed the links to redirect to
archive.org, which I must say was pretty cool actually. All the shows are all the shows and
I'm putting in the nastrix behind that, which you can fill in later are also published up to
archive.org with the show notes and it is pretty impressive actually. Yes, yes, it's quite like
we're not completely up to date because I should have been doing the last weeks a lot today,
but unfortunately, as you say, we're having website problems, so I can't. But yeah, most of them are there.
And also, having it a little weaker to afterwards is no big deal because sometimes we get corrections
to shows in the first week after they're published. So it saves you having to re-edit the shows and
archive.org, which is always a good thing. Partly why I did it. So I'm always a week behind,
but it's just a few days, so I can recommend it was a big deal. Yes, so we had the first show was
2218, Cool Stuff Part 5, Curtis Adams wasting shows by doing three things in the one show.
What, so long as he keeps them coming, I'm not going to complain. You know me, Dave.
Curtis Atkins, it was actually Atkins. Atkins. Yes, yes, yes. C prompt is probably easy.
Probably handy, but then do you put the charat at the end, C prompt charat?
Is that how you pronounce that, Dave? Do we shape symbol over the six on the US keyboard? How about that?
You know, somebody should do a show about the names of all the characters on the keyboard.
That would be pretty awesome. Well, it is interesting, actually, because that's called a carrot,
and it's also called a circumflex, depending on the context. I'm not sure what you know,
in French, it's used a lot, and it's called a circumflex, something like that.
Okay, so you didn't fall from my trap there, first of all, move on.
No, I'm not doing that show, and I was like, yes, anyway, I like to, I just wanted to say that
I like the reference to Opera Mini, which I haven't yet tried, but I want to.
That was useful thing. I like the format of these shows, as I've said before.
Yeah, and a fond family thing is pretty cool, actually, it's nice to have a little.
Yeah, indeed, that's really cool, isn't it?
And then just some music recommendations. Always nice, pretty cool.
Oh, yes. Good show. Then we had Regé coming back again with the
Mustang musings of another cable TV cutter, which you shouldn't do, because I work for a
cable TV company, but it was interesting. I brought this up a more catcher, and I had a few
people listen to it, and then here is a guy who's cut the cable, but we also do over the top
stuff, so it's no skin of our nose, really.
Yeah, yeah, I felt really sorry for the tale he was telling, really, that it's cable TV
deals in the USA, and really dreadful, in general.
I would hope that ours are not like that.
So, I will skip merely on, but I have heard some pretty horrendous sales tactics.
I think in the EU, a lot of those stuff isn't just an allowed under false advertising,
or maybe the regulation is stronger or something, I don't know.
Yeah, yeah. I've given up all that stuff, because I've said before, so I don't care.
I do feel sorry for people who want to watch TV and stuff.
So, the following day, we had HPR222, taking apart a tablet, and it was such a pity that he couldn't
find the problem, or maybe I've ruined the show now for people, but I was having my fingers crossed
during the whole thing. I actually needed to do something similar here as well.
Yeah, yeah, it's something in the tablet, it's not really a spoiler after the event, is it?
No, that's true, but then again, maybe people listen to the show to know which ones
to listen to. We're not going to be able to do the comments until afterwards, Dave.
Normally, we would do the comments. Are we?
Yes. Up to you, really.
Well, if you go with these, you can keep them in your head for a while.
Well, it's probably, I don't know, I've got all the comments in another tab here.
Oh, yeah, here's the comments.
I sent you a list of all the comments which I pulled out of a copy of the day.
Oh, well, can you do all the comments?
Because I don't have access to them this whole.
Okay.
Well, there was a comment on that one, taking apart a tablet.
So, if you can read that.
Yes, it was Alpha32, who said, oh, man, this was a real nail-butter.
I really hope you had a grounding bracelet.
Thanks for looking inside a tablet and thorough description.
So, yeah, yeah, what it was, was it going to fix it or not?
So, yeah, very good.
Cool, Dave. Thanks very much.
We've got a nice text file here.
Yeah, I think this is an emergency some time ago,
and we've never had to use it.
Okay, brilliant.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, the following day was HPR Community News and Brian commented to say,
sorry, I'll make a point of having better show notes.
I was on audio.
Any audio is better to know audio.
The show should have been a month out, if I prepared a research.
I apologize for the inconvenience for those who needed them.
And I'll just come and reply back and that.
This was about the, this is about the his show.
We were mentioning this his show was about the pottery.
And basically, yes, my own catchphrase,
and the show is better than no show is very up to there.
And I couldn't believe for one second that he did that show
unscripted without your loss.
Yeah, I know it's, I'm sure it did actually, but it's a very, very,
very detailed subject and he really covered a lot of that.
Yeah, but I would have thought like if you were,
the way he was going through it so systematically, I thought,
oh, he obviously has to have been working off a list.
He can't be just, this can't be coming out of one person's head
without like a, a, a, a, um,
Paul Gore posted north sticking around the place.
So I am now extremely, extremely impressed with, uh,
with Brian there while done here.
Yes, absolutely.
I should say that, uh, when we, we're talking about this last,
the last episode, the last community news,
I said I would add some of the, uh,
which video links that I've been looking at while I was saying,
I did that. I did that, we can't see it at the moment, but, um,
they, they are added to the, well, that's a good point.
I haven't been updated on, um, I'll come to org so that's,
that's the, uh, the rain of failed if continues.
It's hard to get good help nowadays, folks.
I'll leave it to you then, Ken, that's all right.
So let's just skip through all the Fostem talks and just deal with them.
So we had one, two, three, four, five, six, six Fostem episodes in total,
something like eight and a half hours of, uh, of talks,
given the thing was only open for, I was only there for, uh,
12 hours in total. That was, that was pretty efficient this year.
Yeah, you really seem to, to blitz the riddle, I have to say,
and it was, it was really, really interesting stuff.
It's, uh, that I made a few notes.
It was just a few things that stood out to me.
It was just my own personal interest.
I particularly like listening to Jonathan Redell having just recently, um,
put, uh, Katie Neon on the laptop and using today, um,
really enjoying it so far. A few things crash,
but, uh, on the whole, pretty damn good.
Well, that love talk looks, uh, pretty nice, I tell you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Um, I was fascinated that next cloud and own cloud were,
but they'd down the corridor from one another.
There were, uh, far enough away that you couldn't throw stops on.
It just struck me as a music.
And the other thing that I noticed was tiki wiki sounded a lot nicer than
I've heard before. The interview made it sound like something I really want to get into.
And the, uh, the turrets on near router.
Oh, that's such a cool device.
Sounded so brilliant. I wanted to go and see them,
if I'd made it to bosom, I would have been there at the, at the standard.
Yeah, it sounded really good from from what I was hearing an interview there.
It just looked so clean and the, you know, the,
these guys have obviously been thinking a lot of, uh, very bright minds,
but also looked very clean and it was, um,
seemed that they had a lot of real world expertise from people
pod into it. Yeah, it's, it's a little expensive, but, uh,
it's probably worth it given that, uh,
the rate of me buying routers and them failing or, you know,
something nasty happened to them as it's been quite high.
So I'm sure I've spent that amount and more than once since, since I've been, uh,
using Adios also, very tempted to go for one.
The Tory Pratchis, um, economy of the boot.
How was that?
Yeah, he has this theory that poor people, uh, spend more money on,
you buy a cheap pair of boots, whereas, uh, rich people buy a, um,
have the money to buy a very good pair of boots that they can continue to repair
and pass them on from generation to generation.
You know, yes, yes, yes, yes, it's similar to that, yeah.
Yeah, but there was a lot of, uh, a lot of interesting talks this year and, um,
I did, uh, we, I ended up, um, doing the posters and, uh,
things for the, for the stands, which meant that, uh,
a lot of the work afterwards in getting the, um, logos and things was scriptible.
So the following day wasn't, wasn't so bad, but I had, I ended up going down on
the Friday and going in on the Friday to the stands as well.
So, uh, it was, we missed you terribly, Dave, to be honest.
Uh-huh. Yeah, I was sad I couldn't come.
But I, uh, JWP was there, we had, uh, with a good laugh.
Um, my, my nephew was there as well, but I basically didn't see him.
Okay, you have a good time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Bye and go on to the internet and things and he's gone.
That's a way to do it.
That's a way to do it.
So, yeah, the internet thing sounded a bit going on there,
which is interesting.
I heard mention of MQTT, which I played with a little bit, which is good.
I didn't, uh, get to see any of the talks as yes.
No, no, looks like all of the videos, um,
well, a good proportion of them came out this, this year.
Three of the two, they, they, they've been a bit flaky, but it's from what I've seen quite a lot.
I did actually watch a few sessions in real time, um, and was getting really good, uh,
streaming from, from the sessions too, which is again, uh, a breakthrough.
Yeah, they, um, we also put the talks, our talks up on the web, um, the first-time website.
So they, uh, uh, on the unbranded, uh, web files, our flak files are up there as well,
which is pretty nice.
Excellent, excellent.
So, um, there was one comment on, uh, first-time H-building whole-way track and that was from
Be Easy.
I wanted to leave one comment for this series.
Thank you very much for these episodes.
The Replayers Intellition.
Listen to, I wish I could have attended.
It makes me want to record at least one episode from Scale,
which I will be attending.
Who's me a show, Dave?
Yeah.
Oh, you said it.
Yes, yes, absolutely.
If you say it, see who I'm going to show.
Okay, and then we had a whole series of talks from Clinton Roy.
Uh, actually, I, I wouldn't call them talks.
I would call them conversations.
Was a better description.
And, uh, I was, I had the feeling that I was, you know, uh, as he was doing these interviews,
he was in the coffee bar and I was just, uh, with my chair, with my back to them,
you know what I mean, uh, in between the two of them, uh, whoever he happened to be interviewing.
Very, very, very cool.
It's, it was a nice way of doing, doing a series of, uh,
interviews, I thought it just, just nice, relaxed chat about all sorts of interesting stuff.
And interesting people.
Some years very involved with the, with the Linux comp study as well.
So, you know, sometimes some of the information was coming from him.
Sometimes I was coming from the guests.
So, uh, very, very high level of access to how we got to the, to the whole organization.
Very impressed.
Yes, yes.
I, as I was listening, I wasn't sure whether this was a room full of people in suits
or whether it was a bunch of really relaxed.
I laid back people.
Relax.
When you lay back people, they're all Australian.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Yeah, no.
With their knives and, you know, a crank.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's the, yeah, it's the story of times in there.
And the house with the, with the corks and stuff.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm sure it's just like Crocodile Dendy.
Well, I, I went and looked at the site and it, it looked a bit, it was all very,
I went, there were, there's quite a lot of videos too that you can check.
Yeah.
And it does look like swap people in t-shirts and shorts and jeans and stuff doing,
doing stuff.
It looks like, like a Linux conference.
Yeah.
And, uh, Clinton Roy said, um, comment one, Guido, uh, sorry, was Guido replied,
great to hear about the big picture.
As someone who put on an open source conference in Boston,
I find it hard to get the feel of where the community is locally.
I really enjoyed this interview and discussions about how to engage organizers
with tools for conferences.
Yes, it was interesting when they, they have refined the, um,
the sort of conference software quite considerably.
I'd like to hear more about what that, what that does and so forth.
But, uh, yeah, it sounded pretty impressive.
And, uh, Kevin O'Brien says great interviews.
I just finished listening to them today and they were great.
I hope you can do more in the future.
Yep, so do I.
So, that was, uh, that, then we had hoarding Raspberry Pi's by Be Easy.
And that was, that was actually kind of cool because I've got exactly the same rack here
and in work, I got three of those racks because I want to do something for work as well.
So, there are a great way to store, um, pies.
In fact, I went out and got some of those, um, little, um, you know, pillars.
So, to make these myself for my, um, data center in a, in a, in a cellar downstairs.
Yeah, I, I had tried to source these racks personally, um, a while back and there weren't many
available at that time. I think it's probably better now, but, uh, yeah, you can get all the,
the standoffs in nylon or brass or whatever.
So, yeah, I was actually talking with making a design and getting it cut and make a,
make a place in town, but haven't done anything about it yet.
You have a makeover place in town?
Yeah, yeah, it's the Edinburgh, Edinburgh make map.
And you haven't done any interviews from there.
You often got down there a day of, and conscripted people in today.
Sorry, we're not allowed to use the word conscript.
Encourage volunteers to help out with the HPU.
I know, I keep it into doing conscripts.
Is it all bad?
Anyway, sick club, uh, says right on.
Very good show. High praise indeed from slick sick club.
And Jesra also high praise.
Wonderful. When you mentioned that the Raspberry Pi's are general computer computers,
I really resonated with me that they would also be ideal for an always on computer due to the
low power consumption. Absolutely.
I have just finally, Dave, finally gotten my, uh, my A Raspberry Pi here for myself to have the
temperature of sensor outside and inside, which is pretty cool.
Okay. Yeah, I want to do that.
I want to do that.
Yes.
Nice to hear about that.
You are my show.
Did I just follow up?
I've fallen to my own trap.
No, you did.
You did.
Yeah, it's actually, it's actually okay.
Yeah, I'll see.
And what else?
Yes, and I've got a, I've got a bit scope micro, um, uh, DSO digital oscilloscope.
And I have no clue how to use it.
So I can plug it into this thing here.
So I've got a small, I've got a, uh, monitor here.
I hit you my monitor.
And next to that, I've got a GP monitor.
I got a good little store, um, twinkle, uh, wrinkle and a flexible thingy and, uh, flexible,
uh, keyboard.
And then, right.
Okay, I'm going to have to do a show.
Yes, yes, yes.
Why did I even go there?
Why do I, why do I, why do I even
talk to you?
Well, you know, it's, you know, it's like the other end, you know, it's, uh, yeah.
Okay, I just, I just, uh, took delivery of, uh, a pi zero w yesterday.
I've just been playing.
Oh, I didn't even, I just barely heard about them.
I've been off the internet so long.
Yes, I, I, I just happened to be on various mailing lists and I got a thing that said,
oh, they're pi zero.
I don't, whoa.
Who's selling them?
Where can I bow on?
So yeah, I got one.
And, uh, a little case and stuff.
It's, it's looking pretty good.
I mean, basically, it's, it's like the pi,
I cut down version of the pi three.
It's got the same wireless and Bluetooth hardware in it.
But, uh, it's, it'll be really good for making small devices to, uh, you know,
to, to your weather station, that type of thing, you know,
should be able to run, uh, run it off for a living, you know,
I'm, uh, living my own battery.
Quite well, I would have thought.
Oh, wow.
And those are available in completely places now.
So yeah, cool.
So it's the same form factor as they, uh, zeroes.
Yes, the, the boards rearrange.
So some of the cases that fit really, really tightly don't, don't quite fit,
but all of the, uh, connectors in the same place.
I just realized all my cases for the, uh,
don't work with the pi two or the pi three.
No, which is a bit of a problem.
Yeah, but on it, yes, that's life.
That's life, Jim.
Shall we go through some of the other show notes that are comments that we had?
For example, um, how awesome is GNU Linux?
Why it will take over the world by clacky?
Geeks.
That was geeks, by the way, G-U-I-A-Geeks.
For landscape, just, okay, you do this one, then.
Uh, clacky says video.
I did, I did record a presentation in using those slides in February.
So I guess I won't record a show.
The video is here and it gives a link to the, um, video.
It was in Hong Kong and we did a, did a talk about geeks and, uh,
the latest community news suggested, though, that my everyday package operations comment
deserved an episode.
So I may record that.
There we go.
I'm on the hook for one day of conscripts.
Step forward.
And on the episode makers on YouTube by Dave Morris, uh,
I think we, we read that one last time, actually.
Okay.
I think, yeah, because when did we record last time,
right up on the last day on the second here?
I've forgotten.
Yeah.
So it was, that's why that, that one had come through, then.
So, and so we had the next one on, uh,
mini-jisks.
Do you want to, yeah.
Okay.
Clay body by Brian.
Can I read that, Dave?
Brian says, yeah.
The clarification.
Uh, I want to impress the image of clay particles on their memory,
but it caused me to simply bolt the form,
cause me to simplify both the formation of the clay and the aging of the clay quite a bit.
The more important mechanism is the chemical, uh, decomposition regarding both mold,
algae, beer, etc.
Can be very good for the aging process.
And the mountain is more decomposed chemically than the ground to dust.
I had not appreciated that.
He's saying that, you know, quite a lot of clay, the substance you find that's referred to
as clay is in riverbeds because it's sort of grand and stuff, a pattern, grand and stuff.
The argument is that, uh, the best materials or the best composition of the stuff
is due to chemical decomposition of the rock rather than the physical breakdown.
So that's it.
And if you read the Wikipedia article, it does give some quite useful insights into that as well.
I know that.
Interesting.
Very, very much so.
Okay.
Working a, oh, alpha, Oscar 85 with my son by Christopher and Hobbes, Michael, uh,
Miri from our, uh, hosts, our conscripts.
I've got stuff, these that were really, I like it though.
I just conscripted you into HBR.
Hello, Christopher.
You were wondering why the Doppler shift was on the transmit side of the AO85 satellite.
Well, there is always a Doppler shift on the uplink and downlink frequencies up and down
are separated by using different frequency bands on two meters.
That's VHF, uh, one for five megahertz.
And on 70 centimeters, that's VHF for three, five megahertz.
As Doppler, well, note, I really wish a lot more people would do what he just did there,
putting in brackets, what two meters and 70 centimeters.
So anyway, by the way, as Doppler shift scales with frequency, it is obvious that the effect
is thrice as severe on the 70 centimeter frequency as opposed to the two meter.
AmSatOscr85 AO85 has a UV transponder, which means the transmissed directions
towards the satellite is on UHF and thus experiences a greater Doppler shift.
Some other satellites have the U transponders where the bigger shift effect will be seen
on the output of the satellite.
Another entry for the list of things to explain in a separate show or an amateur round table is
what is this Doppler shift all about? Great suggestion.
The best way to demonstrate it would probably be a recording of the telegraphy telemetry beacon.
Many of the birds have, when, uh, sorry, I'll do that again, probably the best way to demonstrate
this would be the recording of the telemetry telegraphy telemetry beacon.
Many of the birds have satellites where you can easily hear the pitch of the tone changing
while the satellite passes. By the way, I was not even aware that there was an AO85.
I have to keep more updated on this interface, regards Michael.
Yes, wonderful stuff. I'd like to know about the Doppler shift.
We are finally starting to get the old Elmer's out of the wood here, get them recording,
pull them away from their their shacks and get them recording HPR shows.
Although they, uh, they, they, they, they've, the first, um,
Han Radio one hasn't been released on the live feed as yet.
Oh, we missed a, we missed a podcast, by the way.
And that is hoarding, uh, so hoarding rest replies.
And after that is, do you care by Curtis, Adam, by Curtis, addikins, see prompt,
so complex. And this was a show about where he apparently has a problem when people say,
I couldn't care less or I could care less.
Now I have spoken to him before about this.
I could care less thing.
And I think he's absolutely wrong in his statement.
I think you're trying to generate a show here.
You can, so sounds like the show generator coming on the show.
No, actually, I, I've already spoken to him on IRC about this because if you do care about
right, the thing is I could care less about this topic.
To me, it means I could care less, but I'm, I have no interest in caring in, in,
putting in the effort.
I couldn't care less, can never be Dave.
It, it simply cannot be.
He drew a line from zero to a hundred, right?
So by definition, if you're alive, if the universe has ended,
there is still always the faint possibility that you can care less.
You know what I mean?
If I could try, I could try to care less about this topic,
but there is always a possibility that something will change that, yes,
I might, my great uncle was a natural fact interested in this topic,
but now he has passed away.
So therefore, I now even care less than I did earlier.
You know what I mean?
So the whole statement to me is erroneous.
It can't possibly exist.
It's a fallacy.
It's a lie.
You should, you should, anytime you hear somebody saying,
I couldn't care less, means that they, the, the, the, the, the,
they are incapable of,
oh, yeah, I can't if we go there.
I'm going to stop right now.
That's it.
Yes.
Well, number one, it sounds like you, you must have done a philosophy degree
alongside the engineer, engineer.
I just spend a lot of time in Irish bars.
That's the only one that happened.
Secondly, you seem to be in the school of, it goes up to 11,
and it goes down below zero.
I don't know.
George, no, I do actually believe that.
In a binary world, you, you will never get down to zero.
It's like, it's like when you go into the physics experiments and they go,
in, let's assume, you know, there's zero friction and you're working in a vacuum chamber.
But, but, but, what you're telling me will never occur.
It's just a rough approximation.
This could never occur.
Yeah.
It always bothered me.
But, but, but, but, but, but, the average is an absolute zero,
so, you know, I think that could be an absolute zero in the, in the carrying scale.
Yes, can we count it?
We as humans cannot operate on absolute zero.
So if there is, you prove my point, Dave, you prove my point, take it to the
mom, stick it in your mouth. And that's how much you care, even without trying to
care. There's still the potential that you're going to lose some careness.
Yeah, yes, yes, yes, I see where you're going. It was at this point that
Curtis threw his MP for unclear, I think, the wall that discussed.
Yes, however, I really couldn't care less about this.
Yes, yes, I think I think probably we should change this expression or both of those expressions
and go for absolute zero in the caring scale. Yes, how far are you on the absolute zero in
the caring scale? But to me, when people say I could care less, I always add in in my head,
I could care less, but I'm not motivated enough. I don't care enough to do it.
I don't care enough to do it. That's really what I get from it, which is I will admit
50% incorrect because you're not saying the statement, you're not completing your sentence.
Whereas I couldn't care less, it's just a lie, people are lying to you, Dave, and I can't be
dealing with that. I think it's a figure of speech, rather than thinking absolute scale.
Maybe I'm going too deep into this. Oh, I have to live with myself every day, Dave.
Now we have a problem because we have no idea what happened in the
mailing list. That is a problem, I'm afraid. Yes, I haven't managed to come up with a solution to
that one. In the days when we had G-Main, we could have run over there and looked at it, but
G-Main. I could, I suppose, go back and type HPR into my archive and find out what was going on
on the mailing list. How do you post a show under various hosts? That's a good question,
actually, isn't it? Yeah. And the answer is you email,
Admin at Hackerpop.gradio, and you tell us that you posted a show.
Usually we know if it's coming in that it will be from who it's from, so it's usually another
problem. If you put it in there, if you put something in the in the host field, just say please
post this under your own host profile, please post this as Hackerpop, as what various artists or
whatever. Yeah. And the first installment of the amateur roundtable was posted due to reservations
with Fostem and Denise Comte, you show not air until the 3rd of March. We'll probably want to wait
until after that to do another roundtable, together additional comments and questions from
interested parties. Absolutely. Bob Youngman said, hi all, I finally uploaded a show. I left out
some details as the way to edit it after it airs. Also, I added the show notes in plain text.
Should you use another format and you reply to welcome on board. We don't offer a way to edit
stuff. And there's, I've been thinking about that day. And I think, yeah, when you post a show,
it's the show supposed to do. It's in the ether. And that's it. I'm afraid what said, said,
that said, we have edited show notes on a regular basis. Yes. Yes. It's just the thing of being able
to go and edit it yourself like a sort of CMS or something would be, would be nice. But
why would it because then people can go back and change stuff. And it's not what was valid on the day.
Shusha, but you'd need, yeah, the way you do that in the CMS is you have an approval process. So
somebody upstream says, oh, no, you're not saying that and doesn't let it through and so forth.
Yeah, there is, there is. And that's what the, that was the idea behind the PGP key thing that if
you had the, if you had signed your horse, your horse key is available. And that we could validate
it some way that you would be able to edit it automatically. But that's, that's on the list
of things to do. We're also having problems with the admin mailing list. We are getting, if you
email admin at hackerpopagradio.org, we are getting them. And we will reply, depending on your
time zone, maybe 12 hours later, but, but you will get saying this mail user doesn't exist. And
we've contacted Josh about this and he's kind of busy with life for the minutes. So we will,
we will see what happens. Yeah, yeah, it's, it's a shame that it does that because it puts people
off a bit, but there you go. It's not the end of the world. We do, we do get this stuff. And we,
we pointed out that it's just a glitch rather than a, an out and out fail. Yeah, good. Okay.
Okay. So that was it. We steamed through them because of the amalgamation of the HPR stuff or
the first time stuff. And then it's comfortable. But yeah, I have nothing else to say, Dave.
Well, me neither, really. It's been a lightning pass, sure, really, isn't it?
To make up for the two hour jobs that we've done in the past.
Oh, yeah. Okay. So we don't have to sing a song right now. I just don't do that. We don't know. You know, you know,
you know, it's all as I do. Join us now and share the software. Anyway, tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker. Pop, pop, pop, lick, radio. Thanks, Dave. Good night. Good night.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club. And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
