Episode: 2177
Title: HPR2177: Knowledge Interconnection, the thai express hack
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2177/hpr2177.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:19:53

---

This is HPR episode 2,177 entitled Knowledge Interconnection, the TIEX PressHack.
It is hosted by Paceman and in about 7 minutes long.
The summary is learn things at Empowerview and Interconnect with other of your knowledge.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Well, hello to all hackers, today I'm really excited to talk about this Knowledge Interconnection
to TIEX PressHack.
Doesn't that sound cool?
Anyway, let's go on with it.
I just made this thing up, Knowledge Interconnection, but what I refer is whatever you're putting
the energy into learning because you control what you want to learn and where you put
the energy, like what you're learning, you should actually focus and filter to only
learn things that you can create a system in your head where you're doing something,
like binding all of those knowledge altogether.
For a small example would be aquaponics.
I don't know if you know aquaponics, but it's basically combining the knowledge of fish with plants
and creating a system where you feed the fish.
They take a shit and then that shit puts nutrients in the soil for the plants and then the plants filter the water for the fish.
So it's basically a loop of knowledge that just recursively call upon one another.
And this is what I'm about to tell you when a hacker orders something at TIEX Press.
Well, first of all, don't get me wrong here.
If the purpose of you saving money just going to a restaurant is dumbfuck.
You're a dumbfuck.
If you want to save money, just don't go to a restaurant.
Well, you know, it's okay to go to a restaurant from time to time, especially with friends.
I only go when friends do ask me to go there.
Now, I'm going to basically tell you how a drone your everyday guy who's not into hacking
when, like, how they would order at TIEX Press.
So they would go there and order meat and they would have this energy because of what they're eating.
They would contribute to killing the planet because they're eating meat and then they're going to throw everything in the garbage.
They're going to throw, like, the fucking plastic they have.
They're going to throw everything and that's pretty much it.
They paid, like, when the order of meat is for about $14, so they would be $14, $14 bucks.
And they would just eat and get out just the way society just told them to do.
But here's how a hacker, like me, orders.
And you'll see that all the knowledge that I know is interconnected just by doing a purchase.
So basically right off the bat, I'm going there and I look like I order it vegan, which means that I have more energy to do more things.
Like, I have a small business and I do programming.
So because I'm ordering a certain type of food, I am already, I'm already more fucking performing just because of what I'm ordering.
Right off the bat, I have a huge advance.
But here's how it goes.
I asked for three extra noodles and 75 cents for an extra noodle.
So I just paid $2.5 and I got another meal, an extra meal for $2.5.
So when you order it, vegan is 10 bucks instead of 14.
And I get to pay $2.5 to have an extra meal.
Now I don't throw away the plastic, I keep it to grow food and it's a container.
So instead of taking that plastic and throwing it, I keep it for food growing.
Now, asking an extra noodle is thinking in terms of metasploit.
It's an exploit that I'm exporting.
It's nothing.
And keeping the plastic is a DIY thing.
It's doing it yourself kind of a thing.
Instead of going to buy plastic, I'm just doing some problem solving and saying, hey, I have access to a container there, so I'm going to keep it.
And for the wooden sticks, there's two possibilities.
Either I keep it for a fire, I do have a fireplace.
And if I keep it, it's just, I don't have to go and buy sticks.
Yeah, and they do, you have the options of taking peanuts.
If nuts are quite expensive, so I always take three bags.
I use one and I keep two.
And that's pretty much it.
When I'm carrying them, I'm carrying them in a bag.
And the bag that I'm carrying it with is a bag of rice.
I purchase rice and I keep the fucking bag so I don't have to purchase other bags.
So you see how my knowledge is interconnected.
I recycle, I find some exploit to pay a bit more and have way more food than I should have.
And because I'm into, and I decided to grow food, I keep the material to grow food with.
And because I'm growing food, it means that I have to work less hours.
I have to not sell out.
I don't have to have a job that I don't like because I'm fucking growing food.
So you see how fucking beautiful hacking is?
Can you see that you don't need a computer to program?
To meet programming.
Computers are a tool that you use to program, or you put that.
But programming is everywhere, my friend.
And when you learn hacking, and you really learn what hacking means,
and the spirit of a hacker, that doesn't have another podcast.
But this is the kind of results that you can get for yourself in your life.
It's beautiful, it's wonderful, it's sustainable.
And it's intellectually stimulating.
And saying, intellectually satisfying, you're like, shit.
I'm creating this system of loop of benefits for myself that I can share with others as well.
And then people could, like, I'm telling you this,
and you could actually improve what I'm saying.
You could say, hey, you could actually use that for this and that and that.
I don't pretend to be a genius or something and bow and listen to me.
No, I'm just here.
I see life as a circle, and you basically enter the circle you give,
and then you receive back as well.
And we just keep on upgrading ourselves.
So this is pretty much it.
So I hope you liked it.
You know, the goal is, I'm not saying go to Thai Express and fucking do that.
I'm just saying, like, start applying it in other sphere of your life,
start applying it in other things.
Like when I purchase spaghetti sauce, I always try to find a glass container and I can keep it.
Whatever I'm doing.
And I don't use plastic bags and all that.
And whenever I use a bag, I use the rice bags when I purchase rice.
So hopefully you enjoy that.
Happy hacking.
You can find me on low-to-average.org slash Spaceman 1.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative firmens,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
