Episode: 2066
Title: HPR2066: HPR Community News for June 2016
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2066/hpr2066.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:00:15

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com
Hello everybody, this is HBR Community News for June 2016 and in this show it's a regular show put on every month.
For the HBR Community to give you a little idea about what's going on on the mailing list and quick run through some of the shows that you might have missed etc etc etc.
Joining tonight is Dave, how are you Dave? Hi Ken, I'm great thank you, hi everybody.
We're a bit late starting this recording due to the fact we had a 20 minute discussion on the Brexit vote which we won't flute you here.
This could be the longest show ever if we're not careful. Very very true, very very true but very interesting times.
By the time you hear this in a few years time you'll wonder what we were all talking about but anyway.
This show is HBR itself is a community podcast network which means the people who are submit the shows are the people who listen to the shows so if you're listening to the show and you ever thought of contributing a podcast somewhere
or you want to start your own podcast feel free to use HBR as a springboard to do such a thing because that is exactly what we're here for is to help people share knowledge and get into podcasting.
The reason I'm going we probably picked up quite a few listeners due to the fact we were nominated for the technology people's podcast award and we would like to congratulate Hack 5 on being the wordy winners in that section.
Big shout out to all of those guys and thank you very much to everybody who nominated us and everybody who voted for us.
So as part of this show we will start by introducing the new horse Dave do you want to do that?
Yes indeed if you like we have three new hosts I had to do a double take there because we've got one very long name we had handsome pirate and we had Tony Hughes whose title includes aka Tony H1212 which causes the speech synthesizer a bit of a problem.
And we had Todd Mitchell.
So congratulations to those three hosts I'm becoming a podcaster although that's a bit moosh for Tony who's had been on many podcasts before and handsome pirate I was shocked shocked and stunned to find that this was his first show but there you go.
So the first show was a what turns turning out to be a bit of a series for just me and it is discussing beer tasting and the first beer was Laguntus Maximus am I missing that IPA's do you like an IPA?
Pardon?
Do you want to correct my pronunciation first?
I've heard it pronounced Laguntus I used to listen to a podcast where they did a lot of beer chat and and that was one that was often mentioned and that was the way they pronounced it but they were in Arizona so I don't know if that means anything.
I've never never had this pure never been exposed to us maybe it's a I've always wanted to try it but it doesn't come to this side of the Atlantic.
I must say though I don't like IPA's to be honest.
I do actually quite enjoy the the hoppiness of them but it's it's a personal taste obviously indeed indeed.
Okay that was a good show like the series would like to have a show about reviewing beers what how you should do a show on reviewing beers that would be I know it's a bit matter but I know a lot of people would namely myself would love to have an excuse to
have a beer and I'm not having a beer I'm recording a HPR episode would be an excellent excuse.
It's true actually I am I would like to be able to describe beers to people not necessarily on a show but I just say things like oh it was very nice it had a quite bitter or it was
hoppy or something like that but you know a bit more of a capillary would be good.
Exactly exactly.
So cool you also in China turned out literal.
Yeah I know noted that too it's very interesting I would like to hear more about that.
So the following day we had in my bill thank you Bill power supplies used for electronics work very nice very nice episode
and there's some comments here basically what he describes what sort of power supplies you should have and has given instructions about which would be the best ones to have.
As I am getting into electronics myself this was an extremely interesting show for me and I have a question and that is why does my power supply need to have zero volts on it which he mentioned in the show because surely you can just turn it off and then that would be zero volts.
Or am I missing something and my bill can come back and answer that.
But yes don't ask me.
Now that was interesting I'd also like to get into that sort of stuff so I'd like to know more about that.
And in the comments one the next friend of his shot on my line so that was nice to see.
Yes and Dayton and my bill came back and said shoot me an email sometime.
Dave some other bash tips for some reason has been removed from my MP3 player or sorry out player because it's a no player.
But I will download it again and listen to it so I've just been going through the show notes tonight which have been which are very detailed as always because your shows require a full attention on the train.
I can't just listen to them every place and then I went back and I couldn't find the show again.
And then I went and downloaded the last episode you had which was learning said which I hadn't listened to so I listened to that thinking I called up with myself.
And now I realize that I completely missed this one but I'm just going through this and there are massive amount of things in it so what I'll do is I'll put my comments into.
There are massive amount of things I'm finding useful in it and I'll put comments in the next episode and we can discuss it then if that's okay.
Yeah yeah it's fine it's fine yeah yeah I don't know whether to apologize for making them so dense but I just I'm doing because if I were at the stage I was when I started to do them.
And somebody had done them for me I would have been delighted because these are things I like to know about.
I just reckon that if I do then maybe somebody else will probably that's only like 1% of our audience but even so maybe they've been they're enjoying it.
No I do I do listen to these and after each of each and every one of the shows that you've done so far my scripts have been modified and I've gone even back and edited some of the scripts.
I've even stopped using sequence 1 to 10 Dave.
Well done well done. Now I do the same I find myself actually use having learnt in detail because you have to learn these things to talk about them.
I think oh right that's how it works now I'll use it and I do you know things like process redirections and things of that sort process substitution is yeah just brilliant things.
It's amazing the power that's just out of our fingertips and we just take it for granted.
Bash is hell of a complicated thing is a lot more in it than you'd expect from a scripting language actually.
Yeah exactly. Also I can tell the age of my scripts by how what I've looked at what particular time I started using particular things.
Yes yes yes yes and back ticks I haven't found out about a brace expansion.
Well yeah well the same here same here I mean I'm learning and applying as I go so it's just that I've been in telling people what I've found as I go along that's all.
So yeah yeah I've looked at all scripts and why the hell did I do that and gosh I know better ways of doing that now.
Yeah still get it done first that's how we learn and then you can approve later on.
The following was the next one was HPR Community News which is on the Monday and then we had NeoFetch which is Dave Morris.
This was a JWP podcast talking about NeoFetch 1.5 to display system information I'd never heard about this too literally.
No me neither no it looked quite interesting. So 51.50 says even though it was in the binary for the open Susie Replos installation was easy as downloading the source from GitHub and unpacking the archive and running Sudu make install.
So that's pretty cool. There's a few of these actually out there for getting data on your system.
Yeah yeah no I don't know enough about them to be honest I never spend the time to go into them so it's good to have pointers like this.
I usually use them when I'm shopping for new laptops I'll put them on the USB stick and then go into their computer shops and just try them out.
I'm gonna just step away for a second Ken because I don't think I'm hearing my cat in the same room demanding to go out.
Okay far ahead I'll go grab a cup of tea and through the wonders of truncated silence removal we'll be back in a moment.
Okay okay you back. So the following day we had who bought chatbot. I read that as Hubbot but I don't really know how it's supposed to be.
It more than likely is there because my role here is to butcher every pronunciation possible as you will know.
Yes go on. Now this is this was kind of interesting because of the connections that you can make to different systems.
But I'm not sure I'm not sure if I'd use it. No I would love to play around with this but I wouldn't know quite what used to put it to other than saying oh look I've made a bot or I've configured a bot and then trying to attach it to some C channel.
This is the person who's got a lighting up LEDs when somebody uploads a show. Surely you could use something like this to trigger any time the word HPR is put on today.
IRC channel or something. Now there's a thought right right okay now I was thinking a more and more of being the nuisance of it.
There's some of the ones that exist on IRC channels I frequent can be a little bit annoying at times.
Well it uses a lot of X and PP do I even say Twitter. I mean there could be something there actually could be something there for us.
Yeah yeah it's okay. We're digging into anyway.
Thanks John. Keep these common. Keep them common.
And the next one was nitwizes. How long did we get any comments? No.
So the next one was nitwizes. My Raspberry Pi home server and he basically described my home setup pretty much except for one or two command line apps which I was the CLI word processing wasn't aware of that myself.
Yeah I don't tend to use screen myself. Yeah yeah. So similar things here I don't use my Raspberry Pi when I'm out and about because I'm not out and about very much.
So I don't need it for that but I can see the usefulness of it if you're out on the road a lot.
I did actually do this years ago when I had a shiver plug. Do you remember the shiver plug? I do indeed. I got burned or one of them too. Not physically but when they're yeah.
Mine's still alive actually. It's just had a disc on it and the disc failed and I haven't got around to rebuilding it with a different disc.
But I used to use that when I was a consultant for keeping stuff in a Git repository that I could upload to my clients and stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. They're really handy. I use it for I use it as a stepping stone to get I have one on the outside of my network.
And then I connect into that and then from there I can connect to other machines because then I have the permissions on the IP blocking and stuff.
No, but there's some great stuff. And as always nightwise points are things that we might not have noticed otherwise certainly did in this case as far as I'm concerned.
Yeah. Indeed. Pretty cool. Should we go through the comments? Do you start?
Yep. Okay. Server setup is pit FD, PIT FD says server setup.
Do you know it wise? Great contribution. We'd like to have one.
So I'm not well versed in server stuff. Would you mind elaborating on server setup? Maybe pointing a good tutorial. Thank you.
And I would just say that drop us an email here at admin HPR put a comment in the episode pit FD what exactly you would want.
Would you like a installation instructions of each of the applications you put in or just general server setup?
Because out of the box there has to be probably pretty much comes ready to rock.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a case of choosing what you want and installing it to largely I think. Isn't it?
No, maybe it's up it. But if you can clarify exactly what you were what you'd like.
We're more than happy to do shows on that. We put it on today. Requested show ideas. Thank you.
Okay. Comment number two was from John the Mount Culp center. I am great as episode, especially liked the rundown of the CLI apps.
Got center. I am running on the server now. Thank you. Cool.
And John also said in a in comment number three CLI word processing. I've been trying out that CLI word process a word grinder.
And it's pretty cool. Once I figured out he had to use the native WG format to start out with and then converted over to ODT or HTML. It worked great.
I like how it does a nice clean HTML conversion or any styling at all. That's nice actually.
You've got very basic paragraphs. Paragraph styles for headings and quotations.
A couple of basic character formatting options. It's just right. Thanks for the tip. Quite that sounds interesting. I'm just looking at that in more depth myself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And then we had a lender. Me too. I also find myself SSH into my pie as my daily grinder. Glad to know I'm also alone. Love the list of apps and have saved it for a relic and inspiring.
That I can just basically do a plus one on that one. Yes. Yes. That's because even though I have my own pie and I've got my own specific set of stuff from the others always great to hear what somebody else is using for.
Yeah. Yeah. I quite agree. There's so cheap like now you've got seriously. I've got a Raspberry Pi 3 right. It's as powerful as my wife's desktop computer. Yes. Yes.
I have an HP ProLiant thing that everybody was buying at one time, a little desktop server, which has got a dual core processor in it.
And I think the Pi 3 is more powerful than that now. So I'm just wondering whether to shift everything over to the pies to be honest.
And also just the power consumption from a purely environmental point of view, having a pie is just I turned off my old old server that I've been running for years.
Not only is it better for the environment, the green price of our electricity went down because we had the electric company saying are you aware that you're more expensive, you're using more electricity than the most of your neighbors.
Which here actually usually has the police coming because you have the weed farms growing. Yes.
I must do a HPR episode and that's sometimes because it's quite funny. Not for the people who owns the house but it's interesting.
Yes. Grow lights in the attic and stuff like that. Oh, everywhere. Like they just take over the take over the house and then they'll run the steel electricity from the lights outside.
And there's a guy got electrocuted there. He shouldn't laugh. It's not funny. But the irony, the irony of it hit me is basement flooded and the use like, you know, power cords and power cords and heat lights and stuff.
And he went down and got electrocuted because his cellar had flooded and he was trying to save his plants. Wow.
Yes. Yeah. Okay.
Well, they, when it snows here, right, they have the police helicopters go up because then the helicopters fly around the housing estates and any of the houses with where the snow was melted on the roof, then they go raid the houses.
Oh, my goodness. Right. Because they were growing stuff. They go weed and the stuff goes into the walls and you essentially have to completely demolish the house and just completely rebuild it.
It's there. It's just horrible. What's what? What goes on? Wow. As drugs are not legal in the Netherlands. Don't let anyone fool you about that.
You're allowed to the one prosecute you for, I think, 50 euros or less, but anything about that. Yep. You're constantly trying to catch it.
Anyway, 2050 developing black and white film back in my film is actually pretty easy to develop. Follow along as I do handsome pirate. That was a nice episode, actually.
Yeah. What would you call them? I'm trying to think about for our series, Dave, series classification, well, a environmental one, a sitting over the shoulder one.
I, I, I've tended to call them ambient, but I don't think it's quite the right word. Yeah. Yeah. ambient usually means you're just listening to the environmental sounds and stuff.
It is, actually. Of course, the microphone is just sort of following along as he does his development. So, yeah. Actually, I like that. Yeah. I liked it for that reason, as particularly.
I just, I just wish he put a picture or two of the equipment because I think he was using one of those drum 35 millimeter drum loader thingies in a developing tank. I have one of those because I did have a little go this myself years and years ago.
And you, you basically put your film in the end of this spiral and then you, you, you rotate the two, the top and the bottom of it.
They, they move just a little bit in relation to one another and they ratchet the film through.
Obviously, I did it. I've got a dark bag, a changing bag for, for that purpose. And then you, then you do your development inside that tank once you've close it up.
But you put the spoon in the tank and then you close it anyway, he explained about that I did. But yeah, if you haven't had experience of that, it might have been a little hard to visualize.
As look, I have just seen a video, YouTube video of a guy restoring archive film, you know, that people send in from the 50s and 40s.
And he specializes in recovering it. And so it was very similar. You know, the stuff he was talking about seemed very similar to that.
Yeah, yeah. And the distinct lack of ours and swashbuckling as well.
I didn't know Timber shivering at all.
Skurvy lads.
Clinton Roy said it was a lovely episode. Thanks a smiley face. So very nice.
I always like these shows, you know, it's like you're sitting on a chair, a high stool with a, like a bar stool with a cup of coffee, just listening to the shows that you're when, especially junk hopes, garage episodes and stuff, you know, you're just following along.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. You hear the bird song around you and stuff. Yeah, it could be nice.
And it's always the, these ones tend to be the ones that get people into listen to HPR like last month.
I heard a guy talking to a guy and he said he was into wild waters. Oh, well, HPR have done an episode on that. Have they now and went and had a listen.
So yeah, pretty cool.
My Linux journey by Tony Hughes. This was interesting, wasn't it?
Yes, Tony's had some interesting experiences. Tony is a nice guy, in fact, so yeah, he's always incredibly busy doing things at all camps. He's for the community.
Taking a lot of pictures too. He's a very keen photographer, I think.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He's had a long and complicated journey, I think.
X X Ubuntu or Zubuntu, he's been using as me.
Okay, next day we had a nerdy conversation with Lyndon about technology. I ran this one subsequent to listening to it.
He sent it off to there's a clean up place. So there, if you had trouble listening to this episode, you might want to download the latest version. I cleaned it up a bit.
But it was for fantastic chat. I loved this episode.
Yeah, I listened to this three times actually because I needed, I didn't have a problem with the sound.
And I think I grabbed it as it was, as it came out.
I listened to it on the boss where there's a lot of sound.
And occasionally if things are quite hard to listen to, I paid to have it.
There's a service in Germany that you can send sound to them. They will clean it up.
Okay, okay. No, it's what the job that Lyndon is currently doing sounded most interesting.
Oh, my God.
That's to have heard more about that.
Fortles and their camera traps in the Serengeti.
Oh, my God.
Wow.
And we need like, I was thinking, sure, there's sure is here. I want to show on that. I want to show on that. That's a series right there.
And codes in pearl. I was pleased to hear she likes his pearl.
I love it. It's probably the first thing I ever ever used. No, alcohol six years was the first thing I've used.
But the comment about our popped up into my head because my daughter doing a biology degree has been taught.
I started to use Arthur for quite a lot of her stuff.
Yeah, I had to look at it with her and it looks really good actually.
It's very powerful and not that hard to cope with, but it's extremely powerful.
But yeah, I liked him more from Lyndon.
Do you want to read the comments?
Yep. I had a comment from Gordon Ark. I think it would be good.
Listen, I enjoyed this episode, the how I got into computers during Linux sessions were fun.
My small town 1970s southern high school had had logo programming books. I would have been delighted.
And to this day, logo is my favorite way to draw. Awesome.
And it's nice to see Sigflok doing well.
So that's all this good.
Yeah, yeah, it was really, really nice. We're good interview actually.
It was nice to listen to.
Yeah.
More of these type of conversations. Thank you, Sigflok.
Our lease HBR episode.
Our lease episode Sigflok happened to do that as well. So private joke.
Okay, 2053, my second HBR beer cast.
Just me. And this time, old fog.
Old what?
Foghorn, I think it is.
Old foghorn, yeah.
You know, I don't like these episodes because now there's, there's, there's beer I can't try.
That's a bit unfair.
Well, that's right. That's right.
It's, I like the, the, the, the, the punchiness of the, the length and everything.
And, and the talk about it is just right. But, but I wouldn't know where to buy these.
I know what they should do is anybody who does a beer podcast has to ship a sample to me in you, Dave.
And then we'll know if it's actually true because you can be making this stuff up.
How can we even check?
Absolutely.
Yep.
So, um, just me, you're going to have to send a drop us an email and we'll send you our, our shipping instructions.
Yeah, right.
Excellent.
5150 who, who himself has contributed more than one episode on beer.
Good choice.
Literally my favorite mass produced beer.
Oh, he accompaniment and a slag at the same time.
I reviewed it back in my old pot brew days.
I don't see it often here and it's kind of spendy when it is.
Okay.
But as I said, Dave, if you're only going to have one beer a month, surely that beer should be a good beer.
Absolutely.
Couldn't argue with that.
My bladder configuration.
Sorry.
Oh, I was just thinking early to go to the toilet.
That's the last thing this official.
Well, I think John's anticipated all the jokes now because he does pronounce it bladow and he's talking to it.
Very good.
Very good.
I don't know.
It's part of the accessibility series and I like the way he's doing it, doing a Dave Morris approach
to starting at the beginning and working his way through, which is excellent.
And I am so, so close to doing some of these things because my, for some reason, my fingers
refused type words.
Even when I talk to them saying you're spelling that wrong, they continue to type it incorrectly.
Three or four times in a row.
Yes, yes, yes.
I, yeah, I have to say, probably go to, I'm also developing RSI in my, in my hand.
So, so it would be quite nice to be able to fall back to this stuff at some point.
So, yeah, brilliant stuff.
And just walking into the house and going to the computer, pulling on the cup of tea.
Computer, destroy planet.
Which planet?
Not this one.
As.
Oh, sorry.
Bit funny now, lack of oxygen.
Ammunzippe.
Ammunzippe.
Pee.
Dave helped me.
I, I, I pronounce it in my head as a muniz pee.
But I think, I think it's, there's a name in there.
Muniz, muniz.
A Spanish name or something like that.
Yeah, my apologies goes out to the commenter for butchering their names.
Point and as.
Mine to following as well.
Point being that that is my job here.
Headless.
Would this work for headless computers?
I mean, opening and closing.
Mind tests.
Server running on a single board computer.
To which John says.
Probably.
Yeah, I think so.
I'm pretty sure that Jesser uses is on a headless computer in his house.
I'll go back and listen to my interview with Jesser from episode 1284.
And see what he says about it.
It has to.
I've seen a reason why I wouldn't.
Neither do I really.
That's the sort of thing I'd be tempted to do.
I have to say.
Yeah, thanks.
Okay.
Cool.
Next day was the canoe nano editor.
Thank you.
T W P who got annoyed at you.
Criticizing his.
His choice in editors.
It was all deployed to get another show out.
That's right.
J W P.
Easy to rise.
J W P.
So.
There was no criticism of nano.
It was merely that.
I want.
I want.
It's not a real.
It has functionality.
I did definitely say that because I went back and listen and wrote down what I said.
I prefer to be able to use a proper editor as well as said.
But by which I mean one which has functionality.
And nano is a bit short on.
It's good for moving about and typing stuff.
But if you want to go to.
You know, every line.
See the thing I normally do is I go and edit.
First thing I do is when I'm setting up a pie is go and edit.
The pseudo as file.
So you type by pseudo.
And then I do YYP to cut out the line that's there for pie and change the.
Change the.
Change the.
CW on the.
On the.
Account name.
No.
Doing that in nano.
How would you.
How do you.
Just based and then edit control.
My control K.
Control D.
Yeah, but.
It also couldn't cost and pissed in nano.
Yes.
Yes.
But it.
So basically it's not good because you don't know how to do the things that you do in the idea of admitted.
There is some of that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
To be fair, there is an element of that.
Um, you know what we need Dave is a.
A V.I. series.
And we also need a nano series.
Well, that would be good.
Yes.
But we definitely do not need an EMAX series because nobody can once.
All right, I'm deliberately rising people.
Yes, we also need an EMAX series.
Yes, yes.
There are other editors as well as Kate and.
I just get it every day.
And some of this.
There's many more.
But.
Okay.
I just want something with a bit more power.
That's all.
The commenter whose name we butchered earlier.
Also said plus one for nano, but a bit disappointed that it is in Facebook.
I just use it.
And like it.
But not enough to join Facebook.
And zero X F one zero.
He said.
Who still I.
No, no, no.
So we just keep on butchering it or whatever.
Minus one for Facebook too.
And I show, but dude, that was some really bad noise.
I think John was, um, was recording through his laptop, uh, mic or something.
Well, uh, you probably meant nano is an editor for normal people.
I use V.I. style key bindings in my shell, but I've yet to know.
I've yet to notice to be imaginary.
Yes.
I'm not quite sure how to pass that, but.
Yes.
His shell is not imaginary.
I think it means anyway.
Um, or he himself is not imaginary.
Um, anyway, he says a minus one for Facebook from me to nano should be careful not to be kicked out of
GNU when RMS here is about this.
And.
Tony Hughes was a second interview interview with a young hacker.
I got to love these shows.
It is awesome.
Yeah.
An interview of the maker space, uh, in the northwest UK.
This was black.
Black pool.
Black pool.
Yeah.
And where, um, uh, big lesbian was.
Let's pound us, uh, stamping ground as well.
So yeah, yeah, very, very cool.
Very, uh, able young fellow who was being interviewed that might be a bit ambitious starting
as well.
And it's just.
But hey, other people have.
Yeah.
Go for it.
I say.
And Tony, pause to the links, which you put into the show.
And do you want to read the next comment?
Um, yes.
Oh, yeah.
The first two comments were dealt with really comments to us, I think.
So John Culp says, excellent.
I love this.
I wish he'd gone into more detail about his Python library.
But I salute him for having created one in the first place.
Great stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, you know, it's a good subject.
Good stuff turns up.
That is of interest hackers.
And you would not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Those are the ones that tend to solve it to people.
I don't know.
I would like.
I have been hanging out doing a short, you know, catchy two old,
you know, catchy Twitter thing or the short videos, a short podcast.
What is HPR?
Because, you know, it is very difficult.
I would like to put on the thing what HPR is because what is HPR to you?
It's different to every person.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, it reflects, it's a community of hackers.
And the things that get submitted reflect that community.
So, you know, even that's just auto community of hackers,
conjures up images for people.
Yeah, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, that hack a thing is always a contentious element.
But yeah, it's our worth of my keeping it.
Thank you very much.
Absolutely.
Luke said steel code, oaks, sadly, steel code, oaks are really hard to find in
new case supermarkets as everywhere is just stuck rolled oats.
You can order online, but so expensive compared to rolled.
Has that been your experience, Dave?
Yes, I think I'm not sure if this is Luke who I communicate with on
GNU social because I did have a conversation with him about this.
And you can, I did manage to buy what they call pinhead oats in the UK in a supermarket,
but it's in a tin and it's quite expensive.
And I think it's more common in Scotland, but it was made in Scotland.
So that might have something to do with it.
Okay, following day, we had in beverages section, which I see you've been doing some work on the
series.
So this is a 14th beer podcast.
I love this.
Just me is fit and ride in here with HVR first episode and then the 14th episode.
And the other 10 are coming, which brings joy to my heart, Java head beer.
So if you want to brew your own, here's another way to start home brewing.
Very good, very good, very good.
Yes, I thought it was going to be a brew dog beer when I, when I was, when I saw the text,
and then realized that it wasn't put.
Yeah, it's sort of to be a related comments for one here.
Okay, actually, that might be a way of getting people to have similar beers.
If you share your beer recipes online and like, like the beer review club,
yeah, yeah, might be a thing.
The brew dog guys started life in the university, I used to work for, so in my, in my dreams,
I think why are you popped down there and spot them one of these times and into them?
But yeah, don't think they don't hang around here anymore.
More tech, less magic, Todd Mitchell.
And this was a very good show about kids into, you know, just basically a general all around.
I had a few comments about this.
The one thing I would say is that limit the number of screen, the amount of screen time kids do have
cause it is shown to limit to increase short-sightedness in children.
There's been a spike in the number of children requiring reading glasses.
In the last few years, according to science, Friday's episode on the topic recently.
But other than that, I don't think you need to be particularly worried about making sure
that your kids experience the same things that you did when you were grown up
because everybody is unique and, you know, you expose them to stuff.
Because my introduction to tech was, as a result of my brother taking stuff apart,
finding out how it worked and then just go and read in the book.
And then I would be left after my mother got, went ballistic with him.
I would be left trying to put it back together, not having knowing how it was.
And so my, I built up a large skill base of fixing stuff without,
and there's no way I want to reproduce that particular thing.
So, yeah, it's hard to know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know it's, it's been a subject to debate in my family.
My kids sometimes say, I wish I'd had the opportunities you had,
meaning that I used to play it a lot.
So I was always coming in with, you know, a fan of frog or a net or an aunts nest or something.
Much of my mum's delight and saying, well, I wish we could do that.
But, well, you could, it's just that they, they didn't.
And, you know, they were encouraged to do a certain extent to do that.
And it's just that they had different priorities than I did.
I don't have so much to play with in compared to what they do.
Yeah, I was, I mean, I know I heard my grandmother say that above my parents, you know,
you had so much stuff to play with compared to us, you know.
So, yeah, so as you say, it's, it's not a, not a simple formula, is it?
It's, it's make sure you don't close off any opportunities.
Absolutely.
They make their own, their own way in these things.
I've been trying to get my kids to do, you know, electronic stuff and whatever for ages.
And then, you know, they're just not interested.
And then all of a sudden, I said, okay, we're going to do some electronic stuff
on the spend the whole day and they're happy doing it.
And now they're, they want to fix, I have a fix me box here.
And they've got a hack me box here.
So like a big plastic container that we put in stuff that
we never keep broken toys around the house, right?
So we always either fix them or they have to be recycled.
And if it's fixable, then it goes into the fix me box.
And if it isn't, it goes into the hack me box.
So they just decided now today to take out the hack me box and replace the LEDs
and some of the stuff that wasn't working.
And then, okay, fair enough, you might want to change the table first and, you know,
take all this glass as a water from around there.
Okay, but you go with the flow.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But great episode and loads more episodes of their Todd.
Feel free to send in more of them.
Thank you very much.
Yes, it was, it was a really good show.
I enjoyed also well produced.
Very, very well done.
Yes, that sounded very professional.
Introduction to said, part five,
speaking of professional days.
Hang on, hang on.
What about the, there was a couple of,
oh, the last comment.
A couple of comments.
Sean, Sean, Sean, Sean,
says more excellent first episode.
I really enjoyed this.
Hope you will do many more episodes in the future.
Maybe even expanding upon how you met your future wife at age 12.
Yes, really crazy.
To which Todd replied,
thanks, John, more to come.
Ah, there you go.
Oh, me a show right there.
Although they, a colleague of mine met her,
her husband in national school in their, you know,
baby, in, you know, knew him the whole time from, like,
growing up in the same class.
Yeah.
Wow.
Very good.
Exactly.
Happens.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In fact, that's, uh,
it used to happen quite a lot actually,
because there was no whole lot of, a whole lot of choice.
I was at the, the bicycle was the biggest,
biggest thing for the expansion of the gene pool, human gene pool.
Yeah, because you could, you could cycle up to the next village.
Yeah, exactly.
Things like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no.
My, uh, research is into my, uh, family history.
Show this to, to be the case.
How just living in a little village away in the field
somewhere other was, was pretty much isolation.
You know, everybody there and that was it pretty much.
That's all I had to, you know, thanks to the Brexit team.
Sorry, I had to go there.
Yes, I had to go there.
We were doing, we were doing so well.
Let's go back to the, it was good all day, you see.
Introduction to Learning said, part five,
this series is over.
And this was a tough series, Dave.
I followed along absolutely every step of the way.
Don't get me wrong.
But it required, it required an immense amount of work in your part.
You should be applauded.
Well, it required fair amount of work on the list as well.
Because you really had to follow along as a, as I did, as I don't,
I don't think, I don't think there would have been a way
unless you were reading the show notes as you went along,
especially in this episode.
And then going, why have the, why would anyone use this option?
It just begs belief.
Said the weird thing really is, it's a, it's a very, it's powerful.
It is powerful.
Yes, yes, yes, it's the features of it seem to be
for somebody that, that I, I'm not.
And I don't know anybody who is.
Yeah, it goes back to that, you know, one line display thing
where you needed to do things on the one line display.
Yeah, yeah, the days of age before, before, before the eye
and stuff, I imagine.
Yeah, yeah.
But what was interesting to come out of that show,
and I don't, you probably don't expect this,
is that the manual has got the, you're, you made a very interesting comment
that they, they, where is it?
The section, exemptials, examples.
So you have, you, sorry, I'll reboot my voice processing unit one second.
You were saying that there were some of the guru stuff, yeah?
Yeah.
And that those guru examples were the ones that were used
in the manual page.
Why would they do that?
Why do they do that in manual pages?
And it's an every manual page.
If the, include an example, it should be,
this is how you want to replace, you know, this word with this word.
That's what you're looking for in a said manual.
Yeah, yeah, I know, I know.
It's, I found it quite amusing that they were effectively warning you off.
Use it in many respects.
You're better to use something like Ork or Pearl, it's it.
Yeah, that, that, that I guess.
And that I understand, and that I compliment them on doing, right?
But then if you use those examples as the examples in your man page, well,
that's, that's just madness.
I don't know because this is the GNU manual and there was an earlier manual,
which I did actually look at while I was researching this,
which is even more obscure than the GNU manual.
GNU manual is clearer, but I suspect they might have inherited some
the examples from the original into the GNU one.
You know, so yeah, some of, and I, I omitted the examples
that were really, really bizarre, because I just don't have enough time to learn
how, what, what they did, you know.
Yeah, but you would imagine that a manual page would be giving you an introduction,
if you're reading the manual, you're looking for an introduction to the thing
because there's a read the manual because it's there in the manual.
Okay, anyway, I'll get off that horse and move on to the next episode.
This is, this is, this is the entire, and the entirety of said in this GNU manual.
So, but yeah, just a comment that I was a bit disappointed in nobody had to go at the,
at the quiz. So, yes, but Dave, you have to understand that it takes two or three years before
people might listen to this show, especially this show, the, you know.
Yes, yes, I thought, and my bill might have a shock, because he's, I think he likes pig Latin,
but I was thinking of doing it, but I really hate pig Latin.
I, it goes against everything I stand for.
It's, it's, yeah, it's very silly, but anyway.
No, I'm, I'm, I'm a big fan of silly, but it's, it is like pompous silly that you need
to follow a particular rule, I don't know, sorry, I just, I struggle with, with spelling
at the best of times and making something deliberately. It's like people who play scrabble
really annoying me or do crosswords. If you can't spell, you're discriminating against me.
Yeah, true, true, this, this was, this was a 1920s sort of the era thing, though, isn't it,
and it's, yeah, it's just everybody has learned Latin at the time.
Well, it's not even that, it's just just a sort of cool thing for those, those days, I think.
And, and it just, it hasn't really stood the test of time very well, I think.
Yes, but it also falls under, it's cock me for me, as I'll say.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, handwriting, troops argues why people should use handwriting to gain superpowers.
Am I like to agree with troops and studies have proven that handwriting it down triggers
different parts of your brain. I also have to say that some children struggle with the
motorics necessary to write. And those children, yeah, feel very, to say that all children should
write notes is a very sweeping statement and consideration should be taken or children who cannot
write and struggle with the motorics. Yeah, good point, good point. Have a look at that. I agree
with what he's saying. I really think troops is an inspirational teacher in many ways,
but he seems to have a comment there that he is no longer teaching at that school, though. I hope
that's in your temporary thing. Yes, he said I was a, was a teacher last week and till last week,
I was a teacher. He said so trust him. Yeah, yeah. But yes, I'm very close to the fountain pen episode,
Dave. Still not a very thought, Dave, very, very close. I would say, yeah, it needs some more, I think,
just, just, just, over my dead body, Dave. It says, you're doing the series classifications,
I have very little to say in the matter. Right, it'll be, it'll be a fountain pen series before
you know it. But yeah, it's, it's an interesting take. Do you know what? I found that I,
I've probably too detached from reality these days and haven't quite realized how
people were, were moving away from, from handwriting. I haven't realized that it was seen
as so amazingly undesirable in the way that troops described it because my kids, my two,
they are in the 20s, they're in the early 20s. So maybe they're, it's not the same population he's
talking about, but they learnt to do handwriting and they both write with pens, my son more with
fountain pens, a lot. I draw to type selection notes on her iPad and then she takes them back to a flat
and hand writes them out into, into a folder because she finds that that's a great way to get the,
the stuff into the head. But I was also listening to, sorry, another point just about this
episode was when you're sitting here as a lecture, the last thing you should be doing is typing,
the last thing you should be doing is writing notes, you should be concentrating on the lecture.
And that's why I would, in my, I hated having to do that in school, in college because then you,
if you're unfortunate enough to pick the wrong side where the person was writing on,
then they, they have wiped out the board before you have a chance to take it down or write it. I was
just not physically able to write fast enough. And if I was doing it now, I would just simply record
the audio and take, when I'm in meetings, I don't take minutes, I just record the audio, I take
snapshot of the, of the whiteboards and then I make up, I make summaries on a wiki afterwards.
Yeah, yeah. Just the way I do it was, other people are different. I was always amazed at people who
could write down books and books and books and stuff. And then that was it. But I think that
the purpose of being at a lecture is to discuss the topic with the lecture and to have that
too and for all as in the old days of what's the point of just attending a lecture writing down
the notes. Why not just have the lectures up on YouTube and be done with it? Well, I think that
in many cases, nowadays, that's what's happening. It is, it is very much that the material is available
other than in the in the lecture. I know my daughter comes away with the, with the slides that have
been shown and the slides usually have notes on them and you can go and read them, read them there.
And I think it's also in muddle, some aspects of what's been going on is in the muddle system
that they use. So yeah, it's quite a bit different. But in my day, you went to lectures and you didn't
get a chance to talk. In fact, they quite keen that you didn't. You just listened and took this
stuff in and then went away. So you had to write quickly. Yes, but that that that that that's
where exactly what I'm saying is wrong about that that I always had the I went to a very small
college and I have when I was studying for my degree, I happened to be in a very, very small
small class and to the shock and a lot of us had had dreamed back in from working in industry and a lot
of us had the attitude, well, okay, let me look here. Who is the one paying money to be here?
Who is the one person being paid to to give the lecture? And oftentimes I would just simply stop
the lecture until they explained it to me before we could move on. And quite often the people
who explained it to me will be other students because they were so annoyed at me holding up the
lectures that they would explain it to me in in in contexts that I would understand. And then
yes, we can move on. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I said with those, I said with those. I think, I think
that the college I went to in the 70s, late 60s or whatever it was, we were far more sort of
sheep-like and just just did what we were told. But I think my daughters and my sons-ears,
they would have been a lot more talking back and they would have been, you know, you didn't
explain that very well. Tell us, say it again, explain it better type of attitude. Yeah, I'm
cracking. So it's your job. Yeah, I agree. Okay, that's just going to have them coming back at me,
huh? More shows coming. Proving how I was wrong. Yes, just go to the upload button on the HVR
website and tell me why I was wrong. Okay, Brian said, Gritio, I'd like your idea of
molting Asian kids to write and take notes. I wish a teacher in my life would have taken the
time to teach me this important skill. You should try to be a guest on Penn addict podcast. I think
your views will be greatly appreciated. Jesra says excellent episode, just a few of my observations
on writing. During National Novel Writing Month, there are quite a few participants who choose to
write their novel by hand. While it's true that writing longhand is usually slower than typing,
writing in shorthand can be much faster than typing. Indeed. It gives a citation of
when you can compare to nice you. Frank says, I've always preferred fountain pens,
starting with one that belonged to my grandmother. I started using that one in high school. I currently
have a relatively inexpensive watermelon with a bellows, not a cartridge. That is my favorite
of the two dozen or so fountain pens that I'm lying around the house. Frank, I think, should do
episode. Many picked up a jared sales or resale stops. But I'm old. When we went to school,
we were thought printing, which was presented as a precursor to writing, not learning how to write,
as opposed to print, was not an option. I agree, hold heartily that there is a difference between
taking notes and simple, transcribing a lecture, transcribing does not promote synthesis,
synetosis, help me, Dave. Synthesis. Yeah, that's what I thought. Okay.
Of information and uniform. One is too preoccupied with taking dictation to think about what
is being dictated. Exactly. That's my point. Anyway, when our own kids came home from school talking
about some mysterious thing called cursive, I also most didn't know what the heck they were talking
about. Interesting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But here again, like we were, we spent a good 10 minutes
talking, discussing a show about handwriting. How nice is that? Okay. Mr. X, now the chips are
definitely down. A show about two different things. One was about a BBC documentary, which you
saw. And the other was about the price of a bofung, bofung, I think is how it's pronounced at
least by the TLLTS guys. And yes, I have been looking at these devices on Amazon. And it would
be highly illegal for me as a non-licensed radio amateur to even have these in my house in the Netherlands
without having a class N or a class F license. So therefore, I do not have these in my possession
at this point in time, just to be 100% clear about that. And we get it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I,
but no, there is no getting this cause I will get it once I get my license, Dave. I hope you're
100% clear on that point. However, it's very good to have the manuals and more ham radio. I also
wonder why there's not a more ham radio on HPR. Yeah, you would have thought it would have fitted
together with that hacker. Eat those very well, wouldn't you? Now, I'm not sure why. Sorry,
you're talking without the press and the button. It does. It's like you got your electronics,
you got your, you got all the different molds, you got it's science, it's engineering, it's hacking,
it's blowing stuff up. What's not to like? Yeah, absolutely. Can you hear me now? I can indeed.
Interesting show says Mike Ray. Hello, can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. Yeah, yeah, I'm good.
BoFang UV5 are interesting show. I'm curious about the BoFang. Does it talk out of the box?
And are all functions and menu spoken in other worlds as a blind user? I've blinded up what I'd
be able to do everything with the radio that you can. And he's G4 XBF, which is golf 4 X-ray Bravo
Foxtrot. Didn't know Mike is a ham, is he? Yes, does he not mention that? I think so.
I thought he had. Cool, very cool, because I'm actually considering doing a license in the UK,
actually, rather than the Netherlands, because while I can read that they end the novice license
exams here, the F full license exams are extremely convoluted, the wording that the use is
deliberately to trip you up. When the question is explained to me in simpler Dutch, I can understand
it, but there's a language barrier as well as a technical barrier to get over. Yeah, yeah.
Is it easy to do it in the UK then? Well, we'll see you after the Brexit.
Yeah, once you've got your visa or everything, it's going to be hard. Yeah, exactly.
Okay, the following day, we better speed up third beer podcast in Breviger's Rebel Rider IPA
and the red seal ale or two. I like the way he describes these, what happens on your tongue and
stuff? That's why I was hoping that he would do a how to do a beer show, 5150 might also do that
for us. Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. We need a vocabulary in like I said. Exactly. And finally,
test driving Dev1, Dev1, Dev1, I think it's the way people are pronouncing it. It's the devian
without system D. Yep, that's right. Yep. We got to see Leonard Potter and Talk, didn't we, Dev?
We did and he wasn't sure he's a fine, fine and wonderful guy and everything,
but his talk was not very exciting. No, no, yeah, okay. But yeah, system D with the withoutish,
that is the question. I must say whatever about Pulsario, I think Pulsario,
is once you have Pulsario volume control, the same thing has happened with both. I don't think
people mind the change. It's just they're not ready for it. There's not the tools out in there
and the manuals out in there and the how-tos out in there to explain how you're supposed to do the
stuff. Yes, if you just drop the the change in people's laps and you're back here you go,
an adverse reaction. Yeah, exactly. Okay, that was it for sure, I think. What else is on the
docket tonight, Dev? Well, we have a whole pile of comments that need us to to follow up,
which didn't, which weren't dealt with as we went through the shows. Okie dokie, there's
will be comments up to comments 2042. So let's start with comment five on introduction to said part
one, which is made by Frank and he says part of my issue with Reg X is of course and I think this
is a following up of discussion with you on Reg X. So I'll read that and you can read your answer.
Part of my issue with Reg X is of course I don't have much need to use it so learning it is more
an intellectual position. It's not like I'm a citizen for example except in my home network.
That's why editing my prock bill or C helps, it gives you a need to learn it. If you ever need to
understand Reg X, I shall probably connect my title of Linux geek. He also stumbled over a question
on LO and said over at Reg X and LibreOffice and you replied. I said Reg X and LibreOffice as a long
term user of LibreOffice open office before that and star office even before that. I love this feature
of it is using regular expressions in these web processors. I've used it a lot. My boss used to
give me grief about not using Microsoft Word and adhering to the quotes corporate standards
in the university. But with Unixbox and Nature Linuxbox and my desk I was far more productive
the way I was. In my experience the early versions of Word were not good. The regular expression
capability did appear at some point. Microsoft's version of Reg X is of course different from the
more standard versions of Android Linux. LibreOffice is much more conformant with the various
standards I believe. So the next episode is on some basic info on alarm systems and it
was actually the parsing 2013 parsing. Oh, that's right. It was a tattoo.
Yeah, and it was Louise Rodrigo saying thanks. Thanks for this article. It's very helpful for me.
So that's good. And on some basic info on alarm systems by Skizm Bill said,
any particular type of things you guys would like to know about and Frank said I would think
that some persons would be interested in knowing how prox readers and cards work. I encountered lots
of misconceptions about prox cards. They send out their signal all on their own some.
Did we will not read these last month? I think we did. I think when you the actual show last
time. Ah, that's right. It was into June, wasn't it? So therefore these comments are actually
attached to the shows. So I think the trouble is when we get to this point it's hard to know which
ones have been been covered and which not. Would the date not give it away six? When was the
year? When was the last? Let me just have a quick read of some of them because I'll. The last
a community news show is on six. So anything beyond the six would be it would be worth doing
it otherwise not. Yeah, and Anishel released after the sixth would also be we would also have
discussed it in the show. So anyway, on the DSO one three eight oscilloscope kit which is cool.
Anyway, NY Bill was coming in back. If it's a color screen it might be the same kit. A few other
DSO kits out there with non-color screens. I'm sure things can be bought cheaply and bulk.
Somebody might be selling them off. Oh, no, we did. We covered about that. I think yeah,
I must have done everything on that one because I just said I just said I found one and sent
him the details. We're going to have to work on this offline, Dave. Okay, shall we continue on then
with the what's being happening on the mailing list? Indeed. Okay, HBO policy change, HTML is now
the default. I don't think the world ended. No, it's good for me. And HBO is now on the Google
Play podcast network. So fair enough. I was reading to the thingies about that and thinking about
it. And then I was thinking, well, we're on iTunes. So fair enough. Yeah, yeah, it's time to answer
me. And then the next episode next comment was just I did a mean thing and commented on your
thousand downloads to internet archive. That is a fantastic achievement, Dave. Thank you very much
from all the community for all the hard work you're doing there. No problem. It's you still let.
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm still here. I'm getting a with I'm using a key, I'm using the insert key
on the number pad. It's actually typing something as I do it. Hold on a second.
Dave, so sorry about that. Yeah, for it. No, it's okay. I finished it just I was I'm confused
myself with my keys. So yeah, next thing was change to series and series.php. That's actually a nice
change. It looks a lot better that way. Yes, yes, yes, it makes more sense. I was thinking of
making it dynamic rather than a static page, but I'll maybe not bother. It's not dynamic.
No, it's not dynamic. Okay, we're going to have to make it dynamic. You could actually
offline of this offline of hpr you quite often helped me out with stuff related to pearl and
just related to life in general, which I thank you very much for. That templating language that you
showed me was absolutely awesome. Within one day I was able to replace large chunks of a scripting
templating thing. So maybe this might be the first one step back. So thank you for that, Dave,
by the way. The other step is about getting hpr less dependent on the database and stuff
and getting more static sites out there so that we can get things put on to distributed servers so
that we're not as vulnerable to DDoS, which will be coming up later. So maybe this might be
doing the series thing, might be one that we could run from a cron job or something and fill
up a template or something. Let's have a look offline. The series page, series.php,
is generated from a template with a bit of pearl. So it, and I just regenerate it manually whenever
there are changes made to the tags and some reason things. But yeah, so there's, yeah, as you say,
this is not something to start and do that out because then we could also distribute it. The
whole copy of the website integration or on to GitHub or Git labs or wherever so that the website
itself is available on multiple places, even Facebook or wherever. But anyway, that's by the way.
Okay. The book club apparently have a lot of shows that they are not giving to us. So we were very
much like to see them. They commented that they're desperately trying to get them and we'll go
through them. But the thing is, I think they, they, for me, I follow the book club and I always read
the books. So I'd like to be able to give the feedback. So guys, if you're recording the shows,
send in the recording as soon as you've done it. And somebody else, I will happily edit it for
you. I'm going to say edit. I mean, I will put it together and submit it up to HPR. So they
just show unless it's on the server. And I'd like the book club to be back because I did, I was
introduced to very good reads by that. Yeah. Yeah, good. I would like to see it too. Yeah.
And cyclop asked where we'd be in dust. And yes, we were for three or four days. People just
dust us. No idea why. Probably something to do with the fact that we've got a little bit of
notoriety due to the podcast awards thing. But the people who did it all me a show definitely.
So it was, it was actually quite interesting because the time I usually spend in doing admin stuff
on HPR, I went and did some actual changes to the code. And they to get a lot more pages out
onto the public side and tidy up some stuff to allow us to get more stuff onto the public side.
So all that is good. Yes. And I was fiddling around with making sure that all of the
upcoming shows were on the archive site. So if you want to see the stuff for that week, you
could see it there. Yeah. Repair your suggestion. And that was, that was quite good. Yeah, that's
nice. So and thanks to Josh for writing us through this whole thing. And I made some minor changes
to the website as a result of the, as a result of that, having that time. The menus, did I,
yeah, the menus were changed just so that there's upload right there on the, on the menu page
and that points to the calendar. And we removed the show's synopsis because it was often used,
but never correctly. So that's not an option anymore. It's just added automatically. So you can
forget about that. And I updated the, the pages to as you're entering the shows. There's a question
and you'll be redirected to the exact piece on the help file where it will tell you exactly what
you're editing at any particular point in time and what that's going to be used for, for example,
if you go to, we also changed the show notes format, which will bring you directly to the show notes
format optional. So it tells you it's an optional thing that you can put in. Please tell us which
format if any you're using to upload your show and it has links to HML 5, Markdown Standard,
Markdown GitHub, flavored Markdown Pandak, restructure, restructure test, text to tags, plain text,
having no forwarding formatting. So if you are uploading a show and you're doing stuff in it
that has formatting. So if you're doing in-dense or putting a minus sign in front or you're putting
one, two, three, four, five, then that is not plain text. That is some sort of formatting.
So if it is not HML 5, if it's not an informed Markdown or restructure text, then go to text to tags,
copy and paste it in there and then make sure it comes out as something readable. Okay, thank you.
Because every time we get a show, Dave manually goes and changes it and fixes it and runs it through
Pandak. Something that I was doing beforehand, but now Dave is doing that for me, which I greatly
appreciate, Dave. How do you welcome? However, it is an automatic process and we want to get it to
be an automatic process, Dave. Individual, yes, yes. I have refined the thing I do so that I
have sort of semi-automated, but it's my programming skills are not sufficient to build AI turn,
to do it properly. It's not possible because people, it's a free-form text page and every person has
different ideas of what a logical formatting is. And this is why I think we should just accept HML 5,
and that'd be dominant. Yes, I know there should be a show and I should be doing it on HML 5.
Yes, you're correct. Okay. Yes, yes. Having today uploaded shows in the range 1,000, etc.
I'm doing like sort of 10 a week or something like that. The number of awful, awful, awful bits
of HTML in there is incredible. And that helps, isn't it? Archive. No, in that range of 1,000 to
onwards, there was some pretty awful HTML in there, which I think will be rejected by the internet
archive because they run an HTML checker on it on the front end and just throw out stuff that
doesn't pass it. So this is why I go to the trouble of fixing it. So, can you fix it with your
database as well? Yeah. Okay, cool. Thanks. Yeah. I fix it in the edge by a database, then pump it
up to the internet archive. Very good. Thank you very much. But there's quite a lot that needs
fixing. Let's just put it that way. So again, good HTML done is going to be quite an
outing. I understand. I'm not arguing with this. I completely agree with you. But it's either
that. So it's either people submit it in a standard format or we put a wavy way to get it or
something up or not. Yeah, it doesn't matter. We will continue on. It's our personal beg book
bear. We will happily take shows from anybody with the redout show notes, although we do like show
notes. So the next comment was, oh yeah, the digest email. Yeah, so it comes up as a new thread.
I have a lot of unlimited book club shows. Unfortunately, only Pokey has some of the recordings,
so we're waiting on to get those as soon as you do. They'll be uploaded, which is excellent.
Thank you very much. And I just want to, I think Dave, you should put out a public discussion
about whether we should keep the mail digest or not and perhaps include the email that I sent
about that might be a good discussion because I've actually emailed everybody who is on the
digest list and several have said, oh, yeah, okay, I don't really need it and I've got come off.
But for this, you know, it's only a relatively small number of people who've replied.
Yeah, I'd also like to, I'd like to make it an option when you're uploading the show that you
be automatically added to the mailing list if you're not added or that your status will be given
that you're not on the mailing list or you are on the mailing list when you upload because at that
point, your email address has been verified. So we can check the mailing list to see if you're
on it. And if not, we can give you the option then to add you because that's where the discussions
for HPR or the policy stuff is taken on the mailing list. It's not taken by me. It's not taken
by Dave. I mean, we're on the mailing list as well. So we do have a say, but, you know, people
and actually, I want to make a comment about that because there's in the about section, I added a
section about community free culture and governance and it's important to realize that HPR is
community driven and the policies and discussions are met on the mailing list. So it's opened
to anybody to join that and listen to it. Now, there is another section of HPR that is not
open to anybody and it's a body body club and it's invite only and that is because and that is
the admins, the people who are allowed to log onto the server and, you know, change stuff and make
sure the shows are updated. At the moment, that's myself, Dave, Josh, probably, Drugs, I guess,
and Stankdog, who are the founders. They, Drugs, Stankdog, and Josh are the people who decide
who comes into that inner circle. And that's basically because it's, they started the whole thing
and that Josh is the person primarily who has to go, well, I trust these people to be on my
servers and my servers that you could take down as we saw with the DDoS attack. We're taking down
that server. Everything that was on that server has gone off the internet for three or four days.
And for Josh, that means that anybody who's a paying customer is losing money because of us
for that day. So everything to do with HPR is in the public and we were talking before about
making the database available as well that you can download the actual database, all the files,
the whole, our sync of the folders and stuff where the shows are and where all the images are
and all that stuff, that's all available. So there's nothing secret about this. This, you don't
let people on to your, you know, any Tom Dick and Harry lug into your home server. So this is
exactly the same thing with, with the goings on at HPR. Now, if you do want to contribute to HPR
code and the like, anybody can go to gitlab.anonesthost.com. And that's Josh's server. Anonesthost.com is
the business that he has and that's basically who's hosting our shows. So if you go on there,
there are two sites, there's two sections, one section is the public stuff where, you know,
if you're doing the frapper map or frapper tone or the OSM clone or anything, any of the tools
that we have for processing the shows, they're all up there and any of the code, the PHP stuff
that's used to go into the database, make the, upload the shows and write out the pages. Those
have hard coded passwords in there. So that's why they're not out and they have access to the database,
that's why they're not out. So once we work through all that, all that stuff is going to be
met public. It is not. I'm, I'm making myself clear Dave here. Yeah, I think so. But I have been
involved with this already. So yeah, to me, it sounds clear. Yeah, because and in order to be,
to be part of the community, the community needs to know you and you need to be contactable
and they basically, if you want to help out with HPR, I need to be able to email you.
That's, I'm not asking for face to face, although that definitely helps. If, you know, I won't be
able to get to the US, but if you've met, I don't know, 50 on 50 or you're on some other shows,
if people know who you are, then the level of trust, it's like the key of trust thing. The level
of trust goes up and then it's ultimately up to Josh to decide whether this random person on the
internet is somebody that he wants to allow on to, to log into a service. But there are various
different levels. So anybody can create an account and get lab.anonestores.com and get added to
the public HPR code and you can start contributing in there immediately if not sooner. But I,
I think that's pretty fair, actually, they, the whole governance thing. So yeah, yeah,
absolutely. How else would you do it? It's my feeling. I don't think you can particularly
log on to the Debian, you know, build servers and, you know, there's a process to become a Debian,
Debian developer and stuff. So, fair enough. Maybe it means more explanation as to how you become
a, but it's kind of very loose and laksine. How did you become involved in HPR?
I, I saw a, let's join the mailing list or something. There was a, or maybe it was a show,
you asked for, for some help with generating RSS and I came up with a, I sent you something
a bit of pearl that might have done it. It wasn't quite what you wanted, but then from then on,
you said, oh, you should have gone have a look at the, the visible aspects of the, what was it?
Gatorias at the time. And so I had to look at that and came back with some suggestions for
how to do the, they were perfect, except you changed the goal, you moved the goalposts,
I do, I just lined up for a goal and, and the goalposts had moved totally. But anyway, yeah,
yeah, and then only then did I do a show, I think, on November of that year when I started
doing this sort of stuff in, around the summertime. So, and that was 2012, if I remember right.
Yeah, could be. So, I mean, it probably helped I mess you then later on as, I'll come.
Yes, I'll come, yeah, that, that year. Yeah, yeah. So, fair enough. But we have been
communication quite a lot before that. So it was, it was strange than just to meet you.
Changes to the website. Yes, we have the explicit tag, right? And this is a question I've brought
it up, but nobody seems to be interested in having a discussion about it. We have an explicit tag
on the shows. And we could put a generic, this show has been marked as explicit by the host,
listener discretion is advised at the beginning of every show. But nobody seems to have come
into that. So I'm not going to do it until people actively say that they want to do that. Yeah,
I know. Do you know? How else do you know whether it's marked explicit?
Well, you don't. And the whole point is what we could do. The explicit tag, everything on
iTunes is marked as explicit. The show itself, the entire thing. So we could theoretically go
and turn that off and then just put explicit on for the shows that are explicit. But what's explicit?
Again, I have very strong feelings on this. And I'll read what it says on the HPR site.
Under stuff you need to know, hash explicit. Your show will be signaled as containing explicit
content. Given that we are an open form for free, free speech, we signal all our shows as
explicit with the assumption that the listeners will apply the required discretion when playing
the shows in public. The fact that the majority of our content is technical in nature,
and therefore is often considered appropriate for an audience.
If you feel that your show is considered inoffensive in every region of the world,
then you can signal that when you upload your show and that most people do by switching the
explicit clean. When dealing with content that is explicit or contains material that is best suited
to a mature audience, it is become traditional to include a short warning at the beginning of
your show before the intro to allow listeners time to switch off the episode should they so desire.
So we could do that automatic. The explicit clean thing could trigger that automatically.
But the problem with this is occasionally people will say you marked my show as explicit when
it should be clean and people will occasionally say you marked it as clean when in fact it's
explicit. So then I would need to go back and edit the shows and edit the actual content rather
than just flicking the flag. Would a compromised beat actually show the explicit, non-explicit
setting in the show notes page? Well, it doesn't matter because it's in the RSS feed.
Everything is marked as explicit. So I can, for clean shows, I can turn that off.
But if I turn that off on iTunes and there's somebody complaints, then we get
out of iTunes and presumably the same for Google. So if people are okay about, to be honest,
what most people, it's always marked as explicit. The most people flick it to clean. So most people,
I think, know exactly what they're doing. Even when they get the intro and outro wrong,
I've had to go back more often to switch the intro and outro and I will never change
somebody's show from explicit to clean without discussing it with them in the first place.
Okay. Yeah. Has not my call. However, if there is a disagreement between the host and I,
I will put it on the mailing list for discussion. That has never happened. By the way,
but I'm just saying what's going to happen. Okay. Tenton Roy asked, he was delighted to discover
the RSS feed for the comments, but couldn't find it on the viewer page and stuff. So,
I think it's fairly clear where the comments are and it's also a tip in there for adding RSS
RSS feeds. If you go to the HBR page with the RSS feed option in Google or using the RSS
subscription extension for Google Chrome, RSS subscription extension by Google for Google Chrome
or the comment or RSS comment for your in Firefox, which you need to enable,
then you'll see the comments feed as well on the HBR website. Clear? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
It's, yeah, I actually, I don't notice this very much because I've enabled feed readers
below the list to watch the comments. Yeah. So, I just, oh, there's a comment there.
Well, it usually means it's okay, anyway. So, I never get surprised by comments. So, I'm
not a very good judge of how this looks to the, to the majority of people on the feed.
Okay. At the podcast awards, John Colp represented us, represented us. Although he didn't get
a opportunity to do so because we were pipped at the post by Hack Five. So, congrats to them
and thank you very much, John, for attending. Although, I do like the piece of text I came up with,
which I think I'll read here. Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast that is dedicated to
sharing knowledge. Anyone who's free to contribute and 270 people have already submitted 200,
2,360 shows, usually technical, often thought provoking, sometimes heart moving and occasionally
outright dangers, any length, any topic, but always of interest tackers. If you ever thought
of recording a podcast, then HPR is there to get you started. Representing HPR to this evening
might have been Dr. John Colp from Lafayette, Louisiana. The amount of time I spent editing that
was amazing. It's, it's very nice. It's a lovely piece of PR stuff. It's, yeah, yeah. But too much
on the contributor show. Well, look at it. Hey, why not? It's what we do. As you were saying earlier,
something like that needs to be, needs to be pumped out there in a clearer, clearer form. Yeah,
I think those metal, HPR models, we should just have a page of those. If you think of anything
cool, if you're good at that sort of stuff, then feel free to send it to us on at HPR on all
the socially media networks. Then we had you talking about HPR community news. And then we had
Kevin telling us that the upload was not working, which turned out to be a change in the way
that Josh has been processing emails to cut down on the number of attacks we're getting.
And guys, we are getting attacked all the time. He would, you would be amazed if I told you how
often we're getting attacked. It's 24, seven literally every half a second somebody is trying
to probe the net or something. So if you discover something on the HPR website, I would really
appreciate it if you email the admins first. Because this is the public mailing list. It's
available completely on the internet. So if you discover stuff, we really do want to hear about it,
but once it goes on to the list, then the clock has taken and I need to stop whatever it is I'm doing,
get on a connection and go in and fix it. And unfortunately at that time, I has just upgraded my phone
and I had no internet connection. So there was a few hours where I was very worried as to what was
going on and what people were doing. So there you go. Yeah, nasty, nasty. Yes, yes. Do we,
is the admin list? Yes, it is quite well documented all over the place, isn't it? Yeah. Admin,
attacker, public radio, even if you go into the, if you do have any of the four or fours or the four
one tours, actually, if you go into the comment section, it says interesting. Please email the admin
at HPR with this comment, what you were doing and a lot of the comments in a raw HTML, you will see
comments going, you know, please, email HPR. And again, the DDoS was a bit strange in that over the
years, I've been contacted from time to time, a few times a year, perhaps, where people have noticed
stuff on the website and they've gone, I've run this tool on your website and you're vulnerable to
this to which you just go, thank you very much. I will get affixed and you get affixed. So that
is not a request. That is not given permission for people to scan the website. If you do want,
if you do work for somebody who can scan websites, we would appreciate it if you would do it. But
first, can you please contact Josh and myself will be great before you run that and we can even
arrange for you to have like extra access to the website, if that's what's needed. We're all
about identifying vulnerabilities and stuff, but please, responsible disclosure would be greatly
appreciated. Thank you very much. And yeah, sorry. No, I was just going to agree with you, but
I didn't seem to be necessary. Yes, I tend to waffle on. So the upload was working again. And then
world map of contributors, how crazy would it be to have a world map with pins of all the
contributors would actually be not crazy at all. So Clinton. So back in the day, there was a
and it took me ages to find it. It was a frapper map, spelt in the .com way of doing things
f or ppr.com. It's now for sale, but you could go to that website and put maps on. And now with
the introduction of osm and micro formats like geotagging and stuff, we could actually tag
people where they're from as part of their profile. Absolutely no problem. No problem there at all.
And it would also be useful for things like shows where there's an event going on at a particular
location. So that will be cool. But what I would like it to be and just to be clear, anything on
the HPR website itself would need to be a static image. So a picture of the map. And then when
you click on it, you could go to another site, which might be javascript.hpr.com or something or
some other website, because we don't run javascript on HPR. If you find javascript running on HPR,
we would appreciate you contact the admin mailing list because it doesn't have any javascript running.
So there you go. Yes, I was glad you remembered frapper by the way. I've been using it so long
I was talking all versions and then eventually it's like domain for sale, domain for sale,
internet archive had it as a domain for sale. So yeah. Yeah, it's I think people like Linux
and it's in to remember putting my pin in there somewhere. Yeah, it was a cool thing. Don't get
me wrong. It is a pretty cool thing. But I'm surprised that there's not a clone of it for OSM.
And indeed, there is there's a javascript version of it, but it would be nice to
and again, it tells you the the the the difficulty, how fickle websites can be, you know, even if a
service is running for 10 years, frapper had so many people, you know, putting their their pins in
and then they just disappeared when the dot com bubble burst. Yeah, it was it wasn't it was hard to
make money just offering that service. If that's what they were they were about, I imagine.
Something I don't know. On the other hand, you know, Wikipedia survived. So it depends what your
business model is. Yeah, so sometimes I think, you know, okay, guys, we're just going to do this
because we're not going to make a living on it and hire millions of people because there's
millions of people coming to our website. Sometimes you just do things because you want to do things
for for people. Wait, and now as I'm apparently tonight is all about ranting, those advertising
things where you have ad blockers on and where they go, you're you're running an ad blocker. Oh,
you're stealing my website stuff. No, actually, we're not. If you wanted to host the ads
yourself, then I will be seeing the ads. The fact is you're linking, I'm going to your site
in good faith and you're bringing in job log from somebody else. Yes, I just ignore those things.
And if it's somebody who is very pushy about it, then I don't visit them anymore. Yeah,
trust me. That's just you just way out of that. I mean, we don't we don't have advertising on
HPR, we're right at the bottom. There's plenty of links for a non-stoast.com. Yeah, there
have been served up at the beginning of every episode. If you go to our shows host and archive.org,
you get the archive.org. We do thank people. It's not our anti advertising. I'm just saying
you imagine like if you're at home and you invite somebody in and then all of us on all these
random people from all over the internet start coming in and put in posted notes on you so that
they're able to identify you when you move somewhere else. That's what's happening. If it's going
via you and it's an easy way they can do this. They can fix all this by putting a proxy server
on their head end and then drive all the ads to them. Then we would see all the ads. But people
don't do that. Maybe I should do a show about this. Perhaps. Yeah, sounds good. Maybe I should
say. Somebody needs to do a show about the equivalent of OpenStreetMap frapper on OpenStreetMap as
well. Yeah, that's true. Open layers, they were suggesting. I'm interested to see what happens
with that. Anyway, they called if you're interested in helping out with that project. If you're
done some JavaScript stuff or if you worked with OpenStreetMap at all and put pins in it,
then we're here to help. From a database point of view, we can export, you know, ask people to
submit that information, which of course will be voluntary. You don't have to give your exact
house. You can do like what the Dutch army do and everybody, no matter where they are in the
world, turns up at the door to the Dutch central station in Amsterdam. So you can do that. Your local,
however, however comfortable you are about your area, either where you live exactly or your
local village, your local town, your capital, capital of the UK or capital of Europe, wherever you
want to be. And again, JavaScript is not going to be forced to anybody and this is not going to
be forced to anybody, but it would be a useful thing, especially when giving out, you know, I don't
know, beer reviews that you bought it at this place here. There's no information being it is
useful information for people. I think it would be cool. I'm very tempted to go back and edit out
all the things that went on around about tonight, Dave, but as you know, I don't edit chills.
I'm usually not this rant for all the people who are tuning in for the first time.
I didn't think it was particularly ranty, personally. We did most of the ranting about Brexit
before we started recording it. There's a lot of people I was just saying today. There's a lot of
people who work over here in the Netherlands and are in a very uncertain position. They've got
families and their work contracts are, you know, there is a high level of uncertainty as to always
going on. I was saying to Dave that it would be a bit like if Texas suddenly decided to devolve from
the United States. Okay, all the people living in Texas and all the Texans, you know, are
suddenly in a very weird state as far as the rest of the United States. Okay, that's how I think
is it? Yeah, that's it. It's all for me anyway. And that's all for me. Tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker. Public Radio. Join us now and share the software. You'll be free
Hacker. No, no, no, no, no, no. Hey, the one you did, the one you did in an earlier show,
when you did last week, last month, that was brilliant. The one done in in a, I don't know,
Georgian style or whatever it was. That was the original from the Hungarian thing that he's
all about. Yeah, that's really good. You should play that more often. Are you hearing
music or is it just me? It's me, I'm afraid. It's my phone the other side of the room. Oh,
cool. It's going off. All right, dude. Have a good one. Okay, cheers, Ken. Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise
status. Today's show is released on the earth. Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
