Episode: 2207
Title: HPR2207: NATO phonetic alphabet
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2207/hpr2207.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:44:04

---

This is HPR episode 2,207 entitled NATO fanatic alphabet.
It is posted my first time post-hanner on Terra, on Soul and in about 8 minutes long and
Karimaklin flag.
The summary is, namely greetings.
We cover the title, podcast recommendations and well wishes.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, the NATO fanatic alphabet is the 26 letter English alphabet.
It goes as follows, from A to Z, Alpha, Alpha, Bravo, Bravo, Charlie, Charlie, Delta, Delta,
Echo, Echo, Foxtrot, Foxtrot, Golf, Golf, Hotel, Hotel, India, India, Juliet, Juliet,
Kilo, Kilo, Lima, Lima, Mike, Mike, November, November, Oscar, Oscar, Papa, Papa, Quebec,
Quebec, Romeo, Romeo, Sierra, Sierra, Tango, Tango, Uniform, Uniform, Victor, Victor,
Frankie, Whiskey, X-ray, X-ray, Yankee, Yankee, Zulu, Zulu.
And that is A to Z, for the numbers, we'll do one through, okay, let's not do one through
anything.
Let's make an important convention of starting at zero, keep on going forward, all right,
so I'll press house, zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
and remember, in place of nine, we say nine, again, that was zero through nine,
that's how, how is two times pi, it's so much of our fun, anyway, just, okay, now I
want to also recommend something, and since we now know the nato-phanetic alphabet,
I can feel comfortable recommending these in nato-phanetics, the first two are going
to be URLs, that would be uniform, Romeo, Lima, okay, so we're ready for them.
Nick, India, Charlie, Romeo, Oscar, Bravo, Echo, full stop, Tango, Victor, again, Mike, India,
Charlie, Romeo, Oscar, Bravo, Echo, full stop, Tango, Victor.
Second, Charlie, Oscar, November, Golf, Romeo, Echo, Sierra, Sierra, India, Oscar,
November, Alpha, Lima, Delta, India, Sierra, Hotel, full stop, Charlie, Oscar, Mike,
the next, I would like to recommend going to archive out of work, downloading, and
sharing with all of your friends, unless your friend already happens to have it and be
sharing it with you by the time this came out, in which case, if you're getting it from
a friend, I'd say get it from the friend, and save a band with cowboy, right, a horse,
no, save a band with horse, right, a cow band with cowboy or something, okay, look at
this x-ray, there is going to be a space, our convention for space will be break, I want
to do that, anyway, back to this one, x-ray, break, Mike, India, November, uniform,
Sierra, break, Oscar, November, Echo, break, Alpha, Tango, break, you get the rest of
my notes, if you've gotten to Alpha and Tango, you've succeeded, the rest of this is just
what's on my notes, after Alpha, Tango, there was a break, and we can resume there, Alpha,
Romeo, Charlie, hotel, India, Victor, Echo, full stop, Oscar, Romeo, Skulls, again, the
recommendation without my notes is x-ray, break, Mike, India, November, uniform, Sierra,
break, Oscar, November, Echo, okay, I hope you enjoy, these are things that I hold dear
to my heart, and I hope you enjoy them too, however, how could I forget this last but
not least, there is the one that I do hold dearest to my heart, it's by saying dear to my
heart that it came to my mind, just the way it was meant to be, I suppose, there would
be, let me go in a minute, I think this one's important, so it's in my notes, on the
cloud, the water vapor as it were, hotel, Alpha, Charlie, Kilo, Echo, Romeo, break, Papa,
uniform, Bravo, Lima, India, Charlie, break, Romeo, Alpha, Delta, India, Oscar, thank you
very much, have a wonderful day, and go do cool things, it's a brand new year, good
to do some awesome stuff, be cool and be awesome, and enjoy it, please, no matter what it
may bring, just do the things that make you genuinely happy, and try to benefit others
around you, I suppose, cool, oh, also, hey, wait, no that's all, I think, oh yeah, it would
be really cool, if someone could talk about life on our trillinics and audacity, making
cool stuff, I don't know, or, like, Morse code, something you do that is cool with pocket,
Morse stuff about, more ham stuff, I do like ham stuff, radio observations would be cool
too, so if you're like doing anything cool that involves just receiving and not
transmitting, unless you may not happen to be a card carrying ham, but you like doing
radio observations, like, what I want to get down with, great, maybe we can get in touch,
I'll put a way to reach me in the show notes, bye bye, take care.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself, if you ever
thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise status, today's show
is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
