Episode: 2684
Title: HPR2684: Making a remote control visible
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2684/hpr2684.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:28:20

---

This is HPR episode 2684 entitled Making a Remote Control Visible.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about one minute long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is yet another amazing life hack exclamation.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Anastos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Anastos.com.
This is in the amazing life hack tip section on our website which has seen the not in the
airbud in the headphone earbud one and also the arming board increasing height.
This one comes from my daughter.
Hi, Salo.
Hi.
What is it?
What's the problem?
Tell us what the problem is.
We have like a black remote control and a black couch so then I can't find it and then
I search for it and it's just on the couch.
Okay, and your solution to that was?
I put some color from tape on the back and on the front so then you can see it.
So installation tape, it is the installation tape here to denote the earth which is green and orange stripes.
So now our remote control has got green and orange stripes on it and we will now experiment by throwing it onto the couch.
Look, it works.
I can see the remote control.
Okay, bye.
Bye.
Do you want to say hello, Salo?
Hi.
Bye.
Okay, bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
