Episode: 2346
Title: HPR2346: Liverpool Makefest 2017 Show 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2346/hpr2346.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:31:53

---

This in HBR episode 2,346 entitled Liverpool Make First 2017 Show 4 and is part of the series
Interviews.
It is posted by Tony Hume at Tony H1,212 and is about 5 minutes long and carries a clean
flag.
The summary is a short series of interviews done at Liverpool Make First 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Hello, this is Tony Hume for our public radio with the fourth in a series of interviews
that I did at Liverpool Make First 2017 on the 24th of June this year.
Enjoy the interviews.
Thank you.
Hello, this is Tony Hume at Liverpool Make First and I've got one of the organisers with me.
I'm Hilary Harper.
I'm one of the crew chiefs, so myself and my husband are supporting the volunteers who
are helping set up, Marshall, welcome people and guide people throughout the day.
So we only organise a little bit of it, really.
So what is Liverpool Make First?
For me Liverpool Make First is a celebration of everything around making.
Whether that is craft or digital creation and it's aim to showcase and to encourage
involvement in all aspects of making and primarily around engaging the public,
children, families, communities in the wonders of creation.
I'm a well-being practitioner and I'm one of the things I very much promote is creativity
has been very, very good for your emotional and physical health, so it's a real passion of mine.
Thank you very much.
That's one of the best explanations of an event like this that I've heard for a long time.
Thank you.
Hello, this is Tony Hume for our public radio and I'm still at Liverpool Make First and I'm
on the pattern craft store and I've got with me and Gemma is going to explain a little
bit about what pattern craft is.
Yeah, so pattern craft is an analog digital punch card reader, so programming old school,
hooking up to Minecraft, creating music, writing with binary and ASCII, so you make a
punch card, feed into a reader and it either builds something in Minecraft or generates
some sound or writes something on the screen.
Brilliant, so how did you get into doing this with Minecraft?
In Minecraft, so I'm an artist at the background and I was doing a lot of things with museums
and galleries and realised that Minecraft is a big draw for attracting the kid, works
really well and I've got two boys and it was kind of, yeah, started using Minecraft for
other workshops and then I was learning to code and looking at textiles and coding and
then punch card read it, yeah, it was all a bit of a fluke project.
So if you've got a website that people can go up, Pat and Graph.co.
Right, thank you very much, it looks really good and you've got a load of pie seeds
here, they're yours or they've been donated.
They are mine but they were funded by the IETs, so I've got a grant to develop some resources
for Minecraft to get out of school.
Right, that's really good, thank you very much.
This is Tony Hughes from Hacker Public Radio and I'm at Liverpool McFest and I've got
with me Simon Ryder of Liverpool Book Art.
Hello Simon, I know we've just done this interview but we had a technical itch, so we're
going to try it again, so could you tell us a little bit about your project?
So Liverpool Book Art is an organiser of events and exhibitions around the field of book
art or sometimes called artist books and these are largely books made by artists and they
are made in different ways, some artists make their own paper, other artists take existing
books and manipulate them, say by folding the pages or even carving into them with scalples.
Some people make books out of different materials, I've got books with ceramic covers, a book
with the covers made out of driftwood, they could be notebooks or they could be stories
or they could be illustrations.
So whereabouts do you do this?
So practitioners around the country, there is an author's group of practitioners who meet
once a month in actually in Liverpool Central Library to discuss techniques and opportunities
and the work that I do is Liverpool Book Art, I put on an annual artist book fair in Liverpool
again at the Central Library, next one is the 8th and 9th of July and I also organise
exhibitions and the last exhibition I did was in Liverpool and then I got invited to
take some books to southern Italy.
Wow, sudden this and that, it's a nice place to go too for an exhibition.
Absolutely, but it's a very international field so when I did this big exhibition last year
I got works submitted to me from all over the UK but I also exhibited work from Russia,
Japan, Australia, Poland, Germany and a bunch of other countries as well.
So it's a really fantastic international community of creators.
Lovely.
Just so that listeners can find you, how would they find you on the internet?
So I keep everything simple, everything is under the name of Liverpool Book Art, if you
search for that you'll find the website, you'll find the Facebook page and even the email
address is Liverpool Book Art at gmail.com.
Thank you very much.
You've been listening to heckaPublicRadio at heckaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HeckaPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club
and is part of the binaryrevolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
