Episode: 2543
Title: HPR2543: Home Theater - Part 1 Hardware
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2543/hpr2543.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:11:32

---

This is HPR episode 2,543 entitled Home Theater Part 1 hardware.
It is hosted by OperaTneroR and is about 9 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, I go over my home theater slash media setup starting with hardware.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Puppet Radio with your host operator.
Today we're just going to be a multiple part series kind of of my media center setup,
which is that of Plex and some speakers and receivers and hardware and software and Internet of things and all that good stuff.
So that if you're not interested in media setups and automation through building your own kind of TV.
This is probably not the best fit for you.
But anyways, where this section is going to be probably three part, maybe four part.
This first section is going to be the hardware of my Plex and media system.
So it started out way back when we had not miss, which would actually plug into your cable cable card on your computer.
And you could record the media from the cable output.
And they held all this cool processing where it would remove commercials and not necessarily move commercials.
But it would detect the presence of, for example, the logo of the network and then automatically know when to skip commercials.
And all that good stuff. So I ran with not meant for a certain amount of time.
And then I did the whole complete unplug and we use a Yagi antenna for the over the air stuff and everything else is is downloaded.
So the setup here is, you know, this is a point in time capture.
So there might be newer models or better solutions for hardware and setup and all that stuff.
This is kind of a point in time captured over the course of a couple of years from 2017, 2018.
So I'll go over the setup.
First things first, I have a receiver in this on your code and then you pay in KYO receiver.
That receiver has kind of a standby mode where you can control it with an application or remote of you choosing.
So what I went, what was a zoom tech, the OOTAK wireless remote.
And then on the other side, it was a keyboard.
So on one side, it's a kind of a directional kind of traditional remote.
And then on the other side, it's a straight up keyboard.
Now you can have four keys on the bottom of the zoom tech to assign to whatever you want.
What I did find is between the on KYO and the Panasonic world.
They either want to work or the other one didn't work.
So I couldn't get Panasonic and on code on on KYO to play nice together.
So I ended up with the receiver being the master, meaning that I got a trickle star 7 outlet advanced power strip,
essentially has a master of the receiver.
And the receiver says, hey, anytime there's something on on this device, turn everything else down the stream on.
Anytime there's this device on the master is off, then turn everything else off.
So I had my PV and the actual sub and the Wii in the Wii U all wired up to that same switch, that same power strip.
So when I turn on the receiver, everything else gets power.
And then when I turn it off, everything else loses power minus the receiver is kind of on a standby mode.
So within the master always gets power, everything else actually the power is completely cut off when you turn off the master,
which is kind of the whole vampire thing, whatever.
So anyways, we start with the trickle star, have the master set up as the receiver.
We have Android apps or whatever to control the receiver.
So you got your Bluetooth, you got your Chromecast audio support through that player.
And I've got all the notes in there for it.
Then as a backup for the actual media server itself, I have a cyber power,
CP 1500, AV, RLCD, it's got an LCD panel on the front.
And also I've provided the configuration file that I use for it to kind of automatically shut it set off.
It doesn't do any of that when you first set up.
I think automatically shuts off right when the power trips.
So if the power trips is like goes into shut off mode or something.
So that the configuration file I have is pretty good for cyber power.
It says like after 30% then shut yourself down.
The cool part is the the wireless setup I have for the audio.
So for example, if the child is around and we want to watch something,
we can still listen to the audio and watch the program with the child not hearing the content.
So it works more at night, right?
But in general, it's a Bluetooth receiver transmitter key docs, K-E-E-D-O-X.
And this is a little box that's a USB Bluetooth device that plugs in to a power source.
And it does have an onboard battery that we never really use.
So that power source provides the power 24-7 to the box.
The box is plugged into the computer.
The other side is plugged into when you need it into the auxiliary in or auxiliary out of the receiver.
So at night you plug in the big, it's not the headphone jack, it's the bigger one, whatever it's called.
And you plug that into the receiver and then everything gets piped to the actual key docs.
Now the cool thing about that is I purchased I-Ru-Zo.
Why are the Bluetooth headset?
I-R-U-N-Z-O.
They're pretty slick. They're lightweight.
They held up pretty well.
One of them actually broke.
And I don't know if it's because my child was messing with it or whatever,
but they're seeing pretty solid.
If you take decent care of them and don't throw them around like a rag doll.
I wouldn't recommend giving them to children or anything like that.
But I would say they held up.
They've held up for the past couple of years.
Got a decent battery and all that stuff.
So the idea there is the key docs.
It supports two, not only one device, but two devices.
And there's a bunch of stuff out there on the internet.
And I wasn't able to find anything that was a reasonable price.
So for the price of the key docs and two of the Bluetooth,
any Bluetooth, two Bluetooth headphones you can use,
but I use the, the, these, I, I-R-U-N-Z-O, maybe.
I-R-U-N-Z-O, NFC foldable ones.
They're pretty slick.
So the idea there is that you set it, turn it on,
and then you hold the two outside plus and minus signs.
And you can set a second pair and sync two actual audio devices.
I thought that was pretty cool.
Um, as far as everything else goes, you know,
you've got your, your fishing tape,
standard stuff to, to run the wires in the cable.
You definitely want to be wired for this type of system.
And I'll go over the rest of that in a different series.
So the rest of the series.
So the, the first part is kind of playing out the hardware.
All that in maybe in a couple of weeks.
I'll have the second or third part,
which is going over the software for Plex.
And all that mess.
And then going over the software for.
Cody going over the software for Cody and all that mess.
And kind of somewhere in between or both.
Or one or the other.
I'll do all the internet based stuff with, with, uh,
all the, the, the content and how to get all that.
So anyways, that should wrap this up.
Um, if you're interested, feel free to let me know what your thoughts are.
If you do have a Plex or Cody system,
more specifically a Plex system and what your setup is.
And if there's anything new with being that I'm missing.
Um, please let me know.
And we'll pick up this in a couple of other episodes.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday,
on Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
