Episode: 2765
Title: HPR2765: My YouTube Subscriptions #3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2765/hpr2765.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 16:31:48

---

This is HPR episode 2007-165 entitled, My YouTube Subcription, Hush3, and in part on the series,
YouTube Subcription. It is hosted by AYUKA and is about 22 minutes long and carrying a clean
flag. The summary is part 3 of my list on subcribed channels.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, this is AYUKA welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
And I'm going to continue my stroll through the various YouTube channels that I subscribe to and tell
you a little bit about them. Now, one of the things that may occasionally come up is, you know,
how do you find all of these things? Well, what tends to happen is that they come at you
in a variety of ways. First of all, YouTube wants you to spend as much time on there as possible.
So, they have their own suggestion algorithm. They take a look at that videos that you've watched
and suggest similar videos to you. So, you know, I think that a lot of the RV channels,
you know, I think I found one or two at the beginning and then they kept suggesting other ones.
So, that's one way that that can happen. Another way that that can happen is that someone you know
from one area says, oh, by the way, I've also got a YouTube channel. And you can check that out.
In fact, the first one we're going to do today, really, with someone I had found through a web
comic and, you know, that's something else I could probably do a show about or all the web
comics that I like. But anyway, this particular web comic is called The Devil's Panties.
And Jenny Breeden is the person who does that, the artist. And she goes to cons, which is
something that I also do. So, we have that in common. And so, she's got... There are some videos
of her engaging in the ancient sport of kilt blowing, which is you take a leaf blower and blow up
a kilt. I, you know, it reasonably good taste, I suppose, but a little bit of innocent fun there.
They haven't seen anything terribly recent on her channel, but I've left it on there because
you never know what's going to happen. The next channel I'm going to mention is called Kate Tectonics.
And, you know, this, I've only seen a few of them. It's basically a channel devoted to geology.
And I don't know if Kate has given up on it. It looks to me like the last video I saw was about a
year ago. But I'm leaving it on here in case it comes back. If it goes a couple more years,
I may drop it. But, you know, I obviously, I like science. So, one of the things that comes
under that heading, I suppose. Something else I like, as you may have gathered, is music.
And there's a group in England, I think in the London area, called the Lydian Collective,
that I absolutely love. And they also do something similar to what I was saying with candy
rat records. They do videos and put them out. And sometimes it's videos of them in the studio,
sometimes it's videos of them in the gig. What have you? I just really love the music they make.
For very talented musicians. So, we've got bass guitar drums and keyboards.
Nothing revolutionary there, but I like the stuff they do.
And, in fact, not only do I like their videos, but when they put out a CD, I bought that.
When they did a MP3 single, I bought that.
Well, you know, support the people that you like and they'll keep doing things you like, right?
The next one, also, music-related metropole or cast, or the metropole orchestra.
And they do some interesting kinds of stuff. You know, there's a number of music things that I'm into
that are, let us say, not your traditional jazz or rock, but maybe cross boundaries of one kind
or another. And I think the metropole orchestra is a good example of something that does kind of
cross some of those boundaries and combining various genres together. And it's stuff that I find
interesting. So, I am subscribed to their channel. Any and all about once a month,
something will get released. So, that's cool.
Another one in the music area is a guy named Mike Pichelli who is a good guitarist.
I think I originally ran into him because he does, among other things, he does videos about
various Beatles songs and how to play them on guitar and stuff like that. I gave up playing guitar
because I really didn't have the time to be any good at it. But I still enjoy looking at some
of these things. And so, this is a channel that I have enjoyed following. Mike also has,
does his own music and put out a CD recently. So, if you're into guitar, this is something that
you might find interesting or you want to say, gee, how do you play in our region wood on guitar
and Mike will show you? Next is another RV channel called Mortons on the Move. This is a
young couple. Again, there's a sort of combination of travel log with how-to, which is, as I said,
it's a very common sort of thing on these. And for me, that works out well because I'm
interested in the how-tos as well as the travel logs. So, a channel that I enjoy.
And a lot of times these things intersect. So, I was talking about driving and vibing
and how they did. They gutted an old air stream and rebuilt it from the ground up.
Well, at a certain point, the couple from Mortons on the Move, who name is Morton, obviously,
joined them for a month and they were all working together on building this. And then
a couple of guys from another RV channel came by to see what they were doing. And so, yeah,
the mix and match all over the place. So, the next channel I want to mention is Nixie Pixel.
And Nixie is, you know, young lady who's into technology and gaming and what have you. And
so, I find it interesting. So, you know, she did, for instance, a video on SSH, terminal tricks,
Linux games, open source alternatives, what have you. So, if you're into that sort of thing,
you might find that channel interesting. I do.
Next one is number file. And this is another one of that collective of things that I mentioned
that fellow Brady, who has gone to apparently nodding him university, because that's where a lot
of these people seem to be. So, maybe not all of them. And so, this is all about mathematics.
And so, different sorts of problems. And a number of the people that I've seen on this channel,
I've seen in other places. So, you know, there's a fellow who is also on a series called,
what is it, outrageous tricks of science or something, which is a television series.
But he's one of the mathematicians that gets interviewed here. So, it's just stuff about, you know,
randomness is random. All right, that's a good point to make. There's one that's very controversial.
The sum of the series one plus two plus three plus four plus five dot dot dot to infinity equals
minus one half. And I've seen people say, yes, that really is true. We use that in physics.
And other people say, no, no, no, they're, they made a bigger mistake. I'm not smart enough
to really know which way that goes. My suspicion is it's not true. But, you know, infinity is
bigger than you think. Okay, that's a good one. There's this very interesting fellow Japanese
who does all these interesting little tricks with things. So, it's a fun channel.
Well, we're subscribing to fix a wobbly table with math. Okay.
The next one, Ohio Linux Fest. As some of you may know, I did publicity for Ohio Linux Fest for
about three years. It was fun. And I have continued to go there each year. So, they set up a YouTube
channel. And there are things they've got some videos. It looks like there's about four or five
videos up there now from the most recent or maybe more than that. Okay.
But it's OLF 2018. They've got keynotes. They've got different talks. What have you? So,
if you wanted to find out something about what was going on at Ohio Linux Fest,
that's something that you could take a look at. Next is a video series from Nature magazine,
oddly enough, called Nature Video. These are short, you know, 3, 4, 5 minute videos.
So, transparent bones reveal hidden blood vessels, bringing a fossil to life reverse engineering.
Lania Kea, our home supercluster. So, you know, if you're familiar with Nature magazine,
it is one of the top science publications in the world. They've also got a podcast I subscribed to,
and this video channel. So, a lot of good stuff going on there.
The next channel I want to mention is called Piled Higher and Deeper, which you may know is the
joke about what PhD really stands for. The full joke, I think, goes something like, you know,
BS is for bullshit, MS is more shit, and in PhD it's Piled Higher and Deeper.
So, this is a video channel. There's also a web comic that I also follow, and they do
interesting things. It's an animated kind of thing, but they've got a kind of a one person doing
the cartoon drawing and animation and a scientist who is helping with the script as to what it is
they're going to say. So, it's some interesting stuff. So, you know, gravitational waves explained
quantum computers animated. What is the universe made of? We have no idea. So, it's some interesting stuff.
And there's post-modern jukebox. Interesting kind of, this is a music channel.
So, there's this guy Scott Bradley, who is the person behind all of this, keyboard,
composer, what have you. And the whole idea of this, and there have been a few different
variations I've seen of this over the years, is they take contemporary songs and do them in older
styles. So, you know, you might see a thing from, you know, Christina Aguilera done as an old jazz
standard. You know, you might see something, let's see, is another one. Last Christmas done as
a vintage Andrew sisters kind of thing. Let's see, all about that base. That's interesting.
So, it's a fun channel. And they also have a touring act that goes around different places.
And I think it's not just the United States. I think they've got a company touring in Europe
from time to time. If you get a chance to see them, it's a fabulous show. It's a really
is wonderful. They have a lot of people involved and they put on a great show.
So, then I want to mention, there's an authority general, RV geeks. So, this is two guys who've
been traveling around in an RV. And a lot of it is how two kinds of stuff. And it's like they
did a whole thing about changing out the electrical system. You know, they wanted to get bigger and
different kinds of batteries. And they showed how they did all. It was actually fairly complicated
because it involved creating a new box and welding and how the batteries were hooked up and
all of that kind of stuff. So, it is interesting. And I do enjoy that.
Then there is a channel called RV Travel. So, you know, this is, I haven't seen
too much of it lately. I think the last one was probably a couple of months ago.
It looks like it's tied in at least to some degree with a newsletter on the internet.
And so, they talk about different aspects. RV refrigerator feature, you may not know about.
How could you get into trouble carrying a gun in your RV? Which in my part of the world that
becomes an issue. RVing with dogs. So, interesting topics there.
Then, Science News. This is another nice little thing. Science News is a publication that I
subscribe to. Comes out every other week. And it says what it does. It gives you the news from
Science of the two week period. But they also do short little bit. And these really are short.
Most of them are no more than one minute. So, just demonstrating something interesting.
How to fire a rubber band with physics. A crowd of runners behaves like a liquid at the start of a race.
How a Cyrus Rex will sample asteroid Bennu. So, some interesting stuff.
Then, there's a channel called SciShow. So, this is part of a what is now a network called
Complexly. An interesting history. It started with two brothers, John and Hank Green,
who started a channel. And then, YouTube at one point was trying to promote new channels.
And so, it was basically giving grants to people to do interesting things. And these guys created
this SciShow among other things. SciShow crashed. There's a number of them. And I subscribe to
most of them. So, SciShow, it's about science. So, it's really a series of videos. Probably
a roughly about five minutes. Some of them are longer. So, attack of the crayfish clones.
The first extinction of 2019. How we make the coldest things in the universe.
So, it's an interesting thing. And then, a related SciShow space, which is its own channel.
Same group, Complexly does this, but it's focused solely on space things. So,
birth of a supernova, getting the mercury. Are there planets more habitable than Earth?
Interesting topics.
Then, there's a channel by a drummer, Sophie Alloway. She's the drummer for the group Lydian
Collective that I had mentioned previously. I'm a huge fan of. And I really like Sophie's
approach to drumming, which is very tasteful. I don't like people who overplay.
She doesn't. Kind of like Ringo in that respect. So, she's got a channel, and I subscribe to that.
Occasionally, she does some things that are outside of Lydian Collective, and I like to see
what's going on there. Then, there's 10 minute history. And the videos are 10 minutes long.
And talk about something from history. It's a little animated thing.
So, may or may not be to everyone's taste. They have a very specific animation style.
But, let's see. Peter the Great and the Russian Empire, Frederick the Great and the Rise of
Russia, World War II, Free and Vichy France, Westward Expansion and the American Civil War.
So, it's no particular aspect of history that is necessarily focused on just whatever they feel like doing.
And, there is a channel for a group called the Fab Fo, F-A-U-X.
And I am a big fan of the Fab Fo. They come through this area in Arbor, Michigan every year in April.
I always get tickets. I think they are the best, it's what you would call a tribute band.
But, these guys are like studio musicians. One of them will Lee was the bass player on the Dave
Letterman band. Jimmy Vivino is another one of those late night shows. And so, I mean, these
are all really good musicians. And what they focus on is the music. They don't dress up in costumes.
So, you know, it's not that kind of a tribute band. It's a tribute band of musicians who are into the music.
And so, I like the channel. And so, I think with that I'm looking at the clock and we're at 22 minutes.
So, it's probably a good time for me to stop and remind you as always to support Free Software. Bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club. And it's part of the binary
revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, free.or license.
