Episode: 2368
Title: HPR2368: Every cloude has a silver lining
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2368/hpr2368.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:46:17

---

This in HBR episode 2368 entitled Every Cloud and A Silver Lining.
It is posted by me with and in about two minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summer is short, somewhat rhyming, thought provoked and emptying show cue.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
The world's going down. The HBR chose low. Be one of the saviors, record a show.
Whatever topic you're not alone. Feel free to seek help if you can't do on your own.
One will have to struggle to find a friend they are proud, with that wide range coverage
from the simplest to clouds, from toy to high tech and from jokes to vice words.
Embracing you all, not just the nerds. It's not a service. HBR is we.
So contribute the stuff you'd like more of to see. If you like it, others surely too well.
Diversity defines the realm we are aiming to fill.
Sure, there are heroes lifting most of the weight. But we all are the foundation deciding HBR's fate.
Be thankful, your slackers who leave those frees lots for those few prolific still filling the spots.
Please don't keep the burden on shoulders so few.
Chime in with some topic by sharing you of you. High praise to those stepping in a first time.
We need more of your thought to strengthen the lines.
Like an episode, please let us know. It's positive feedback that's keeping us go.
Comment on the page or record a reply. There's no reason for hiding or being overly shy.
It's a community effort to make the thing we love stay. Because failing would mean that HBR goes away.
But it takes more than bad times to make HBR disappear. Together we stand and we all are still here.
Bit by bit, sharing knowledge and fun. Building the confidence that HBR will go on.
It's up to us, so just pick up the ball and keep the show rolling for the sake of us all.
This is Murray for HECO Public Radio.
This text was lurking there for a while now, but being one of those slackers and dragging
out stuff I still do not really feel entitled to say some of the things I did.
On the other hand, that's all I have to throw into the queue on short notice, so here you are.
Still recording anyway. Hope you enjoyed it and here you soon. Bye for now.
You've been listening to HECO Public Radio at HECO Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
HECO Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
