Episode: 2546
Title: HPR2546: HPR Community News for April 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2546/hpr2546.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:15:53

---

this in HBR episode 2,546 entitled HBR Community News for April 2018, and in part on the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and in about 27 minutes long, and carry
the next visit flag. The summary is, Ken is on his own and talks about show release,
and comment posted in April 2018.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and you're listening to HBR Community News for April 2018.
Take 3. And HBR is a community podcast network where the shows are submitted by listeners
like you. So if you enjoy probably not this show, any shows out there, and you think you could
contribute, feel free to do so. And joining us this month are NewHose, Tukoto and Bookworm.
Welcome both of you to the community. And what we do here in the community news show is,
gives us an opportunity to go through what's been happening in the community on the mailing list,
which you're invited to join on the comment feeds, which are available on the HBR website,
and the shows themselves, which you are encouraged to listen to. Just to make sure that everybody
knows their shows have been listened to, we discuss them here first thing. And the first
show was the HBR Community News for the last month. And the Ramona says, the handle was pulled out
of Glencook's Garry PI series of novels. The Ramona is a nickname of a tertulary
character from the later books in the series. And that was me asking about handles, obviously.
Klacky was complaining that I was complaining about divs in the HTML, and he says,
to be clear, the HTML had divs in the ASCII Duck output, which I had just recently started using
the output was from hashify.me, and has been nice and clean with no risk of having Ken pulling
his hair out of frustration. Our shared adventure with ASCII Duck, which played out in the comments,
on Fediverse and private email are further for future episodes on my show notes work for.
Yes, I owe you one. And later on we will have, in fact, that discussion here on the news,
riveting stuff. Kevin O'Brien, or Izzy, says, my name, I heard you stumble over whether to call
me a hooker or just Kevin. I believe that if I had to do it over again, I would just use my own
name. When I joined, I looked like people were using pseudonyms, so I did as well. But it is not
like I'm hiding anything here. No, I don't think so. By the way, Kevin, if you did, you want to
change your name, we can do that in the whole name, and we'll change everywhere else. So maybe not
on archive.org, we need to think about that. Clackay is, in fact, living the dream. I am working on
a cool software. It's all free software out in the open, and I'm getting paid for it. Communicating
what it is that fracked delight does, and I probably butcher that, is obviously something we need to
work on. I know that when I saw it for the first time two years ago, I read the homepage at the time
and came away no wiser as to what was going on, and now I'm cursed with knowing what it is,
and no longer capable of experiencing what it is, a new coma will need to know.
That seems to be the homework of every good project indeed, because if you're studying
up for Fostem, the vast majority of websites landing pages are absolutely terrible.
Recently had a reason to go to Debian's homepage again, and it has still maintained its
turbulence all these years. It's just that there's an assumption that the website is never going to
be used by somebody who doesn't know what the projects are. It seems to be an assumption by a lot
of open source projects. A real boat bear for me when preparing show notes and stuff, but anyway.
Lost and Bronx has done an entire series this month, three or four episodes about storytelling,
that this was the first of them which was to deal with the way flashbacks were discussed,
and I found this particularly interesting. I really enjoy this entire series because I do like
storytelling, and do like stories in fact. The flashbacks especially are an interesting way
of doing the story, and he explains that he was experimenting with that format in his last
work, which I found quite difficult to get into, and what was happening here, and it took a
while to realize that there was a flashback going on. But great, I love this series.
Running Linux on a Windows box from JWP brings us an alternative to things like SIGBIN
and running VMWare and such for Windows, so it seems to have had a good experience with it,
so if you want to see how to do that, follow the links in the show notes.
The general problem solver was the first episode I believe from Tukotoroto, and it had a comment
from Windigo which, having read it already, I completely agree with a whole heartedly.
Thanks for the introduction. First of all, welcome to HEPR. This was an excellent first episode.
Thank you for explaining the general problem solver. I haven't encountered this in my time as a
programmer and found the concept and your introduction to it to be very interesting. I look forward
to any other episodes you have planned to share, and that is exactly what I would like to
say about this episode. Well done. Then we had the HPR New Year Show Part 3, and this one
covered lots of stock, the pocket shape, time shift zone, discussions, pine books,
traveling rich, tablets, iOS, battery shenanigans, etc. Really enjoying these ones as well.
I dread them a little because of the length, but then after listening to them comes
quite relaxing just to do something as you're listening to them. The following day, we had
Learning Arc, Arc Part 10, from the dynamic dual div morisesis, and Be Easy, and this one was all about
a race and a race subscript, a modus subscript, deleting elements in a race, splitting a race,
and some real world examples. So I'm becoming more and more convinced that Arc is a programming
language and not just some voodoo magic that you can be used on the command line.
The next show was another one in lost and bronx series, and this one was about the difference
between reviews and critiques, which were not the same thing. He is a big spoiler there,
well, the spoiler was in the show not so, there you go. And his discussion on why it matters,
I found quite interesting and made me realize what is the motivation of somebody giving a critique
or doing a review. Then we had CCTV with darkness and YOLO by operator who has
put in a surveillance system, I think around his house, don't think it seems to be more of a hubby
than a more the beginning of a more advanced project. And the stuff this can do is quite
interesting, and I imagine quite complicated. He has some code linked on the website,
and but I don't think I will be able to use it given that I don't have a network card powerful
enough to be able to take advantage of any of this. So, Brookworm, for his first show submitted a
list of podcast recommendations, which I still need to make the opml file for, and add it to our
podcast, podcatcher, to the podcatch recommendations website, which we should have on there.
But again, I really enjoyed the insight, a lot of the shows that I already subscribed to,
but there were a few in there that were new for me, and you really do get an insight into
somebody's personality by the podcast that I listened to, although that's at my list,
changes quite a lot over time, so there you go. Now, the following day we had
Ahuka, with health and health care in his open series, and this was more about general health
care and how to take care of yourself, and gone through his list of ailments in the past,
I realized that I, too, have a ever-expanding list of visits to the hospital and stuff,
so this is a good one to see, and I'm interested, as with all Kevin's shows, it will
turn into a interesting series, not to say it's not interesting now, but
then the next day we had plus and story and the differences about them, and
I thought most interesting about this was Lost and Bronx's ability to completely capture me,
even his example, as he was given this, about the background to the story being
you know, World War II and two spies and whatever, and they're doing this and they're doing that,
and he's just torn this out as an example, and I'm going, well, I want to hear that story,
Lost and Bronx, just don't keep that in your head, flesh it out a bit, make a,
make a short story about it and release it for us, thank you very much, as if you haven't
contributed enough to the community already, and then the following day, we had a blatant
misuse of HPR for publications spamming what's about events, some sort of pub crawl happening on
2018 up in Glasgow in the state bar starting at 8pm on Saturday, sorry 6pm on Saturday the 28th
of July 2018, 1800, in Holland Street, and of course it was they are very good friends from
Tuxjam and associated podcasts telling us CC Jam of course the podcast and
telling us about this event, unfortunately we will still be in
school period at the time, so we'll not be able to make it up, it will be absolutely awesome to do so,
but I'm planning on our hoping to or there's a possibility that I may be able to get to
on camp which is on August the 8th to August the 19th in Sheffield in the UK, that would be
cool, that is just too far away for a trip, so yes indeed, any operator, yes using burp suite on a
Android game to figure out exactly what's going on, very interesting the way he has used these
tools and very sad they security the way these are programmed that they just accept random strings
completely trusting the clients, moving to office 365 which is turning out to be a nightwise
series on his thoughts as he's painting the living room, there's a comment on one of the episodes
later on which I will describe more succinctly what I've felt about these shows, new years you've
shown part 4 where I'm back trying to solder some stuff again and more discussions, no comments on that,
and Nostrum Bronx examines the point of view and tenses in storytelling, so I think this was the
the last one for this month where he's talking about the differences and how you approach it,
so there have been a few comments about that, and they are from weep second person, I think
you might be a bit mistaken about the second person point of view my understanding is that it is not
a distinct pronoun, he or she that's still third person, second person is almost exclusively
using you as the subject of the sentence for an action from the main character, so useful in writing
interactive stories, tougher and pure narrative, Nostrum Bronx replies to that saying I think you're
right, I'm a spoke about the point of view names and distinctions giving my point of view names
and distinctions, I'm a spoke, getting my point of view names and distinctions mixed up a bit,
I think I gave enough examples and the episodes to make it clear what I'm talking about,
though I still stand by my observations about how they affect story construction, but thanks for
the correction, and Lackey says Chinese, it occurred to me that from what I know about Chinese
and particular Cantonese, most of what you're saying are about the most of what you are saying
about the nuances goes away, you say that by just this little change in tense you've already
communicated something about the whole situation, in Chinese you can't really do that, if you try
you're making a text just a natural and uncombersome to read, must be a real challenge for translators
in either direction, for my personal conversations I also know that even pretty accomplished speakers
coming from Chinese language don't pick up these cues when speaking English, all tenses
goes through an erasure in parsing, very interesting, culturally very interesting,
and Lackey himself had another show the following day recording HPR on the Fly Bart Dua,
and he comments himself giving an update, when I uploaded the other shows I noticed that there
were some weird links and jumps in them, apparently I had skipped silence turned on when I played
with the settings, my recommendation is don't, so I actually thought that was on my post processing
end, so I didn't put it down to you, Lackey at all, but I'm now glad to hear that I don't need to do
my geeky plans for the new house, where Nightwise talks about his new geek infrastructure in the house,
and Tukoto Loto says such a beautiful soundscape, while listening to the podcast about
natural sounds was just interesting itself, the soundscape of the episode is what sold me,
it was like listening to the joy of painting again with Bob Ross calmly explaining what he's
about to do in such a friendly way, I don't know is that, now in our psyche when we hear somebody
talking and hear the sound of paint going on, that is kind of relaxing, but I do like these
episodes also that they jump in cold pumps where he's fixing his car and you're just sitting there
having a cup of tea or coffee or beer presumably if you're in Belgium, sitting along listening to
somebody chatting while they're doing something, more of these episodes, very nice.
Interview with Austin Lee, which was an excellent episode, which would only have been better
operator if you had told us about a one-liner about what the YouTube video was, and essentially
this guy goes around at the event hall of the event, now again, I think it was, yeah,
Dragoncom 2013, they had a six-legged groove machine, and they walked around basically with
Rucksack's on playing rave music, and then people were walking behind them, and the party was
following them down the street. Excellent, I love it, I love it, love it as a concept,
wouldn't particularly like it as a neighbor, but that said, but that said, I have indeed
walked down the streets in certain cities, singing at unappropriate hours, so yeah,
let he cast the first stone indeed. Anyway, speaking of, I'm sorry, TLS 1.3 Kevin, I'm going to skip
to Gav Thres, says, and I couldn't agree more because I had the exact same comment. Great
episode about TLS 1.3, I just chuckled with the IETF comment about adding a decryption function,
oh, that's so, so hilarious. So if you haven't listened to this episode, do because it's an
interesting episode in itself, and it's coming and it's going to affect you, but it's worth it just
for that, that one email that they replied, basically, the banks were looking for a turn
encryption off button at the last minute. So anyway, yes, the following day,
lost in Bronx, and there is a comment problem with the comment on this one, I don't know why,
I don't know why I'm just making note of that, and this is about lost in Bronx,
demo effectiveness of his new microphone windscreen, and the comment, sorry apologies if I
can't remember who it was, it was about the sound and that the levels were all off when he took
the windscreen off and put it back on, which I'm guessing he wouldn't do when they normally
used to be on the whole time, so okay, and that pretty much was that for the shows for this month,
and then we had some comments on older shows with the introduction to Model Rocketry by Steve
Sainer, which was the 23rd of March, last month, John E. Thompson wrote, great show, I'm an
avid rocketeer, enjoyed listening to your show, and how have your future rocket projects been,
and Steve replies, I'm glad you enjoyed it, the project that I referred to in this episode didn't
go quite as planned, but I'll give it another try at some point, several other projects are in
the work as well, I'd be interesting to hear about some of your projects, nice one, Steve,
do my job for me, and Steve, don't be afraid to tell us about projects that don't go as planned,
I have a few in the works myself, but I'm kind of distracted with personal stuff that's going
on at the moment, which is taking considerable amount of time to clear off. Draco Metallicum,
Metallium, sorry, Draco Metallium, says two months without a new transmission in relation to
the Alien Brothers podcast, and where is the wisdom from outer space when we need it most,
cutting the grimoire, cutting the grimoire. Anyway, Clacky says, Askyduck's in the show notes,
and this is the discussion that they were talking about earlier, and he promises to do a show about
it, which is excellent. If you like Askyduck's, you can type your show notes on Askyducklive.com,
and then do the same thing as I described with hashify.me, just like hashify, Askyduck's lives
allows you to type in the left and see the results in the right. Dave Morris says,
Markdown Askyduck. Hi, Clacky. A couple of interesting finds. I use both Markdown,
Pandak flavored mostly, and Askyduck's via Askyduck's. I write all my hashify or show notes with
Markdown and use VIM on one monitor and a browser on the other, using the output with Pandak via
make, using VIM's make interface to do it. I also like to write a journal per project using
Askyduck's for what, for that, because I can generate much more interesting documents with color,
side notes, icons, good tables, and so on. Using VIM lets me type documents with syntax highlighting,
building it with make, and displaying things on my write and monitor using a dedicated browser.
I like Quipzilla at the moment. My solution is probably massive over-engineered, but I like it
smiley face. Clacky replied, over-engineered. It doesn't sound terribly over-engineered to me.
It's just that my web editing workflow is minimal-ministered almost to a fault. I have an
engineered piece that you can add to your solution. Trigger the builds automatically with enter,
and here's a zero that allows you to even skip the make step in VIM, just save and things happen.
Actually, what I often do is just watch make in a directory where I'm editing or while
sleep 5, semicolon, do make semicolon done. Dave replied, thanks, Clacky. I have used enter
in the past, actually to refresh my note viewing browser when notes change. I now use Quipzilla
because it does that all by itself, which is very cool. I think about using enter. I will think
about using enter a watch in the future, but for HBR notes I make several make targets,
so I'm not sure I want to automate them all. For example, I use make final to generate notes
with HBR links rather than the local ones I'm using while developing them. I can only do that once
I have tools in the slot and know what the HBR links will be. Of course, I could trigger make
final once the slot has been selected. Anyway, thanks for the ideas, Clacky says.
It seems that when I countered what your setup didn't seem massively over engineered,
I was insufficiently informed. Now that has been somewhat remedied, I agree with your assessment.
So, Steve Sainter was converting a dual laptop and Mongo says it was a good tutorial.
Steve Sainter gives a good tutorial on the way to add windows to a Linux computer.
I found the part about getting data from his old encrypted drive most interesting,
as I have been a bit afraid of encrypting a drive for fear of finding myself locked out.
I'm glad that he was able to use some information from my HBR show from last year on the subject
of adding dual boot to my laptop. Also, very good show notes for someone following his lead.
And I ask, I agree, is I ask is OpenScat an alternative to Autodesk Fusion 360. Steve says
it's really a different category of software. If the question is, can you do 3D modeling with
OpenScat? The answer is yes, however, as I understand it, OpenScat is an alternative to things
like Fusion 360 and SolidWork, and others is a bit tough. The OpenSource world has Blender,
which you can do 3D modeling too, but again, as I understand it, the way these option works
is a lot different than that many of the features present in commercial products.
It is worth mentioning that there are a few 3D model options out there that are not open source.
But do work with Linux due to the fact that they are cloud web based on shape.com comes to mind.
So, while there are alternatives of sorts to Fusion 360, seems to be coming the software of choice
in the Maker circles. I am beginning at this, so it's mostly just my perception. Eventually,
I will be able to speak with more authority or at least more experience. Thank you very much,
Steve for that. So, then we move on to the mail thread, and there was a comment by Brenda J. Butler,
and they were asking, they've been commenting to Dave about tags, and they were asking, she was asking
if it was possible to see them on the episode page as well, and it baffles me why I haven't put them
on there. So, I will leave that open, and hopefully I will be able to add that as well. So,
that is it for this week, unless I have to record this show again, and tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker, Public Radio. Join us now, and share the software, for you'll be free,
or you'll be free, or join us now, and share the software, or you'll be free, you'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club, and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a live 3.0 license.
