Episode: 2266
Title: HPR2266: Gamebooks: Lone Wolf
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2266/hpr2266.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:37:25

---

This in HPR episode 2,266 entitled Gamebooks,
Loan Wolf and in part of the series, Tabletop Gaming.
It is hosted by Klaatu and in about 43 minutes long
and Karimaklin flag.
The summary is Klaatu talks about the Loan Wolf solo RPG series.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi everyone, my name is Klaatu, this is the attacker public radio
and this is an entry into my Tabletop gaming series.
Which by the way, this probably doesn't need to be said, but maybe it doesn't need to be said.
This is in no way a series owned by me, so if you have any desire whatsoever to contribute to this series
or to add a cool game that you have found into this series, you are more than welcome to.
You don't have to ask HPR Admin for permission, you don't have to ask me for permission.
This is a completely, this is not in any way, there's no lesson plan here, there's no,
I don't have an overarching idea of how this all needs to go.
If you have a game that you want to talk about, throw it into this series in that way,
people will be able to just kind of go to the gaming series and find all of our gaming chats.
I mean you don't have to, I'm just putting that up, I'm offering it up to HPR
to feel free to use the Tabletop gaming series as a label rather than treating it as an actual
series with an A, B, C kind of linear flow. Okay, so that was that. So in this episode,
I guess I'm kind of starting a, almost a sub-series here about gaming books and you might think
what's a gaming book. And a gaming book is a thing that I associate with, it's kind of like
the 80s, pretty much, that's probably not even correct, but that's the world that I have imagined
everything existing in, is that gaming books were huge in the 80s. I don't know why I made that
choice, that decision, but that's my impression. And to be honest, some degree I think I might be
right, gaming books at some point fell out of fashion. I think the point at which that was
is the point when video games started taking the stage. I mean, video games were around,
but I mean, video games started getting good, you know, like early 90s, right? I mean, some
people would argue, no, no, the 80s, the early 80s, or the mid 80s, whatever. But I mean,
let's face it, really, the 90s were when video games actually became a thing. You started
getting the point and click adventures. You started getting really cool platformers with
actual stories rather than just sort of the put a quarter into the arcade machine and just keep
playing the same five levels with some, you know, with a faster timing. So at that point, when
people could start gaming on their computers, I think that the gaming books kind of became
almost obsolete because a gaming book pretty much serves or can serve one important
purpose which would be to enable someone to do a solo game. So if you don't have a group of two
or well, not two, well, maybe two, you know, three or four friends gathered together and you
want to do some dungeon crawling, you sort of couldn't do that. But gaming books came around and
put you into a world where actually, yes, you could do that. You could, you could, you could go
through a whole narrative just by yourself and it really felt like a game. It was a gaming
experience for one person. And that's really cool. And I kind of started looking for this not because
I thought, oh, I should check out some gaming books. I just had this vague memory of this book
series called the white warrior and the black baron. And maybe some of you have heard of it.
But when I was a kid, I found this, these two books. And one was called the white, the white warrior
and one was called the black baron. And I mean, that wasn't like the color of their skin. That was
just their color of their clothes. It wasn't like, it wasn't racist. It was just, it was just
their clothes. And there was actually another pair of books called the ruby something and the
emerald something. I like a wizard, I think. But I didn't know about those at the time. I just
found out about those later. So yeah, I found these, these books and they looked cool, you know,
because they had like the fantasy art on them. And I was always really into that. So I thought,
well, I'm going to look at these. So I got them and looked through them and they were just every
page was a corridor, like a first person view of a corridor. And that was intriguing. So I kind
of tried to figure it out. I mean, I don't know why I never thought to just read the instructions,
which were right there in the front of the book. But as a kid, I wasn't super patient with that sort
of thing. So I kind of like made up my own sort of way of going through this. And there was a
lot of confusion for me as a kid, because it was sort of the actual books as it turns out. And I
now know this were both single player and two player. So it was really quite, quite interesting.
You could, you could either just buy one book and play through it as in single player mode. And
the way that you do that is you look at the picture. You start at whatever page it tells you to
start at in the instructions. And you're dropped off in this castle or a maze or something. And you're
supposed to, in single player mode, mind you, you're supposed to find all of the treasure chests
around the maze and answer a riddle at each treasure chest. And if you answer the riddle,
then you get an item, you get some loot to write down on your notepad. And then you continue. And
if you get all nine treasures and you get out alive and everything, then you survive. If not,
then you lose. So the other mode to play in was two player mode. And that's if you and a friend
each had like, if your friend had a black bear in book and you had the white, the white warrior book,
then you could actually, this is really cool. You could, you'd both start on some page again,
whatever it tells you in the instructions in the front. And you guys can walk through the corridor
together, but separately. And if either one of you sees the other one of you, then you go into
combat mode. And so sometimes you would actually, you know, when you turn a page, you would actually
see your opponent. And sometimes you would see him head on because you both see each other.
Sometimes you would see your opponent just from like the side or from the back because he doesn't
see you yet. And you can go attack him, you know, all kinds of cool stuff. It was really cool.
And the two player modifier call correctly has nothing to do with treasure chests. You're just
supposed to kill each other. It's just a find search and destroy mission. And of course,
the books, you know, the intro to each book gives you each of you your own motivation on why you
need to kill this person, you know, like in the white warrior one, the black baron is the evil
person who has come and conquered your land or whatever. Whereas in the black baron one, then the
white warrior is the evil one who has, well, maybe you would, well, yeah, who's here to steal your
treasure or something. I don't know. So yeah, it's, you know, you're always playing the good guy
from your own perspective. And so it was a really, really, really neat idea. And for whatever
reason, I was just kind of sitting around playing Dungeonier. And I just thought, you know, what
would be cool is to hunt that book down. I mean, someone on lines got to know what that book series
was called. And it didn't take me very long to be honest. I was really surprised at how, just
how quickly I found it. It turns out that the mastermind behind this little four book series
was called, you know, it was, was named Joe Devar or Joe Devar, DEV ER anyway. And sadly, he
just passed away two months ago. I mean, it was like just at the turn of the, the new year,
he passed away. And I know this now because I'm on a mailing list with some people who also
are sort of Joe Devar, Devar fans. And that's how I found out. But anyway, so Joe was this,
was a musician in the 70s. And he did that for a while. He was a musician for a while. Until in
1977, he made the mistake of playing Dungeons and Dragons. And it had just come out. You know,
this is a new game. And he played it. And he was completely blown away. Quit his whole, you know,
musician as a day job thing and became a game designer. And he made his first game called,
well, he won, I guess, he, I guess he was a professional like Dungeons and Dragons player or
something. Because in 1982, he won the Advanced Dungeons and Dragons World Championship. So he kind of
became a big, big deal in the gaming world, I guess at that point. That's when he quit and
devoted his time to writing and doing game design. And the first work that he, that he
came out with publicly anyway, was flight from the dark. So that's the book I'm going to be
talking about today, although it's in a series. It's a whole series of books. So the world that
Joe Dever, Dever, created is known as, or the series I should say is known as the lone wolf series.
And the lone wolf series begins with flight from the dark. It has about 28 books in it or maybe 20.
And then there's another series that he did about eight books in that one. So he's done a lot of
these books. So you've got plenty to choose from. But, but let's talk about just this, this one. We'll
focus on this one. Because they're all basically the same, you know, that it's all the same mechanic.
And so flight from the dark starts out with you being a Kai Warrior, K-A-I. You're a Kai Warrior,
which I gather is a little bit like a samurai. You know, you live in this, this monastery with
other Kai Warriors. And you're young and you're a new Kai Warrior. So you're not very skilled.
You don't know a whole lot. One day you're out wandering the forest or the fields or something.
And you come back to see a black cloud forming from the from the south from the southern regions of
the land where an ancient evil once dwelt. And now of course the darkness is returning. And not
only is it returning, but it comes straight for the Kai Warrior monastery and slaughters everyone
there. Luckily you were out at lunch at the time and didn't get slaughtered. So it's, yeah, it's
pretty much the standard fantasy opening if you've ever played any fantasy, you know, game where your
main drive is revenge and that sort of thing. So it's a pretty pretty standard setup. At least you're
not, you know, going after a prophecy or something. But yeah, it's standard setup, but it's good.
It's fine. It works. Now the cool thing is once you sort of find this out in the book,
you are dropped into the role playing part, the part where you get to actually be in the game.
So you look at the the body is and you discover some some basic supplies like a sword maybe. I
forget. I think a small satchel of gold pieces, that sort of thing. And then the book drops out of
the story for a moment and kind of gives you or the book rather drops out of the story and gives you
the rules of the game. And the rules are fairly simple. You get to keep anything that you find,
but you have to write it down on a notebook. You have, you know, you will you will choose a random
number and you'll be endowed with endurance, charisma or strength and health or possibly even
less than that. It's it's really simple stats. It's not a whole lot of stats to keep track of,
which is quite appealing. And I'll probably get to why that's appealing later in this series.
So you don't have a whole lot to manage, but you know, it's it's just really it's your health
and your strength and then whatever you pick up along the way or or lose along the way.
In addition to all that, you get some special powers. You get to choose, I think initially two
powers from sort of what you were trained in as a kai warrior. So those are things like camouflage
or hunting or sixth sense or tracking or healing weapon skill and then you get to choose like what
weapons specifically you have skill in. A mind shield, which is kind of like a, you know, mental
strength against creatures with with with mental powers or the the the other way around mind
blast animal kinship you can talk to animals mind over matter you can move stuff with your mind
that sort of thing. So once you sort of create your character, I mean your character is always your
character, but you know you're you're you're going to be the kai warrior dude and that's who you are
and that's fine. But once you once you sort of get get all of your stats and gather all of your
your equipment, you start reading the book and the book is basically if you've ever played a text
adventure in a on a computer, it's like a text adventure except it's on an e reader or or whatever
format you find this book in. I just have it on my e reader, but it's it's available also as html
and pdf's and things like that so you can just read it on your computer too.
The it it sounds simple and and to give you an idea of how it goes you know it's just kind of like
you're walking along a road and then you come to a fork in the road and you can go either left or
to right if you want to go left go to page 35 you want to go right go to page 85 that sort of thing.
So it sounds kind of like a choose your own adventure right? Well it's not it's not really like a
choose your own adventure or maybe it is, but maybe I've just always read the wrong choose your
own adventures. The ones that I've read like as a kid were always super simple and the story is
all kind of boiled down to like 15 pages you know it was it was always kind of like oh these are
yeah this this chunk is that one adventure and there's really no there's not really ever any
sense that two adventure two paths would ever cross. This this book is unbelievably complex.
You can actually look at a GNU plot or similar flow chart of all the different paths that you
could possibly take in this and all books in fact because they're all they've all been transcribed
into XML so some clever person has rendered all of that into flow charts and you can see like
the paths and how they cross and how they intersect and how they diverge it's amazing it is stunning.
I have played a flight from the dark or I played several of the books so far not once not necessarily
twice some in some cases three times and never have they never have I had the same you know I've
always felt like I was on a different book like to to an astonishing degree I'm not saying like
you know how sometimes sometimes a DVD back in the day would would come out with like the
director's cut you know and you'd be watching and suddenly you'd sort of twitch and you'd be like
you know what isn't this supposed to be a director's cut I'm not saying anything different from this
and then there's like one little scene that's like oh that was different that was the director's
cut right there no this is not like that this is like a completely different experience every single
read through I'm sure you to hit the ceiling at some point but in terms of of really feeling like
it's a different story between the fact that you've got you know 11-100 different paths to go
along um you also have I mean you can play it you know your your characters always the same but you
can play the character totally differently either in your choices you know if you're if you're
into RPG then you could give your character a little bit more of a backstory and kind of just kind
of decide that that character's not going to you know I don't know ever run from a fight or
where that character hates animals or that hate that that character never goes left at crossroads
you know whatever like you can play it differently each time but then you also have different powers
that you can choose from so you can actually leverage the different powers on a different playthrough
and it will it will play differently um a couple of times well the way that the powers work is
that like let's say that you've got camouflage well let's say you've got hunting a billet no hunting
tracking let's say you have tracking ability so at at some points you might reach a crossroads
for instance and I keep using a crossroad because it's an easy analogy to make but you reach a
crossroad and it says you can go left page 35 right page 85 or if you have tracking turn to page 99
ah so if you had chosen tracking then you would go to 99 and it would tell you you're seeing
you're you see certain things on the road that make it look like most traffic has gone right
and you you detect a foul odor from the left you know so you're you're more likely to go right
or whatever um or or if you have animal kinsmen ship you know you might be walking along and
they'll be a crow along the side of the road and you think that would be cool to talk to that
crow and then you look at the choices and it turns out yes you can either continue or if you have
animal kinsmen ship you can talk to the crow on page whatever now the flip side of
that in terms of sort of the the one of the weaker points of the books I guess would be that your
your powers obviously the book is not fully interacted right I mean it is a script you're
following a script so if you're walking along and you see something that you think would be great
to do and the book doesn't give you that option then there's no way to do that um you you know
if if there's a horse pulling a cart and you think I should talk to that horse to see what's
going on in the cart um and the book says that you can either get in the cart or you can keep
walking then those are your two choices obviously so that's you know it's a little bit of a constraint
in terms of what you you might be used to in an open world video game yeah or it might not be
just kind of depends um and certainly one could argue that in open world quote unquote open
video games frequently it only really has the illusion of that anyway right I mean like yes you
might be able to click on the horse and talk to the horse but if the right if the authors didn't
think to put anything interesting in that horse's mouth um then all the horse is going to say is
some kind of like witty remark that the other horse an hour ago also said and that you know you
it so so there's the illusion of like oh my gosh I can do anything but I mean it's still all a
script and and the same with the book it's it's scripted it's it's a book um that you can that
you can play through so in addition to having special powers that kind of make your choices a
little bit more interesting you also uh do get to collect items along the way and those items will
come up later in in the books so you know you might find some armor that you can wear well that
will help you in combat you might find a gemstone that you pick up that could maybe later
be handy to bargain with when you meet um a wizard or something you know it's it's it's completely
or it may burn your hand because the oops it came out of the stomach of an ogre and there's stomach
acid all right all over it you know it really it depends like you you never exactly know
what you are what you're in for uh in this book and and that's really really great because it's
it just makes it uh it just makes it so completely um full of variety obviously it's it's just it's
it's really it's really astonishing how how full of variety they they manage to to make it now of
course the the other thing that sets it apart from from a choose your own adventure is is the combat
system and that was that's what makes it I guess really feel like a like an RPG because I mean
most RPGs maybe you don't get into combat that often but then again you know you usually have
to achieve something right you have to get over you have to do something so in the book you have
a lot of combat I mean not too much there's a lot of exploration and that's one of its strengths
I think um some some game books I've I've I've tried have relied very heavily on especially
single player um have relied very heavily on combat because that's kind of like the easy thing
to do you know lead the player to uh corner and attack them and they'll have to to do combat and
that's kind of like that's the easy way to make it a game or feel like a game um without having to
write you know a 200 page novel that's not even contiguous 200 pages but this this one really
does balance it quite well because it he did he he wrote like the series of 20 books or whatever it
is plus eight of another series um I'm just rounding up and down on those numbers but yeah I see
he's written a lot so you get a lot you get a great sense of the world you actually you're you're
exploring you know like part of the part of the book is the exploration it's it's it's it's
wondering what would happen if you went down that path even though it's kind of dark and dreary
you might find something interesting and you could get some cool loot that you could then use
against the undead that you're inevitably going to find when you go up the road the other way
so yeah it's it's there's a lot of exploration in this there's a lot of lore you know like
finding out about what populates this world uh who who who who got who has history in one area and
what wizard uh has has been around here and what he's doing now and has he been captured and he
just it's it's it's amazing you know what cultures are over here what cultures are there um it's
just it's a lot of fun it's a lot of fun I'm trying to sort of tell you how fun it is without
at the same time being too repetitive so the combat here's how the combat works it's it's it is
probably one of the best combat systems I've ever experienced in a solo game ever um pathfinder card
game is a close second but I think this one really really gets it right so the way that it works
is that you have a combat skill your character has a combat skill and you get that combat skill
when you roll initially when you're playing you know when you're creating your character but you
also get that um you also get that uh that skill boosted possibly by either a special power like
if you had chosen a weapon uh weapon mastery in a certain thing and then you found that certain
thing like if you said my character is really good with long swords um and then you end up finding
a long sword hey guess what you're you just got a two bonus on your combat skill and if that long
sword is also uh blessed with you know some kind of power of good from some ancient wizard or
something then hey you might have an extra two points just from the sword itself so the sword has
a plus two you are good with swords that you have a plus two plus your natural combat skill is an
eight so you've got eight nine ten eleven twelve twelve and that's that would be good now when you
go into combat of course someone else has a combat skill of their own um so let's say that uh
let's say that you encounter someone you've got a twelve combat skill and you've you encounter someone
with a ten so they're not bad they're not great they're not bad um so you subtract the combat skill
of your enemy from from your combat skill to create your combat ratio so uh twelve minus ten is
two so the combat ratio is is two and from then on you roll for uh what kind of hit you well what
kind of what kind of battle you've just experienced or what kind of turn you know each turn how how
much damage has been done and this is done in a combat results table and this is where it's
truly truly brilliant there are two tables one with negative numbers and one with positive numbers
along the top and that's your combat ratio along the top down the side are random numbers uh one
through zero or one through ten I guess so if you roll for instance a um a three so you've got a
three at a combat ratio of two so you would go to go to the positive uh table so zero one two
along the top and then down the it's on the third row so second column third row they're actually
first one and two actually well nevermind so let's call it the second uh the second column third
row and it tells you that if that is what you what do you got yet then your um your enemy has
dealt six damage no sorry has uh has received six damage and you have received three damage
now let's say you roll a seven that's pretty good so again second second column and then seventh
row in that case your enemy takes ten damage and you only take one damage and so on so if you
had let's say you were still at twelve and then you encountered like a big terrible beast with a
really really strong combat skill uh let's call it a um like like a 20 so that would set your
combat ratio to negative eight that's not good so now you go to your negative table go to the
eight column the negative eight column and then you roll let's say you roll a uh four so at a
four combat uh hit you take two damage no sorry your enemy takes two damage and you have taken
six damage out um and it's not until you roll like a ten on that you have to roll a ten in order to
get your enemy deal gets eight damage and you get zero damage done to you so when the combat
ratio is lower you're at uh at a disadvantage obviously you know like you're rolling and
and you may do some damage but you might get more damage done to you um but if you're at a high
ratio then typically you're gonna do more damage but depending on how you roll you may also take
damage so it's it's a fantastic way of doing combat and i'll tell you why because you might not
you might not see how brilliant that is you might think that that's just sort of a way to do combat
but if you've ever played a solo game then you'll know that when you're when you're doing the solo
game you're no matter what no matter how good the AI is in in whatever you're playing during the
combat you pretty much are playing two characters like there's just no way around that so you have
to roll for your enemy and you have to roll for yourself and that that's okay it works
but not as well as this because this is one smooth action you calculate your combat ratio and
from then on all you do is roll you roll once you roll one d ten and you're good you've got both
values of of damage you do the calculations you know you take the points away and then you keep
going in combat it seems like a small thing but i but if you play it if you actually play and try
to do both calculations yourself it gets really annoying really fast and it because it just slows
you down you know you're not only are you are you controlling your opponent which doesn't seem
as fun you know it's just like well i'm rolling for myself oh and now i'm rolling for my opponent
it's just kind of like wait why am i rolling for my opponent that should that's AI that should be
calculated for me and that's what the combat result table does for you it calculates all that stuff
figures out how things are going to go and then all you're doing is rolling and you're rolling
for essentially you know how well you did in that round and you find out and then you roll again
and so it's it's yeah it's it's a brilliant brilliant way it really really works um i i wish
i mean i'm probably going to use the result the the combat table in other games in other game
books because it's just such a smooth method of doing combat it really really is it's really nice
so that is the combat system in a lone wolf series really well worth checking out
uh one of the curiosities of the the series is the the way that it has that that it that it
it seeks to be completely self-contained so it ensures that if you bought that book you pretty much
that's all you need for the game like you're you're good to go so maybe you'll have um
maybe you'll have a dice uh a parrot well a die a detain or maybe you won't and if you don't
there's a random number table in the back of the book so you can just kind of close your eyes
and you run your finger over this table and you stop your finger and you look at where you
where you landed and that's that's the number that you rolled i never have used that i i didn't
want to use that i didn't feel like my brain would allow me to believe that that was random uh i
have my own uh random dice my own random number generator that i mentioned on uh on on the show about
the pocket dice roller uh here on hacker public radio but um it it's still cool that he was seeking
to to make the book completely self-contained and i think that's um a very admirable goal
because you can't i don't think you should assume that people are gonna just automatically have a
detain uh and even if they are they may not it might not you know the reading of book it might
not be convenient to roll a detain and whenever i say that people look at me funny it's just like
why wouldn't you be able to just roll a detain or why wouldn't you be able to just pull out your
phone and and roll an emulated dice and it's just kind of like well that's not what i want to do
i want to i want the i want the analog experience but i don't want to have to roll a clunky dice
around while i'm reading a book people don't understand that but i don't care now the really
really cool thing but yet yet another really really cool thing about this series is that the books
so the first book flight from the dark is not is it it's not complete it's it it drops you off
at whatever goal you you know you achieve at the end of the book uh which i'm not going to tell you
for spoiler purposes but you know you're you get to the point where you get to and that's the end
of the book and then you if you want to continue that adventure you have to read the next book
fire on the water or fire over water something like that fire on the water and so you so it's
it's continuous so you're still playing the same character and you can actually level up a little bit
you get um since you've already read one book you get two more uh special traits special powers
in the second book uh i think you well you get a little bit of a freshener you know a freshen up
here and there like you get well obviously your health gets restored but you you get um i think
you probably get some some stuff from the you know you get extra stuff extra loot and things but
you also get to carry what you've got in the first book over so you're you know it's not it's not
like you're resetting it's it's actually a continuous story now the third book is it's it's
is it's own book although it does have a couple a couple of things i mean you're still the same
character um and there are some things that carry over into it but um it is it's kind of it's a
separate thing that happens a little bit after the second book but um the the more you the more you
play pretty much the more you advance so you become more and more powerful now the i guess
the the thing about that is that i did start to feel like maybe i was maybe a little bit over
powered in some parts like because you know they kind of had to keep the book for for new users
the the book had to keep everything at the new level but your level three you know by the time
you get to the third book so yeah sometimes i felt like i was maybe doing a lot more damage than
probably was fair and that said i didn't care i just i still had a ball it was just so fun um and
and there is that sort of that satisfaction that comes from just being indomitable you know just
like um really powerful and i've earned it and yes i am going to kill all of you quickly so yeah
there there's you know i i'll see how far i take that like uh i don't know when in this series
your character you know you have to sort of give up that initial character i think i think there
might be two one or two more books in this kind of story arc and then from there i believe there's
it crosses over to a different story which maybe at that point you reset your character i'm not sure
i haven't gotten there yet um but it's um it is a lot of fun and uh it is it's got a story arc
and it's got the sense of leveling and character development uh great combat
and it's replayable amazingly i mean like really i really thought that after i played it the first
time i thought okay i played the first book first time that's i should probably just go onto
the second book but something compelled me to try it again because i just thought i you know
i played it as a rogue the first time i'm going to play it as a tank the second time and i did
that and it was a completely different experience so yes yes yes replayable replayable replayable
it is just a treat to experience you have to try it if you are into gaming and especially
if you um are into solo gaming because this is this is the way to do it this is the absolute
pinnacle of of solo gaming i think it's just a heck of a lot of fun um it is i should mention
it's a game you know it's like really a game don't don't think that you're going to sort of
sit in bed one night and sort of read this and kind of you know mostly read it's it's not like
that it is a game book you you need a pencil and a pen and a pencil whatever and a pad of paper
you need some form of random number generation you're putting the book down a lot and calculate
numbers you know it's it's writing loop down that you collect striking stuff off that you lost
and and it does throw curveballs at you you know i mean like i kind of i i i had built up a pretty
solid arsenal at one point and then something happened you know somehow i got myself into a story
arc that i didn't expect and i lost like a lot of my stuff like a lot of my stuff it was in
it was horrible i mean like everything was going perfectly fine and then all of a sudden i am
i am i i have lost my my bag of holding and i am in a in a river fighting a goblin i mean it was
it was absolutely horrible i had nothing left i was i was literally fighting with my hands
for like for at least 10 or 12 pages afterwards it was it was the most desperate
nail biting just the most tense game experience i'd had in in ages it was just so good
and so unexpected that was the thing it was like i'd had everything planned out i knew exactly
what was going to happen and then it threw me this curveball so it's it's really really good and
the best part about this game book i should mention is that it is free it's available for free
online in fact all of the books are available for free online because joe deaver dever joe um
graciously allowed all of his books to be published and downloaded free of charge on the internet um
he he called it has his his millennium gift to all those devoted readers who had kept the
chi flag flying high and so yeah we all benefit from that um you can find all of this stuff at project
a on dot org that's project a oh in dot org that is project a oh in dot org if you go there you
choose your language go into the site go to books and you can start downloading them like i say
they're they're in pdf they're in html and they're in e pub so you can read them in a variety of
different ways just start at the beginning and just and just go for it knock yourself out it's well
worth it i i cannot um recommend this series highly enough to you it is solid solid gaming
and that's all i'll say i think about the series and the book because i think i've if i have
a sold it on on you by now then i there's no selling it to you at all uh it's it's well worth it
go check it out have fun let me know what you think
you've been listening to heka public radio at heka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click
on our contributing to find out how easy it really is heka public radio was founded by the digital
dot pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com
if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website
or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the
creative comments attribution share a live 3.0 license
