Episode: 2332
Title: HPR2332: Installing DD-WRT on ASUS RT-N66U
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2332/hpr2332.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:24:58

---

This is HBR episode 2,332 entitled, Installing DDW RT on ASUS RTN66U.
It is hosted by first-time post-ironic sodium and is about 4 minutes long and carry the next
visit flag.
The summary is, describes how to install DDW RT router firmware on an ASUS RTN66U router.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An honesthost.com.
Good morning afternoon and evening HBR community, I'm Aaronic sodium and I'll be describing
how to install DDW RT, an alternate router firmware on an ASUS RTN66U router.
Before we begin, some notes to consider prior to you trying this yourself.
First is this which for me, but that's so guaranteed I will work for you.
Also, it's been a couple of weeks so I'm making this podcast for memory and based on
it resources I used.
Before beginning, read all of the relevant documentation for your router, especially
the decocterate and the specific age for your router, both of which are linked to in
the notes page.
Finally, do not use the router database on the DDW RT website to find appropriate
firmware for your router.
Use the above resources instead.
There are few common procedures that are used multiple times in the steps I'll go over
momentarily.
First, the recovery mode procedure uses the reset button to play the router into recovery
mode.
With the router unplug, press the reset button and then plug the power plug in while detunering
to press the reset button for about 10 seconds, until the power LED is blinking slow.
Second, the clear and v RAM procedure uses the WPS button to clear the NV RAM, which is
where the settings for the router are stored, similar to the first procedure.
With the power unplug, press the WPS button and then plug the power plug in while detunering
to press the WPS button for about 10 seconds.
Third, the 30-30-30 reset procedure uses the reset button to do a hard reset.
With the router powered on, push and hold the reset button for 30 seconds and pull the
power cord while holding the reset button for another 30 seconds and then plug the power
cord back in while holding the reset button for another 30 seconds.
This whole procedure should take about 90 seconds and the reset button should be held
for the entire time.
Now, onto this step, soon install the DDWRT firmware.
There are two methods, the web-duty method and the recovery utility method.
However, the web-duty method did not work for me because there is a source firmware on
the router to check to see if the firmware in its being uploaded is an official version.
Since DDWRT isn't an official version, the source firmware doesn't allow it to be installed
with this method.
On the other hand, the recovery utility method doesn't check whether the new firmware
is an official version, so that's the method I was able to use.
The show notes list of the firmware version I used.
Once I downloaded the appropriate version, I configured my computer with the following
settings in order to connect to the router.
IP is 192.168.1.12, something that is 255.255.255.0, and the default gateway is 192.168.1.1.1.
To configure my computer, I performed a 30-30-30 reset procedure, followed by a clear
ID RAM, and then a recovery mode procedure.
At this point, the router should be in recovery mode, and when you navigate to 192.168.1.1,
it should be brought to the router to recovery mode.
Follow the on-screen direction cell phone and install the DDWRT firmware, and may take
up to 10 minutes to repeat.
As the router reboots, perform a recovery mode procedure, navigate to 192.168.1.1, and
select reset emery.
Next, navigate to HTTP equivalent slash slash 192.168.1.1, slash do.htm, question mark,
CMD equals NV RAM plus commit.
Select reboot, and then wait up to 10 minutes for the R&T reboot.
Finally, perform a 30-30-30 reset, and navigate to 192.168.1.1.1.3.
Welcome to your new DDWRT router.
Make sure to check out the insurers for written instructions and for a few more resources.
I hope this helps any of you, and thanks for listening.
Goodbye.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
