Episode: 2161
Title: HPR2161: What's in my freezer?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2161/hpr2161.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:05:19

---

This in HPR episode 2,161 entitled What's in My Freamer.
It is hosted by INSIRS and in about 4 minutes long.
The summary is INSIRS talks about the food stored in his Freamer.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Get a web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Hello Hacker Public Radio.
This is INSIRS and I'm going to tell you what's in my freezer.
I have a small freezer, I live in an apartment, so this is going to be a pretty short episode.
I have like a stand-up, six feet high, two feet wide combined, the fridge and freezer.
So the lower half is a freezer.
So what's in the freezer and this is recorded in about mid-October.
So for some stuff I bought, it's blueberries, it's big, not wild blueberries, it's the type
we call them American blueberries from more like bushes.
We have a lot of wild blueberries here in Sweden, but my activity level isn't that big.
So I haven't been picking any blueberries this year, unfortunately.
And then I have some frozen, I'm not sure what they are, a casserole and some minced meat
and some more casserole, green peas, green peas, not green peas.
That's some sort of green beans.
We use the French word in Swedish, I'm not sure what you see in English.
And then some frozen cod, the fish, spinach and then to some things I've grown myself this summer.
So that's why October is a good time of year to talk about what's in the freezer.
I have it just a very small garden plot, but here's parsley, which I just cleaned and made sure it dried.
And then I just push it together very tight in a plastic container and then when you can take it out,
you can either just take some or you can take a fork and scrape it out of the container on the food.
It's well as good as fresh, and then some kale, frozen kale, and mangold.
I think I looked it up, I'm not sure if you call it mangold in English or maybe charred.
I did prepare a bit for this impromptu recording, so that's mangold and some more parsley.
And rhubarb is also from my garden or garden, it's not very good.
Here is some black current jam and broad beans, more rhubarb and more broad beans,
black current frozen whole with some a little bit of sugar.
And raspberries, frozen like in thin layers and then put together in a container,
so they are really easy to separate.
Well, it's a small freezer, I have a very small garden, so that was all I had in my freezer.
And people who have the big garden or maybe are hunting, I'm sure they can make a far better
episode than this. What's in my freezer? Thank you, HPR, and goodbye from Inskis.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital
Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
