Episode: 2098
Title: HPR2098: Minimal Music Site?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2098/hpr2098.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:17:12

---

This is HPR episode 2009-08 entitled Minimal Music Side.
It is posted by first-time post-matting user and in about 13 minutes long, the summary is
Matking discussing the availability of an open source multimedia-focused website.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR-15, that's HPR-15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello Hacker public radio audience, this is Matking, this is my first show I'm actually
recording it on my phone, I guess not show podcast, but I've never done a podcast before.
So I'm a bit nervous and according to the web page, that's supposed to be normal.
So I'm actually my little girls are playing in their room right now, but basically I wanted
to do a podcast to kind of talk about my first kind of project that I wanted to put out
there for the community to look at, so I put it on source forage and it's called Minimal
Music Side.
It's on sourceforage.net, slash projects, slash minimal dash music, dash site, and I'm getting
a lot of text messages right now, so hopefully that won't, my little girl's apparently excited
about something, but I'm getting a bunch of text messages right now.
I hope you can actually hear that audio, oh my gosh, that must be grandma, she's going
crazy with the text.
Anyhow, so it is a music, primarily music website, I have an internet based record labels,
what I like to call it, but I'm not trying to advertise, I'm just wanted to put a project
together so that musicians can post their music, their photos, their videos, and a blog,
and just talk about their music and stuff, and so I tried WordPress and I tried to modify
gallery, I tried a few of them, but the most frustrating thing was, more recently I tried
WordPress and really frustrating me because when you upload a file, it goes into a library
and then you have to select it and all this other baloney, and I didn't want to deal with
that because the audience for the website is going to be people who are used to using Twitter
or used to using Facebook, or they just, you know, they select, hey, I want to put a video
on here and then they record it on their phone and hit post and it's there, right? Or they
have like a Twitter, they type something, they hit, you know, tweet and it's there on the page
already, they're not, you know, they're not web administrators, they don't want to mess with
all that stuff, so I thought, you know, I'm just going to have to, I'm just going to have to make
something from nothing, so to make this, you know, easy for people. So I know zero about PHP,
but that's the, that's how the site functions, you know, obviously, PHP, but I never learned
anything about PHP, you have only done HTML, I don't even know about CSS3, right? I mean, this is
talking a couple months ago, so, so the Google search, you know, Google search engine is what I've
used to basically find everything that I need to make this happen, so the way it works is
you go into an admin page and you select what type of media you want to upload and you can
use your phone input, you know, for video, photo, audio, or if you have a song that's already
recorded in P3 or Ogre format, and you upload it in the PHP, you know, post it to a folder
on the server, so it'll either post it in the videos, pictures, player, which is for music files,
or the text folder, which is for your blog. And then the various pages on the main site,
display every, all the contents of a folder, whether it be text files, photos, videos, or music,
and then it sorts them by date. And let's see, there's another function in the admin side
to delete files, which uses jQuery, I think I'm saying it right, and but apparently there's
an issue with Java, so I need to find a PHP solution for that. So that's pretty much what the site
does, and then all of the posting of the audio and video is done with the HTML, video, and audio tags.
For the video tag, I did a poster function, which shows an image on the video before you hit play,
and that uses the logo that you upload in the site. So what I did was I set up a folder
aside in the website, which is for the background, and then one is for the logo, and then the user
can go to the admin page and delete the existing logo or background and upload their own.
Of course, they have to name it specifically, you know, bg.png or logo.png,
because that's what's in the code to display. So that's how that stuff works. It's pretty simple.
I don't honestly understand a lot of the PHP code that's in it. Most of it came from
discussion boards and that kind of stuff, which I was able to use the parts of what people
had posted in discussion and modify it to do what I needed to do. So this, I mean, it's not like
license stuff. It's mostly example code that people were discussing that I used to learn,
which is, I guess, pretty much how everybody learns stuff unless they go to school for it, which
I have not. So it's very simple, and the whole idea behind it was to be able to, for one,
provide a way for them to post their content. And then, for me, to make it really easy to just take
the whole website and back it up and then be able to republish it, like I'm used to doing with HTML,
but the whole, like, the mess that I think Facebook or WordPress is, which is just a big
all of frustration for me, because it's not simple, you know, just upload and post.
And then searching for all the plugins and all that stuff, you know, I just needed something to
function the way people are used to, a page functioning. But you have the database with WordPress
and with a bunch of other things. And I do not know SQL. I don't have any intention of learning it,
or my SQL. So I need something to be very simple where there's files, where they're posted
and displayed. And that's it. And then I can copy everything in the directory, save it. And if I need
to, for whatever reason, re-upload it later, I just copy, paste it onto the server with FTP,
and it's functioning. There's, you know, because there's no dependency on databases and all that
stuff. And I don't want to mess with all that stuff. I need to be simple so that that was the
whole point of it. But there's a lot of improvements. I'm sure that could be made. So I put it on source
forage. I chose the GPL 3 license. I really hope that was the right license to choose. I don't know.
But I wanted to basically just anybody to be able to look at it, you know,
see if there's any security issues. And, you know, be able to make it secure, but keep it as
absolutely minimum and simple as possible. And I believe the zip file, I did it in a zip.
Not a tar, tar G's here, BZ2 or 7Z or whatever. It was just the reason for that is I'm actually
coded the majority of it, majority of it on my Samsung Galaxy 3. I used a text letter called 920
and a C panel web disk application for uploading the files. And I just basically doing the entire
redesign of the website on my phone because the original code was just HTML, which I coded from 2008 to
2011. And then the website was down for a while and I've recoded the entire thing just recently.
But I work, have done most of the work on my phone. So, which is I'm sure odd, but I figured if
it's going to be viewed on a phone and majority of people are going to look at it on a phone and
use it on a phone and post to it on a phone and phone phone phone, everything's phone now that
I may as well do all the work on a phone as well. So that's what it is. I don't know if it's,
I don't know if the code is good or terrible or whatever, if anything's proper on it at all. So
if that's kind of your cup of tea and you find that somehow intriguing or interesting or useful
for your for your own needs, then check it out over on SourceForge. So it's called minimal music
site, minimal music site. It's a simple name. It's a pretty simple design. So that's
pretty much all I have to talk about. I guess as far as that goes. But a little history on
me and Linux, my brother, he is a coder and he introduced me to two Linux in 2000.
And I bought my first copy of Linux in 2001 at Walmart. It was Mandrake 7.2. And I used
a VMware to run Windows 2000 and later Windows XP in a virtual machine on Mandrake. And then
I ran Mandrake and alongside of Windows till 2006. And then I moved totally completely to Linux only
in 2006. So yeah, I've used Linux for quite a long time and that's what I prefer to use.
Let's see, that's pretty much it. I'm kind of nervous. I just really wanted to get the word out
about that availability of that site that I made, not knowing whether it's useful or not for anyone
or terrible or not. And to kind of, I listened to the Linux link tech show and I heard the advertisement
for this site and I thought, hey, that's really cool. And I thought, after I posted it on source for
it, I thought, you know what? That might be a sometime I could help add some content and then
also help talk about something that I have made that I think is kind of interesting that somebody
else might find useful. So that's why I decided to submit for a show and record it on my phone.
Now I do audio recording. Obviously, I made a music site. I use our doer. And the first
album I recorded on our doers in 2010 with my band. So yeah, but I figure, you know what,
I got a phone in my hand, may as well record it real quick while I have a chance and send it
that way. So I hope you guys enjoyed this. I'm sorry if it was terrible or irritating
to listen to me kind of jumble around. So thanks for listening. Check it out. Check out the music
page. I'm sure it can be modified to do just about anything. That's it. I'm signing off here.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released
on the Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLive, 3.0 license.
