Episode: 2936
Title: HPR2936: HPR Community News for October 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2936/hpr2936.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:36:05

---

This is HPR episode 2936 from Monday the 4th of November 2019.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for October 2019.
It's hosted by HPR volunteers and it's about 42 minutes long, carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Ken discusses last month's shows and talks about Alcamp, Foss Weekly,
Foss Dem and Star Wars.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Bet your web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of HPR Community News for October 2019.
Joining me this evening is nobody, largely because Dave had some communication issues
and although I could hear him, he couldn't hear me.
Anyway, so we'll mosey along and continue.
So for those of you who are new to the show, HPR is a community podcast network
where the shows are contributed by people very much like yourself.
In fact, people like yourself.
So this show allows you to get an idea of what has been happening in the last month here on HPR.
So the first thing we tend to do is introduce new hosts and I'd like to do that now.
We had one new host last month and that was Carl.
So very welcome to the network Carl and we look forward to hearing your show.
Then we'll go through all the shows that were released in the last month
and this gives people an opportunity to get some feedback.
But also as it turns out, it gives people an opportunity to download the shows
who are subscribed into this field feed.
We'll cover additional comments as well as going on to mail list discussions,
a few items related to the events calendar,
and some other business that we happen to have quite a lot this week.
So without further ado, we will go on to talk about the first show and that was HPR 2912,
which was Star Drifter RPG play series Part 6.
There were no comments on this one.
Just shutting the door there.
There were no comments on this one, but we will move on.
And this was the real-time strategy game play test that Lost and Bronx is developing
and has been testing it out with a few friends, Tattoo and Taj Mark and X1101.
So this has been a riveting one, I must say.
And we will discuss that later on when we go to the final episode,
which I think is covered in this month's show as well.
The following day, we had Windows, SDN, and Firewalls.
And this was by Bento, and it was being a Windows user for the last three years information
on SDN and the DIY approach to home firewall.
Claudio and M had one comment on this.
Plus one on the chocolatey recommendation.
I really enjoyed the episode.
I've known about chocolatey for some years now, and it's been a godsend to me
when I have to use Windows or Work.
I primarily use Linux and OpenBSD.
I actually have a schedule task that runs the Cops space, all-space-y command daily.
This command sequences update sequence, upgrades, all packages installed via chocolatey,
and accepts all prompts.
I also use MSYS2 for a proper Unix-like shell with Pac-Man for running updates
so that I can use all the CLI apps I use in Linux and OS and OpenBSD.
PS Tools is another suite that I can't live without.
Ultimately, one needs to use the tools that work for them whatever it is.
If it's Windows or Mac OS great, if it's Linux orBSD,
or something completely different, great.
If it's template software, S, I'll have to raise my eyeball, but still great.
Okay, the following day we had MrX with is, I'm loving it,
describing how I listen to Podcast Part 4,
and he's talking in this episode about PyFace controller and display.
What hardware he's using, and essentially how to over-engineer your podcast experience.
Am I complaining? Oh no, because this stuff is right up my alley.
And even if you're not interested in this show from the point of view of podcasting,
this is an excellent insight to what you can do with the Raspberry Pi and a LCD display
and some buttons. You can do quite a lot of human computer interfacing and scripting with that.
So, well worth a listen, if you're just scamming the feeds,
keep an eye out that this is actually more deep than describing how we listen to podcasts.
So, this was Carl's first introductory show, and I really hope it won't be as last.
My first HBR episode, and a bit of an intro, and then a description of my recording setup.
And it was covered it on by myself, which we requested,
more Mr. Chrome more shows on the following.
MrCromeBox.tech, which is a custom core boot firmware,
firmware utility for the Chromebook and Chromebox.
If you could do a show about cockpit, that would be awesome.
If you could do explain more detail how controlling your lead display and seep in login.conf,
which is the login configuration manager.
If you could do a quick show on Wake on Land, why you would use it, how it works, etc.
I would really like to know about USB-C docs and how they work for Linux.
There's a few, and if they're how they work for Chromebooks, etc.
And if you could do a show or series of shows on the Reaper Digital Audio Workstation.
And you see, that's what happens, folks.
When you think you send it to the show to us here in HBR, we will find more shows that you should send into us.
So, in passing, these items were mentioned in the episode.
And our really old Carl will do some more shows and that his kit seems actually quite nice as well.
Okay, the following day.
We had the HBR community news, and obviously we can say anything controversial in that, as nobody commented.
Then we had a Star Drifter Part 7, and the following day we had selecting a random item from a weighted list,
which is two guitar rotors, Haskell series.
And this one was random number generations, which is actually quite interesting, given his comments that in Haskell this is a rather difficult thing to do.
I think I kind of got this, but I was hoping Dave would have invaluable insights.
Into it for me.
So, the next day we had hosting software in the HBR show notes.
Oh, dear, dear, Jezra, Jezra, Jezra, Jezra.
Both are awesome, but might lead to hosting software on the HBR show notes.
So, I worry.
I do worry about you.
This needless to say was an episode about how somebody got a kayak and then put a motor on it, overturned,
and then their phone got completely wet.
It's well worth the script, well worth the listen.
And Jezra has a small Python script to scrape the API from weather.gov.
The source of all weather in the U.S. apparently.
So, that really made me chuckle.
Note to self, again, if they fix repairing the boat video wasn't enough.
If I ever do make it over to the States, never, ever go anywhere near water with Jezra.
So, Aruka, the following day, continues with Maywee, a better social network.
And he says Maywee was advertised as another popular alternative to Google+.
And this is part of his series that he's doing on alternatives to, you know, free software,
and the, like, excellent episode show notes are available on his own blog over there.
Geocaching with the family was a show by Dave Caroline and the kids,
who I had the great pleasure of meeting at on-camp.
And Jezra says on this episode, what a fun adventure.
Stinging nettles and cobwebs and badgers, smiley face.
Kevin O'Brien says, I loved this show. I agree with Jezra. This was tons of fun.
I just was thinking, oh, I'm right there. This, of course, was part of our series.
Well, I haven't put it into a series, which I need to do.
This is, at this point, I would say Dave, making old.
We need to put this into some scapes series.
I really enjoyed this episode. Basically, it was Dave Caroline and the kids going on the day of geocaching.
And the fun and frustration that can result from it.
Star Drifter RPG play test part eight continues the adventure.
And then also part five of how I listened to podcasts in this episode.
Mr X covered how I used the second add-on board pipe face controller and display.
And in the episode, in the show notes, you'll see pictures of waiting for IP.
And then he uses this only 22 days for the next free HPR slot.
No reason to not submit shows just because they're one or two shows in the queue.
And he also displayed how he controls this device using his Samsung remote control TV.
So if you're doing any computer interface in with the Raspberry Pi or something equivalent,
this is actually quite a good show to listen to.
And I have it in my note to self.
Whenever I get round to to have a listen.
Again, this the following day was from John Culp, Lafayette Louisiana,
had another find at the Goodwill store.
But his speaker was quite loud.
So he used a resistor to make a quieter.
And this was one of the first episodes, a colleague of mine and Mark.
Listen to.
So there you go.
I was wondering if John had considered using a.
The word just gives me.
Potentiometer for this so that you could increase and.
And lower the resistance, which would make the speaker louder and softer.
This is one of my pet peeves.
I mean the alarm clock should have a in the loud and.
So there we go.
Great episode.
And I will be referring to that.
If not, the information is probably not irrelevant,
but it is useful to realize that you can lower the volume of some of these devices.
The following day, we had Linux logcast memorial to 50 and 50.
And there was a comment from Lost and Brock Bronx, which I already know.
I never met 50, but I knew him.
I posted this over at the Memorand Mall for his obituary,
but it probably bears repeating here.
I knew him by his online handle 5150.
He was simply a great, great guy, a fine podcaster,
an attireless member of the HPR community among others.
He offered encouragement by the bucketful and constructive criticism when needed.
A good soul and a man of strong character who was.
Who displayed loyalty and dependability each time I spoke to him.
I never met the man, but 50 was a good friend, may he rest well.
And that, I think, is a fitting tribute to 5150.
And thanks to Honki and those guys for putting on that show.
Really, really do appreciate it.
The following day, we had Tony Hughes, who I also had the pleasure of meeting at our camp.
And he is there to tell us that the full circle magazine needs an injection of new blood.
So if you want to take, if you want to help out with that magazine, please feel free to do so.
In fact, I just recently saw that OpenSource.com have taken one of Dave and Beez's shows
and used that as the basis for a written article on their website.
If you feel that you want to support the full circle magazine,
and you have heard a show on HPR that you think would be of interest to the people over there,
please feel free to take the show notes or audio and convert it into magazine format
and publish it over there. That will be absolutely, completely and totally in line with what we're trying to do here.
So, yes, please help out there, if you can.
Star Drifter RPG Part 9, with Mosio over there, until we get to Part 10.
And the following day, we had 2928, which was building Markov chains with Haskell.
And there were two commons associated with that.
And Beez said, thanks for this episode.
I may be in the minor minority, but I love thinking about Markov chains and probability algorithms.
It is interesting how this is implemented in Haskell.
Comparing it to the same algorithm in Python, allow me to follow the Haskell structure and syntax for the first time.
To which Tukotorotor replied.
Thanks for the feedback. Be easy, hearing that you are able to follow Haskell's structure and syntax made me extremely happy.
Me too. It's quite alien-looking language with other syntax and spying on a podcast is pretty hard for me.
Markov chains and other procedural generation methods are close to my heart as I've been tinkering with games for a long time.
I rather try and write algorithms then generate that generates me content and be surprised by the results then write it by myself and know exactly what to expect.
Well, I am absolutely thrilled for Beez's feedback here because to be honest, I'm not qualified to discuss any of this as it's not my...
Basically, it's not something I've been interested in or not that I'm not interested in.
I have never had experience of it prior to this and it's great that Beez took the time there to provide some feedback to Tukotorotor.
And I know for sure that in the coming years, people will be providing more feedback when this series becomes, gets the due respect and publicity it deserves.
And the Haskell people come flocking over here to follow this series and its entirety.
So keep up the good work. Tukotorotor, I'm Beez. Thank you very much for providing the feedback.
And people... I said this quite a lot at AgCamp and more recently.
The feedback is the currency by which a podcaster is motivated.
So if you can put in the comment, if you can drop them an email or do another show commenting on their show, that sort of feedback is absolutely tremendous.
When you get positive feedback on your show, you are floating around the whole day with a little bit of a buzz.
That is... that is actually it. So please continue to do that. It's great.
Recover the wind fires from a dead MacBook Air.
Okay, that was by John Culp, who was the household hero, where he was able to use a new one to live CD and get all his files back.
And ended up making his wife happy, I believe.
And also was able to get himself a new laptop. Win-win there, John. Well done.
Now, following day, 29.30, and I got to make sure that I don't overstep or Dave will be annoyed with me.
I'll feel him, feel his disapproval from over here.
And today, they run down ones on Disporra. Disporra, I don't know if I'm saying that.
It's basically an alternative platform up against Facebook.
So a bit of a rundown on that and an expectation of it.
As I said before, this is a fantastic little series on the various different options that there are.
And if you're going to be moving from one thing to the next, what are your options and how likely is it that you're going to go from one abandoned platform to another abandoned platform.
People have to go to work there.
Wallabag for on-premises article aggregation.
When I posted that, I had no clue about what it was.
But I've listened to the show since and I realized that this is actually quite an interesting thing.
It's basically if anyone uses firefox that you have the pocket thing, which is a free slash proprietary service.
I think a lot of people are a bit cheesed that that was put into firefox when all the things could have used development, but anyway.
Wallabag is something that you can run yourself on your own server and basically sync articles and save them offline.
That was an interesting one.
Also an interesting insight into running Docker and containers and the issues that you get into in a practical sense.
It would be worth to listen if you're thinking about you want a little project to run a Docker container and this might be something that would be of interest to you.
Now, Star Drifter RPG playtest part 10.
I will now comment on this. I loved this show.
I loved the entire series. I loved the concept, the fact that they're doing this.
And I have already provided Lost and Bronx feedback, feedback which he threw in my face.
And I'm approaching this from the point of view of never having played Dungeons and Dragons or any of those games at all.
And actually, since then, my wife, while we were on camp, my son had a birthday party where a dungeon master came over and did an introductory game with the guys and they all loved it.
But as my wife and my other two kids who were just there commented, gosh, there was an awful lot of killing and dying and battles and stuff.
So my comment was, when I read the Star Drifter series, I see that a character who's trying to figure a way out of a problem and he's getting help from other people.
And then you come up with a solution to the problem and how to do that without the battles.
But Lost and Bronx pointed out that there is a lot of battles in Star Drifter as well.
And specifically, that this was a playtest of the battle scene and that regardless of what was going to happen, they were going to end up having the battles.
But a great, oh my god, was that awesome.
Just in the game, in the Star Drifter universe, loads of people that I like talking about a game.
What is not like in this whole process?
This was brought up as well as our camp and also when we were on FOS Weekly about as an excellent thing that you can experience here on HBR.
So cool.
Following day.
Have we, it was the 30th, yes, we're still in this month, Dave, don't panic, brace yourself, brace yourself.
A walk through my pipe based CAD, Python code part one.
And this was by Mr. X and he is describing the first part of how he sets up his pipe based CAD on his Raspberry Pi,
which he uses to control his music player running on a remote Raspberry Pi upstairs.
So that was a nice introduction as to why and how he does this.
And then the last show for this month, if I'm not correct, was server basics one of six names, bases and containers.
Clat 2 talks about unshare and LXC containers commands.
And this is basically the foundation of the cloud running on Linux.
He doesn't tell you that at the start of the show, but by the end of the show, all the Kubernetes and all the buzzwords and all the other stuff that you have serverless computing cloud computing blah blah blah.
This is it.
Absolutely.
As he says, it will be, you might not necessarily ever be getting down to the nuts and bolts of this, but I think I myself would consider this to be a bit like Linux from scratch.
A good thing to do at least once to do it.
Understanding where understanding the higher level process is what they're doing on the underneath and doing it once, just following the commands that are in this episode.
And indeed, he's also doing some on his own podcasts, new world order.
If you're over there, this is definitely worth something that you should.
It'll take you 15 minutes to try it out, but then you, the wheels start associating darker containers with these containers with how the process tree looks different, et cetera.
So well worth a well worth a check that one out if you can.
So cool.
That was the list of shows that we were going through, but there were seven other comments from previous shows.
And in going through the logs for the possibly interview, the interesting point that I saw was that now 50% of our shows are coming from
the RSS feeds and 50% of the downloads are coming as a directly from the websites.
So we have the long tail type type of thing here, also 50% of the shows are current shows that are in the feed.
And then the other 50% are shows that are older than that that people have listened to and have been downloading.
So there was a comment on back in September, the work of a firefighter park two by Yerun.
Don says great podcast how you run after meeting you at all camp 19.
It was great to put a face to a voice.
Hope the talk went well on Sunday.
It did also after meeting you and Yannick.
And the crew at the HBR stand, I'm inspired to look and see if there's anything I can do a podcast about.
Also, I can contribute back to the community so that I can contribute back to the community.
Take care of my friend and thank you for sharing your experiences in such an enjoyable, informative way.
Well done.
If that wasn't the IOU show, I don't know what is brilliant for a show that you can do is,
hi, I'm done. This is how I ended up on camp 19.
Blah blah blah.
And then we will be more than happy to supply you with a complete list of shows that you can do.
Comment on better social media introduction by Ahuka Yerun says,
I hope you find time to discuss Okuna Okuna.
Let's call it Okuna for now.
Hi, I really love to listen to this show and learn the thing or two.
As one of the sponsors of the Okuna, a previously open book Kickstarter project,
I really look forward to your review of this and one of your shows if you ever find the time or interest.
Kevin says, I have no plans, no plans for now.
I don't want the plans to cover Okuna.
Maybe you can do a show about that.
Nice one, Kevin. See what he did there.
See what he did there, Yerun.
No, not yet.
And you comment on Be Easy's feature engineering for data-driven decision,
which was also September.
Hi, Be Easy.
I just wanted to say, I really have this gap really even far, by the way.
I love the idea here.
Hi, Be Easy. Just wanted to say, I really enjoyed this one.
The topic of data analysis is definitely fascinating.
Clearly, from your comments, some folks don't have data mining or data science in mind
when they build applications.
But this episode gives one a very strong notion of why everyone should.
And on Gabriel, even far as show itself, on his basics,
there are three network fundamentals, and thanks, Gabriel, for Gabriel,
for fixing that bug issue.
So I can now install them for no reason not to install the guys,
and in the girls, and everything in between.
Thanks for your feedback.
Hey, thanks for your feedback.
I will try to contribute to build on the fundamentals as a series continues.
And Garrick says, yet another top episode.
Sorry, Gabriel's feedback was related to the previous comment from last month,
which was from Archer72.
And Jerry Kay says, yet another top episode.
Thanks for another top episode, Gabriel.
Though I'm pretty experienced in the field.
I still find the stuff fascinating and educational.
I have finally gotten around downloading Onyx,
and I'm looking forward to playing with it.
That's exactly what we're supposed to do.
Jesser, sent in the show last month about my internet connection,
and Visa commented, hi, Jesser.
I use wireless ISP in Shropshire, in rural country in England.
The signal is bounced between relays mounted on the hilltaps
and beamed down to the villages, villages and farms below.
The line of sight problem is resolved by having a few very low power sub relays
positioned around the area at lower elevations.
For example, I cannot see my nearby relay from the roof of my house,
but a grain silo on the fire next to me can.
So I take my signal from the sub relay mounted on the top of the silo.
It works great, and since the ISP is only a small company,
it must be cheap too.
Perhaps one of the WISPs in your area could be persuaded
to look at an approach to expand their customer base.
So that was all the comments, which is great to have,
as I've said to people before.
I said earlier in the show, providing comments is an excellent way to motivate people.
So the mailing this discussion was around links to Creative Commons podcasts
and there are some great suggestions, and that really went down like a...
really went down well.
I can't come up with an analogy right now.
As Ogcamp, we had a... I just printed off a four sheets of paper and on both sides
that I could put them in the middle and hand out a five sheet of paper
with the list of the podcasts.
And it was a great way to get people over to the table.
You could just give them, you know, if you're here in Ogcamp,
are you into podcasting?
Yes, I am.
Then you go, well, here's a list of other podcasts.
And, you know, if you're into podcasting, you might be interested in HDR.
Oh, no, you're not.
Well, then, oh, we would love to hear a podcast about how you got involved
in Ogcamp without actually being interested in podcasting.
And who?
The Ohio Linux Fest is on the first of November.
So that's already gone.
And my bill had an announcement that Anikon is...
If any of you live in the northwest of the US, Anikon is scheduled.
And it will be on November the first and the second.
So I doubt you're going to make that today.
But Anikon, we did our best.
And the community news.
Then, Kevin Wisher pointed us to the fact that our famous community member
has done a...
How community saved artwork on the Creative Commons,
which is a very, very interesting article about...
How open clip art library just disappeared?
It's still online, but it has completely just disappeared,
leaving people high and dry.
So even though the license was CC0, it's gone.
Fortunately, they were able to use free software to salvage their files.
And those files are now available on freesvg.org, freesscable vector graphic, freesvg.
I've updated the link on the HPR website to that website.
And yes, element of dock dropping going on,
both Platoon and Set are fine with that.
So the next thing is some events that are coming up that you need to be aware of.
Nothing, it's actually quite quiet in November and December,
because a lot of the conferences have been...
have been on Ohio Linux Fest, has been on this weekend.
False camp is just over...
Sorry, out camp is just over.
And December is pretty quiet, but of course, at the beginning of February,
is Fostem on the 1st and 2nd of February 2020.
1st and 2nd of February 2020.
And that brings us on to the fact that I have requested a podcast table at Fostem 2020.
So this pretty much every year, I propose a table there for all the podcast shows
that release under Creative Commons license, basically the same thing recommended podcasts that I have.
And that's the idea would be that if we were ever granted a table there,
that we would have stickers and representatives of the various different podcasts that are around.
Even if people couldn't make it, we could represent them at least.
Despite there being three or four different areas where tables are available as Fostem actually more.
There's five or six different areas where tables are available.
It is very, very difficult to get a project accepted for Fostem.
So don't be surprised if we don't get that one.
So speaking of which, I did mention that Ahuka, Kevin and myself were on Fost Weekly Episode 553.
I will post the audio of that here on HPR, so you can have a listen to it.
And it was absolutely terrifying.
So I don't know one of us that was terrifying about it.
Probably the video, the video was the thing that was probably terrifying about it.
It was great to do. It was great to meet the guys.
The interview went quite well, I think.
Don't know. We'll see. It was how to listen.
Tell me what you think yourself. I'm kind of interested.
I also would like to, one of the things that I mentioned on our application to Fostem was the fact that the RSS feeds are becoming less and less available to people.
And that people are going to services like iTunes or podcasts, Google podcasts, Stitcher or SoundCloud, etc. to get the shows.
Now we should probably be on those as well, but because I live outside of the US, I am not able to sign up for these.
So if somebody would like to help me out, sometimes registering HPR on those networks, I would appreciate the help.
Okay, just two more items of business, and then I can close this one up.
Over the last month, a previous ongoing discussion has been the text to speech at the beginning of the podcast.
And where we give a summary of what the show is, how long it's going to be and what it's about.
That is proving important for people given the number of shows that we have.
It gives people, if you're in the car or on the train or operating a vehicle.
The option to listen to the show and go, look, I don't want to listen to this right now. I'm just going to skip over it without having to go in half without having to commit your whole life to listen to the podcast before you can skip over it or decide, well, I'll listen to that when I'm up my desktop or whatever.
So a lot of people have complained about e-speak the voice that we've used.
And despite for the last 14 years looking for something better that would have the ability to be realistically be able to be sped up so that our visually impaired people who listen as 800 miles an hour won't get freaked out when e-speak is dropped.
I decided to do the intros for last month and this month, at least these two months so that we have the opportunity to discuss it.
So rather than having an e-speak voice that I would record it with the possible view that the people uploading the shows themselves could include.
Here's the piece of text that you need to read to introduce your show that you could also do that.
So tell me what you think if it's interesting, if it's not, if it bugs you, if it's good, if it's bad, it doesn't really add that much to the amount of time it takes me to post a show.
The majority of the time is actually done by Dave who takes show notes and puts it into HTML or into a format that is not invalid HTML.
And that is an ongoing problem that we had that show notes are not coming in properly.
So if you are submitting show notes in HTML then do your best to make sure that they're valid HTML because it's costing a lot of time on our site to fix that.
A solution to that might be to use some sort of markdown thing on the website where like GitLab or GitHub uses where you use markdown and then you can click the button and see which show notes are going to look like maybe that's something to look at.
But tell us what you think about Ken versus e-speak and then I have a request from my son.
As I am a tricky I wouldn't possibly know the answer to this anyone who is a star wars fan if you could tell me what the best way would be to watch the movies.
Do you watch them in episode order or do you watch them in production order or is there some other order in which you would watch them.
My personal preference will be to watch them based on release date so production order as opposed to episode order.
But if you have comments on that I'd appreciate your feedback either to the if you're mailing list commenting on the show or to me directly.
And with that I will wish you a very happy day.
Oh the last thing summary of missing tags.
So we probably have quite a few new listeners who are joining the show for the first time.
If that is you, congratulations. Thank you for joining the team.
If you want to submit a show press the upload button right there on the website.
So if you're a website there's a big upload button you can press it.
Anything that you need to know is covered there. If it's not drop me a line.
Admin at hackerpublicradio.org can add fellon.ie.
There are currently 579 shows without some raise considering we have so 629 need some work.
So that is way down on what we had.
This proved extremely useful the old tag thing in helping people to find shows as a camp or wherever.
Because you just go to the page and you search for Linux and then boom you've got all the all the different shows where it's mentioned or at least typed.
So if you're going back listening to all the shows from day one.
Have a listen. Tell us if the shows relevant anymore are they any missing links.
Anything any tags that should be added or removed that will be absolutely awesome.
And tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hackerpublicradio.
You've been listening to hackerpublicradio at hackerpublicradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
hackerpublicradio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status today's show is released on the create of comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
