Episode: 2429
Title: HPR2429: Interface Zero RPG Play
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2429/hpr2429.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:53:14

---

This is HBR Episode 2429 entitled Interface NeuroRPG Play and is part of the series' tabletop gaming.
It is hosted by Klaatu and is about 32 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is Klaatu, Loma and has played the Interface NeuroRPG Part 2.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hey everyone, this is Klaatu, you're listening to Act of Public Radio.
This is another entry in the Interface Zero mini-series.
Interface Zero, I didn't really mention what that was last time.
I just kind of talked about RPGs and talked about the world,
and then we just kind of started playing.
So this time I figured maybe it would be a good idea to discuss a little bit
exactly what we are playing.
So the rules set that we're using is as I did mention last time Pathfinder.
Pathfinder, it was a company, it was a piezo, it was a company,
and they were writing the Dragon magazine on behalf of Dungeons and Dragons back in the,
I don't know, let's call it the 90s.
I mean for years actually previous to that, but then in the 90s,
now it might have been in the 2000s actually,
and they were working on the magazine and then the contract or whatever
expired and it was not renewed.
So what this kind of meant was that they had built up a really solid user base
of people who were coming to them for Dungeons and Dragons content
and now had no official license to release Dungeons and Dragons content.
So what they did was they forked Dungeons and Dragons at the 3.5 edition,
or essentially the third edition, but technically it's a 3.5 edition.
They forked Dungeons and Dragons because of the open game license
and they created their own version of Dungeons and Dragons,
which we now call Pathfinder.
So that's Pathfinder. Dungeons and Dragons of course is still a thing,
and it's still a thriving thing, and they've done a lot of really cool,
cool things to simplify the rules.
So it's worth checking out both Dungeons and Dragons proper and Pathfinder,
and it's really just up to you as to which one you either prefer,
or just which one you have other people who want to,
maybe they have preferences, and so that's the group that you're going to end up playing with.
Point being Pathfinder is the rule set.
Now on top of Pathfinder, some people over at a company called Gunmetal Games
came up with this mod for Pathfinder to bring it into the cyberpunk universe.
So it's completely different from Pathfinder.
It shares none of the common history or lore of the Pathfinder universe
in terms of the fiction.
It just uses the Pathfinder rules, or most of them,
and applies a completely different fiction over the top.
And its fiction is this cyberpunk.
Now I've gone through and modified it a little bit for our game,
and I've even modified some of the rules to make it a little bit more true to Pathfinder, actually.
So what we're doing is not exactly what was written in the,
in the Interface 0 book, but I found the Interface 0 book on a site called Drive Through RPG,
thought up sounded fun, and that's how we got to where we are now.
If you want to play a cyberpunk game under an open game license,
Interface 0 is not a bad choice.
Another choice might be Starfinder.
Starfinder is the official and brand new.
It was just released the official sci-fi universe released by Pizzo.
So it's again, it's using Pathfinder-ish rules,
although it's a little bit different.
And I mean, it has to be different because you get hackers and technicians,
rather than wizards and dragons, you know?
So it's got to be a little bit modified,
but it's still within that same ballpark,
and it's more sci-fi-centric, well, it's very sci-fi-centric, it's set in the future,
and it's flexible enough that you could sort of hammer out a cyberpunk world using that rule set.
So one of those two, Starfinder or Interface 0, if you want.
You can play open game license, cyberpunk, as much as you want.
Just like me, Taj, and Lobath are doing right now.
Taj, Lobath, so you've entered the building, you've gotten in,
you've burst down the back door, and you've fought off the protective,
kill anything that moves robot successfully,
but the service elevator in the back of the building has been called up to an upper floor.
Well, that wasn't as quiet as I was hoping.
Yeah, shooting at an enclosed space, probably not.
Okay, so what's the plan, guys?
Let's see.
I think I could try to hack it, stop the elevator, bring it back down.
I love it, try it.
All right, well, it's 20.
Nice, so you're in.
Well, are we, I don't know, that it says, like once you've broken through a firewall,
I guess that should be, you should know how to save the own to that network now.
Yeah, so let's say had an AI left in there, or left a little program in there to let me back in.
Yeah, okay, so yeah, so your role of 20, you said 20?
Yeah, could try to stop the elevator.
Try to stop the elevator.
Cool, yeah, so let's do that.
Yeah, so I mean, I have 20, absolutely, you beat an elevator protocol.
So what do you, you just pull it back down, you said?
Yeah, I'm going to bring it down to us, and then how will we step in and see who is calling it?
Sounds like a plan.
Cool, okay, elevator sort of hulks chunks to a sudden halt and just reverses,
clearly not really used to having this much action in its life, but it comes back down,
doors open, it's empty, and you say you want to get in?
Yeah, I think we should go see who was calling it.
Can you, do you have that information from, from your hack to where it was coming from,
or where it was going?
I don't think it would have had the destination sort of on, on the network information.
So I could be wrong, but let's, let's say that it didn't, but if you step in,
the person who called it will likely call it again, and so you will try to push the button again,
yeah, so we'll just step in and then let it, let someone call it back up.
Cool, so you step in, the doors come to a close, and just moments later, yeah, the,
the thing is, punch turn, it's, it's the fifth floor, which you know is the pen ultimate floor,
the one right under the, well, under the sixth floor, but that's the top of the building.
So the fifth floor is calling the service elevator, and so the elevator starts to, to progress upward.
Right, should I stay hacked in here?
Let's see, what can I see on the fifth floor, since I know we're going up there.
Okay, yeah, so you turn your, in hyperspace?
Yep, you turn your attention to the fifth floor, and you see the typical camera,
which possibly you could hack into, and actually view footage from, and you see,
you, you definitely see several weapons, networked weapons, like military grade rifles,
and things like that. So they're, they're about two rifles that have network connections to someone's
personal, personal network, and that's basically all you see, well, and they're the usual key
card entries to different apartment rooms and things like that.
All right, it sounds like we got two, two foes up there, two guards up there.
See, if I can, I know there's a way to hack weapon systems too. So let's see if I can,
I don't, I don't think I'd really hit that DC for, if they're military grade weapons.
Yeah, it's a very high DC for military grade weapons, and these are military grade weapons.
I mean, you can try, but yeah, it would be pretty tough.
Well, I guess let's at least get a view before we get up there, see if there's anything else.
So I will try to hack the security camera and then probably drop it before we get to the floor.
So I got a 16 plus the 12 is 28, your security camera.
Great. Yeah. So you're, you, you, you just gain access immediately to that.
It takes no time. So you're, you're just suddenly, you see right in front of your eyes the,
the hallway from, from this angle, you see two, two people as you expected to sort of look,
probably exsold your types. They've got their weapons drawn and they're staring not right at the
camera, but in that direction. So probably past the camera, meaning that they're facing the back
of the building. So they're clearly anticipating you. Yeah. Yeah. They're clearly.
Birds of the elevator. Yeah. And you see the, the actual elevator, like the user elevator,
the resident elevator behind them. So your perspective is that you are over the service area.
So they've, they've got their weapons drawn and they're, they're waiting for you.
All right. So we get off on floor and try to find another way up.
Yeah. That's what I was going to ask is, are there like stairway access to every floor,
the two elevators, the only way up and down? You imagine certainly after, at least after the
first floor, there would have to be, well, actually, and, and low bath could, could,
charway could, could tell this from being hacked in. She could probably pull up a blueprint
of the building. So yeah, there, there are stairwells around. All right. Well, let's push the button
for four and get off before this elevator gets up to five. Yeah. Agreed. Let's bail.
I want to hit these two guys head on. Hang that one. Cool. So you, you stopped the elevator at four.
You disembark. There is no one on the fourth floor. So you're, you're in the clear and do you
send the elevator up or do you let them do that themselves? Well, yeah. I'll let it continue up.
Okay. So you send the elevator on its way. And yeah. So now you're on the fourth floor,
which is basically identical to the fifth floor in every way. It's got a camera. It's got key
cards along the sides. It's, it's pretty empty right now. Oh, and there are, yeah, there are store,
there are the stairwells. There's a stairwell to your right, right back here in the service area.
So when Choway was in the system, has she figured out what apartment is our target or is that
something we still need to figure out? Yeah. I don't think you guys ever asked. I think Choway is
still jacked in so she could look that up right now if she wanted to. Yeah. I'll check it out.
See if I can get to get that information. Yeah. It's, it's pretty easy. There's, there are resident
records on the, on the, on the network. And I mean, it's, even the postboxes are labeled. So it's,
it's easily identifiable. He owns the, the sixth floor. So the sixth floor is a penthouse and
that is his apartment. Right. Do I see, do the stairs seem to go all the way to the sixth floor?
Any other ways into the sixth floor that I can see. It looks like the stairwell does go up to the
sixth floor in a similar sort of service service area. So kind of in the back, you know, sort of
tucked away. There's a stairwell access. All right. Well, let's, I guess, am I, is there anything in
the stairwells here? Or I see anything else on the network in the, there are no cameras in the
stairwell. All right. Well, let's jump in there and head up to six, I guess. Try to bypass these
guards. You go into the stairwell and you start up the stairs towards the sixth floor. And behind
you, you hear the elevator arriving on the fifth floor and the sounds of its doors open and
people disembarking. And they start shouting, you know, where they go. They were right, they were
here. They were right here. I saw them. And then they, they kind of figure it out. And you hear
them entering the stairwell. But by that time, you're, you're well into the sixth floor.
There doesn't seem to be a lock on the stairwell door, but you are safe on the sixth floor right
now. In front of you is the entrance to the penthouse. So it's, it's a little, it's a nice little
foyer area. It's the only apartment here. It's a penthouse. So it takes up the entire floor. There's
a little table with a vase and a fake flower in it. There is a camera, a security camera up on the
upper right corner in the foyer, in the foyer of the penthouse, which is weird because you didn't see
a camera there on the, on the network, try way. And then there's the door. And it's a key card
access to get in. But it doesn't, do I see the key card on the network? Or is it not on this one
either? The card is on the network. Yeah. Should we try to create some kind of distraction or
try to lock down the sixth floor? So those guards can't get up here while we're trying to get
around to make our job easier. Try to bar the door or something? Yeah, either that or I don't know
if there's a way to trick the lock store. They won't open anymore or something like that. I don't
know what you're seeing inside. So there's no, there's no lock on the stairwell door. There is obviously
a lock on the penthouse door. The door itself is just, it's like a wooden door. So it's not super
high security door. I think by the time you get up to this point, you're supposed to, you know,
you're supposed to have sort of been checked at several points. So it's just a wooden door.
But there is a lock. So I mean, you could like a key card. So that's something. But there is no
lock on the on the stairwell or the service elevator for that matter. Yes, I will just try to
hack the lock right away then. Cool. Give me a roll. Well, the 17 plus 12, so 29. I took hacking
skills. Yeah, no kidding. I mean, in a cyberpunk world, you kind of want to have someone hacking
on the team. Yep, that gets in. So this is a corporate, it's a corporate building. But yeah,
you're, you're doing great roles. So yeah, you get in through the front door or rather,
you unlock the door. I'm assuming you go through. Yeah, well, I will head through a little worried
about this other network that I'm not a part of though. So you enter the penthouse and presumably
close and lock the door behind you. And it's dark and quiet. And as far as you can tell,
you're really so, it doesn't seem like there's anyone in here, but maybe he's just hiding out. I
don't know. But yeah, you're in. Right. Should we go through and like clear the room before we
try to do anything else? Maybe make sure they're not hiding somewhere? I guess a quick perception
check to look around the room. The room that you're standing in right now is the main, it's the lounge,
it's the living room, whatever. So it's that's pretty open. Yeah, it's quite, quite open. There's
there's a door off to the right that that leads off somewhere. There's, there's a kitchen on the left.
Yeah, and there's the usual assortment of, you know, sofas and a coffee table. And it looks
fairly like like battery. I mean, it's got, you know, it's got TV remotes and gaming console
equipment sort of scattered around just kind of. It looks, yeah, like not super tidy, but,
you know, he's a rich guy. So he probably has someone taking care of stuff for him. But yeah,
it's some random stuff around, but it doesn't look like he's, for instance, set up a perimeter
or anything like that for for defense or anything like that. It looks quite like an apartment
wood look. It's just right now. It doesn't seem anyone's home. Right. I'm going to say with my
last hacking ability, when I unlock the door, can I also change the security protocol on it?
I'll make it so that only we can, the two of us can unlock it. I believe, I know that you can do
that. Let me check to see what, do you want to, if it would be a separate check? I think it would
be because that is, let me, let me look, I'm pretty sure that's a change protocol. Okay, so that is
a separate one and it's overriding the protocol. So yeah, give me another roll for that one.
Die Rollers. Don't pretty good. I got a 16, no 28. Wow. Yeah, that is good. Yeah, it's okay,
cool. You changed the protocol and and none too soon. You, you hear the, the two people who were
pursuing you arrive at the front door and you, you kind of hear the, the telltale bleep of them,
you know, hitting the key card, authenticator and it just sort of bleep, bleep, bleep, bleep, bleep, bleep.
Clearly failure, at which point they start kicking the door.
Madly. Oh, damn. Well, at least, that's not a very strong door. Yeah, it is just a wooden door,
at least from the outside. I mean, maybe it's got a metal core or something, but it appears to be
Brazil with the red one. All right. I think we need to figure out what's going on here. So let's go
start searching around, identify in the bedroom, maybe a personal computer or something,
or a work room or something. So I'll go through the door. You said there was one to the right.
Yes, there is and that looks like that leads to the bedroom. I'll stay in the front room
by the door in case things kind of get mixed up and then we're ready to go there.
Sounds good. The bedroom has has all the usual stuff. It's got a bed that's pretty tidy,
a wardrobe, walk-in closet, rather. And there is a desk upon which sits a computer terminal,
which again, you didn't see when you were poking around on the network. So you're not sure if it's
just not networked or if it's on its own network. You're not sure. The closet, I said that already.
Yeah, that's what's in the room. Closet desk bed. Right. That we're really worried about
anything else. I want to figure out what's on this guy's computer. Oh, I will see if I can try
to put that thing or just try to get a log on for it. Yeah, so you'll disconnect from the main
network and go into the computer network. Is that cool? Yeah, that sounds fine. So I'll take
a round, probably two rounds to do that. Yeah, you are not initiative, so it's fine. So yeah,
so you disconnect, reconnect, so give me a role for the firewall for this, for the separate,
for the computer network, for the personal network. No, I rolled a one, so. Oh, my.
Oh, that's a good roll, man. Oh, a 13-9 still doesn't do it. Yeah. I mean, it's, it is, you do get
the sense that it is not actually as, as difficult a network to a person. It's just a personal
network. Yeah, it's just the personal network or the, it's a home network, sorry. So it doesn't
seem like it should be that hard, but, but you're, you're unable to get past its firewall and you're
not 100% sure why. But yeah, that's a bust. Right. Well, I think I need to try again. So,
hopefully, have time to take 20 doors, probably coming down, but I'll give another try for another round.
You try again. So give me another roll.
And I got a 20. So 32. That's a little bit better. Yeah. So you, you log into the computer.
And the moment you're through, there's an icon that you're not super familiar with there to,
to greet you. And it turns out to be malware that is trying to, to attach itself to your, to your
system. So give me a, let me see what kind of role that is. I think it's fortitude, but let me check
hold on. Oh, no, he's running windows. Yeah, it's a fortitude saving throw. So give me a fortitude
role at application. So let me see if this one, it'll help against this fortitude.
Eight plus two. So that's 10. Okay, that doesn't quite do it. You take, let me see, I think,
I think this is how this works. I think you take damage for this. It's non-lethal damage. Yeah.
Okay, so you take four damage from the malware. I'm assuming it's a run once situation. So we'll
just say that it hits you for four, but you're still on the network so you can, you can look around.
And you find on this computer that there is a stash of documents, um, photographs, things like
that that that seem particularly of interest to you. And the rest of it is largely blank. It's
almost as if no one's ever used this computer before, except for basically one thing, which is
setting up a firewall, installing some, some security stuff, and then putting this stash of,
of documents onto it. Everything else is completely stock install of the OS.
Well, I will drop that into my, uh, tap my headspace and then, uh, and get back out. Was it connected
to that other security camera? Yes. Yes, it was. It was, it was also connected to the camera. Yes.
So that was the only, just this machine in the camera? Yes. Yeah. Correct. Yeah.
Okay. Uh, yeah, then I'll drop, grab everything and drop it and then, uh, head back out to the
doorway. Okay. So the, the guards by now, I feel, I mean, they've, if we allow them to take
10 or take 20, um, I think they've probably beat down the door at this point. So, uh, you see
soldiers' feet sort of pop through the door as they start to crumble it through. Do you want to
do anything before they make it all the way through? Probably know their way out of this place.
At least we haven't found one. So probably just hide in the, like, kitchen doorway. Is there
enough of them through the door that you could get a shot off or is it just their, their through
and we can't really interface with them yet? Yeah, let's, um, well, let's roll initiative and
then we'll assume that you guys have a jump on them because, uh, yeah, they, they would be flat
footed right now. But let's go ahead and roll initiative really quick. I'm 11 and I got a six.
Okay. Cool. So they got a, they got 16 and four respectively. So they're kind of on either
end of your, your initiative rolls. So sit if you want to take a shot at, you know, a foot or a
shin or a kneecap, you can certainly do that. We could, we could call it a called shot, which means
that you take a minus two penalty to your, um, to your two hit roll. Um, but then you can,
you can actually target a specific part of their body or you can just take a step back and
fire towards the door and say, you know, there, take that you fiend, whichever you prefer.
I think while I see this leg popping through the door, it's an ample time to grab it with one arm
and then just bring my cybernetic arm down on it and try to snap it in half. Oh nice. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Give me a, um, I'm trying to think if that, I do CM, CMB, yeah, because it would be,
it's so specific. So yeah, let's do a CMB roll for that one. 19. Nice. Yeah. You snap one leg in,
in, you make it go the wrong way. Um, and there is screaming and screeching from the other side
of the door and the, the guard just falls to the ground and can't be bothered to try to fire
through any part of the door. He's in excruciating pain. Uh, the other guard, however,
continues to, to try to beat down the door. Uh, so low bath, let's say it's sideways turn. Yeah,
go. Want to help him get through the door. So I'm not going to, uh, are you going to hold?
No, I'm going to try to, yeah, man. Uh, yeah, I think I'm going to do that. I'm going to try
an intimidation check and tell him to get himself and his friend out of here. They don't want to
deal with us. Nice. Okay. Yeah. Go for it. I got a 16 and a plus 12, so a 28 intimidation.
I'm sure that'd be probably one less. So anyway, it's pretty high. Seven. Okay. Yeah. That's, um,
I don't need. Yeah. Okay. So, um, yeah, you, you, you, what do you tell him exactly? Just not to,
not to continue along this path. Yeah. I tell them, uh, let's see. Yeah. I guess I'll flash my
badge, tell my work for a government corp and he needs to get the hell out of here right now,
or he's going to be in serious trouble upon hearing this. Um, I mean, certainly he stops
banging down the door and, and he looks at whatever you flash him, whether it's an authentic
badge or, or not, I guess it would be authentic because you actually work for, for a government.
So he looks at it doesn't, you know, has no idea what it means really. And he says, yes, ma'am,
understood. And he grabs his companion by the shoulders and just starts hauling back towards
the service elevator with his, with his partner. His partner's rifle is left there on the floor.
And a hefty amount of blood from, from where the bone punctured his skin is sort of left on the,
on the carpet. And they, they retreat to the service elevator. I'm going to, on his way out,
I'm going to ask him who you're working for. Yeah, I think that'd be appropriate to get his
badge number, see who he's working for. Do you, do you call that from, from where you are?
Do you got into the hall? Yeah, I'm, I think we're going to head out, we'll head out there then,
run him about it. Okay. Yeah. So you, you sort of get out through the, the rest of the door. And,
and he, he sort of looks up, you know, sort of terrified for his life, thinking that maybe you've
changed your mind in terms of letting him retreat. And, and he, he looks up and he, he, he, he,
he hears your question. And he says, we're working for, for Peter and his Ari. He hired us to protect
them. Well, he's not even here. Where is he? What do you mean he's not here? There's no one in
there. And I playing back to the door. He sort of looks really confused and he, he, he drops his
companion on the floor and, and sort of starts to go towards the apartment, but then looks to you,
sort of like, you know, can I, can I go in? Well, I asked him when was the last time he saw him.
We ain't seen nobody. We just, we, we were told to stand here and, and protect the penthouse.
I've waved him through to see if he can find anybody in there.
I thought you want to go follow him and check around the place.
Yeah, about six inches away from him. Just breathing down his neck to just keep that
intimidation on, considering what I did do his buddy back there. Yeah, that's pretty effective. He's,
he's super freaked out and he feels very much like you, you outrank him. I mean, he's not even
stopping to think about who you might be with. And so he, he kind of, he, he walks through the
apartment and you get the sense that he's, you don't, you don't get the sense that he's ever been
in the apartment before, you know, it doesn't, it's not like he, he enters and then goes straight
for the bedroom or goes straight for, you know, anything. He, he, he, he sort of, he looks around,
he takes out his, his flashlight and he's looking around in the, and all the behind the sofa's,
you know, just looking, trying to figure out what would be going on. He goes into the bedroom
eventually steps into the, into the closet kind of looks around and then he, he finally comes out
and leaves the apartment and he says, I, I don't know, we, we were just told to protect the
penthouse. I don't, I don't know what's going on. All right, well, you two get, get your friend out
of here and go get him some, some medical attention. We'll take over from here. He says, yeah, yes,
ma'am. And he drags his partner back into the, into all the way into the service elevator and,
and you hear the elevator. Yeah, absolutely. All right, Sid, what are we doing now?
I'm thinking there's a couple of options. Either this was just a front to protect where he's really at
or maybe Peter isn't even a person at this point. Maybe it's some kind of construct or an AI or
something that I need to look through the files that I found on his computer. So when I hang out
here or should we somewhere else? Do we see when we were walking around with the guard? Do we
see anything else that would be of any interest to us at this point? Not a whole lot. It's like I
say, it's, it's an apartment that, that appears to have, have been well used. You're not really
sure why it would be empty right now. There's not a whole lot of food in the fridge, but he's a
bachelor. So maybe he doesn't keep a big stock of food. Yeah, it's, it's nothing, nothing really
stands out, I wouldn't say. He said he hadn't seen them at all. Anybody. So I think anyone's been here
for a while. I mean, we could stay here and maybe if he's out, we would catch him coming back,
but that seems kind of unlikely. So it might be better to get into a more secure. You do see,
now that you mention it, that you do see on the, on the bathroom mirror, you see a little sticker,
like a vinyl sticker. And it says, um, speedy maids. And then it gives, it has a little slot for the
date where, you know, last time someone's been through and, and it was, it was just this past weekend
that a speedy maid apparently had been in the apartment and, you know, made a, made an entry
that, that she, she or he had cleaned the apartment. I checked that out. Um, but yeah, I don't think
we need, we want to stay around here, especially if somebody's hiring, um, it's, uh, protect the
apartment. And with all, yeah, with all the noise we've made, they're probably going to send new
people, especially with the people we just sent out, get to them. So yeah, they can hear. Yeah,
let's get out of here. Your way out is, is totally clear. You can just take the, the, the normal
residential, um, lift, there, there don't appear to be any other guards on duty or anything like that.
So you just kind of waltz out all the doors, swing open, uh, for you, since you're on the inside
going out, I don't know where you guys go. Do you, you go to your apartments or do you have a,
do you have a safe, uh, secret headquarters? Where do you, where do you think you go? Um,
did you get hit at all? Or did sit get hit at all? Uh, do we need any medical attention?
Yeah, I said didn't you got for non-lethal damage, but I don't, I, I, that was just from that
malware thing. I don't think that's a big deal. Yeah, I don't think that'll affect me that much.
Uh, that's right. Yeah. I just have a hole in my clothes. That's it. Yeah. Um, I would guess we have
a hideout somewhere, but we need to get out of this neighborhood. So we'll assume that you, um,
that your fixer has probably hooked you up with sort of a, an office space of sorts, um, sort of
an underground or, or whatever space that you can go to to, to coordinate and collaborate. Um,
so you, you leave the Gijing district and, and you go into your, um, Cromwell district,
which is, it's, it's on the outer edges of the sprawl. It's, it's a little bit sort of, I guess,
well, there is no middle class anymore, but, but it's, you know, it's, it's where all the wage,
the, the normal wage slaves dwell if they don't live at their corporation, which is pretty common.
Most, most people live at the corporation at which they work, but there, there are some areas
for lower, lower management that kind of, that exists outside of any corporate spot. And that's
where, where your little hideout is. So you guys go there and it's got all the usual equipment
that, uh, that people of your profession would need. It's got gear and lots of computers and a
little lab space and a safe spot. It's certainly for a hacker to put information onto a computer
network and work onto a computer and analyze without risking any further encounters with malware.
And I think, I think we could probably say that we could end it there for today. I think that's
a good, a good pausing point. You guys good with that? Right. Yeah, that sounds good by me.
Cool. Well, thanks, guys, for, for playing. Yeah, it's, um, I will, I, I look forward to doing
this again next week. Yeah, just leave a little teaser, I guess, uh, I guess we'll figure out what's
on the computer. And then I'd also like to probably call in a favor with one of my contacts.
Have a sector cop who I would like to maybe see if he can run a trace on Peter.
Yes, absolutely. I'll probably start with that next time.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicant computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons'
Attribution ShareLight 3.0 license.
