Episode: 2369
Title: HPR2369: Little Meters
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2369/hpr2369.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:47:48

---

This in HPR episode 2,369 entitled Little Meetern.
It is hosted by Enneville and in about 21 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summer is Enneville done a quick review on two more inexpensive multi-meters.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello this is Enneville and I thought I'd do another review of well not cheap inexpensive.
Well we'll see if they're cheap but they're still in the package I don't even know what they really are yet.
I keep promising myself I'm gonna stop buying multi-meters because I just have too many of them.
And I only actually used like two at the house and one at work.
Well I do I leave one in my backpack so that comes in Andy once in a while and yeah there is one in the blue bag that goes to the look.
So I don't know I guess five multi-meters I use on a regular basis.
These other ones this has happened before.
I'm on Banggood and I'm just bored.
I should just stop going on these this Banggood and these things suck me.
And I swear there's probably some Chinese manufacturer that's going.
We got this sucker NY Bill and if we just take this the guts out of this multi-meter and put it in a different package he'll buy it.
So I guess maybe I'm their main customer here joking but I'm Banggood and I'm clicking around for something.
I think I was looking for capacitors.
Yeah this might kind of reference the last HPR I did when I was looking for those capacitors for the motherboard.
I did end up getting those that did you key.
Anyways I did get capacitors I'm Banggood that time but this is neither here nor there.
While I'm clicking around on there I see an egg.
It's an AM ENG AN8002 digital true RMS 6000 count multi-meters for $16.88.
I just I shake my head and I don't know how they can do it.
So I just order that just just for kicks I want to I'll just look at it I'll check it out maybe I'll do a review like I'm doing right now on.
HPR and I think what I'm going to do one of these lug meetings is just kind of purge myself of these and say who needs a multi-meter boom when there you go I'll get for these things away.
This took a while to get around to recording this because it takes like six to eight weeks sometimes to get something from China.
I can only guess like they just get like a can tart cargo ship a container that goes on a ship and they just load that up with all these little tiny small orders until the thing is full and then it ships over so it takes like six weeks to get something from China.
The problem is with this an egg within those six weeks I see that other like outlets and channels that I watch online for electronics.
These guys have already picked up on it and they're ordering it and some other people have done reviews and it turns out that I bought the wrong one what I wanted was the an egg AN808 which is more of an electronics meter.
This one is kind of geared I guess just as you're well we'll see when I open them.
Yeah I just said plural this got me to buy the second damn multi-meters.
So now I got this blue one the AN802 for $16.88 and then I got this an egg AN808 that's also true RMS digital backlight.
I'm not sure if the blue one has a backlight we'll see in a minute and I believe they both have auto off which I really enjoy because I forget when I put the multi-meter probes down.
I usually have already done my test and I get into something else on a board and I forget that I've left the thing on.
I've run batteries down in the unity.
You can see another HPR I did somewhere where I hacked one of those unity meters and put a timeout function in it.
That actually does come in handy that's the one that goes in the blue bag through the lug and sometimes I throw it back in the bag.
I used to kill batteries a lot with that one but now it just auto shuts off.
So if you want to look at that you can just look at all the episodes if you want.
So these things are still in the package this blue one has been sitting here for it's got to be two and a half months now and the red one came a little while ago.
This is still in the package we'll open the blue one first.
It's foam around it and the other package is still a pack oh they're smaller than I thought.
I haven't seen the red one this is the blue one.
You get a little tiny drawstring but oh my goodness they're a lot smaller than I thought.
Wow this is going to hold it up to this zoom H2.
This is an H2 and H1.
Zoom H1 but it's the zoom recorder is taller than this meter.
These are really small.
I have to imagine the red one is the same size I haven't opened it with kind of batteries to the take.
Oh I got to get a Phillips screwdriver and it's looking like it's going to be two AA's.
It's kind of a weird color blue.
It's like baby blue.
Oh my goodness a captive screw on a cheap the tilting bail flies right out.
It has a captive screw on this inexpensive multimeter usually inexpensive multimeters.
The screw is just like tap into plastic kind of like a wood screw and that if you got to keep going in and out to change the batteries you just wear that plastic out and eventually the screw is just spinning and spinning.
So that's cool that they got a little oh no they're not AA's they're triple A's.
These are small meters.
I think if this red one is good it might be a keeper it's going to swap out one that's in the green bag.
We'll see when I check out its functions.
I only have one triple A battery in the house.
I don't know what I could have been using them in.
I'm going to have to pause this and find some other batteries they must be around.
Okay I'm back I had to scavenge from TV remote control.
Here are two.
How does this tilting bail go back in?
Somehow when you take the battery door oh I see.
When you take the battery door off it's retaining tilting bail in the back.
Okay there's the battery in.
Let's see what this thing sounds like.
Does it sound?
It does make a beep.
Wow it's pretty loud for a little tiny meter.
Defaults to voltage DC which I like because I'm usually using these things for electronics.
AC is the select button.
So it's got volts AC DC.
Millie volts.
Defaults to DC.
Millie volts.
AC.
It's got to be auto right now it's auto ranging.
Oh auto power off says it right on it.
Cat.
Cat three 600 volts.
Cat two 1000 volts.
I would not touch 1000 volts with this little tiny meter.
Next function on the blue one is.
What do we got here?
Olms.
Diotesting.
Continuity.
And nanofers.
Oh it's got you can do capacitors.
Next selection is hertz.
And percentage.
Next one if I wouldn't use this multimeter for this.
Here's DC amps and AC amps.
AC amps to RMS.
Is the AC?
Yeah AC is to RMS as well.
Next selector is.
Millie amps DC.
Millie amps AC.
And the last one on this blue.
An egg.
An 8000 and two.
Is temperature Celsius and Fahrenheit.
Okay let me see.
You get.
Some cheap little probes with it.
And some other little package.
Oh that.
You get some inexpensive little probes.
To go with the little meter.
And you get a.
Temperature sensor.
Let's see what's in this red one here.
Oh you get.
I can already tell you get a lot more accessories with this red one.
Which was the an egg.
An 8000 eight.
I should separate these a bit.
I'll take a picture in a minute.
Same probes.
But you get like alligator clips and stuff.
I'll get into that in a minute.
Same little drawstring bag.
Oh yeah it's the same exact size.
I can already see why they're saying.
Get this one for electronics.
Sorry I'm pausing while I look at the two.
It's also true RMS auto off.
I didn't check out the backlight.
I'll do that in a minute.
And I got to put batteries in this one.
This might replace the meter I carry in my backpack.
Battery is going to be able to change TV channels today.
So there's a bit more.
Here's DC.
I'm going to take the screen protector off because I think I'm going to keep this one.
So first function is DC.
AC to RMS.
And hertz.
Next one is just like the blue one.
Millivolts.
DC and AC.
Next one.
Same as the blue one.
We got ohms.
Continuity.
Diode test.
I wonder how it can test the diode only.
Only three volts of batteries.
We'll try that.
Next one is hertz.
Percentage just like the blue one.
Next one is milliamps DC.
Millions AC.
Next selector is this is where it starts to differ from the blue one.
Which might be better for electronics.
We got DC microamps.
AC microamps.
And then this little function which I've never seen on a multimeter.
It's a square wave out.
So right now it's doing 50 hertz.
How do I change it?
50 hertz.
100 hertz.
200 hertz.
So it's not a frequency generator.
It's not going to do sawtooth or arbitrary waves or whatever other types of waves.
But if you just need a pulse coming out.
You want to see a square wave coming out.
Something.
Test a inductor or just make sure a scope is working.
That could be handy.
Okay, let's check out the probes.
Both the blue and the red one.
Take a picture here.
So both the blue and the red one come with the same, you know, main test probes.
I'm going to open the red ones.
They are.
While they're quite short leads.
It's a small meter and they're short leads.
They're not even three feet, I don't think.
Oh, but they're actual.
These are actual banana jacks.
These little tiny meters you get a weird kind of jack.
If this will take normal probes, that would be cool.
Let's just try continuity.
That's pretty slow.
It's pretty slow, but it latches.
If this takes normal probes, I'm going to go get a set of gold probes and see if that improves the continuity.
See if normal probes will fit in it, too.
Yeah, it takes normal size probes.
So that's a plus again.
And let's see if gold tips.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Put a set of gold tip probes in this little tiny meter and the continuity is fast.
I should try.
I want to play with this Hertz function for a minute.
Oh, let's go through this other bag of whatever is good easy to get with the red one.
You get lead extenders.
Oh, and you get alligator clips and different types of probes.
So these probes that come...
Let me take off the shroud.
Okay, you just got a shroud there.
Oh, it gave me different types of probes, but I don't see how I get them onto the wire.
Oh, I see.
You use this other set of leads.
And you can make different types of attachments, alligator clips, and little tiny, tiny probes
sort of like testing around on a motherboard or ICs and stuff.
And you get a little package of...
That's fairly handy.
If I can get them out.
You get screw in banana jacks for the other side.
So you can stick them in the meter and you get some spade connections and another set of tips.
So that's pretty...
That's pretty good for a little tiny meter.
Oh, two sets of alligator clips.
Oh, you can take these leads, this extra leads that I'm holding and you can make alligator clip to alligator clip out of them.
Or you can make spades to...
Oh, okay, this is hard to explain.
Like, you can make a set of alligator clips out of the second leads.
Or you can put banana ends on them on both sides and connect two meters together.
Or you can put banana ends on one side and alligator clips on the other side and clip onto something.
Or, you know, vice versa probes.
This is a pretty, pretty handy.
I can't believe you get all this for $23.
Yeah, let me go...
Let me grab a scope and see if this... how this hurts goes.
So, there.
Yeah, I'll take the picture.
Oh, I didn't check the backlight.
Let's check the backlight.
Hold down range.
Oh, you can range it.
Or leave it normal.
Oh, it's...
It's a strange color of green.
Wonder if the screen came out.
This is 500 hertz.
600, 700, 800.
You can go up in 100 hertz increments.
2,000 hertz, 3,000 hertz, 4,000.
You can go up to 5,000 hertz.
From 50 hertz to 5,000 hertz.
So, what happened?
100 hertz increments.
Until you get to 1,000, then you're going 1,000 hertz.
So, 2,000 hertz, 3,000 hertz, 4,000 hertz, 5,000 hertz,
and then back to 50 hertz.
But anyways, for such a small little thing,
you got like a little bit some function generating capabilities.
So, there you have it.
That's just a quick review of these things.
Because, like I said, I didn't get the scoop on them.
So, there's other reviews out there you can look at.
I've just like, I ordered them and they're here.
So, I might as well just mention them to you guys.
If anybody's interested, I like how small they are.
And I'm thinking, I'm going to take another picture.
I'm liking that it has the auto off.
I'm liking that it has a backlight.
This is, I just, this little, I'm playing with it as I'm talking.
That's what the beeps are.
I'm liking that you can put normal size probes in it.
And I think it's going to replace my amp probe.
PM51A, I'll take a picture here if you want to look
just so you can see what I'm comparing it to.
This is an amp probe pocket multimeter.
It has very limited range.
It has, I've done, I think I've mentioned this before in the past
when I did some type of multimeter review.
It defaults to AC, but then you got DC.
And then your normal ohms capacitance.
Is this due capacitance?
Huh, I've never used it for that.
Capacitance diode testing.
Oh, I didn't test a diode with this anig.
Let me go get an LED, see if it'll light it up.
And then you get hertz on the end.
Just a couple of functions.
And it's just a small pocket multimeter.
I always left it in my green backpack.
But the probes are attached to it.
You can't change probes.
So you're stuck with these probes
and you can't really put attachments onto these probes.
But this was always just a quick thing.
I always had it in the bag.
If I didn't have the blue bag with me, which has all the tools in it.
I had this with me.
But let me take a picture and you can see.
I'll get the zoom in there.
You can see the comparison of all three.
So there on the left is the anag.
And 8.008.
Alright, I got an LED.
Just a little last test here.
On this anag.
Get to diode test.
Oh, it's so small.
I just dropped it.
Let's try that again.
Diode test.
Let me turn on the backlight because it's fun.
This little tiny bell.
This is a blue LED I scavenged off of.
Very inexpensive Christmas lights.
Yeah, it's lit up the blue.
It's got a 2.54 forward voltage.
This is my new backpack meter.
The anag 8.008.
This is a keeper.
And I'm just going to leave it there.
If you can look around for other reviews of this thing.
There are some.
If you have questions, I can try and answer them.
I'm going to use it for a while and then I'll have a better idea how well it works.
So there you have it.
Quick review of two inexpensive multimeters again.
I figured I'd just talk about them because I had them.
And it turns out that I do like the red one.
And I'm going to use it.
It's going to go in the bag.
I can finally put some proper probes in the bag.
The green backpack that is.
And just have the functional multimeter everywhere I go with the backpack.
Which is most places.
Okay.
Anybody wants to contact me?
NY Bill at gummuckinette.net.
I'm still on the mastodon thingy.
And as always, if you want to chat in the comments, it's a kind of keeps it in the community.
And everybody can participate it like that.
So I'm going to say until next time, but I don't think it's going to be next time with a multimeter.
I have enough multimeters.
You heard it here.
Alright.
Till next time, guys.
Welcome to HECA Public Radio at HECA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
distribution, share a light, free dot org license.
