Episode: 2063
Title: HPR2063: My 3rd HPR Beer Podcast
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2063/hpr2063.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:51:29

---

This is HPR episode 2.63 entitled, My Urn HPR Rear Podcast and is part of the series
Memories.
It is hosted by Just Me and is about 2 minutes long.
The summary is, Introducing 2 Beans that I Feel You May Like.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi, Just Me here.
It's my third podcast in this sequence.
Yes, I know the one before this was labeled 14 but that one was out of sequence.
This next one is, as I say, the third and it's rather short.
I'm sorry to say given the circumstances when I recorded it.
I'm going to introduce you two beers.
One is a Red Seal Carousel and the other is a Rebel Writer IPA.
And again, as I say, the rather short and sorry for that.
But again, the whole idea is to introduce beers to you not so much as to how they really taste
because of the differences in our taste buds but get you to try them.
So let's get on with the show.
It's Leap Year February 29, 2016.
Paula and I just came from a hot pot place called The Boss is Too Busy.
My boss is busy and we're now sitting in a pub called Nobody Knows Bar.
And she's drinking a Red Seal Ale and I'm drinking a Samuel Adams Session IPA known as Rebel Writer IPA.
It's got about a 4.5% alcohol by volume.
It's called a West Coast style.
When you first take a sip of it, it's very dry and hits you with a good strong flavor.
But the aftertaste gets a bit flowery and a bit lighter.
Paula's Red Seal Ale has a more flowery beginning flavor lighter with a little bit of sweetness at the aftertaste.
Well, there you have it.
Short, about a minute long.
Please forgive me for the background noise as I say it was recorded live in the bar and it was very friendly atmosphere.
I do hope you'll try to partake in the two beers and I'll leave it at that.
Thank you.
Well, until next time.
This is just me here signing out and wishing you happy trails and happy beers.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
