Episode: 2339
Title: HPR2339: Podcast list additions
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2339/hpr2339.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:28:19

---

This is HPR episode 2,339 entitled Podcast List Edition and in part on the series Podcast
Recommendations.
It is hosted by Dave Morris and in about 21 minutes long and Karim and exquisite flag.
The summary is up made to my list on Podcast Feeds.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
With 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everybody, welcome to Hackup Public Radio, my name is Dave Morris.
Now in 2014, I did a couple of shows on the podcast that I listened to.
There were two because there was 80 something on my list at that time and today I'm going
to talk about some of the editions to that list.
There are 28, I was amazed to discover that's, I don't know what my total is, somewhere
around 100 I think which is too much but there you go, I listen to podcasts a lot.
What I've done is I have in my normal notes that you see on the website when you go to
a show, it's just got a list of the feed names, of the podcast names, all 28.
There are links which will take you to full notes where I drilled into the particular
feeds a bit more, given a bit more detail.
So I'm planning to go through these and just talk very briefly about them.
Each of the entries on the long notes, the full notes consist of any website that's associated
with the feed, the feed itself, in case you want to check it out yourself, I've got details
of when the last episode occurred, I keep that because it's useful to know if the feed
is sort of flagging, maybe going to die.
I've tried to compute in the database and hold this in what the average length of a show
is going over the last number of shows, it's not always successful because the frequency
is very low in some cases.
And I've also included the description that each feed includes, so these are not my words,
sometimes they're very short, sometimes quite long.
And I've also categorised these feeds because I keep these things.
I upload onto my players, things, feeds, podcast episodes according to their category.
So if I'm feeling like a bit comedy, then I can load up all the comedy ones I have,
for example.
So let's just go through them with a brief summary of each one.
So first one is called World of Business.
It's reincarnation of something I had in the previous list.
And it's a BBC thing and it's just sort of summaries and looks at business issues from
all over the place.
It's quite interesting, this might be a candidate to drop off my list at some point.
But on the whole, it's quite interesting, your mileage may vary, of course.
And one is called Criminal.
It's a documentary type thing and it's about criminal matters in relation specifically
to the States.
But not in, well, I say specifically, but mostly I should say, why interesting, this is something
my son suggested and I'm quite enjoying it.
Number three is a BBC one called Seriously.
It's a documentary type thing and it's all sorts of weird, wonderful things.
They tend to be about 30 minutes long.
There's two a week, I think.
That's assuming you can get access to them if you're not in the UK.
I have no idea how that is organised these days.
The BBC is trying to restrict things but not in all cases and I don't understand it.
Start the week is number four.
That's usually about 42 minutes.
It's a sort of a discussion programme that goes once a week on Radio Four.
And it can be really interesting, it can also be intensely boring but that's the life
of podcast listening.
Dan Carlin comes up next, his hard core history, if you've never heard of Dan Carlin, I strongly
recommend that you go and check out his history stuff.
They can be very long, there's no, the competition I did couldn't work at the average length.
But they can be like three hours long in some cases.
But they're amazing.
There's a brilliant job, somebody who isn't a historian of describing all sorts of things.
There's a lot of them.
You can go back to the whole list of these things, including the Persian wars and the great
war and that type of thing.
I find them fascinating, anyway.
Interest in history, I never had anyone I was younger but as I got older, it seemed
to be developing it.
Number six is the verb, it's called.
It's a BBC show about, basically, about poetry and writing and I would not have thought
I would enjoyed this, I just checked it to see what I thought of it, really enjoy listening
to them.
The guy who introduces it has got the thickest Yorkshire accent which I think is most
wonderful.
If you are not British, you might struggle a bit, there's a challenge, check it out and
see if you can understand what he's saying.
I did a show a few months back about YouTube and makers on YouTube.
Well some of the makers also do podcasts.
Number seven is one called Making It and it's got Jimmy Durresta, Bob Clagant and David
Pichuto on it, all three of whom I follow on YouTube.
I really like their podcasts.
They do a very good job of just covering all sorts of subjects relating to their lives
as makers and making in general.
They seem like really, really interesting people too.
Another one in the Making category, reclaimed audio podcast.
This is three makers who are called Phil Pinsky, Tim's Way and Bill Loot.
When I follow them all on YouTube and they specialize in recycling, upcycling, reclaimed
materials.
That's a nice way of putting it upcycling and making with reclaimed materials and well
being one whose scavenged pallets and made useful stuff is a rabbit hutch, I'm trying
to get rid of it at the moment, made entirely of pallets in my backyard.
But yeah, I find this fascinating, again the people on it are most interesting to listen
to.
They're around about an hour long these particular shows.
The podcast is number nine.
This is classified, this is a music podcast because it's largely about creative comments,
music with a bit of chat in between and it's Dave and Caroline Lee who live in South Yorkshire.
Yeah, you shouldn't have any trouble with their, I think Yorkshire accents because I don't
have a lot of them, but anyway British accents are strange, a wonderful thing, I can vary
within a few miles.
But yeah, it's a great, great show, it's about an hour long, I think it's intended to
be an hour long and it covers some quite interesting music.
I've met Dave at Oddcamp and I think I'm going to meet Caroline on the pod crawl glass
go later in July.
Open countries, my next one, number ten and it's another BBC one, it's a sort of country
side thing while the life landscape British isle stuff.
Another one from Dan Carlin, I've classified this one as opinion and he's talking about
the state of the world and the state of politics, particularly American politics, but it's,
I find it really fascinating, he does give an overview of the way things are in the world
which I don't think I would necessarily have arrived at myself, it's certainly an interesting
and sometimes controversial view.
These are about an hour long, these particular shows, very good though, strongly recommend
that one actually.
Number 12, Philosophy Bites, I'm interested in philosophy at a general level, although
I have my being trained as a scientist traditionally or at least currently dislike the concept
of philosophy, I'm trying to broaden my mind a bit and listen to this one.
It's quite short, 20 minutes average according to my computations and there are various
bite size topics interviewing top philosophers, if you want to get into philosophy a little
bit that can be quite useful.
Another BBC one coming up, number 13 all in the mind, this is a BBC show on mental health
and the mind around about half an hour long.
One I discovered fairly recently, number 14, it's called Bacterial Files, it's only
short about eight minutes on average and it's about bacteria and other microbes as they
tend to be called, so that's sometimes single-celled organisms or the eukaryotic nature, the
ones that have got nuclei in them, so things like malaria is an example, viruses as well
as included in there.
You just sort of use items really, well I'm into that sort of thing, so I enjoy it.
If you're interested in the subject at a peripheral level, then you might find it useful just
to keep you up to date on what's happening in this world and that world of science.
Another fairly recent one is called Omega Tower, the title here is podcast bracket EN,
well that's because the hosts are German and they do English intermixed between in their
feet, this is a feed which is solely English stuff and these are long, two and a half to
three hours is normal.
Once an engineering is the hosts preference and Marcus Volta does a lot of very very very
deep digs into all manner of subjects, he's a bit of an aviation nut so he's done things
like going to the minute detail about certain fighter planes and passenger planes and all
sorts of things.
But quite a lot of other engineering, physics, plasma physics, we did some stuff on music,
synthesizing and synthesizers and that sort of thing.
I love that because I like detailed stuff.
Check it out and see what you think, just have a look at his website, you can get a good
good idea of what his stuff is all about, I should just say their stuff because there's
two of them.
I haven't heard the second one yet, I don't think she does the English stuff.
Number 16, this week in evolution.
This is one of the series that comes out of the same stable and they're particularly
concentrating on evolution and I think they're both a bacteriologist, a virologist, the
guys who run this so tend to be more towards that end of things.
It's really interesting, the whole subject is huge and complex and sometimes it goes
right over my head.
We're looking at one and a quarter hours to two hour tight length.
Next one is from the same stable this week in microbiology and this one is, it's got
a very long description here which is great and they're looking at a bunch of scientists
talking about the news in microbiology and reviewing papers and that type of thing.
So it can't get quite deep but it's also quite good just to listen to it as a background
or find to get an idea of what's going on in that particular branch of science.
As an ex scientist I tend to go for this sort of stuff so your mileage may vary as they
say.
Urban agriculture is the next one, again from the same stable.
This one has, the intention was to talk about food production within the built environment.
There are things called vertical farms where people repurpose many cases or purpose built
buildings to grow stuff in them so salad ingredients, smaller type crops, although there's
nothing to stop it being all manner of stuff.
But it's the repurposing of existing buildings is the most interesting as far as I'm concerned.
But it's a growing, sorry, for the pun, but it's a developing area and something that
we ought to be aware of for the future because there are limits on how much agricultural
land there is in the world and growing stuff in cities and in urban areas is going to
be the future, I believe.
It's not, I've not been an episode since October last year, I think it might be sort of fizzling
out a little bit.
They've talked about the principles of it all and they've interviewed people who are currently
got businesses around urban agriculture.
But I suspect that the amount of material that you can talk about is dwindling.
I'm a 19, it's a weekly space hangout and this is an astronomy podcast which is actually
the audio from a YouTube Google plus hangout or something, I think.
They're just basically talking about astronomy news and they're a science journalist and
astronomers.
It's one of my favourites I have to say, again it's a great way to catch up on what's
happening in the world of astronomy particularly.
Number 20 Edinburgh Skeptics Presents.
There's a group in Edinburgh where I live called the Edinburgh Skeptic Society and they
do quite a lot of talks and interviews which they put up as podcasts.
They tend to be very busy around the Edinburgh Fringe Festival which is coming up in August
and the Edinburgh International Science Festival which is in the early part of the year.
So they're doing lots of interviews of interesting people at that point.
Yeah it's a great one.
I should go along and see some of the events themselves I think.
Exposing pseudo astronomy is number 21.
This is a guy who is a scientist and he is talking about some of the conspiracies and
hoaxes, misconceptions and so forth around astronomy, a bit about physics, a bit about geology,
all of that sort of thing.
So he's talked about things like flat earth ideas and he knew centrism is that the thing?
The sun is the center of the universe or something.
All of these weird ideas are that the moon landing hoaxes and those types of things.
But I find it most entertaining to listen to because he does have a lot to say and obviously
knows what he's talking about.
So if you're interested in these types of things it's a good one to try out.
I'm into stationary and pens and pencils and all that sort of stuff so I listen to the
pen addict.
Now I think this is mentioned already as a good thing to listen to.
I can't remember who you mentioned it now, somebody did a podcast on pens and stationery
and things and mentioned them.
So this is me just putting my two pen with down.
Late night Linux you probably already know about that's Joe Resington and friends doing
a fairly new podcast about Linux and they call it late night because they can let rip
and swear and so forth with they feel so inclined don't do a lot of it and I don't find it
offensive personally.
In fact I find it most entertaining it's about an hour long.
I think these are great actually really enjoying them.
Sister Mae U is the next one we're now into my group that I'm calling technical podcasts
sister Mae U is a technology podcast with a Linux bent from Australia and these are
about an hour and a half long they're most amusing they're very good enjoying I'm enjoying
them very much the rate has dropped a little bit in the past few months but I think just
people's lives getting in the way.
The change log number 25 I was recommended to listen to this it's really I'm not sure
how much I enjoy it to be honest it's all about open source technologies and so on and so
forth but it's it's I don't know it's not a world that I frequent much and I'm not that
wildly interested in some of the stuff no JS and all of the web technologies and stuff
that's just me.
It's worth listening to to keep up to date with stuff so we'll see but give it a give
it a try if you haven't done so already you might love it much more than 19.
Number 26 I've got under technical I drive it is technical Duffercast the Duffercast
Duffercast hasn't had a show since September last year I was on that show I think I might
have killed the feed I don't know anyway the description some old Duffers providing
worldwide wisdom well it's funny it's most amusing it's entertaining it's it does cover
some interesting topics some interesting people on it till they let me on so yeah give
it a shot it's a few people you might know from HPR there as well and from other podcasts
perhaps.
Going up to the last two full circle weekly news I used to listen to the full circle
podcast and that closed down there's a full circle magazine and this is the magazine
podcast just running through some of the news in the Ubuntu community so it tends to
be Ubuntu centred but they they run through maybe 10 minutes or so of news so it's it's
quite quite interesting final one the jack attack now I think I've listened to them
in a long time since they since almost a little after they started they the podcast died
off and has recently come back to life again and they they they have a more rigorous structure
to it now I feel and it just covers some really some interesting topics and it's a husband
and wife team John Watson and Kelly Penguin girl they call themselves and they talk about
Linux in all manner other things they're based in Nova Scotia Canada they're shows
around about forty forty three minutes says here average length I just like like the the
personalities the banter the the humor and sometimes the the technical subject can be quite
quite insightful so give it a shot I was very pleased to see it come back again so I definitely
recommend it that's the end of my list if you are interested in these you go and look them
through the links I've given you there's also an OPML file with all of the details in it so you
could load it into your pod catch if you wish so I hope you found that was interesting and catch
you next time by you you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot
we are a community podcast network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever
thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is
hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please
email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
