Episode: 2058
Title: HPR2058: My 14th Beer Podcast
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2058/hpr2058.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:48:12

---

This is HPR Episode 2058 entitled, My 14-Sphere Podcast, and is part of the series'
Memories.
It is hosted by Just Me and is about 7 minutes long.
The summer is, talking about Road and Brewer in Java 10 years.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi, it's me too here again.
It's the 27th of May 2016.
This beer podcast is not part of the originally, what I had mentioned before, 11 beer casts.
This is a new one.
I'm sitting in my digs, and I'm going to try a Java head stout made by Independent
Craft Brewery Trogs, I spell that's T-R-O-E-G-S, out of Pennsylvania.
This is a handcrafted beer by the Trogs Brothers, I'm reading off the label now, and it's
stout, brewed with coffee beans, and that's another thing I love is coffee, but again that's
a different podcast.
This is a 12 ounce bottle, it's 7.5% alcohol by volume, and brewed and bottled by Trogs,
brewing company in Hershey, Pennsylvania, right there where the famous chocolate company is.
Hold on a second, I'm reading from the neck of the bottle, the labeling there.
It says each batch of Java head passes through our hop back vessel packed with whole leaf
hops and a blend of coffee beans, similar to using a French press, this process intensifies
the nose and releases hints of coffee.
The result is a lush, smooth mouthfeel balanced with cocoa, roast and subtle coffee flavors.
They also invite us to visit their brewery, and if we would like to organize a tour,
need more tour information, just go to www.troegs.com.
As I said before, this is not part of the original 11 beer podcast I had four mentioned,
and I'm not your typical beer drinkers, I say, I don't not pour it into a glass and watch the foam or anything else.
I'm an older, more, what I would say in my area, the neck of the woods would be a traditional beer drinker
from the bottle, cans, keep your cans. If I was going to drink beer one of two ways,
it's going to be draft in a mug from a tap or it's going to be bottled.
And if it's bottled, I'm going to pop the cap, listen to the fizz, I'm going to put my nose up to it, smell it.
Now I'm going to take a quick swig and taste it. Let it run in my mouth, that initial feeling,
the initial flavors, and then the longer flavors after I've swallowed it and see what it tastes like.
That's what I'm going to tell you about. Now my taste buds and your taste buds might be different.
I may taste some things that you don't and you may taste some things I don't.
The whole idea of these podcasts, believe it or not, is not really to tell you so much as how these really taste,
but more or less to introduce to you different beers. From these now upstart independent craft breweries around America,
which I'm feeling very honored because I'm not in America sitting in China of all places and had never thought I would be able to indulge myself in these beers.
But alas, I had been able fortunately to find some and we're going to try this now.
So give me a second here. As I say, we're going to pop the top. Maybe you can hear it.
Ah, little fizz. Ooh. A lot of fizz. When I pop that top, and I have it shaking this at all.
Now a lot of fizz come out. Lots of it. I had to sip it up real quick.
And I still slopped it on my table. But, hmm. Very strong. Just from the foam. I'm not even drinking the brew itself,
or just from the foam that fizzed out of the neck. It's very, very strong. It's a dark stout. A bit of a bitter taste, but still pleasant.
Now I'm going to take the first swig, the real swig, and see what it tastes like.
Hmm. Lots of gas. Lots of bite. Lots of dark sweet. A bit of chocolatey.
Believe it or not, I really don't taste the coffee in this, maybe because I do drink really good coffees.
But nonetheless, a very, very pleasant beer. If you get a chance to try this Trog's Java head, I would suggest, by all means, do.
You will not be displeased. And as a stout, it's better than many of them. So, here's to you.
I just took another swig. Again, as I say, I'm drinking at room temperature.
And the aftertaste. The predominant flavor is in the middle of the tongue. There's a little bit of a bite in the back of the throat.
And under these edges of my tongue. Nothing at the tip. Nothing at the far reaches of the back of the tongue.
But more in the middle of the tongue. And at the top of the back of the throat. But as I say, there's a pleasant beer.
I hope you enjoy this. Enjoy. And until next time, this is me too, signing out and wishing you happy trails and happy beers.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club. And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
You
