Episode: 2676
Title: HPR2676: HPR Community News for October 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2676/hpr2676.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:24:52

---

this in HBR episode 2676 entitled HBR Community News for October 2018 and in part on the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and in about 66 minutes long and can
remain an explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about
shows released and comment posted in October 2018.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio. This is the Community News show for October 2018 and joining me tonight
is HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR1212 or HBR
our guest recording as part of a new crew and got me head around mumble so I thought
I've come in and joined we've got a planning meeting in September and then it's time so
I thought I'd dip in and say hello and listen to what goes on on the community recording
Excellent so we should put a shameless plug or link into the show notes for this episode. I guess
Anyway, this is the HPR community news. HPR if you're, this is your first time listening
to the show is a community podcast network that where the shows are contributed by the
people who listen to the shows namely people just like you. In fact, namely people exactly
like you. And in order to make sure that everybody that we run down every show and everybody
gets some feedback on the shows at least, we've put together this community news where
we talk about the shows and the comments on said shows that have occurred in the last
month and anything else that has been going on in the HPR Academy Unity. And as a
traditional Dave, we'll welcome the new hosts using the welcome new hosts song.
I don't know, I'm sorry, but we do have Yannick, the French guy from Switzerland, usually
known as just as Yannick, but yeah. Yes, amazing that that is his first appearance
here in HPR, but there you go. Yeah, it's a long, long time podcast. It's been a while
since he's joined us. Good to have him along though. Excellent. So without further ado,
we will go through the first show which was community news from last month and there
was 13 comments, which I don't think I'm going to go through. It was basically a discussion
Dave between you and myself. And there was one good related to the bash thing. And the
one comment was from from Falky. This is after five comments going back and forth. Ken and
Dave, take your comments and make a collaborative show on the material. I think we're going
to need to do that. Well, yeah, there was also a comment from Clackett who was sort of enhancing
some of the things that had been discussed. And I think he was dropping me a hint about
doing a show about it, which I have pretty much prepared. So with references to him and
to that conversation. So, you know, yeah, we don't really need to throw a shit out too
much here, I guess. No, actually, a show about that will be quite good anyway. And sometimes
we too even get trapped by our, oh, you should record a show thing. Yeah, yeah, bite a bit
and all that. Exactly. And the following day, we had some random guy for Liverpool going
up there interviewing Caroline and John at the Make Fest. Yeah, this was good. I enjoyed
doing the recordings at Liverpool Make Fest. It's quite an interesting thing. You meet loads
and loads of interesting people and these with two of them. Yeah, I really like the series
because you don't really get to, obviously, you're not getting to go to these episodes
and this is where what HPR basically does. It's the hallway track. I'm my notes to myself
who must be fantastic to be pupils in their school because those two sounded amazing. Yeah,
exactly. Yeah, I do. Sorry, Ken. No, go ahead over. No, they were, they were really good
couple, actually. It was a real joy interview on the day. They were great. So the following
day, we had using the exact function in Excel, Excel tips. This is something that we haven't
had before and by Shamed Shannon and something that would actually be quite useful going through
different functions. Obviously, this works in Libra Office and Open Office as well. So good
on tip. Didn't know about that. So it's always good to have these sorts of things pointed
out to you. There are always in every company some Excel experts who are able to do mind-boggling
stuff with the spreadsheet, which always makes me tremble a little having that much faith
that all your macros are going to be broken in the next release. My daughter just did a course
on all of the Microsoft Office things. So she's now an accredited something or other from
Microsoft. So she's scaring me slightly. Very, very good. And Shane was on the next day as
well with making CREP with this cooking episode. And there were four comments. Shall we take
them in turn? Okay. Lost and Brawg says, great recipe. I just made a simple breakfast
using your recipe. It was easy and delicious. I used brown sugar, cinnamon, and it was a
hit. Great content. Thanks for uploading. And the next comment was from Jonas. Sorry,
we got Frog and Matthew. How I make CREP. He said, this is so good. Thanks for the show. I
always wonder how other people make similar things I like. As it happens, I just made CREP's
today. I have no idea why my Texas mum started making CREP. But I just remember having
them at home as a kid. I don't know if what I do is technically called a CREP, but it's
very CREP-like or maybe more super thin pancake-like. I'm not much of a measure. I typically start
with 1 to 1.5 cups of flour, a couple of tablespoons to a quarter of a cup of sugar depending
on the day. I also add a lot of cinnamon, quarter teaspoon to half a tablespoon. Again,
on the amount of flour, the sugar and cinnamon increases. This is basically a dessert
CREP. After whisking the dry together with an 8th of a teaspoon of salt or less, I add
three quarters of a cup of milk. If the mix isn't watery enough, add more milk until
pretty thin. Then add an egg and beat in completely. I have a gas stove, so I put the
flame on to just above as low as it can go without going out. I let that heat that stainless
pan for several minutes while putting the other things together. We'll flame if you know
what you're doing. So, I read the rest? Yeah, I'm losing my voice here. No worries. You want
the pan to be the right temperature before putting in the first drizzle of batter. I like
to use cake decorating bottle to put the batter in the pan. Get the bottle at Ross, a
discount store or at the dreaded Walmart. You could probably enlarge the opening of one
of those 99p, 99cent ketchup mustard squeezy bottles, but they are not clear like the
decorating bottles. Just before putting the batter in the pan swirl around, then end of
a stick of butter just enough to wet the pan. Start at the center of the pan and splash
batter making an ever-widening circle on toly cover two thirds of the pan. If the batter
is thin enough, it will spread itself. Otherwise, you can pick up and jostle the pan to flatten
more. I generally cook until the edge corals and the top starts looking less wet than flip
and cook the other side for 10 to 20 seconds to firm up the top side. I'm going to, that's
the end of the comment. I am going to Dave put in a thing onto the comments that if it exceeds
enough, if it exceeds so many inches, then it has to become a show.
I would like to thank you. Yes, absolutely. What you should do is take that comment, read
it and submit it as a show. Thank you very much. Because, yes, it's almost as long as the show.
Exactly. The next comment is from Shane Shannon or Shannon, brown sugar. Lost in Bronx.
I'm glad you got the good breakfast out of my episode. I never thought of making the
cinnamon sugar with brown sugar. I've always used white sugar. I'm going to try your way with my
cinnamon sugar container is empty. Shane puts in another comment saying thanks for sharing
your technique. Jonas, thanks for sharing your method. I like the way you put the cinnamon
right into the batter instead of using as a topping. I also like your tip of using cake decorating
very good. The following day, we had a hookah, sleep, up near and up fib and yeah, continuing
series and healthcare. So no comments on that particular one, but we'll come back to that series
shortly. Then the following day, we had explaining the controls of your amateur HF radio part two,
where Mr X is doing an excellent job at turning what other people would submit as one show
into multiple shows, but I'm really enjoying this and very, very cool stuff indeed. And there'll
be more from him as well over the coming weeks. And you rune button. Why are we all going to,
why are we all going to shit in 30 years due to computers? Some thoughts about the increased
impact of automation and there were three comments on this one. So Brian says, do you have any
ideas on how to solve these problems? I'll crawl under my rock now. D-O-D-D dummy says,
you keep putting out my shows before I do. Here's another show I've recorded but didn't publish.
I went in the process of editing this one though. You do a better job than I do however. Perhaps
I should sit back and revel in the fact that you're pulling my weight. I enjoyed the show and
obviously agree. I'm still going to submit my episode but we'll edit it a touch on the
and touch on things you didn't. I really do wonder if people can look at the rate of change
in the rate of change and not think that it's accelerating. Just for everything, it looks too
pitiful now to take over our jobs. We'll continue in that state forever. In my mind, you only need to
look at Boston Robotics. People residing the fact that Adless kept falling over as evidence that
he'd never performed as well as humans, coupled short years later, and he's performing feet similar
to Parkour. Can we really not imagine how a couple of cycles more of Moore's laws worth of
improvement looks? Need to comment there. Need to comment there. The parkour thing. Yeah, I wouldn't
read too much into that because they are jumping up predefined boxes and predefined laboratories.
So yes, all that Boston Robotics stuff is quite scary. But Alasou might also work.
I have a friend who is specialised in AI. His PhD is in artificial intelligence. We were having
a conversation about not that specific subject, but just the state of AI and the future of AI.
I must really push him to maybe do a show on his view of it because it's more like yours
than your DD dummies is that it's got a long, long, long way to go. But it's still quite scary.
Yeah, and I mean, you ruined those make point. I think I met it before as well here that,
you know, back in the day, we had so many people do an agriculture and then people moved
into the towns and then they got additional jobs, but now they're like an order less people employed
by the jobs that are making other industries redundant. So we do have to diversify and maybe
come up with another plan looking. There are a lot of things we need to solve as a planet.
And yeah, but I think our initial intelligence is a misnomer. I don't think it's intelligence.
It's artificial knowledge would be more. Yeah, learning or something. I don't think I don't
think they're learning. I was thinking about this. I don't think what we're seeing is intelligence.
What it is is similar to, but it is not the same thing. I was thinking about this on the boss
when I was saying, oh, I should write that down, but I didn't. So there you go. I'll think about it
again. Do you want me to lead this last one? Yeah, if you're up for it, Dave, I'm banning you from
reading any more comments. Okay. Sorry. It's not my day today. Denise, another one that could have
been a short show, quite a lengthy comment. It's an interesting topic you bring up. Personally,
I'm appalled by scarecrow tactics. I'd like to offer a different view. There is a lot wrong
with capitalism. First thing is, we capitalists believe their system is the only answer.
The hangover after our last industrial revolution gave us shorter working days,
safety rules, and employee rights at work. Currently, there is a lot of demand out there for
sabbaticals or people taking a break. So, oh, yeah, give me a robot who does my job so I can recover
from stress, spend time with my children or travel, do voluntary work. Why do we don't basic
income? Currently, these breaks are only available for the rich or singles or childless.
Have you seen a happy cashier? Have you heard of minework or shouting yes? Let's continue running
ruining my lungs instead of giving me a proper training so I can work in a solar panel farm.
And for the doctors, I have met so far who were not a waste of time. Yes, give me my Watson system.
Give me the Watson system. I had to retrain in my last job three times over the last six years.
It's been hard. It doesn't have to have to be. As you say, robots give us an opportunity to focus
on the things that matter in life. We don't have to run anymore all the time. Robots guarantee
a basic level of reproductive productivity. We can find better and creative solutions to
provide proper pace for people who work in the care. We can focus on figuring out why our society
still struggles with all kinds of abuse, why we do not trust anyone, why we feel the need to destroy
our beautiful world. We have a universe to explore and the complex systems in our world.
If there is an old person not willing to work, then that's okay too. People have reasons.
Capitalists only know the word more. When will you read all the books that keep accumulating
on your bookshelf because you shut it more? There is no time because I have to be social. I have
to take care of the children because I have to declare taxes. I have to have that lawsuit
with my neighbour. I have to go to work. I have to see out and that's the end of the comment.
She hit the 2000 character limit, I think at that point.
Some interesting stuff in there again. Hashtag should be a show.
And the Boston IBM diagnostic thing, the Watson system. I have read how big of a success that
was, but I also read that certain hospitals that it was diagnosing the equivalent of leeches
to people. That was recommending therapies that have been considered
done graded, deprecated for the last 10 years. So everything is not all sunshine and roses either.
I don't know about leeches, but I do know that they use medical,
what they call them, maggots for cleaning wounds.
No, no, what I mean to say is that some of the recommendations from the system
were diagnoses that have fallen, been proven not to work and be detrimental to people's health,
but because it was written about so many years ago, then it's still recommended.
And we have the Google car as well, which is driving at 100 C's, a sign for something for sale,
at 160 dollars or something. And then automatically assumes that the road speed limit on the
road is 160, when anybody would tell you that the maximum speed limit on the road is 120. So why
are they not put in normal constraints on these intelligences? So there's a long way to go.
There's a very good article on artificial intelligence, self-driving cars on Hackaday,
if you go look it up and pros and cons, saying how unregulated it is and how crazy it is that we
are doing these sort of trials on the public and that we would not do them in medical trials.
Just interesting by the by, but good topic for discussion, I believe.
Yeah. Following the questions about audio production, I'll ask Dave's questions about podcast
production and there is one comment. This was, yes, this was about bad audio quality and what
you need to be a podcaster and so forth. And the comment comes from me. So I guess I should be
this does not apply to HDR shows. Great tips and I'm seriously mean that and I really do.
These are brilliant tips and I've been thinking about this episode an awful lot in the last month
because this is really a very good goal and some of the things that he has mentioned
would be very useful. Let me consider some of the things that we're doing at HPHR here.
But just to tell you, I do need to temper, I'll come back to the comment, I do need to temper this
show this show with our own HPR model of any audio, especially on a note audio. We always put
content over audio quality here. This may lose us some listeners but it does gain us some holes.
Sure, always try to record as best you can but don't ever let this get in the way of you submitting
your show. Perfection leads to procrastination and it's in to show unless it's on the server.
And I can't reiterate that enough. In fact, as a result of this show, one person came up to me
physically in person and said, Ken, I was ready to do my show, I had a listen to this and now I
need to go and think about it. So in striving for quality, this is a brilliant show, this
absolutely very good information. But do not let that stop you from joining HPR because HPR,
the metrics that we have here in HPR is not the number of listeners that we have because
listeners come and listeners go and if we only have one person coming to that one show to find out
that one life changing thing in their life, then that is a success for the project as a whole.
What this network is all about is getting people into podcasting and over time, I guarantee you
your audio quality will improve. Yeah, to be honest, Ken though, I think the comment about
quality of audio was mainly to do with people that are trying to put out a regular podcast and the
fact that if you're trying to put out a regular podcast, audio quality can make a big difference
to how many listeners you're going to get. HPR is quite a different kind of beast and I agree with you
that we're encouraging people to get involved. So just record it and get it on the website.
And keep this stuff in the back in mind because everything that the guys discussed here
are absolutely valid. Two of which made me think that the first point was in relation to
how he does the intro and outro with the betting music, which is something that we have been
discussing here in the last few months. And it made me realize that the HPR intro theme is not
for purpose if we want to do that because what you need is a sort of loop that will loop over itself
in five second chunks and then we can extend that or lower it. So if we have an intro, some sort of
loop and then the outro part of the song like that way we can extend the centerpiece nice and easy.
So that made me think maybe we need to the better theme would actually be the
today with a techy theme. So see promoting the today with a techy theme because it's got the
center beat of and you can take out that and make it as long or as short as necessary to fit
the underlying text to speech stuff. So that was thing number one. I'd like to hear people's
thoughts about that as well. The other thing was and I've been struggling with this idea for a while
whether to use audio phonic or not. Now as you know audio phonic is a excellent service that we have
used here from time to time to recover absolutely terrible audio and it uses free and open-source tools
but unfortunately doesn't release any of this how they do it back into the open-source community.
So I am reluctant also to base a workflow on sending stuff to audio phonics and furthermore
there's a pricing element to it that's yeah it's it's not cheap. I was looking at it today. You
can get up to two hours of audio process for three every month but after that it goes up quite
steeply. Yeah like uh so we would have what's the maybe 20 hours in a month let's say every show
about a half an hour a show we have this is where Dave should be running an SQL script in the back
select all from last month and I think I did that but I can't remember where I put it. I'll say 30
shows half hour that's uh 15 hours roughly which puts us up to about 20 euros per month 23
dollars a month and then you know it's so over the year that's not a insignificant amount of money
is it you know that's got to be raised either through contributions from listeners or it's got
you know comes out of your pockets. Yeah no I do I do the ones that were benefit from it I don't
mind putting them on there I have a pot of money that I put into it that I uh so I think I have
10 or 12 hours of audio phonic audio stuff so I want to do it there but the thing that pushes me
off is the fact that you know it's close source and it can go away and if you don't think
things go away things do go away we've we've seen the demise of google reader uh google plus
what what else uh tweet deck uh loads of services in the last 11 years and if we're thinking of
another 11 years uh 12 years down the line are these the only thing we can trust is stuff that we
have controlled over ourselves so that was uh I was also an interesting and interesting one
and again people if there's a way we can automate this uh processing of our own audio to make it
better I would really like to hear it um and that is something I'm if I was going to have to do a
crowdfunding for to pay for audio phonics or a crowdfunding to pay for somebody working on fixing
this problem I would prefer to invest it in fixing this problem because then everybody would benefit
from it if you know what I mean yeah it's a really good point uh what a great show next day
further auxiliary bash tips for number 11 and I saw some guys on IRC taking the mic out of
Dave's naming of these some bash tips some more bash tips for the bash tips additional
bash tips of the bash tips supplementing the bash tips it was meant to be a joke uh yeah like
I I got a thisaurus and got all the possible names that you could use to do this and then
then stack them any but uh yes I've stopped because the jokes run run a bit flat and I don't
know anybody got it anyway you said all they did did the IR file to quite funny um what was
this one about Dave from Amy I don't know what the hell is that guy not about I can't
I was the uh it was the oh yeah this one was this one was good they uh dash dash E and the dash
L and the dash C there was one in there that I was reading and I was going why would anyone ever
you were asking about the symbolic link actually that is a very useful one I use that all the time
well no all the time well yeah I did actually suggest that perhaps some some people would use that
because uh finding out if uh if a what looks like a file is uh is a symbolic link is something that
I would do but uh yeah I don't I don't think I was deprecating that one but some some numbers
weren't there size is zero I've used that quite a lot because uh if you do a wget for example
and it doesn't respond without anything and you pipe it out to a file um it will still create
the file even if there's nothing there so finding out of a file zero that is quite useful uh there
was one there that while I was thinking this looks very odd that I could not find a reason for it
but then yeah this is uh again useful stuff they they explanation of I sometimes
they use one square bracket and other times two square brackets very useful okay uh no doubt
this will be um turned into a PDF book and available on Amazon at some point
yeah maybe one day it's not by me necessarily that and uh the next day was installing a bootloader
on an Arduino and this one I'm shamelessly recording it for myself in about two years time when
I need to do it again so so this is the one case where uh of interest hackers is myself at the time
of recording and myself in the future so uh now we've lowered the barrier even further on what it
takes to get the show on to a hbure well I found it quite a useful pointer for the the future
I only have one Arduino at the moment but um you know there might be more in the future so it's
useful to to know how you could make an Arduino um install stuff on another Arduino yeah
sometimes you do need to do um following gay Claudio Miranda formerly of Linux basements and
would plan to see him over here uh my music production set up wow a lot of stuff taking a very
seriously here very good links to in there when you see somebody using jack you know they're
serious about music yeah um still isn't my voice I'm afraid but I just wanted to say I thought
this was brilliant I went through a lot of these um links and was looking at the the tools and
some of them are amazing so and I'd never come across them before so thanks Claudio for that yeah
I think I or one or two of them on uh um clatus either new world order or here in hpr but
in passing this is a really nice also a really nice show notes thank you very much uh with
you know bam complete list and links too so very very good thanks Claudio I'm going to take a look
at that one I didn't listen to it first time around but uh even though it's about music music
production I'm sure it's got um some tips that we could use for podcasting as well absolutely
yep there was another show earlier on this week from Dave absolutely excellent for podcasters
should be sure and grab that one and have a listen to it
hpr 2549 we had the DVD ripping of old harder and this is now repairing old motherboard
and this is blown caps on a motherboard I think we mentioned before that there was this uh bad bad
batch of uh capacitors which caused failure of a lot of uh equipment so sometimes if equipment
just working you can just simply replace the uh capacitors and better boom it starts working again
I suppose this depends on the value of the motherboard if it's something that's 10 15 years old
it's probably not going to be worth the bother but if it's a high-end motherboard then uh it's a
it's a good show to help you get it fixed look not everybody's got a second
car boot sale and I think aircodes we all know what that is the only thing I
I finally realized where you get all these laptops of yours it's like somebody uh
somebody's knocking off computer shops around the uk and sells them out the back of a lorry up
at some field that you happen to know about go on a business can don't tell everyone don't blow
for everybody color day car boot sale only slightly warm yeah do you want me to do the next one please
do yep uh yet show 2663 was for myself uh there's no comments on the uh site but it was just a
show about a little uh HDD caddy two and a half inch caddy that I uh purchase stuffy bag
cost me five and a half quid um because uh that said car boot sale has been selling a lot of
second-hand um SSDs just recently second second hand yeah definitely second hand uh but uh
you know it's quite handy I've got a few in the bin now so I can swap them out and I can plug
them into the USB port no I don't have uh I had a look at the I don't have any uh SSDs at all
especially external it's a bit of a pity really now you're going to have to upgrade to an SSD can
come on I have them a laptop but uh yeah the rest yeah when uh the majority of my stuff is raspberry
pies and uh slow computers well actually you mentioned raspberry pies for uh if you use
in a raspberry pies media server you've got an ssd attached to it gives you better storage
but also because it's an ssd you don't have to worry about power drain too much yeah
no I just mounted to the NAS and then take it from there yeah cool okay following day
yannick uh give us my git workflow and it all made sense until he gave the summary at the end
and then I had to say how complicated git is get checkout master get fetch upstream get merge
upstream git push git branch git push origin it's I'm beginning to think it's just too complicated
I don't think I'll ever guess uh my head wrong git so the following day we had exercise and diet
another in a series of health and health care and I could not agree with him more um good show
and we will talk more about that later on as well yeah that show was quite um actually let's say
poignant for me as after I had my uh strobe 20 months ago uh six exactly a lot of what he was
talking about was exactly the kind of stuff I had to do yeah it's good stuff good advice for people
um murishids give us a slackware post install guide for those of you who would like to
install slackware I enjoyed this one especially because at the time I was being diverted
on the train somebody had decided to terminate their existence and uh yeah unfortunately
that sort of thing will happen from time to time anyway what that has got to do with installing
slackware just sometimes I associate the sounds of podcasts with where I was at that given time
but this should be up no end um would not have considered slackware myself but possibly any
you guys from the slackware you know me sorry two complex I have the myself is tempted to have a
look at it though based on on this yeah I might do uh the last time I installed this uh I was
good while back now and yeah it'd be a nice experience centren Roy says system de-information
if you have any particular system de-problems I could be poked into recording a show uh to help
out with them that's somebody volunteering to record a show about system de well now
yes I have system de-problems all the time I think that's one thought you now owe me a show yeah
you walked into that one centren um Brian and O'Hioh said wicked love any show that talks about
slackware the network setup you suggested is the best way to go about it but if you want to
use wicked for your first install uh first you must install it if you have the slackware discs it's
in the extras folder and can be installed using install pkg you don't need to go out to a repository
it's in the installation media just not installed by default that's actually a good tip thanks for
doing the show about slackware support path yes do support path and remember uh to update your links
because the support links for path we're not going to path so make sure that you find out the
correct ones see the slackware website for more information the following day we had creating pdf
bookmarks with pdf tk by latu and at this stage of listening to this i had met it to the central
bus station and really enjoyed this show as well um because i've wanted i do split up show um i do
split up pdf's from time to time and unfortunately i use fedora which are is proving to have problems
and the comments from b easy says that gcj is deprecated it's a shame that pdf tk is basically
going away because the gcj runtime has been deprecated by most major distros pdf tk still lives on
as a snap but there's also a fork that uses open jdk instead you can use this reference on stack
overflow post with a question uh with the link you want me to do the next one please if you would
yeah in the next comments by clinton roy um and he heads it debian i'm rather confused about why
there's a reliance on any particular java runtime but at least on debian if i request pdf tk
to be installed pdf tk java is installed and yeah no screwing around required and it's debian
her name was debra debra anian debian okay debian what my view she was called debra guys what you
could an Australia debra come here anyway thanks for the tips this tattoo i install and use pdf tk
and slackware so far without any issue it's good to know though that it's available in a snap
package just in case so next day we had explaining the controls of your amateur hf radio part
three and the comments were from michael great episode thank you for doing this i love the
episodes they keep me smiling and occasionally screaming at the podcast player all good shows
should do that you can be such as they say just you know smiley faced when describing the tuner
it's quite interesting to hear i'm not going to go into that please let us hear sure you could
find a way like letting it tune up to a dummy load or something on the same token please use the
radio in front of you to create audible examples how does the signal sound that is suffering from
the spark distortion and how it is improved by engaging the bass noise blanker don't get me wrong the
one who puts out the shows is right your show your choice please keep them coming by the way
the way you like to do them one more comment on the content hearing relays taking is not necessarily
attributed to the age of the receiver even in modern gear the filter in the high part trans midpath
are switched by relays i have some switch by relay filters for receiving as a selling point to
indicate that there is no negative impact from the switching diodes these can affect RF performance
under search and conditions records michelle who should also be doing shows for us here in HPR
what do you think folks again that's a bit of a lengthy comment and could have
made another show i think it's hitting the show on meter yeah definitely shall i do the next one
yeah lost in Bronx commented great gear wonderful mic and very classy meter great episode
overall excellent so i'm just a switched to flora elixqt and a new upgrade and all my settings
are incorrect so every time i'm holding down the push to talk key which is the caps lock and
i use the scroll button it scrolls in and out on the web page and when i'm actually i want to
disable it so that's another thing i need to look at following a ancillary bash tips part 12
this time it's personal by ediv morris and there are 12 comments oh my good god
yeah i'm just looking at it is they're really complex all right somebody needs to do a show
on this madsweeney please do a show about this yes yes we did get to a conclusion about
you give us a two minutes summary i i had posed a question because my reading of the the man page
said you could make meta characters stop the meta characters by quoting them but i couldn't
find a way to make that work so i got back comments from madsweeney and from who also can't see
Stuart little offering offering potential solutions so we had a bit of a discussion about that
so um yeah so my thank you was to say well here's how i summarize your your comments and maybe
i should turn that into a show actually yeah yeah you're right um be out for that and um that uh
that was i think we we found that it's a bug it doesn't seem to behave in any logical way
it's not that it doesn't work it's just very very odd so my conclusion is that it's a bug in
bash but now you're just around the show dude you're just going with the plotline
no no i don't think anybody was going to be holding their breath waiting for that
right anyways the following day well thanks to those two guys for commenting on that obviously
the turn well just to say the um there is a thing where the comment system eats back slashes
between you to look at yeah you have a bug open on that i will get to it i've raised an issue on
that one but yeah okay see everybody thinks i'm the one who's getting div to do stuff it's always
div getting me i'm saying you as the best to to deal with it yeah yeah yeah yeah i'll probably do
you to have probably come up with this suggestion when i have a moment i've just had some shows to
post and uh i might have some time tomorrow to have a look at this one but i'll do it then
okay we'll do a show on the bug fixate no no no no no i really have had two projects that i've been
working on and and maybe this is actually a topic for i would like to hear really it would cheer
me up if people did a topic like this on just miserable fails um i have two in the last two months
i've had two projects that i've been working on uh and now we're here and now we're there and
everything has failed every website that i've gone to shows it's easy peasy lemon squeezy you can
be done youtube video showing how it can be done and then nothing just every time i do it they
the cold repository has disappeared the library has been versioned the maintainer has moved on
oh just horrible horrible projects so if somebody is interested in shows like that i can do a few
and they do they just eat your time as well i don't know how did i get on to that
oh doing uh it was my suggestion no because you just hear me going
be one long explanation one long series of bad words anyway the following show on
the 26th was character arcs and storytelling and what is the purpose of character arcs
by this time i had met it as far as the airport and was just getting on to the third boss which
incidentally turned from this bus line that i it was when i got on it it was bus line one eight one
and when i got to my destination it was one nine one which diverten me two kilometers out of my way
thank you very much bye bye bye
so why am i telling you this i don't know um yes really enjoyed the show i'm afraid i've not
listened to it it's about basically what is the purpose of a character arc is is do you need one
is the guy who sells you the coffee worthy of a character arc or is it just sufficient that
the guy sells you a coffee very good i like the way he's doing a whole series on breaking down
little parts of how stories are constructed so i um recommended that my son go have a listen
he's uh interested in doing writing some stories so have a look at these shows very nice um
algae farming with this researcher Dave can you help me help me please i think
researcher is he is quite right yeah okay this um very interesting uh went to all the links
have no idea why somebody would do this that i know he mentioned that you could use it for
selling back to um to pet shops and stuff but why would you algae farm beer making beer or something
was it no no they were talking about beer but i don't think because they don't ferment but
in the same sense as yeast does but um i think it was feeding um zooplankton um
coffee pots that fish eat so you can you can grow fish and aquarium that was one reason
but it's also used for making i think they they they make um a form of oil which you
can use to buy diesel okay that particular one if you look up the links there's quite a lot of
talk about the Wikipedia article anyways talks a lot about uh the uh biodiesel production using
nanocloropsis oh no we even get adverts on the telly in the UK about it but surely you'd need to
make like a lot of the stuff in order to make a viable yeah you got you got a factory i'm sure you
could yeah i think i think that's the research that's going on at the moment is uh how to produce
enough to make it viable quantities to actually start replacing uh you know mineral oils okay cool
i'm all about that already next day we had um portias installing portias and the cool things
you can do with some thumb dive installation this is um portias is a portable live linux distro which
uses and he recommended using the 32-bit version of this listening to this one i was walking home
past the graveyard just saying yeah i've used live uh thumb drive images but uh i think most
Linux distributions now it's easy enough to do it also i actually put installs onto thumb drive
so i can carry around all my personal data that want to carry around as well i uh just have a
uh installed a fedora register on the one issue usb stick build up but i'd like to thank
clatu for his excellent show notes they have improved dramatically over the years we have a
convertive excuse me i was gonna say the same it's brilliant absolutely brilliant notes
yeah there's lots of them and they're really clear yeah exactly it could be uh it could be
article itself so very good thank you clatu
the following day we had urandom i like this this is nice uh round table few lads have in the chat
hpur folks sitting down having a chat and uh yeah cool let me really want to think about going to
oh hyalinics fest next year or summer i don't know whether there was a problem with the
recording but it seemed to give the same uh audio twice in the hour long uh feed that i got
Dave you just reported that didn't you i just reported that to you yeah yeah some i think um
somebody stuck two copies of the same thing in the same file or something
not sure what we're not uh so there's a glitch i think they they sent it in that way did they
yeah i wouldn't edit it it's just just a glitch must have come in that way but i'll uh don't
order the fixes afterwards so that they're own intro and outro so uh so you didn't you didn't need to
do anything to it you just posted it i assumed well regardless of whether they yeah possibly yeah
i don't know how it looked at it just but uh yeah if it's double i'll go back and edit this for uh
we'll have to replace the audio but yeah sometimes these things happen yeah yeah it's easily done
myself because when the uh intro hits then i want okay that's the end of the show
okay guys i'm going to have to dip out and go and join the uh mink cast guys
questers questers yeah it's been really great though thanks so much for having me bye
yeah nice to have you along Tony cheers Dave bye i thought he'd never leave
so uh yeah no that was nice it was uh also a nice roundout to the excuse me while i cough
oh god uh nice roundout to the end of the uh end of the month so did we have any additional
commentals Dave we've got 13 on previous shows okay i will tear through those unshow helping a new
computer user by Shane Shannon uh gourd says computer intros online this is a fine beginners list
hits all the big pieces of tool sets and forms a solid foundation for continued learning this is a
neat sink sink and outstanding resource thanks for putting it together and uh basically that
he had a nice list of what you should teach people to do and this was back in um let me see
2013 0807 folks 2013 many years ago as that Dave
five thank you and uh basically it remains the same uh hardware bit monitor tower keyboard mouse
printers icons desktop so very good again it kind of proves the point that uh shows here on hgur
are slightly different to other podcasts that you know are kind of fickle we uh we are they
we are they the cave paintings of the podcast world Dave we're around for a very long time
that Shane replied thanks gourd thanks for your comment i'm glad that this episode still makes
sense over five years after it's been recorded i really love to see that i really do
the episode in 2014 adapting and renovating public domain counterpart textbook by john kulp
and it and uh the comment was in relation to my comment of last month i had uh asked uh i saw a
polyphonic video about uh scarber affair and john says about reviving uh ken are you just now
getting around to listen to this episode whoever thought this old thing would get brought back from
the dead ha ha and yes counterpart is the art of combining melodies so that's very good now and i
i didn't know at the time what you were saying but it seems you know sometimes you kind of miss the
entire point uh of what he's trying to do because my interest was more in the technical side of how
he was doing it in his 2016 show shut down sequence system d by platu david pele cia pele cia
pele cia pele cia could be could be dav but which of us is better pronouncing names i have to ask
uh okay it's you don't make me love
ha ha ha ha platu just demonstrates how a sequence system d shut down process uh should work and
david says top man many thanks for posting this information regarding system d services i've been
pulling my hair out trying to work out how my pre shut down scripts what should not fire then
i found your post at very big big thank you so there you go writing under what cable that's what
we have and to a little bit more modern the battle tech by turo toto and the comment was by
brookie verim and it says fadam great show it's good to know there are other fans of battle tech
out there do you play mech warrior online and how do you a feel about how do you feel about the
last entry in the mech warrior single player game and turo toto replies mech warrior online i
haven't played mech warrior online or the new battle tech computer game although the latter one
is on my list of things to try out at the some point love seeing new games coming from battle tech
world and getting new fans into the you battle tech universe so uh we're getting there folks we
get there folks home phone set up by sigflup uh plaque says the re the strupe uh or stupe actually
what did he say what did he say he says that explains why it's a stupe sale which is a garage sale
which is a yard sale if you leave a brookie which was the link that she was talking about in the first
one and finally the pin drops well done plaque running your own mainframe on linux by urune uh
yan had a comment uh second reading and hi there just listen the second time and say thanks for
the effort made somebody listening to your show twice uh i can completely understand that show
but listening to my shows twice would be pain for one reason and another another rambling
driving to work by mr x mr x comments on the audio quality whoops and uh hi the love bog maybe
thanks for your comment comment uh the love bog had commented saying that his audio had improved
dramatically and glad you enjoyed this show yes i believe it couldn't believe what
difference it made swapping the microphones lost and bronx says great audio quality what an
improvement i confess i couldn't even finish the last episode due to the audio quality mice and
mice standards are low but this episode has fantastic sound great job i don't get that with the audio
quality as much as most people i am thinking it's probably me because i listen on trains and stuff so
i have so much noise anyway gone around yeah i usually try really hard to to pick out the the
good stuff from the from whatever issues there are in the in the sand and stuff you know and
usually make it usually make it it's rare that i don't yeah the only the only one i struggled with
on hbr was the snoring episode that was that took a while to get through that was extreme that
i was like you know okay that was like uh doing the luck dirg you know if you're an Irish Catholic
that was you know you're you're you're fucking your heart and soul into it anyway uh comment here by
tlaque on the urn show 2642 which was by foki who come on and he says i've stopped listening to
kavach two i like the people and i enjoy listening to them hanging out but in the limits of time
i have and the massive amount of content out there that's not enough to put a podcast in the queue
it's too much opinion and too little education and in insightful analysis i quite like the esp.eu
as well but it's also a far cry from stu levels in relevance and production values perhaps unfair
unfair perhaps as stu has over a decade of podcasting under the belt but that's how it is
that's the skeptics guide to the universe in case you're wondering thank you very much
explaining the controls of amateur radio part one and uh this is mr x replying to
and my bills comments hi and my bill many thanks for the comment glad you like the show yes you
could tell from the show that i don't know what a few of the controls did so it will need so it
will indeed be bewildering to start with i tried to fill in some of the gaps in the show notes
all the best from by mistress and the final comment is on the show uh my pocket knife by
shane who uh showed us his pocket knife in the summer and his comment is indeed to me about
hi ken the following link will tell you more you ever tell you more than you ever wanted to
know about bag milk this is how milk is generally sold in Ontario and Nova Scotia new brunswick
and probably other Canadian private churches as well shane shane shane shane shane shane shane shane
i am not going to go to a wikipedia article when you can do a show for me why would i do that
why would i do that i could be on my commute listening to a show provided by you that shane
that explains to me in my new detail all about the milk bags and if you want to read the wikipedia
article you can so long as you give them credit and that i think was it for common stif
it is yes so i'm on the over to the male list thread and the male list is where we make the marvelous
uh basically the uh decisions and stuff on the hpr community and so i had a question last time i
uploaded one uh as per normal shows told us different setup for interviews what are the current
rules to which i replied um this is the last discussion which was a link to the uh a comment
by that i posted back no we had this discussion before sorry my brain is falling out i really
need to go to bed anyway um so james tobes wrote i'd love to elaborate i love the elaborated way
of saying if a slot is open user if uh you cannot upload now then ask to lock it and i replied
no that's not what we said in the that's what we said in the past what we were saying now is
if a slot is open user reservations are a pain for us to manage so please don't ask us to do that
anymore the following comments from uh our sessar the proposed text now reads and it's no longer
proposed it's up on the website under request a slot and stuff you need to know any host can
select every slot up to a year in advance by recording their shows and uprooting it to a desired
slot the in exceptional circumstances it may be necessary to reserve a slot while not having
the audio available but this must be approved in the mailing list in advance be sure to allow as
much time as possible and include the reason why you feel it is necessary to reserve a slot
this is intended only for exceptional circumstances such as a scheduled interview where you would
like the audio to be released as soon after the event as possible or to cover important
topical discussions that has occurred due to the extended time now needed to post shows to
external sites the extra work this entails and the disruptive effort the effect of reservations
we will no longer be allowing them except in very rare cases of the type mentioned above
do do do do do and Jason Dodd recommends that we i vote we make swap between Ken's version of the
free software song and this one and that is there's a link to uh Richard Stolman's video of him
singing the free software song as he has us in his head which is actually quite interesting because
got interesting rhythm to it not that you would associate with the trickle type of beat
i forgot to look at that i'm a scone check in yeah with my John Colt thrown his opinion in on that one
hashtag send us initial so other stuff that's been going on yes we have some bugs on the website
common system UP that we need to fix uh we have the hprvps we updated and there's some really random
bug um which myself and Dave and Josh are a bit perplexed about um nothing life threatening but
our sessions terminate also our screen and today teamux sessions terminate after a period of time
just bizarre no idea why i've not seen it on any other system and it's not running anything
particularly strange that i can see and i thought maybe that the server itself is rebooting but
it's not it's it's still running and our sessions terminate boom just terminate yeah it's
it's really weird damn nuisance too yeah it's a bit of a pain but uh yeah i mean you know i'm happy
that we have it it's just a bit uh a bit strange i i sent something out on the mailing list
about they uh did i not send something about they about the domain names did you know
never never received it that's bizarre i sent something about domain names uh i sent a uh if
i fall off the bus type thing the following domains are intended for use by the community and not
by anybody else it was sent to i sent it on the cc to other people who that if in the event of me
being not on the planet anymore um that they will be able to transfer the domain names to i don't
know whoever else wants to take over hbr or whatever oh that's strange i will need to
note to myself to uh don't know why that wasn't there it must have been rejected before it uh before
it made it to the the the mail the mail server because the list that you see in the notes is
point it's just pointing to the to what uh mailman has seen so so wasn't that it didn't
that it got there got dropped in the the the storage area a bit and it didn't get sent out
probably it never even made it there about me very very strange and now uh thunderbird is
acting all weird strange it's quite flaky the version i have anyway give me two sex too okay
found it and i'll read it we were doing some admin cleanup lately actually we did that
yeah just making sure that we all have the passwords and stuff and the following games are registered
impaired for by me the intention is that they are the use they are for the exclusive use of the
hacker hacker public radio community c hacker public radio dot org for slash about the php
hashtag governance and the domains are hacker public radio dot com hobby public radio dot com dot net
and dot org and virtual log dot org i give my permission to transfer them to the community in the event
of me not being able to do so so there you go good good and for some reason i can't send it
okay yeah murphy is strong tonight they've the best thing is uh hot toddy can go to bed if i had hot
toddy yeah i think i think there's nasty things around i think of my daughter was saying she
wasn't well when she visited yesterday i'm just wondering if she's passed whatever it was to me
you know how it is you know it is uh-huh okay well thanks very much Dave and uh tuned in tomorrow for
another exciting episode of hacker public radio and uh checking the license of the youtube video
i will edit it yes i know folks i'm watching you know i love editing i will edit this show and add it
to the end so in place of me singing the free software song we will have Richard Stoneman singing
the free software song all right tuned in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker public radio
press stop
um
join us now and share the software you'll be free hackers you'll be free
he he join us now and share the software you'll be free hackers you'll be free
he
orders can get piles of money that is true hackers that is true but they cannot help their neighbors
that's not good hackers that's not good
when we have enough free software at our call hackers at our call we'll kick out those dirty licenses
ever more hackers and ever more
join us now and share the software you'll be free hackers you'll be free
join us now and share the software you'll be free hackers you'll be free
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonominant computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have
comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record
a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative
commons attribution share a light 3.0 license
