Episode: 2300
Title: HPR2300: The first Intel CompuStick
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2300/hpr2300.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:00:23

---

This is HBR episode 2,300 entitled The First Intel CompuStick.
It is hosted by NAWP and is about 11 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is a talk about the original Intel CompuStick with Ubuntu Factory installed.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good day. This is Shadow BP and I want to do a podcast today about my Intel CompuStick.
I was in Amsterdam two years ago at the Susicon and they had a media mart across the way from the Central Station down the street about 800 meters or so.
It was a really fantastic media mart.
If you're German or have been in Germany, you have German media mart and media mart is all over Europe.
The Dutch one has a little bit different stuff and I walked in there and lo and behold they had an Ubuntu Intel stick.
The specs on it weren't so great. You get a gigabyte of RAM and you get only 8 gigabyte of storage space.
Then some of that storage space was taken up by a recovery image and it had some strange stuff going on with the UFBI on the boot structure on it.
It wasn't very usable in the state in which I bought it. It was just dog ass slow.
I don't think I'm supposed to say ass and this thing. Sorry about that.
But it was really slow and I really didn't know what to do.
I kept it and I looked at it in the corner and I was like canonical. You've done it to me again. You've let me buy a piece of hardware with your stuff on it.
Then absolutely sucks.
So I started looking around. I kept it about a year just after the second Susicon.
That all said even with the stock stuff that was on it I was able to put movies on the SD card that goes with it and watch movies in the hotel room while I'm traveling.
That was pretty much the primary purpose of the whole thing.
But it was just such a hard thing to get used to and it was slow and awful.
So how did I make it better?
Well I went on the internet and I looked and I found out that I was the only one that was sort of disgruntled and canonical for having done this to me.
I really don't blame until that much for it. It's a solid piece of hardware. It's just that canonical provided the wrong image and the wrong way to do that with that product.
So I started looking and there was this guy on the internet. He was doing a little Nuxum site and he offered different flavors of this with a special kernel that was already had the Wi-Fi all work out.
So you could actually take and put whatever you wanted onto the stick but then you had to get a USB ethernet thing, actual physical cable thing and plug it into a hub and then you'd have to build from GitHub the Wi-Fi thing.
So it was like that sounds like a really easy way to ruin a week of trouble.
So I was like okay, I drove over to the Conrad and I got a 15 euro wireless keyboard to go with it, wireless keyboard, wireless track pads, this is a cheap one.
To keep it work, from when I wanted to plug it into the monitor at work and update it or something, then I got it back to the hotel or first you download the image and then you flash it to a USB stick and then you stick the hub into the single port on the copy stick and you boot it.
But before I did that, I got an ISO image of G-Party and I went through the 8GB and it took away all those backups and everything that they had.
They had a bunch of images on there that were taken off like 1.8GB of space.
And I was like okay, so then I made a list of things that I really needed on there because after I reinstalled everything, there was only like 1.2GB of space.
The only thing extra that I added was coding to this particular particular device.
So it fits and it's got like 1.2GB left and plus the card.
So I went and I put all my movies and YouTube and music and anything else that I might want to have in the hotel room.
So I also did a Samba to it. If I didn't want to listen through the speakers of the TV in the hotel room, I could connect my Amazon tablet or my phone to it.
So I ended up after I had repartitioned everything, I ended up putting a little Bluetooth image on it and I had 700 bags left in memory, which made things significantly easier on this whole thing.
And I thought a lot about me putting a Bluetooth made on there, but in the moment it's working really, really well.
And I had to install the other interesting was, okay, you're in the hotel room but you don't have your wireless keyboard and it's only got one USB port.
If you didn't bring a USB hub with you, what are you going to do?
And so I have a wireless mouse for work and I was able to get that and click around in there and stuff.
But what I had to do was I had to, the next time I was at work with the cheap wireless keyboard trackpad thing, I had to install it on screen keyboard.
And you go to accessibility in the Bluetooth and it looks like keyboard and then you just put that in there and then you can type with your mouse, click over everything inside the keyboard.
And so all you need is really a wireless mouse and you don't need an extra bulky little keyboard and your bag when you're traveling or anything like that.
It just works straight away.
And so what I do is typically I'll get to the hotel room and I'll set up my workstation area and set up the TV.
And then I'll start streaming music or I'll listen to a little bit of YouTube video or the small MP3 collection on there.
And that was a really great thing about it. You can go up to 128 gigabytes on that little micro SD card that you attach to it.
And you can load that frequently as or frequently as you want.
So it worked out really, really well in the hotel. And so I always have something I never have to buy any premium movies at the hotel.
You know, when you pay extra for the two or three year old movies at the hotel there are the premium content.
I think really the only thing that I've watched at a hotel room this year was I was in Southern France and I actually turned on the BBC to watch the Super Bowl.
So the tell you to tell you about the proliferation of the NFL.
They have a super super bowl on the BBC in France on on a normal TV that you can get a hotel without paying for it.
So that was great.
And it helps out a lot too with if I want to listen to something extremely technical while at work or as background noise at work.
If I want to listen to something technical or if I want to stream hacker public radio, get call caught up on all the episodes.
It works flawlessly. It works flawlessly and the performance has improved by 90% just by going in, taking G-Party, cleaning out that whole thing, putting the lightest of the luxum distros in there in there.
And I saw the point to release there but I haven't gone and downloaded it. I've been really happy with it.
So this is the original Ubuntu Intel stick.
So it's not the cutting-edge hardware. I've actually seen a lot of people have a better life with a Raspberry Pi.
All right, well, you take care and I hope you have a nice day.
I hope this was sort of beneficial about the Intel Compute Stick and using Linux on it and the Luxium website.
The way you do it is you just put your serial number for your Intel stick in and type LUX and it comes right up.
All right, you all have a great day and if you have any comments, please write JWP5 at hotmail.com. Thank you very much.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
