Episode: 2630
Title: HPR2630: Open Source Gaming: Revisiting Meridian 59
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2630/hpr2630.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:46:18

---

This is HPR Episode 2630 entitled Open Source Gaming, Revisiting Meridian 59.
It is hosted by the dude and is about 4 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is discussing the Steam release of Meridian 59 recorded before release.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Okay, the dude's here, and we're going to be talking about Meridian 59.
Well, anyway, it's getting a Steam release August 28th.
Obviously, this is going to be a release afterwards, but seems that according to Josh Rotunda,
who is the Meridian 59 systems admin, it's going to be released on Steam August 28th,
and this is going to be the original servers 101-10102.
However, players will have to go to the official website to create an account for 101-10102.
As noted on the storefront, but that is for now, I guess they are working on the system
for future updates to probably make it so that way you can create a character and account
from Steam.
I have to say that I'm extremely excited, especially since it's getting boost in the media
that are talking about the Steam release, and hopefully we get some new players to play
on Meridian 59 and Lynn.
Get the old PvP style back in the game right now, just PvE just because there's not
many people on, and with new people, hopefully, the exciting PvP that used to be in the
game can return.
Also, hopefully someone could also find a way to make it the game work with wine.
I tried getting Meridian 59, the original servers to work on Linux, and I'm able to log
in, just by using wine, I'm able to log in, I'm able to see what's in my inventory, my
health bars, and everything.
The only thing I can't see is the area where you venture through the world.
Your first perspective, that area, and the UI is black, it's just a black screen, and
there is why I say hopefully somebody because I can't, because I can't even really get
a tibia to run on Linux, and it's supposed to be able to run on Linux, and yes, I followed
the Google instructions and things still didn't work out, so hopefully somebody will be
able to do that, so that way Meridian 59 can work, pretty much perfectly on wine, or
be able to make a Linux client for the original servers, and hopefully have a video to show
you a step by step what to do, but anyway, I'm excited, and it's going to be interesting
to see what the results are, and I'm definitely looking forward to the comments to see what
were the results of the launch, but anyway, it's the dude signing off.
You've been listening to HecarPublicRadio at HecarPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
HecarPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons' Attribution
ShareLife 3.0 license.
