Episode: 2485
Title: HPR2485: The Alien Brothers Podcast - S01E05 - I Saw the Invisible Man
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2485/hpr2485.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:04:30

---

This in HBR episode 2485 entitled, The Alien Brothers Podcast, S010505, I saw an invisible
man by The Alien Brothers Podcast, ABB, it is hosted by The Alien Brothers Podcast, ABB,
and is about 77 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Casper, Andrew Tiger Discussion, and I will buy internet hundreds new of New
York Times Beasts about real.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by, an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
The Alien Brothers Podcast with Casper and Rediger.
Thank you for tuning in.
This is the Alien Brothers Podcast.
This sounds like we just kicked it off.
This is the Alien Brothers Podcast, Casper, and Rediger.
Feel the tone of God.
Casper just wants to wish a happy holidays to everybody from the Alien Brothers Podcast.
Casper just wants to wish everybody a happy holidays from the Alien Brothers Podcast.
Casper just wants to wish everybody a happy holidays for the Alien Brothers.
Casper just wants to wish everybody a happy holidays from the Alien Brothers Podcast.
Casper just wants to wish everybody a happy holidays from the Alien Brothers Podcast.
Casper just wants to wish everybody a happy holidays from the Alien Brothers Podcast.
Casper just wants to wish everybody a happy holidays from the Alien Brothers Podcast.
Happy holidays to the most important person one can wish.
A happy holiday to our president of the United States Donald Trump.
Seriously though, happy holidays to the most important person we can say happy holidays to you.
You listener.
You listener.
Don't let my hyper right wing politics get in the way.
Although to call Donald Trump right wing would be a fallacy.
So this is a monument.
I can't wait to talk with Collective about politics instead of you.
This is the Alien Brothers Podcast.
It's not it's not a different podcast.
Thank you for tuning in with the Alien Brothers.
This is Casper in a regular.
It is in some ways different.
We're in a in a this is will be our version three recording configuration.
Yeah.
What do you think about that?
Casper.
I like version three.
Shall we let the listeners in?
Shall we take a little bit?
A little bit.
A little bit.
That's code for don't talk.
So version one listener was Casper and Rutiger on beach vacation.
What a great beach vacation.
That was thank you.
You're so you're so good to me.
That's why I needed at that time.
I think I think I think I just started at the grocery store there.
Yeah.
At that point that that was so yeah.
I was the closest to killing myself then and I've been since I tried to kill myself last time.
Yeah.
Since January.
But yeah.
So that in that case we were both recording indoor mobile devices.
Then we post produce them together.
And since since then I post produce them.
I did.
So I have full responsibility for the poor sound quality.
I did take my offer tonight.
So hopefully we'll do our best.
Version two was what we were doing the double header configurations.
We were recording each of us.
We're in a different location.
And we recorded on our own individual devices and then mixed it together into one.
And now for the first time ever we are recording from Casper's studio,
which needs a name or I don't know its name.
And we're recording kind of like big boys.
Slanty and slanty chanty 2.0.
Slanty chanty 2.0.
Casper is the proud owner of a slightly used iMac 5K.
Retina display.
5K retina that's running.
Some might say it's very similar in configuration to the one we were doing post production on previously.
But now we're recording in big time.
Big time real time live.
Thanks to your dual channel audio personas audio input.
We got two inputs, not one.
If anyone wants to get started on a limited budget, start recording.
I would highly recommend the pre-sonus 22VSO.
Great product, very cheap.
You can get them for like 130 if you want to give your money to Jeff Bezos.
But I would strongly recommend that you go to your local music store if there's one in your area and it hasn't closed down yet.
And figure out a price that's negotiable between what Jeff Bezos and a slaves will give it to you for.
And what the music store has to sell it for so that they can remain open, which is what I did.
I'll do a plug for sweet water music.
So if you want to buy music related stuff online, they're great to work with.
They have outstanding customer service, not just pro audio, but consumer and pro-sumer stereo equipment as well.
We're picking up radio interference.
What's that?
Do you hear the radio?
Is that the radio or is that just some background noise in your house?
No, that's radio interference.
Actually, it comes out of this thing.
Studio chat across it.
Yeah, you have a lot of amplification in here.
It's the tower of power.
Are you sure it's not the Pikachu clock?
Not anymore.
What did he do to deserve that?
Well, I had to catch him all and then I had to throw one.
Radio, radio, brother's podcast, December 23rd.
Here on Hacker Public Radio.
What network is that?
That's Hacker Public Radio.
And we'd like to thank all of the volunteers for working so graciously with us in our uploading in capabilities and our spans and our divs.
It's tough.
Who's fault is that, really?
That's online.
But I'll tell you this.
No, that's all I need.
It's Casper's fault.
That's all I wanted here.
That I took responsibility for my poor, I did not RTFM on the upload in the show notes.
You know, if we could spread the show note load around a little bit rather than using alphabet clouds.
Well, if you got a better idea for collaborative show noting, I'll lay it on me.
Well, they prefer HTML5.
Well, that's fine.
So HTML5 is a webpage rendering protocol.
What does that have to do with document collaboration?
It has to do with when I would go to export from go to go to alphabet cloud to HTML.
When I save it as an HTML, it's got a lot of spans and divs.
And the volunteers at Hacker Public Radio do not take kindly to spans and divs.
Can't we just global search and replace all those spans and divs?
Like real, like as if we worked in technology.
Okay, we'll find another platform with fewer spans, fewer divs and 100% more HTML5.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Tim and Eric reference.
Awesome show, great job.
Awesome show, great job.
Hamburger and hot dogs too.
I like parties.
I like fun.
I want to live in a hamburger bun.
Yeah, we're fans.
Salome.
Salome.
So, since the last time we did the podcast, have you caught up with any more Hacker Public Radio podcasts?
No, direct me.
Yeah, I listened to a bit of tattoos stuff.
He had some listener feedback he was responding to because he is the man.
He's got a podcast.
He's got his own website.
He's got listener feedback.
He's got a whole episode of listening.
He's got penetration.
Deep.
He's penetrating the markets.
Deep.
Why?
He's changing things.
Thick.
It's Vanny.
Okay, this is the Alan Brothers podcast, the Casper and Hamburger.
And as Casper, we...
It's going to be a short one.
So, just wanted to let you guys know.
No worries about length.
You know, I know we've been running long, running hot, but no needs or no concerns on that.
We're learning our lesson.
We're raining it in because we know it's too much.
It is.
The toll is too great.
You got to pay the toll if you want to get into the boy's soul.
Plans for the holidays.
Casper.
Buy nothing.
Christmas.
Very, very much like you.
You're welcome.
And I...
Yeah, I bought little.
I only bought what was needed to be bought.
Yes.
What Casper's referring to is to help me stay in my ripoff debt management plan.
He agreed to do something he didn't need to do, which is buy the iMac.
I've been trying to sell on an unnamed local sales site piece of shit called Let Go.
Just let it go.
Just let it go.
Let it go.
What does that mean?
It's real it ain't.
All right.
So, you're going to spend time with your family on a commercial free.
Nice.
Except for potentially Pandora commercials.
Okay.
I did buy a subscription for eight years for my parents at one time, but they don't really care.
For which radio?
Pandora.
Yeah.
Just because they listen to it enough, but they've transitioned to acu radio or act something radio.
They get it for free on T-Mobile.
Good.
So, they've been using that more.
Good.
And that's actually on that platform that I heard slint before we went to the beach.
That's crazy.
And I heard spider, I heard, I'm sorry, good morning captain.
And I said, I remember this from when I was about ten years old.
This rings bell, but I can't place the name of the band or the song.
And I went and looked at it.
And I said, okay, spider land.
And then later on, I was taking another note in my phone.
And I said, oh, yeah, that's right.
And so, that's what turned me on to slint, which got me back into the sonic youth and now in the pavement.
It's a sonic youth split up, right?
If you're talking about the two lead singers who were married and had a kid for a long time, yes.
But the band's done, right?
Yes.
They did.
I know, I know.
I know.
I know there's some more in Kim Gordon or no longer Mary.
I didn't know if the band continued.
No.
Thurston Moore is with his own band.
Yes.
He did not pull a quote, smashing pumpkins, quote, and Billy Corgan it up.
Tretching off the ant for a second.
Oh, magic.
So, Thurston Moore, he's got a band and it's like Thurston Moore and his band.
That's what it's called.
They were playing at some place in an unnamed location.
Thurston Moore and the town voyagers.
Okay.
And the feedback loop.
And the Rutiger commentary.
And I don't know what Kim Gordon's doing, but I'm sure it's musical and wonderful.
Leave Ronaldo.
That would be one thing.
So, our topic for today.
All right.
Let's bring it in.
Let's let's bring it home home.
Reeling it in.
Reeling it in.
Time to bring it on home.
What's today's topic?
Oh, hey.
Oh.
It's okay.
It's okay.
That's fine.
I'm not offended.
Why would you be?
We have gone over this in previous podcasts.
Bit up.
So, adults at tones of iOS are too much for your delicate constitution.
Yes.
I just, anytime one of those goes off on any social media platform, YouTube live stream thing,
it just annoys the crap out of me.
I'm like, come on.
Okay.
You're doing a show.
You're doing a show.
I'll take care of.
All right.
I wasn't complaining.
I was just saying for a quote, professionals quote, I thought it was just, I think it's ridiculous.
So, anyway.
I haven't seen the first dollar from this.
Other than the tremendous karmic value it provides, but we have a topic you introduced
it to me to it.
And I'm ready to.
I was surprised you were not aware.
Well, I'm aware fundamentally of what the topic is suggesting.
I didn't know that there was new, new, non-data on it, but do you want to introduce?
That there were new blurry images and vague assertions associated with it.
So, or I can do it.
Yeah.
If you just want to give a summary of what.
Here's the summary.
New York Times on December 16th written article about a government program shutdown in 2012 called
the Advanced Aerospace Threat Identification Program, which I'm going to guess is something
like a tip.
It ran for five years.
It had a very limited budget of 22 million out of our 600 billion defense budget.
And its goal was to explore in extremely vague, not really revealed ways.
Visitors from.
I guess specifically extra terrestrial visitors as opposed to the general topic of things we
can't explain.
I think their focus was specific on alien flight activity or other material activity.
So.
That's what they seem to be suggesting.
The lead officer was a guy named Lewis Elizondo who retired or resigned in protest midway
through this year.
Because he felt that what they had collected hadn't been was being kept to secret and wasn't
being released to the public.
This program got kicked off back in whatever I said 2007 or so.
Spear headed by Harry Reid who retired last year, Democrat Nevada, along with Daniel Inua
from Hawaii and Ted Stevens from Alaska.
The prior two are dead by the way and Harry Reid is retired.
So that's apparently all the evidence we need that this is that that the truth is out there.
A retired senator and two dead senators.
But most of that $22 million annual funding was.
And this will be the shocking part of it funneled into a friend of Harry Reid's name Robert
Bigelow.
This is a real estate mogul and UFO wacko in Harry Reid's home state of Nevada.
Bigelow, you may or may not know his.
Bigelow tease.
He was a current slash former real estate mogul billionaire who has a lot of interest in alien
involvement on or meaning extra terrestrial involvement on earth.
He's also launched a couple of basically dirt inflatable habitats.
I think they're called genesis one and two that are still up there doing tests or shooting
webcams or doing podcasts, whatever they're doing back in the day.
We call this bouncy castles.
So the content I got out of that article was I guess to make people aware of this.
I didn't do any additional research to see if it was somehow secret.
It was a public line item in the budget.
It was not a classified program, but it's at $22 million a year out of 600 billion.
Do you be like hard pressed to find it?
Supposedly, it's main deliverable as some 490 page document that has still not been released to the public.
And this is where I turned over.
Why did you want to talk about it?
One other thing I thought, did you look at Tom DeLong and his involvement to the stars?
Yeah, so Tom DeLong, I can't remember if he was the bass player or guitar player for Blake 182.
And he booted up what?
He invested $200,000, I think, into some program to get people and kids involved in fringe research.
Fringe meaning you're shaking your head.
So I guess I didn't get what the...
So he invested a couple hundred grand in a self-promotion media production enterprise.
Disguised as some kind of involved with the children for training thing.
What's the correlation?
The correlation is that about the same time or shortly before the New York Times, who is our trusted media source, reference Iraq, weapons and mass destruction.
So the New York Times disclosed this, which I thought was interesting, because the status quo has always been these things do not exist.
Or if they do, the men in black come, and then you don't see the people anymore.
Oh man, I'm out of rocket fuel.
That's all right, we can take a break.
No, it's okay. I don't need more rocket fuel.
Well, when should I probably sleep tonight?
All I'm saying is that if you need to take a break to get some more brewing, I can take us on a sonic journey solo until you get back.
So, I mean, we don't have to have dead air and we don't have to break it up. That's all I'm saying.
As is the motto of hacker public radio, any audio is better than no audio.
Except dead air.
That would be no audio.
Great.
And I like big audio, dynamite.
Hey now, you're a rock star. Get your game on.
That's smash mouth.
Sorry, I get them confused all the time.
Wow.
Wow.
So, that is well-being walking on the Sun.
That's big audio, dynamite, right?
Smash mouth.
Are you messing with me?
I want someone else to get me through this semi-tron kind of life.
Third eye blind.
Flies in the vessel.
Just stop.
Stop.
Please stop.
Please.
It's really offensive to both Mick Jones, the lead of big audio dynamite and also the previous band which he started and then was kicked out of the clash who you may be familiar with.
I am.
Okay, good.
Because they're an important band.
And some would say big audio dynamite is equally as important because even though they are less known because they were the first to include movie audio clips in their music Wikipedia.
Look it up.
Confirm it.
I believe you.
It's true.
What audio clips?
Clint Eastwood movies.
Like tightrope.
No.
Like, like unforgiven.
Like the clash album give them enough rope.
If you remember the front of that where they got the guy laying there with the rope and the guy on the horse.
And the Clint Eastwood movie that starts out where he basically brings in a guy that has a worn out.
But the money and then right before the guy hangs he shoots the rope.
And then the guy falls on a horse and then Clint Eastwood saves the guy from being hung.
So he gets the money and gets the guy and then they go to another town and do the same trick over and over.
Did they ever use any samples from a million dollar baby?
No.
Well, I'll have to check out big audio dynamite and big audio dynamite too.
It's competitor.
I'd recommend starting with big audio dynamite.
This is big audio dynamite.
There's a seminal album.
Arguably their best.
And the key thing there is they integrated pop with movie samples.
If you want to call a pop, sure.
Pop, rock.
Electric.
Kind of like a dance rock, really.
Dance rock, reggae.
Dance hall, rock.
And samples.
And now we can't fucking escape that.
Yeah, it's basically what all music is.
It was perfect.
Okay.
How many movie samples and things do you hear?
You can't, that's what I said.
You can't, you can't escape them.
And the first, the first band to do that.
Bad.
Well, since you brought it up as a digression, we could play a little quit game before we get back to the topic.
We could see, we could go back.
We digress.
Yeah, but I mean that's the way we go.
If anyone's going to listen to this, they have to somehow find it expected.
Charming or their hate listing.
Either way.
We get paid by the downloads.
You know, if you hate listening is on the rise, if you've seen anyone watch the news lately,
or they hate watching, that's what it's all about.
So if they're going to hate, let's bring it on.
That's what haters are going to do out here.
Yeah, he's the word on the street.
So let's go back and forth.
Just real quick.
I don't think it'll be a long game.
I'll name a song with a movie quote in it, and then you do one, and I do one,
and then the one of us that can't do the next one loses.
I'm going to lose.
But you have big audio dynamite.
You have this wealth to pull from, you know?
Okay, and I'm not even going to ask that you name the quote.
You don't have to name anything.
It's just back and forth.
So I'm going to do a ministry, the song thieves.
Now it's your turn.
You just got to name it.
Big audio dynamite equals MC square.
Okay.
I can't make it one.
So yeah, so it's so quick.
So you win.
So yeah, their influence is perfect.
I of course can think of lots of them.
Like Jesus is my hot rod in your world order.
Wow, that tuning machine caught that guitar, man.
That is...
It's hanging on by a peg.
It's hanging on by a tuning machine.
Tooting machines.
Tooting machines.
Haven't stupidity.
Haven't invented a tuning machine.
To bring the listeners in here.
The reason why we're digressing.
You're sensing conspiracy.
To such a large degree is because we're excited.
We're excited to be together.
Yeah, I do in this podcast, man.
I noticed that episodes two, three, and four
where we were doing them via telephone protocol.
A lot of sarcasm, a lot of things.
We would not understand what was going on.
And it was due to eye contact.
We wouldn't have hand signals and all those things.
Yeah, like that one.
That's the big one.
They call that the bird.
Well, if you're referring to you constantly cutting me off,
then yeah, you haven't done much of that yet.
And there hasn't been the arrival of our quote-unquote producer yet.
I'm sure it'll happen in time.
When you least expect them.
I am simultaneously looking forward to
and utterly terrified of seeing Gerald.
And now that I'm thinking about it,
you don't know this listener.
I threatened to also video record this.
Just a good point, actually.
Just to, you know, up the level.
There can be an elf on the shelf.
I'm still wondering what that thing is over there.
It doesn't do anything.
It's making me wonder what it is.
I just worked for a firm three years.
That's all.
Has anybody seen the movie before?
The Tom Cruise film?
Based on the Grisham book?
Nope.
I mean, people have, I have not.
But I was threatening to do a video.
I wish I had now.
Because when this paranormal Gerald activity happens,
I want proof.
So when they find my body dead
in a rictus of terror, Allah, the ring,
they're going to be like, what happened?
And I want your bad boy.
What's the elf on the shelf?
It's just one of many things
that are used to indoctrinate children
to surveillance state.
So you put a little elf on the shelf.
It's probably, you know, made by kids in China
for kids in America.
And then you put it on the shelf
and the elves watching you all the time
to see if you're good or bad.
Oh.
So it's not actual surveillance self
just getting kids used to the idea
that you're being watched.
Who's to say?
Like Santa Claus.
The whole idea behind Santa Claus.
Exactly.
The original conspiracy theory.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We can't talk about this on redacted at night.
Last night.
Redacted?
It's a series?
Yes.
I just thought it was a movie.
Oh.
This is the Alien Brothers broadcast.
It's not a different one.
So back to New York Times revelation regarding,
I guess the tipping, the only news
in that article was that Louis Elizondo,
the former head of the program,
came forward on CNN or something saying,
well, we found proof of some alien spacecraft and stuff
and, you know, it should be public
and because this program has been out of commission
for five years,
and that Harry Reid resigned last year.
So that seemed to be the only news.
Could you do me a favor?
Sure.
Could you look up Harry Reid net worth?
I'm sure it's very high.
Do you want the precise digits?
But he only gets paid $100,000 a year.
How could he make so much money?
I don't know how much he gets.
I don't know what he did after retirement.
I'm guessing he just retired, though.
From the Senate.
I'm sure he goes around and talks
and makes like $50,000 for hour, at least.
So what?
To talk to rooms full of people,
that's what politicians tend to do.
Is that what they get paid for?
50 grand per appearance.
That's pretty typical.
Is that what they're getting paid for?
They're getting paid to lend their image
to some, what's the word I'm looking for,
initiative or group.
So they're not being paid for anything
that they're doing politically?
That, I mean, that would be a political action.
Showing up to talk at some conference
is lending your implicit support of it.
All right.
Harry Reid is worth only about three,
according to OpenSecrets.org,
which I know nothing about,
and do not know if it's legitimate and leased,
$4.3 million.
That's not much for a retired politician
who spent as much time in the Senate he did.
Now, that's what this is reporting.
A little over a million of that's in real estate,
electronics, manufacturing and equipment.
I don't know what that,
or that those are investments he made.
His pension and other savings,
half a million AMX technology,
something I don't, I don't know.
That was just curious.
So he essentially worked like 430 years
for 430 years.
What's 4.3 million divided by 100?
Is that 40?
Are you asking me now to go look up the guy,
like, I don't know what is back?
What is your point?
Are you saying he's too rich for a civil servant?
I'm saying they're all too rich for civil servants.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm saying there's money being paid.
And there's money in the power.
There's money being paid for you to get played.
This is the alien brothers podcast.
That's true.
Thank you for tuning in.
Okay.
He was in the Senate actually not that long,
only 30 years.
So it's a Senate.
I got to add.
Not long in the Senate.
Read Harry was.
It's five terms.
And of course prior to that he was a lawyer.
And now I'm looking to see like if he had money
as a from his family, doesn't look like it.
This is the alien brothers podcast.
So he was a lawyer gotten to state politics
was a representative in Minnesota.
So what is your point?
I'm just saying there's money coming in.
There's money coming in.
That's all I'm saying.
No shit.
Yeah.
Thank you.
So what does that have?
It was me reading about these.
No, I'm just talking aliens like for no reason.
No.
No.
I mean, are we going to talk about?
Are we going to talk about whether we actually think
there's alien life out there and that we're in contact with?
Yes.
We will.
At the time we were choosing.
When you're ready.
I'm ready.
So we've started by slandering Harry Reid, retired American senator.
And yes, I believe we previously discussed corrupts.
Governance is a hallmark of imperial decline.
So that's one of your touchdowns there.
Good job.
Can't wait to talk to clap too.
Good.
When this when this transitions to the to the alien brother and clap to podcast
things will be radically.
I'm looking forward to that.
Okay.
So perhaps he will have insight into what your point is.
So to pivot from why I would care about how much I read.
Why would Casper care about how much money a politician has?
Right.
Okay.
Don't answer that rhetorical.
It was a rhetorical question.
Yeah.
I took it as one.
Okay.
Cool.
So Harry Reid was the only person that had had knowledge of this program
at the time it was going on.
But he did not acknowledge the existence of it when it was going on.
However, now that the New York Times has reported it.
He will, he now says, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So take that into account.
I was introduced to this story by a very, very, very dear person in my life.
And they said, hey, check this out.
And at the time, I was cleaning my house for for every day, for very, very shortly.
And I said, yeah, check that out.
But as soon as I'm done cleaning, so a little past midnight when I was done cleaning,
I looked at, what were you doing again?
Cleaning the house.
Okay.
And cleaning the house.
When I was done, I looked at this New York Times story, read it, read it, read it, read it.
Just seeing the link, I saw New York Times and I was like, oh.
So I read it and, oh, oh, I was kind of, they wanted to know what I thought.
And I,
The person who recommended it to you.
Yeah. And I was hesitant to respond because, you know,
that person was an alien.
Big surprise, I was skeptical of the New York Times is reporting.
Big surprise.
So, and I, there was no, I, I see that there's, quote, evidence, quote, unquote,
but it seems very, very benign, very, very purposed, very, very limited.
And my, my worry is what is, what is the purpose?
Why are they releasing this?
Why are they releasing this now?
What is the plan moving forward, right?
If you're familiar with Stephen Greer and Unacknowledged,
which is something you can check out on Netflix anytime,
you'll know that something he warned about was a thing called project blue bean.
Project blue bean is essentially, I might be getting the name a little bit mixed up,
but it's essentially.
I think it's blue book.
Blue book.
Okay.
If, if the empire starts to decline,
which with the tax bill, with net neutrality, net new derality,
with all that going on, the empire is declining, with Bitcoin on the rise,
or the confidence in fiat currency is, is going down, as is the petra dollar.
You've also got Pakistan moving off of the dollar,
which will also tank it.
So all of a sudden there's this, there's alien disclosure.
And I'm a little worried as to what, what that means,
going back to my point, Stephen Greer warned about project blue book,
which would be.
I just think it's blue book, but we'll find out for the show now.
Sorry to interrupt.
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
What that would be would be a false flag alien invasion,
where the government would use the technology that they've had for so many years.
And quote, unquote, invade act like aliens are invading.
So that would be used to impose martial law and to take away everyone's rights and more,
of everyone's rights, and be kind of like the Patriot Act exponentially sized.
So if you remember, there was, okay, so September 10,
Donald Rumsfeld says, hey, we're missing like a few trillion dollars from the Pentagon.
And then September 11th happened.
And everybody forgot about these missing trillions of dollars from the Pentagon.
And where did that plane hit?
Oh, it hit the records that they had on those trillions of dollars.
Okay.
I am just coincidence, I guess.
So then this New York Times report comes out and they're talking about like millions of dollars,
like 22 millions, 22 million.
My interpretation was that the budget for advanced airspace threat identification program
was 22 millions a year, a year was by interpretation.
My snuts, hey, you know, a speck of dust.
Yes.
Right.
Nothing.
A tip.
A tip.
A tip.
Because there's two A's.
Yeah.
And to, just as a quick note, I mean, I viewed this maybe in this feeds into your point you're making.
I mean, this was not front page.
This, this was an, this was an article in passing.
I mean, in terms of the way it was written, it's linked everything.
This was a, oh, by the way, here's this to the internet.
I would say it was a pretty big story.
It, it, it trended.
It was on fleet.
Okay.
So it's what you're working up to is that this is a,
a little seeding of the peachy dish and anticipation of the empire declaring martial law under
the auspices of an alien invasion.
Yes.
Thanks God.
Thank God all my problems will be solved.
I guess you can, you can, you can hang out with Casper.
He's got some room.
I'm sure.
I mean, they're going to need, you know, once martial law is declared, they're going to need, you know,
people to join the death squads and stuff, you know, to put on the, the black masks and already
have the mask, you know, and just give me a gun.
I just, and I'll, and I'll go around people.
I'm just waiting for you to take it off.
Well, you know, as I think you know about me by now, I play long games and you'll never see them coming.
My, my, my, my, my start middle and in games across the many games I'm playing are, are, I can't even keep track of them all.
As Casper plays checkers, Rutgers playing 3D chess.
That's the inversion of that is actually closer to the truth.
I'm, I'm playing more like plants versus zombies than like, and I've gotten to the level where it goes from being
fun to being utterly impossible, which is the worst.
You're playing plants versus zombies too, I presume.
Actually, Kelly is a big fan of that.
I play a kingdom rush.
Actually, I'm not playing any, any games at the moment at all.
Period.
Mobile or console.
That is a good idea.
Yeah.
Break, break the wrist, walk away.
Yeah.
You got to break the wrist, walk away.
Break the wrist.
Is that what you said?
Break the wrist, walk away.
Break the wrist.
No.
Oh, you break the, break the hand.
Walk away.
Okay.
Have you ever seen a pulling dynamic?
I have.
I don't remember that.
Okay.
All right.
I remember it was just a vote for Pedro.
I think we should all vote for Pedro.
If we're going to vote at all.
So your thought is that, okay.
So this, this revelation, which is big, apparently,
it's big to the internet.
And it could be big because I'm,
since I started my stop listening to mainstream media thing,
I didn't even know that Mark Campbell came out yesterday and said,
I hated the way they had me play Luke Skywalker in the last Jedi.
I would, I mean, to me, that's big.
But this would also be big, big on the internet.
Yes.
Okay.
So they might be equally or are you putting this on par with Rumsfeld
and the, we're missing the money?
No.
No.
You're saying, you're saying that they're playing the same role.
There's the, oh, this, this is happening.
I'm saying there's trillions of dollars unaccounted for
from the Pentagon.
Trillions.
Okay.
So where does that money go to black budget things,
which are unconstitutional.
If you've watched Stephen Greer's movie Unacknowledged or his
previous work, which was called something that starts with an S.
I forget.
But he talks about all these black budget.
Arps.
And so he essentially says that Bill Clinton invited him
and said, Bill Clinton was like, hey, I can't get any information.
Like, I can't find out what's going on.
Yeah.
Like the head of the CIA brought in Stephen Greer.
Stephen Greer came in and Bill Clinton was like, I can't find out what's going on.
Can you talk, can you kind of shed some light here?
Yeah.
Oh, serious.
That was the name of his first one.
S-I-R-I-E-S, I think.
Like the star.
Yeah.
Or like the now defunct satellite radio station.
Yeah.
But.
So, and anyway, so Bill Clinton didn't know what's going on.
So Stephen Greer did some high kicks.
He talked, he reached out.
He has contacts, you know, quote-unquote, contacts in the black budget ops and everything.
And he called a good friend of his and his good friend called a good friend of his that
worked at a skunky works place or something.
And his friend said, if you ever call me again about this program, XX program, oh, I can never talk to you again.
He was like, you do not call me about this.
So, since Stephen Greer revealed this, I'm guessing that friend is not talking to him anymore.
Well, Stephen Greer said he relayed that story, but he left out whatever the project was called.
But you get the gist.
Okay.
There are things that-
Anyone in the IC or intelligence community will be aware that there are clearing levels way above what the president has.
Of course.
So, there are things that are unknown.
Some might say there are no-nones, no-non-nones, unknown-nones, and unknown-non-nones.
That's absolutely correct.
Yes.
So, this would be the regime to-this would be the climate in which to stage an alien invasion.
Absolutely.
And we're-and we're sitting here at this table, the round table or the oblong table.
Yeah, oblong.
So, really, with it now that you've informed me of this and I'm educated, we need to turn this house into a fortress.
And we need to find massive redundants.
Okay.
It's all coming together now.
A, it's not by accident that you graciously purchased my computer so I could use it to pay off my debtors.
The alien brothers podcasting data control facility needed to be here in the studio.
Where you live that's surrounded by instruments, including this amazing bizarre little guitar next to me.
And martial law is coming.
Yes.
But this structure is not ready for it.
But fortifications have begun if you've looked at the holiday tree that's just an example of the type of creativity and the type of-
It's-it's an example of the creativity and also somehow you got a headphone splitter into and out of the workings of a washing machine before the show.
And Casper's father would be so proud of him.
I got in there deep.
Okay.
I had to take apart a dryer.
Okay, so let me fill the listeners in on this little adventure.
So sometimes you don't know how things work until you have to take them apart.
And I learned that today.
I learned how dryers work.
As we were preparing for the podcast, I was looking for a headphone splitter so that we could equally hear our stuff with my limited
recording device, the presumes 22V.
And found the headphone splitter and a retiger needed some clothes to be dried.
So at the same time.
No, it sounds like fountain.
So at the same time, I found my headphone splitter in the bottom of the house.
And at the bottom of the house is also the dryer.
So as I was transitioning clothes from the washer to the dryer, I was cleaning the lint thing collector.
And I dropped the headphone splitter in the lint collector.
So as almost as soon as I found the headphone splitter, I lost it in the lint collector.
So then there was a combination of what did we have?
We had hangers.
We had wire hangers.
We had magnets.
I love this story by the way.
And we had a vacuum cleaner.
So we tried all of them.
The magnets were my idea.
Yeah.
Magnets.
How do they work?
Miracles.
Is that the name of the song that's from?
The jugglers.
That's how the juggler juggler juggler juggler lives out there.
And if anyone who doesn't know.
But I'll let you get back to it.
About insane clown posse magnets.
How do they work in miracles?
Google it.
Because it's a useful piece of just.
Just internet relatively recent meme.
Memory.
Yeah.
So go on.
Tell us you were in the depths of the of combat.
So I lost the headphones blitter in the dryer.
And I'm not a mechanic.
I'm not a mechanical guy.
I'm a mechanical man.
I was a mechanical boy today.
I became a mechanical alien brother.
Man.
And so what I had to do after we decided that magnets and wire hangers and string.
And all of those good things were not going to to cross the finish line.
Magnets could have worked.
It's if it if it were magnet.
No, but we found that with the stereo headphone jack it did not attract.
Or it did not pick up from the magnet.
So I don't think that would have worked.
So while it's a good idea.
While Rutiger was setting up the podcast 3.0 setup.
Casper was taking apart the dryer.
So took apart the dryer.
And got got in there deep.
Did a deep reach.
I felt the fan where the fan pulls and throws out the air to the outside from the heat.
Exhaust.
Exhaust, thank you.
I told you I'm not a mechanic.
Okay.
Okay.
And took that took the old dryer part.
I felt that felt the exhaust fan felt it turning.
And I said, hmm.
All right.
Well, the fan's going to turn or it's not going to turn.
Right.
So it could turn poorly.
It could turn poorly.
So what I did was I was like, well, okay, I'm turning turn in the fan.
Nothing's coming out.
All right.
I was just going to dry Rutiger's clothes here to see what happens.
So I plugged the before working on any electronics.
You should always unplug the electronic device.
But you didn't know I did.
I did.
Oh, you plugged it.
Unplugged at the device.
I unplugged the dryer.
Yes.
I didn't know if you could unplug it there.
I just know you didn't unplug it from the wall.
I did unplug it from the wall.
You were not.
This is the alien.
Yeah, you're right.
I was the alien brothers.
I was out there by then.
Okay.
You were as I was explaining to the listeners while you were getting the shit together.
Yeah.
I took a part of the dryer.
I felt the fan.
It was turning.
And then I said, okay, well, it's not the headphone jacks down there.
And I found all my guitar picks and all the good hidden, all the real good, good, hard picks
that I keep in pockets.
And then I was closed.
And now I find out where they end up.
It's like a miracle.
It's a miracle.
It's miracles.
It's like you stuck your hand in a spinning fan and didn't lose any fingers.
Because I unplugged it.
Oh, so it wasn't really spinning too well.
It went too well at the time.
No, I was spinning it with my finger.
Yeah.
Still got to cut it off.
No.
Okay.
Well, this is the Alien Brothers podcast and Casper is about to wrap this up.
It's been in the fan.
And okay, nothing's holding up the fan.
All right, all right, all right.
So I was like, well, too bad.
Lost the headphone splitter.
Given up.
Put it back together more or less.
At least enough that it could dry some clothes.
Plug it back in.
Turn it on.
And it went.
And I said, bingo.
Because I knew what that meant.
What that was the headphone jack hitting the fan, the exhaust fan.
And I said, oh, yeah.
So because I had not put it back together completely, I said, bingo.
Click off the exhaust back at the exhaust, got my hand back up in there.
Do you unplug it first?
Yes.
I unplugged it again.
Good.
We recommend unplugging devices before sticking your hands in them.
Yes.
There are a lot of ways.
Okay.
So, I mean, mechanical device.
Okay.
This is the Alien Brothers podcast.
Thank you for tuning in.
This Christmas.
Give your family.
Give your family member the best gift possible.
A job.
Anyway, got up in there.
And bingo.
The headphone splitter was in the fan as I suspected.
I pulled it out.
I said, thank you, dryer.
And I screamed.
I didn't scream.
What's the...
I can...
Let me help here for this part of it.
Okay.
So there was this sound coming from downstairs that I couldn't figure out whether or not to respond to it or not.
I thought I was pretty confident it was victory yelling and self-congratulatory.
Vocal embellishment, which I think it was.
It didn't have that high pitched kind of urgent, not irrational sound as if something had been severed or there was uncontrolled bleeding.
So I decided to stay up here and continue on.
And yeah, it sounds like you were, you know, you were down there going like, yeah, Casper's the man.
I'm the man to making other proclamations.
You were feeling pretty good.
And I have to say...
I didn't say, yeah, I'm a man.
I said, I said...
Oh!
Yeah!
Yes!
I'm a man!
Oh, there's much more Hulk Hogan-ish than this one.
Oh!
Or Randy Macherman's Savage than I presented.
So yeah.
I felt good.
And I think these splitters are working probably better than ever before.
Yeah.
But I had to spend through the dryer.
The lint, the lint shoot.
We don't need to go into the question of how they got into the, inner into the dryer.
The lint, the lint portion, which is separate from the main entry, the front entry to the dryer.
The lint shoot is a whole another animal, as I found out.
Today I found out how dryers work.
And I also was able to educate Rutiger on Project Blue Book or Blue Beam.
Does that mean that you're wrapping that up?
You said you wanted to make it a short one and...
You're wrapping up now.
I think this needs to be a midpoint audio exploration.
And then...
I'm going to have to take a break to...
Yeah, we'll take a break.
No, I'm going to have to take a buy a break.
That's fine.
We can do that.
But right now we need to get some tea.
Oh.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
Down, down.
You got to cut this down.
Oh, down.
Getting that touchy.
No, don't touch it.
You don't touch it.
No feedback.
No feedback.
Listeners, give the feedback.
Not you.
Come on, man.
What are you doing?
I'm...
I'm not doing my buy a break.
Oh, it's...
Hey, dear people.
It's coming soon.
I don't know those men from the moon.
I don't know where the mouth should level.
And I don't need them for...
Round of downtown.
Lost that money.
Round of downtown.
Lost that money.
Next thing you know is on the street.
I don't know what I've been told.
But that project blue book.
It's going to make me blue.
Look down the street.
I suddenly disappear.
Looking down that street.
I suddenly disappear.
And as I stood and what I could do.
He said there's nothing that you can't do.
And because you go to talk to the congressman that he's not
caring about you.
Don't care about you.
If you discover that it's going to use aliens.
That's public fault and I don't know their sins
And I'll do a man on the street and you know he's feeling pretty bad
I don't know just what I'm gonna do
And I don't know just what I'm gonna do
Need to turn off the feed back if you're gonna react
to the things you're gonna do
Okay, that's done for now
Topic 2
Yeah
Late army
So we've established martial laws being declared
Soon
It will soon be declared
It's our presumption of
If the New York Times is any indication of false news being spread
to prepare us for war, I think we're ready
So your position is that
Excuse me, the New York Times is just a
A puppet mouthpiece of the empire
And it's just getting that information out there to
Seed to pre-program
To pre-program
To get people used to the elf on the shelf
So it'll be a little
They'll be ready
They'll be prepared
They'll be like oh my god
They'll be like
I'll remember now the day the Internet exploded
Judy Miller
With that extraction
Utterly vague
Meaningless
Almost like human interest piece about some little government program
That suggested that there might be alien technology
The only part
That's significant about this whole thing is that
It was in the New York Times
No, it's not
It's in the New York Times
But why is this significant?
Because the status quo has always been
Oh, you're crazy, aliens, that's crazy
I have to take your word for it
I mean, I haven't done any research to see what the times
Reports on and doesn't report on
You didn't even touch on Tom DeLong
Or two
A little bit
So if you watch you can you to look up which we'll put in the show notes
Tom DeLong and his two the stars Academy
His whole presentation there
You can also watch Tom DeLong on his podcast with Joe Rogan
You can also watch people who study body language
Analyzing Tom DeLong on his podcast with Joe Rogan
And seeing how obvious it is that he is lost in the sauce
He is getting played big time
So I guess to take it to the next phase of the conversation
When the aliens get here what do you think they're going to look like?
There aren't going to be aliens
I hope the aliens help save us from the fake aliens
Like I was going to select the aliens in a certain movie
But I realized some people probably haven't seen the movie
I hear grays are bad
So okay, that's right
Thanks for reminding me
So your premise is that this is all false
So the Empire can exert partial control over the street
The new, the NEW, not GNU, nothing
The NWO, the new American World Order
As the NEWO
As the first George Bush with his first Iraq war said
We want to establish a new world order
I could have used that one in the clips segment we did
But sorry, go on
I guess that's not a movie that was a speech
To read my lips
Thousand points of light
Was that George Bush?
GHW Bush
Dad, dadio
No, that's
Thousand points of light was Herbert Walker
Okay, so no aliens, martial law
Fake aliens
Black budget
So they're going to dust off the props from the fake moon landing
They're going to fill them
They're going to resurrect Stanley Kubrick
No, they don't
So are you saying that like Michael Bay is on board
And they're all on board
They're going to create the fake news
Of the war of the worlds
Yes
And what's the long game for the Empire?
How?
First, how, you know, what do they hope to achieve?
To expand power, have complete control
Use all those FEMA camps they've been building
I mean, what's the point of having a big old FEMA camp
Old people
So to pull this off, they would have to seize the internet
Which, oh, oh, no
Neutrality would presumably legally allow them to do
Legally, which is not the same thing as technically
So it would be legal for them to control communications
But pulling that off, I would argue, would be another matter
Now the government has massive power
To shut down pieces of infrastructure
For millions of dollars
Just raw, I mean, force
Like blowing up power stations and stuff like that
Neutrality bases all over the world
But I guess my suggestion would be that
Given our current level of
Man on the street, technological evolution
Maintaining the fallacy
That we're being invaded by aliens would not be sustainable
For any real period of time
I don't understand, can you clarify it?
Because you first said that
How could they sustain that fallacy?
You just said that they have the term with the tremendous power
But how do they sustain that long term?
All they have
They would have to have an end date
Very little, it doesn't take much
You're already seeing things
Have we seen a video of Stephen Paddock in the casino yet?
Remind me of what a Stephen Paddock is
Oh, the guy who shot up Vegas
Supposedly
I don't know
There hasn't been a video released from Mandalayabay
Yeah
When there are cameras everywhere in Vegas
Not on Guestroom floors
But pretty much everywhere
Would he not be entering and exiting
And how many guns and nameless
A lot
So that was not caught on security footage
Usually when someone in robs a bank
Or something happens
Something something awesome
There's footage of it
So I'm just walking through the argument
So we are restricted in our access
To see what is really going on
And being told that we're under attack
And that would be martial law
That would mean curfews
And then
You better have your papers
Okay, so that would mean police state
Long term police state
Which is different from martial law
A bigger police state than we have
Okay, but so there's martial law
Which is typically done
In outside of third world countries
For emergency purposes
Actually, martial law is technically
Part of the Patriot Act
All along the borders of the United States
The Constitution does not apply
Intra within our country martial law
So like here
Would be typically under a state of emergency
And then after that you'd have to go to police state
To control
To control who can go to work and what you can do
And at some point
So is your argument that the internet never returns the normal
That travel never returns the normal
That the ability for people to communicate it to each other
In these places where these attacks are happening supposedly
That we're not a lot
We are put into a completely locked down state
And that's the government's goal
And that they can sustain that
If it comes to it
It's happened before in the not too recent
Not too distant past
On 9-11 they grounded flight
No, I'm talking about like 50 years ago
There were entire continents taken over
So you know
If you failed to know your history
It's bound to be repeated
Yeah, except for the people in this country
Except for the immigrants
Don't that camp from oppressive lands
Don't know that
I'm suggesting we would rise up
Then the question would be
And then the unforced
Then we pass to the veil that we can't see beyond
Blood in the streets
Yeah
Well, a wise man once said
The ballets dead, so a bullets what I can get
So what are you going to do in preparation for this?
I'm going to continue
Or have you just resigned yourself to this is the fate
Are you going to fight or are you going to be a sheep led to the slaughter?
This is a question that is asked in the clashes guns of Brixton
When they kick down your front door what are you going to do?
Do you know what you're going to do?
Are you going to get shot down on pavement or be waiting in death row?
What's up to you?
How many topics on the Alien Brothers podcast?
How many holidays everybody?
We look forward to the feedback
Getting deep
On the imminent
False flag alien invasion
The imminent false alien invasion
False flag alien invasion
Any other topics for tonight?
No, I think we've filled everyone with holiday cheer and holiday spirit
We've filled every nook, cranny and orifice and whole
What I would like for Christmas if I could wish for anything
Would you front teeth?
I would wish as much happiness as possible for everyone
It doesn't seem like we live in a world where world peace is very likely right now
Things do change sometimes quite profoundly
And the future is
Since we can't see past our own decisions
It's really
Unknowable to us
One step at a time
But as Casper said
We can be doomed to repeat our failures of our past if we don't remember them
I wish for as little suffering in the world as possible as holiday season
But not just for the holiday season for every day
There are the parts of the world where suffering is imposed on people by regimes
Or as a matter of political or economic violence
Or
There are parts of the world where suffering is imposed individually
On the person by themselves
A wise man once, a wise being once said
If you always look to the future
Not where you are and what you will do
You'll never go anywhere
So maybe the best we can do this holiday season is
Live in the moment and tell the ones that we love that we love them
I love you Casper
I love you, Reddaker
And I love the heck of public radio community and how sensitive and caring
They've been, they've made some some high jumps
To even get our shows up there because of our spans or dives
Or our intergalactic transmissions
Not to mention that
Penetrating the Vandal and dope
Just not to mention that massive fundraising thing they did to get you that prosthetic leg
Which I'm very thankful for
Yeah, it's fun kicks
We should post a video if you're walking now because it's like normal step
It's like loaded with power and you go like 30 feet
And then it's like you walk
Oh, you know
Hey, I got an idea for the next episode
Do we want to dare share it on air?
Is it as history changing as what we've discussed tonight?
We should wrap this one up
I'd like the way we ended with this song
Everything
Happy holidays
Happy holidays everybody
Happy holidays to yourself
Be good to the ones you love
Three other people as you would like to be treated
That's the best of this
The best of this
Is good
Learn from any mistakes you've made
And just be a good person
And try to forgive yourself
Forgive yourself
It's not your fault
Or maybe it's not one of these
I'm praying in my case
I can't go with that one
It's important to love yourself
And love yourself
As difficult as it is
Learning to love yourself
It's hard
It's the greatest
Love
Of all
Peace everybody
Different types of love
Blossombo
Radiohead still got it
I saw him on the little police of 2016
Music
Music
You've been listening
To heckaPublicRadio at heckaPublicRadio.org
We are a community podcast network
That releases shows every weekday
Monday through Friday
Today's show, like all our shows
Was contributed by an HBR listener
Like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast
Then click on our contributing
To find out how easy it really is
HeckaPublicRadio was founded
By the digital dog pound
And the infonomican computer club
And is part of the binary revolution
At binrev.com
If you have comments on today's show
Please email the host directly
Leave a comment on the website
Or record a follow-up episode yourself
Unless otherwise stated
Today's show is released on the
Creative Commons
Attribution
Music
