Episode: 2887
Title: HPR2887: Stardrifter RPG Playtest Part 01
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2887/hpr2887.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:47:51

---

This is HPR Episode 2887 entitled, Tardriff to RPG playtest Part 01, and in part of the series,
tabletop gaming, it is hosted by Lost in Bronx, and in about 37 minutes long, and carry
an explicit flag.
The summer is Lost in Bronx, and friends playtest are new, original RPG system.
Today's show is licensed under a CC hero license.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code, HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Lost in Bronx, also known as David Collins Rivera.
I am a contributor here at Hacker Public Radio, but I'm also a writer.
I have a novel series called Star Drifter, currently I have three books out, I'm working
on the fourth, and a bunch of short stories as well.
This is a space opera series, set a couple hundred years in the future.
Star Drifter has no magic in it, no aliens, only humans.
It's a human's only universe, they haven't found any evidence of life that has not originated
on Earth.
Star Drifter, however, is not hard science fiction, it involves some technologies that don't
exist and probably could never exist.
I do try to get as much of the science right as I can otherwise, but we still need faster
than light drive, we still need to expand out into the universe, we need our ray guns
and our rockets and all that fun stuff for science fiction.
Now then, I'm also an old gamer.
I used to play a lot of role-playing games.
I used to play a lot of D&D, and many others including Traveler, which is another space opera
role-playing game, then life got in the way.
I stopped playing for a good long time, probably at least 20, 30 years close to.
Well, Clayto and I started a gaming endeavor called Mixed Signals, and you can check out
our blog at MixedSignals.ML, we tried to update it a couple times a week.
Now then, I have created role-playing games before, as I say I'm a writer, I'm also a
gamer, I've written role-playing games.
Long time ago, long time ago, but I started thinking about doing it again, and Star Drifter
seemed like some good source materials pulled from.
First off, I have the rights, secondly, it's kind of what I love, science fiction, space
opera, high adventure, in deep space.
So I created an early version of the Star Drifter RPG Rules, went through two or three different
iterations of it, and finally came up with something that I thought was worth play testing.
So I reached out to a couple of good people, and they agreed to play test, and we decided
to record it.
So that's what this series is.
Today is the first episode of a limited series, where we'll be play testing this particular
version of the Star Drifter Rules.
It'll run probably about, well, between 8 and 10 episodes.
Now I'm doing this for HPR, primarily for people to see at least part of the process
of how a role-playing game is created.
And this is tabletop role-playing, understand, with dice and paper.
We did work over the internet, but that was about the only computer component involved.
This first episode is basically just me reading through the rules and getting feedback from
the other players.
That is the thing I wanted to do, I wanted to read the rules, cover to cover.
But don't be intimidated by that, because again, it's an early version, and these rules
are very short compared to other games that are out there, very, very basic, very, very
short.
In this episode, we only get through part of the rules, I continue in the next episode,
and in fact, in the third episode is when we finish reading the rules.
So if you want to skip all that stuff and go right to the actual game sessions, you'll
want to pick up with episode three once it's been uploaded.
But I guess that's good enough for now, so let's just jump right into it.
Hello everyone, this is Lost in Bronx, and today we're going to be play testing a new,
or I should say, a proposed role-playing game based on my own star drifter, short stories
and novels.
Don't know how it's going to go, we'll find out, and you'll find out along with us.
Today with me, I have Clat 2, Hey everybody, and Taj, and Brynn, and we may be joined later
by somebody else.
We'll see how that goes, but at any rate, this is early, early stuff.
If this was software, this would be considered alpha state software.
I banged up a version of this game, it's a right now we are at version 0.02.4 dr, the
dr, well, the dr stands for a game called Dungeon Raiders by a guy named Brent P. Newhall.
He created a retro clone of the original D&D box set, and I was very impressed with it,
and thought it would be a great jumping off point for all sorts of games.
Well the first thing that came to mind was star drifter, because I have plenty of that
lying around, so I decided we'd go with that.
What I'm going to do here, because it's a brand new game, and the rules, as I've come
up with so far, are very short.
I'm actually going to go through the whole rulebook right now, hoping to get feedback
from my victims here, who have agreed to participate in this play test.
I do have an adventure as well, and hopefully we'll get to that today.
If not, this will be a multi-parter, I'm not sure how it's going to turn out.
If you guys are ready, we'll get started.
I did send them copies of the rules, they can follow along if they wish, but I'm just
going to go over this and see what they think.
The very first part of this is called the Essence of a Person.
Characters and star drifter are made up of the following aspects, attributes, the six
classic scores, intelligence, wisdom, charisma, strength, constitution, and dexterity, tested
when attempting nearly any difficult feat.
Next is class, the character's focus and profession, next are hit points and stamina taken
together.
These are a generalized indication of how much damage a character can take, they are based
on class, skills, learn abilities, honed over time, and certified by experts.
And finally, XP or experience points, an abstract representation of an adventurer's
professional and life experiences.
I think those are pretty self-explanatory.
Any questions about that or any ideas?
No, that was pretty clear to me.
It's just listing basically the terms I'm going to be using, essentially, I guess.
Okay, we'll go right into attributes, skill checks, and saving throws, the classic attributes,
filling for character attributes, pick one of these methods or another if your GM prefers.
Now, I'm actually personally fine with virtually any way that gets you six stats, but I do
have three methods that I put in here.
Method one, roll three, die six, that's three six-sided dice, six times, placing them where
you want.
You may then bring the lowest number up to 10.
In this case, 10 is considered average.
So if you have a really low number, you can bring it up to at least average.
Method number two is roll 46, six times, dropping the lowest die each time.
You may place the final numbers where you want.
This is a very classic way of doing things.
And a lot of people, to this day, roll up characters that way, as far as I know.
Method number three is roll three, die six, six times, placing the numbers where you want.
You may then and only then re-roll any or all of these numbers, but you must accept the
second rule, whatever it is.
And that one gives it a little extra chance, like say you got a really crappy number.
And like if you roll the three, it doesn't hurt at all to re-roll that and take whatever
it comes.
Because odds are it's going to be better.
But sometimes you say, well, and eight's not great, I'll roll for a better one.
Take a chance.
So I don't, so lesson problems, I don't know if anyone else had this problem or this
non-problem, I guess, and maybe it's just me being hyper, like maybe I just haven't played
enough first edition, but I felt like I was rolling really high on, on everything.
And I'm wondering if that's a, if that's expected.
Like I could, I got one, like out of, I don't know how many tries, I got like one that was
actually under 10, and then I just raised that up to 10.
And I felt, I feel like I'm OP right out of the gate, but maybe I'm, so I take a used
method number one.
Correct.
Yeah.
That's your chance.
I mean, that is, especially there.
That is your chance.
I mean, three dice six, six times, you're going to get what you get.
If you got some nice numbers, that's awesome.
But I've rolled that, you know, three dice six, six times and gotten horrible numbers.
I had a character that I played for many years in a campaign, his highest number was 13.
And most of them were under nine.
And that was using that method.
So it really is just going to depend on what you've got.
You know, this isn't exactly meant to be like old school D and D.
I mean, it's based on a game that's based on that.
But what I'm hoping for is a game where characters don't die like flies.
You know, I'm hoping for a game where characters do stand out above the average.
I'll tell you right now that the average characters in this game, if it's just a plain old average
character, they have tens in every stat.
That's just average.
That's, you know, they don't get any better or worse than that.
And if you're doing better than that, you're doing great.
So I have no problem with it.
So cool.
Okay.
Okay.
Anybody else?
Any thoughts about the methods?
Is there another method you'd prefer to see or?
Doesn't matter.
Oh, I mean, I think they're pretty classic.
I think all these methods I've used at some point or another to play some sort of D and D type game.
So I rolled up and I did okay.
So I think everything was above a tonics ever one thing.
So that seems pretty balanced to me.
I agreed I didn't have any very clever.
All right.
I wouldn't I wouldn't mind seeing a fourth method, which is this a standard array,
like they do in Pathfinder and fifth edition, where the book gives you some number of,
you know, an array of numbers.
And then you plug them into the character that you want to build, you know, I want to play a route.
So I'm going to put my 15 in my strength or in my 14 in my deck or in my con.
You know, that's a great.
You mean like having a pool of numbers that you can allocate any, because that's another,
that's another classic method too, where, yeah, it just put them where you want.
Yeah, that's all right.
Yeah, that's, that's not a bad suggestion either.
I feel like that helps people.
Yeah, I feel like that helps people get the character that they, that they have in mind prior to playing.
Of course, understanding that this game isn't like those in that you're not going to have such an incredible amount of tweaking of the character,
but everybody should have the, yeah, yeah, the, everybody should have the freedom to create the kind of character that they want.
So well, yeah, we'll add that.
Why not?
That doesn't hurt.
That was actually considered really heretical back in the day, just for the perspective.
Yeah, yeah.
That was not normal, but I did run into people that ran their games that were.
All right, so do I need to run through the care?
I don't think so, but maybe for people listening, intelligence, the basic ability to learn skills and figure out mental problems, especially under pressure, wisdom, general insight into situations and human behavior, charisma, personal presence in the ability to impress people.
That probably does bear some common charisma in this game has nothing to do with your physical appearance.
In this game, charisma is exactly that your personal presence, your personality that's being expressed as far as I'm concerned, you can be as beautiful or as ugly as you want to be in this game, because ultimately, it's not going to make that much difference.
But if you write it down and say that you're extremely handsome and you remind me of that at the right time, it could make a difference.
So keep that in mind, strength is your physical power, constitution is your physical fortitude and dexterity is your overall nimbleness and coordination.
So I'm including both hand eye coordination and physical most actions are simple, never requiring any sort of check to see if they succeed when a character attempts a difficult action, however,
especially when under stress that is being chased, being shot at, defusing a bomb, etc, a skill or attribute check is required.
The GM, that's game master, the GM determines when situations call for such a role.
Attribute checks are performed with 1d20, most checks are performed with 1d20 in this game, I actually think all of them are.
1d20 set a die role, the player rolls and if the number on the die is equal to or less than their attribute score, the attempt is successful.
The GM may apply any necessary modifiers to the role and may also have a very different definition of success than the players do.
That's an important thing to remember.
Under most circumstances, characters attempting to use skills to use a skill they do not possess roll against the skills associated attribute, often with penalties.
Some skills are distinct but related and may be substituted for one another under certain circumstances.
Another thing that's important to remember is by and large, there are exceptions that I can imagine in this game, but by and large your attributes never change.
What you have at the start of the game is what you'll always have.
So an attribute check when you're at first level isn't a whole lot different necessarily than a skill check.
However, at higher levels an attribute check might be very different.
So these are things that people need to keep in mind, your skills do increase over time, but your attributes probably don't by and large.
Skill checks are similar and guys jump in at any point if there's anything that you want to talk about or any questions, just please jump in.
Skill checks are similar in that they player rolls 1d20 and compares it to the character skill score, which includes all cert grades.
Now a cert grade essentially is say you have exosuit, which is like a space suit, you have exosuit one, your certification is one in that regard.
Now on other versions later on in this game, I'm going to separate cert grades from essentially a certification is that some certifying body has tested you and said,
yes, you are this good in this skill, so so grade one, two, three, et cetera, et cetera.
But in other versions of this game, I'm going to change that and separate certified skills, break it off to skills that you've learned on your own.
So maybe you're good with exosuit simply because you've used it a lot, but you've never been certified by anybody.
And that will have an impact more on the kind of jobs you can get and the kind of people who will hire you rather than actual practical number die rolls in the game, so just something to keep in mind.
Because if you're working for a legitimate corporation, they can't hire people unless they're certified in things, but if you're working for somebody that year, maybe they don't care, so.
Modifiers, of course, may apply penalties usually apply for attempting an action requiring a skill the character doesn't expressly have, but which is related to one that they do in this case, they roll against the skill they do have with that penalty.
All subskills listed on a table together are related under normal, non stressful circumstances, a character with at least a certain grade one and one sub skill can usually use another on the list without needing to roll dice, that is, of course, the game master's decision.
Note though that meeting to use certain skills is sometimes inherently stressful, for example, survival, and I in this game, I have dot XXX and that's that's a placeholder because that means there are subskills and survival, urban survival nature survival vacuum, these are separate skills, but in most cases, they can be swapped one for another at least to some degree with a minor penalty, sometimes a major penalty.
If a character does not possess the correct skill or related sub skill, they must roll versus the associated attribute score for it usually with penalties, so what that means is that every skill will say survival urban and that means being a homeless person in a city, if you if that is a skill that you have and I don't know who would certify that, but we won't get into that right now, but assuming you have that survival urban one will say.
There is an associated attribute that goes with that and that is what the skill starts off at plus your skill certification point so if you're i'm not even sure what survival is based on our heaven in front of me right now, but whatever that happens to be if if your attribute score is saying eight you're starting with survival urban eight plus one for that first level that certification grade so you're actually in nine.
And it goes up from there as you add points to your certification, whereas if you have to roll simply against that attribute it'll be an eight and it'll be an eight it'll be an eight it'll be an eight whereas if you actually have the skill it gets better and better as time goes on okay next are saving throws saving throws are required for characters in order to reduce or avoid the effects of otherwise unavoidable situations, these can be almost anything from nearby explosions to surviving a spell of vacuum exposure without.
A suit from being conned by a grifter to resisting the effects of brainwashing like other types of roles saving throws are rolled with 1d 20 equal to or less means success and modifiers may well apply saving throws come into varieties mental and physical and are obtained as follows so basically.
They are averages of your attributes so your mental saving throws you add up the characters intelligence wisdom and charisma and then divide that by three rounding up.
Then you add plus one for each character level including the first so everybody ends up with a plus one right off the bat because your first level and you get plus one for it physical saving throws our strength constitution index
there are two divided by three then add plus one for each character level including the first so like that now in this game there's no say versus any kind of magic or anything like that because there is no magic in this game this is all space stuff it's all space opera so that's that any questions about that or any comments or ideas about the saving throws yeah I had another sort of question about that and I'm again maybe I'm just being yeah I don't know but Taj
I might have more to say about this too because it has math stuff in it but I'm finding that really there's no way to get away from pretty much either 12 or 13 on your saving throw like unless you unless you have like two 15s in you know in within one triad like an int and wisdom you have 15 and 15 or strength and con 15 15 otherwise it always averages out to either 12 or 13 in my experience so far.
A couple of NPCs some I have some that have a saving throw of 11 in something another one has a saving throw 15 it all really does depend now again you know I'm not to argue with you on this but to I want to draw your attention back to modifiers may well apply trust me when I say the better it is the happier you'll be in the end because many saving throws there's going to be situational modifiers occurring right then and there.
That's an important element of the story so or of the game yeah okay all right as long as there are going to be modifiers to make that a little bit more very I just felt like it was it was always ending up the same thing just going by the name saving throw shouldn't they be better than average don't you want a better than average chance for your character survive something that's my opinion anyway again I don't want first off just as a game master I don't really enjoy saver died.
I don't want to have the same type of situations but if there are going to be any they're going to be telegraphed and you'll have options as you know role playing options on how to mitigate the situation so for instance I won't have a death trap that you just walk into and it goes off there's no way to detect it and you're dead I mean that's ridiculous but there are game masters who do that I played with them I guess my concern is or the thing that made me
if I'm a drifter then maybe I would think that I should have a better saving throw in in mental but if I'm a spacer maybe I or an ex mill maybe I should have a better saving throw in physical then then my drifter companion but if we're all averaging basically the same saving throws I'm just wondering where the difference in in in specialization comes in you know it's like
like who's going to feel like oh don't worry I got this guys because I'm a I'm an ex mill so my physical saving throw is great it's just going to be like everyone in the parties like don't worry we are physical saving throws great you know what I mean like how are you going to feel different yeah yeah I get what you're saying I don't I mean this is just me and you you tell me how you how you see you know feel about this I don't necessarily think saving throws should be a reflection of how tough you are or how smart you are this is a last ditch
to either avoid something terrible or even save your character's life I think when it comes down to something like that it should be based on the stats that you have so if you want a better saving throw and again if you've gotten averages of 13 and that's that's based on what you had rolled up what numbers you achieved when you were rolling the character but if you want a higher mental saving throw obviously you want to put those high numbers you've got into those mental characteristics
mental attributes yeah you know I'm not saying that again we're going to be playing this out and we'll see whether that works or not it may not work at all you know it may not work at all from my point of view right now on this side of the adventure I think this is probably a decent way to build on the attributes that you chose to have but where you place your attributes and the numbers you get I mean yeah it can make a big difference and also and this is something that I would like to get everybody's opinion on at the end
of the game I would like to see the difference between how I've run the game and how the stats have worked out in other words a lot I believe I personally believe that many of the problems that a character runs into should be role played out you should figure out a way to get around them or to deal with them or endure them as opposed to rolling dice to take the damage and keep going yeah
or to save your life letting the dice decide and let it your stats decide I prefer having the character the player the player decide how to survive this problem that is a style that's a style of gaming but if it's not reflect see that's that's fine for me but if I then turn this over this game over to somebody else who plays a very different style of game will the game still hold up that's the question I have
because it's no good if no one else can play it right no one else can run this game except me it's no good so yeah and in like future version that might be good to add it's like flavor text to like talk about that that's actually not a bad idea that's not a bad idea but that too that on its own might need role playing right to scrap these kinds of saving throws and come up with a table a separate table just for the different maybe the character classes and try it that
way and see if that way works better or if we prefer running it that way and then have that as an alternative set of rules or I don't know I don't know at this stage it's all up in the air I'm going to I'm going to lodge a suggestion and then we can move on but I would
say the thing me throw shouldn't be based on the average of three it should be based on a key some key attribute and and figured from there I think the average is
is smushing it too much but that's that's an idea we can we can move on I don't mean to bog it down no let me make a note of it I want to I want to have a list of every suggestion so you feel saving throws ought to be more or less focused on
or into single statistic more or less lack to class yeah yeah I mean without us play testing it first it's a you know it's all theory so so yeah okay let's go
okay no problem I was thinking about it like mechanically you may be able your plus one if you increased that a little bit and then divided by four it would pull them down a little bit so
clatoon do you think they're too high to start with or they're just too average everybody's the same if I think my my main problem is that they're too average that everyone's the same but okay yeah that's my fear or even have like plus one like you
can pick which one your plus one goes into like yeah that's a pretty good idea I like that yeah yeah that's a good idea we're not going to be doing that today we're running through the game as it's written today but I'm
taking every suggestion down because eventually as levels go up these saving throws get really really high because you're getting a plus per level every time but the
concept here is that there's going your challenges are going to be greater and that means your negative modifiers in those situations are going to be higher that's the idea I'm hoping to get
across I guess we're up to character classes character classes fall into one of the following broad classes each of which comes with a set of skills
particular to that a profession we got somebody
greetings hey they're Brian hey Brian how you doing I'm well how are you guys can you hear me yep we can you yeah you you sound good okay great just made it back with a mess I'm just
reading through the rule set right now excellent I haven't reviewed this update that you sent us yet oh cool okay we're at character classes I'm
just just starting so you haven't really missed anything we had some discussion about the saving throws and about rolling up
characters and such but nothing nothing major so far okay no problem I am running through it all for the
sake of and I'm recording this just to let you know but I am running through this for the sake of listeners any potential
listeners in the future so they understand what we're going through and in the idea plus most especially I want your your
feedback as I go point by point that way I I know I haven't missed anything so all right so character classes we have four
character classes in this game future versions might have more than that but right now we have X mill which stands for
X military they have starting HP and stamina of 10 each 10 and 10 skills they have free skills of combat XXX meaning they
can choose one of the subtypes of combat and exosuit meaning spacesuits the X mill or X military class comes with the
above two skills one of which will be their prime skill in addition X mill types do one additional point of
damage to all opponents upon a successful hit in combat for every character level they achieve after the first so it won't affect
this game but beyond this they start to become very dangerous in a fight they do plus one damage in second plus to a third
etc and regarding prime skills Brynn you had a question that you emailed me about regarding prime skills and I thought it
was an actually actually a really good idea do you want to explain it or do you want me to paraphrase it or go and paraphrase okay well as I
understand at the question was the way I had written it and I have what I just read was actually a modified version of what I read
but the way I had originally written it it sounded like the prime skill did not have to be one of the two skills that
you were given one of the two free skills but you could choose the prime skill from anything on the list I didn't
originally mean that but I actually like that idea a lot giving you the freedom to you know so you have X mill if you're
X mill yeah they touch I'd use a weapon and yeah they touch I'd use a space suit but you had a specialty and it
doesn't necessarily fall into those two things and you might have chosen in Brent's case he wanted to choose pilot to be a
pilot and of course that's not one of the two free skills so effectively he's not starting as a pilot though he
might have the piloting skills but it's not his prime skill I thought that was a very good idea and I think in the
future I'm going to include that any thoughts guys I think it's a good idea because it it lets you kind of tailor your
character a little better so you can you can create sort of like you said there's not really a pilot class but you can
kind of create your own by just selecting this go to me yeah cool may I also really briefly say loss and
brown go ahead I'm sorry I guess I'm not so I wanted feedback I find it I find these instructions to be
falling prey to all the other instructions including the ones that you yourself critique and that is
that they are not they're not telling people what to do with the information that is being delivered so
for instance in the x-mill it states this extra bonus x-mill types do one additional point of
damage to all opponents on upon a blah blah blah what is the supposed to do with that you should tell
the player the reader rather write this down in your you know bonus your class bonus field on your
character sheet that's what I think like this is not this is not an instructional thing it's it's
very much a this is a saw this is a spec okay I got you I got you it'll keep it from feeling like
character creation in Stargifter or uh in Starfinder yeah exactly I was like yeah I agree with that
myself I uh I wouldn't be able to figure out exactly what you're saying with all this stuff but
even like I'm the saving throws it's I think it's pretty clear that you just have those uh
write them down log it there but it wouldn't explicitly save that cool great this is good stuff thank
you I'll probably hit you guys up more than once way to run down the line feedback on even these
points but some my notes are crappy too all right cool all right so that's x-mill spacer starting
hp and stamina are eight and eight their free skills are exosuit engineering xxx choose a subtype
and bureaucracy spacers come with the above three skills one of which will be their prime skill when
rolling again you know the same criticism Bren had our question whatever that Bren had about
prime skills that will apply to everybody so when rolling against any piloting xxx or engineering
xxx or exosuit skill checks whether they actually have the skill or not spacers may opt to roll a
second time and choose the best number just basically a reflection of their general experience
stationers that's the next character class they're starting hp and stamina are six and six now
that is the lowest number of anybody in the game and that's a reflection of the more sedentary
lifestyle that stationers might have their skills include bureaucracy computers social engineering
and medical and medical is a catch all phrase for any kind of medical services in this future time
and the reason I use that term is simply because there may be so many different types of medical
professionals that you run into only one of which might actually hold a doctorate that calling
someone a doctor can be wildly inaccurate calling someone a therapist or a physician's assistant
or a nurse practitioner or this or that all of these things are different and they might be
providing different services so the catch all phrase for all of them and all of their services
that they offer is medical stationers come with the above four skills that's bureaucracy computers
social engineering and medical one of which will be their prime skill stationers start with double
the amount of q and q is the money that's the currency in this game as other characters and
they own an apartment somewhere on a space station you own that that will always be yours
barring any role-playing or adventure related material you know things that have I mean if the
station blows up you don't have it anymore but other than that it's something that you have because
it's a reflection that you will have lived your life on a station and you have a life there that
you can go back to drifters now they're starting HP and stamina are eight and eight their skills are
and these are free skills that they get exosuit engineering xxx choose a subtype combat xxx choose a
subtype and social engineering and lying the drifter class starts with the above five skills but does
not get a prime skill they always incur one less penalty point when attempting a skill they don't
know for example the game master might decide that using an unfamiliar weapon imposes a minus three
penalty on the die roll because this character is a drifter however the penalty is only minus two
this applies only to skill checks not attribute checks or saving throws even though the drifter
may be rolling against an associated attribute of a skill when attempting to perform it also
we are talking specifically about penalties so if there is no penalty you're not getting a bonus
of some sort where say roll against your intelligence and your intelligence is a 12 you're not rolling
an 11 it only reduces your penalties so that's it for part one the entire playtest was done in
two recorded sessions and the first five episodes represent the first session and then the next
anywhere between three and five episodes I haven't quite finished editing those will represent
the second session this playtest did take place several months ago and I do have a new version of
the rules that's nearly complete it's pretty different from the one that you'll be hearing in the
game sessions that we have recorded but this session was absolutely vital to the evolution of
this game all the changes that I have in the current version of the game they evolved out of the
feedback that I got from my wonderful players now again this is all meant to be edifying for people
that wonder how you go about creating a role playing game this is a very important part of it
getting the feedback from the players sometimes I argue a little bit because I like what I came
up with that doesn't make me right necessarily but it is part of the process because by discussing
it in that way by having a conversation with the different players about their opinions and
about the feedback that they have to offer it makes me think it sparks ideas it makes me re-evaluate
the things that I came up with and thought were pretty good so anyway next time in part two
there are more rules to come I'll see you then
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a
podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dot org pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the
binary revolution at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host
directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise
status today's show is released under creative comments, attribution, share a light,
free download license
