Episode: 2549
Title: HPR2549: DVD ripping using old hardware
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2549/hpr2549.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:18:43

---

This is HPR episode 2,549 entitled DVD ripping using old hardware.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 5 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is how I put an older machine and a little cache to reverse it.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Good day listeners, this is Archer 72.
I think I finally got everything together for this episode for HPR.
Go through how in the steps of how I put together a DVD ripping and CD ripping machine from
old hardware.
I had a tower that I had put aside in storage and is sat for about a year and a wife found
a motherboard at the Goodwill, which was actually a savers, had ran about $8, but found
out that they had no video on the board.
So I picked up an 8-meg video card just to get the video running to see what it was
outputting and if it was getting in errors.
At this point I found out the power supply fan had seized up on me so I ended up going
to, we have a fries out here and they found out that I was going to put the fan into
a power supply and I got a huge warning about how I would electrocute myself as I put
this fan in without taking precautions.
So anyways I got everything back together and it powered up fine and I used a live USB
distro to see what I could get working on this particular system.
Almost forgot I didn't have any distros installed to the hard drive I decided instead to use
a USB key as a way of installing my media because I way I could make it portable to take
it to any machine and also I could make it a lot easier for me to back up just to my laptop
or the network.
At the time I tried ARCH because that was working for me and I got it installed and some
time later about 6 months later I found out that I was going to have an end of life in
the 2017 correction.
The end of life was for a 32-bit system of ARCH so that's why I was needed to move on
to a different type of distribution and for a lot of HPRs I had heard Clot 2 talk about
Slackware so I was thinking maybe that would work.
When I was doing the install I found it useful to have a script so that I could charute
into the new Slackware install because I was having a little bit of trial and error to
get it to boot completely.
I needed a boot delay in the making it RC otherwise it had a message about not finding
slash MNT in the Etsy F stab.
The first thing I did after getting a successful boot was changed the SSH to an alternative
port and then I was able to SSH into the buy box, install MPlayer, T-MUX and RIP it, of
course after I had installed SBO package which is a package manager for SlackBuilds.org.
After a bit of searching I found out I could use MPlayer to rip streams from movies and
for TV shows because that's actually the best way to bypass the encryption.
Next I installed T-MUX which is a terminal multiplexer so I can jump back and forth between
a different laptop PC or mobile device.
As I mentioned before I needed to rip any type of video media regardless of encryption.
So this method only needed live DVD, CSS to read the DVD and I could do anything including
Disney I'm looking at use with Star Wars and the Tron movies.
A bonus to building this machine is that I could rip CDs using the RIP it, command line
utility.
Scripts are in the show notes and on GitHub for the stream ripping and the TV show ripping.
Happy ripping.
I can be reached on IRC on FreeNode, user name Archer72 or unmaskedon.xyz at Archer72.
Thanks.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
ShareLight, 3.0 license.
