Episode: 2755
Title: HPR2755: My YouTube Subscriptions #2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2755/hpr2755.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 16:22:43

---

This is HPR Episode 2007-155 entitled, My YouTube Subscriptions, Hashto, and in part on the series,
YouTube Subscriptions.
It is hosted by AYUKA and in about 22 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is Part 2 on my list on somecribed channels.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hello, this is AYUKA, welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
And I'm going to do another installment of my YouTube channel subscriptions because I'm sure everyone is just sitting there in the edge of their seat wanting to know what else does he follow.
Now, one of the things that I mentioned last time is that pretty much I have gotten away from broadcast or cable television almost entirely.
And I switched to YouTube and online stuff.
And obviously, there's a lot of channels that I'm interested in.
You know, the thing about YouTube is that which is different from television is broad casting.
It's looking for mass audiences.
And so if you can't bring in a large number of people, it just doesn't make sense, it's not feasible.
The thing about YouTube is you can have small audiences and that's fine.
You know, I have my own YouTube channel.
I think I've got one video on it right now.
I may add more, but you know, you don't have to be searching for a mass audience.
And if you're looking for things that you want to watch, it might be something that you and five other people in the world's deeply
care about and no one else gives a damn.
That's okay.
You can do that.
So you might listen to my list of things and say, boy, anything there I want to watch, okay, fine.
So you and I would have very different tastes.
But I think it is worth understanding that it does give you that option to sort of follow your bliss and find out what are the things that you might be interested in doing.
So I'm going to pick up from where I left off last time.
And I'm going to talk about a channel by a fellow named Anthony Robastelli.
Now, he's kind of a music analyst of various kinds.
He's done stuff on the Beatles.
He's done stuff on Steely Dan.
And I find what he does very interesting and, you know, he's also got a podcast that I subscribe to.
And so I think, you know, it's well worth paying attention if that's the kind of thing you're interested in.
I think I found him originally because the stuff he did on the Beatles.
And then it was like, oh, Steely Dan, another one of my favorites.
Great. So it gives me something to follow.
And another one is called Apple Scruff Radio.
And this is an offshoot of a radio program out of Los Angeles that's breakfast with the Beatles.
It's on a radio station out there.
You can find it on the internet and download it like a podcast, although it doesn't have an RSS feed.
But that's another issue entirely.
But there's a page, there's a fellow who's a big Beatles fan who has created a page
where he gives you links to all these different shows.
And, you know, you can get it through there.
But anyway, Apple Scruff Radio, it's, you know, talking about what's going on with.
And it's kind of a little bit out of date, I think at this point, but, you know, it's there.
And Arthur C. Clark Center for Human Imagination.
This is at the University of California, San Diego, I believe.
And they set up this Arthur C. Clark Center.
And the idea is that they bring in major people in science or science fiction or what have you.
So, you know, recently they've had Roger Penrose on there.
New cosmological view of Doc Matter.
And evening with George R.R. Martin and Kim Stanley Robinson.
And evening with, I'm probably going to mispronounce this.
Session, Lou and John Scalsy, a couple of science fiction writers and so on.
So, it's interesting.
There is also, again, an audio podcast that you can get as well.
So, it's kind of fun to check this one out.
Then there's one called Baker Street.
This is, you know, I think many people are probably, if you're at all interested in that sort of thing.
You might know about Benedict Cumberbatch's take on the Sherlock Holmes canon.
Where he's playing Sherlock Holmes, but it's in contemporary times.
This particular one was a couple of women.
So, it's also in contemporary times, but Holmes and Watson are both women.
And, you know, I found it interesting.
And Sherlock Holmes is another one of those interests that I have on the member of our local Sherlock Holmes society,
which is called, our local branch is called the Arcadia mixture.
So, something I found to be fun.
Next, BBC Earth Unplugged.
So, this is a nature thing.
So, they do some things about Aurora's myths and legends.
Could the Northern Lights signal a global catastrophe?
What diseases frozen in ice could be hidden?
Rare animals of Singapore's botanic gardens, surviving in Alaska, life below zero.
So, it's an interesting little thing.
And these are probably up to 10 minutes of these particular videos.
So, you don't have to invest a ton of your life into them, but they're fun.
Then there's one called Brain Stuff.
And it looks like it may have podfated on us, but I'll put it in here anyway.
So, it's just looking at odds, things in science or what have you.
How do GPS coordinates work?
Can smoking a scorpion get you high?
How does a gas nozzle know when to shut off?
So, just little stuff.
You know, these are usually three, four minutes.
Looking at it, it looks like it's been probably a couple of years since they published anything.
So, I think they're probably gone by now, but I'll put them in the show notes anyway.
Because you can always go back and watch the ones they put out.
The next one is Candy Rat Records.
So, they basically, the focus of Candy Rat Records is primarily about guitar music.
And I found out about them through a Canadian fingerstyle guitarist named Don Ross,
who moved on to this label, and I have been following Don Ross since his very first CD, actually.
And I think he's an absolutely fantastic musician.
So, this label does some very intelligent promotion.
They put out these videos on YouTube with links that, you know, this particular song comes off of this CD that was just released.
And if you like it, you can buy the CD, here's the link, blah, blah, blah.
You know, it's an intelligent use of the medium for promotion, unlike some labels that it's like,
no, no, you're going to take that down, you can't do that.
Which probably explains why a lot of musicians can't sell their music anymore,
because the labels are idiots.
So, Candy Rat Records, that's a fun one, I like that.
Now, the next channel is called Cheryl Brinn, which is not really the most accurate title,
because Cheryl is the wife of the science fiction author and scientist David Brinn.
And so, this is really the channel where David Brinn occasionally does a little bit of a rant.
Now, I like David Brinn, I think he's really smart.
And I also follow his blog and, you know, what have you.
So, on this channel, okay, doon the movie, Good vs. Evil.
Sci-fi and cinema should movies include civilization.
Privacy in an age of surveillance.
Active setty, should we beam to aliens?
There's a lot of interesting things.
So, you know, the length of these varies, I think, some of the longer ones might be 15 minutes,
the shorter ones might be two or three minutes.
Now, the next one is Colonial Air Stream, which is a company.
It's a business.
They sell air streams.
That's a type of recreational vehicle.
And we talked about that last time.
So, you know, they do a lot of demos, walkthroughs, what have you.
They are regarded as one of the premier dealers in the United States
that you can trust to, you know, be honest and do the right thing.
That's not necessarily me, they're the cheapest, but they're the most reliable.
All right, the next one I want to mention is something called Computer File.
There's a fellow Brady who started all of these things.
So, it's a channel, in this case, about computers.
And I guess Brady is based at the University of Nottingham in England
because that's where most of these people are on the faculty.
Computer file is all about computer topics.
So, you know, there's one on secure copy, vulnerability,
running a SQL injection intact, why electronic voting is a bad idea,
and so on.
So, you know, it's basically some sort of computer thing.
It might be a how-to, it might be security related, you don't know.
So, they've done things on how images are processed and what have you.
Okay, the next one is couches RV Nation, and this is, again, a dealer channel.
So, this is a place to get information about new RVs coming onto the market,
do walkthroughs and what have you.
Darren Kitchen has a channel.
Now, this is separate from the HAC 5 channel, there are two separate things.
So, this is more personal kind of stuff.
Having fun at the HAC 5 office, Kirby is eating my salad,
uncovering a hidden graffiti canvas northeast of San Francisco.
So, you know, it's a little more lighthearted than the HAC 5,
which is more hardcore security.
Next, Don Ross.
Now, I mentioned Don Ross when I was talking about Candy Rack Records.
He has his own channel.
I subscribe to that channel.
I believe I have just about every CD that he has recorded.
If I find one I don't have, you can count on me picking it up.
So, whenever he announces a new CD, I just, you know, take my money.
I really like what he does.
So, it's a, something called finger style, which if you don't understand it,
basically you're not using a pick and strumming, it's all in your fingers.
And so, on his right hand, he actually has artificial fingernails,
you know, the kind that women use, but he's got them glued on
so that he can use them to use his fingers to pick the strings.
Very interesting technique.
Next one, duet justice.
And this is another RV one, slightly interesting take on it
because they build this as alternative,
plus sustainable, plus healthy living.
And those are all things that appeal to me.
So, I like being sustainable.
I like being healthy and, you know, that's a good thing.
The next channel, I'm just going to mention my sister has one,
I'm not going to put it in the show notes, it's purely family stuff,
but it just, I just mentioned it at this point to illustrate what I was talking about
that you can have, you know, a lot of personal interests here.
So, she put up a nice little video of my, of her child singing,
like other girls from daddy long legs in a school play.
So, cool.
Fire sign theater.
You know, there's only, of the four of them,
only two are still alive.
The years have gone by.
Unfortunately, Phil Austin and Peter Bergman have left the scene,
but Phil Proctor and Dave Osmond are still around.
And, you know, they've done, occasionally get some interviews
and things like that.
I'm a big fire sign theater fan.
Again, I got a boatload of their recordings.
You know, don't crush that dwarf, hit me the pliers.
I think we're all bozos on this bus.
Some classic stuff from the 60s and 70s.
And, there's a channel, and this is a friend of mine.
I'm, I will,
I will actually put this in because what he did is,
he did a, a, a, a channel, and I think he's mostly given it up,
but I'll probably mention it anyway to, he did this channel to,
he would record videos from his Linux users group,
or from conventions he went to, or what have you.
So, I don't know, actually I don't think there's anything very current there.
So, maybe I'll leave that out of the show notes.
Next one is a musician, Hana Malhas.
And, Hana is from this, it was living in the same area that I'm in in,
in Southeastern Michigan, but her heritage is Arabic,
and she has moved to Jordan.
And, is now recording music there.
And, you know, we saw her at a local club and really liked her music.
And so, I'm subscribed to her channel and keep involved in what's going on with that.
Now, next one is called Healthcare Triage with Dr. Aaron Carroll.
As you know from my series, I, I am very interested in keeping up with information about
health and healthcare. And, I really look for reliable, scientifically valid information.
Now, here's a YouTube channel that gives it to me about, you know, once a week or so,
in five minute doses. So, you know, a number of things, salt and heart failure.
And, basically, saying, you know, the whole thing about salt being deadly has been overdone.
So, you know, sometimes it's debunking stuff.
Or, another one about hospital closings and the fact that so many rural hospitals are closing,
and that's going to have a very negative effect on health.
So, it's US centric. So, a lot of the stuff has to do with health policy in the United States.
If you're in another country, you might not be interested in that part of it.
Again, the nice thing is when you subscribe to a channel and turn on notifications,
you can take a look at the description and say, yeah, I don't care.
And, skip over it. You know, it's not going to cause you any problems.
And, there's one called How Stuff Works.
And, this is, you know, it's a fun little thing. They drop these things into the feed,
you know, maybe like once a month or so.
You know, can 3D printing help people walk? How physics helps animals fly?
So, just little, and you know, these are like two, three minute long videos on average.
And, Jeff Pivar.
Jeff Pivar is, if I have this right, the child of David Crosby.
So, I don't know all the details of this, but I think what happened basically is that,
you know, David Crosby had this kid and just sort of didn't really know much about it,
and then they reunited later on. And then it turned out the kid was also a musician,
so they put together a group Crosby, Pivar, and Raymond.
And they've done some nice stuff. And so, you know, he's got a child
who is doing good music, sometimes with him, sometimes without.
And so, I subscribed to this channel and, you know,
somewhat infrequently, I get notification of another video that put up there.
So, and this is sort of like with podcasts, I know about you, but you know, there are podcasts
where I haven't seen anything in months, but I leave it in my pod catcher,
because I never know when someone's going to drop something in there. And at a certain point,
I'll just decide, okay, like, there was one that door to door geek did called Linux for the rest
of us, and I finally just said, you know, I gave up. You know, I just was going so long without any
kind of thing in the feed that I unsubscribe. But, you know, you can leave stuff in here,
and the thing with, with these YouTube is I'll only get a notification if they put a video in there.
So, it's as simple as that. And with that, I think again, we've gone long enough. We're approaching
the 22-minute mark, so I think it's time for me to sign off. As always, reminding you to support
FreeSoftware. Bye-bye.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. HackerPublicRadio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club, and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is
released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
