Episode: 2043
Title: HPR2043: My First Beer Podcast
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2043/hpr2043.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:37:21

---

This is HPR episode 2043 entitled, My First Beer Podcast.
It is hosted by Just Me and in about 4 minutes long.
The summary is, Discussing Beer Tasting.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
And just a quick reminder not to forget to go and vote for HPR on the podcast awards.com website.
Thank you.
Hey, it's me too here again.
On this episode we're diverging from my last podcast coffee and switching topics to
Wait for it.
Wait for it.
Beer.
Now, you might think to yourself, what the heck?
Beer?
I know.
I know.
It's so plebeian, right?
Well, I too used to think like that.
What with the shades of Budweiser, Mika Loeb, Iron Horse, Iroquois, Genesee, etc.
All Squapis, right?
I was raised on wines and cocktails, but over recent years, especially after listening
to many of you guys' podcast on beer making and drinking, I'd become interested in wanting
to try some of these artisan beers you've all been speaking of.
But being overseas in a foreign country, my chances of such are like a snowball's chance
in hell, or so I thought.
One came one night when I was on my way to teach a class at one of the local universities
and passed by a newly opened bar with a humorous name of nobody knows bar, where when I glanced
in the window and to my amazement, where many of the very beers you all had been talking
so much about, well, wow, here was my chance to partake.
So I went to class and that forward stopped into the bar.
So I tried a beer.
It just happened to be an IPA.
Now don't get me wrong, many, many years ago I had tried an IPA and found it far from
my liking.
So my first choice wouldn't have been an IPA, normally.
Again you ask, why did you choose an IPA this time?
Well, the reason was the bartender recommended it.
And again to my amazement, to coin a phrase, it was great.
I guess the reason for enjoying it over before is that as like everyone else, my taste buds
had changed.
And truthfully speaking, I've come to like IPAs over many others.
So to no longer digress, let me tell you what I chose and my opinions on the beer.
The beer, a 12 ounce, 8.2% alcohol by volume, glass bottle, laguenitas, brewing, laguentes,
unlimited release, maximus IPA, maximus ale.
I love the labeling.
It reads, life is uncertain, don't sip, also.
If some is good, more is better than one final one.
Instant gratification isn't fast enough, what a lark.
Enough dittily dattling onto the tasting.
The nose on this beer is crisp and light.
The first mouling brings a floral, fruity, semi-sweet taste.
The fructiness continues into the aftertaste, with an added semi-dryness.
And yet, despite the alcohol tatt, doesn't ring your clock.
The longer afterflavor is strongest on the underside of the back of the tongue.
Very pleasant.
So there you have it, my first beer tasting.
I hope you found it telling, and maybe you too will try a bottle.
I highly recommend it.
I will continue these tastings over the course of time.
Now don't get me wrong, I'm not a sap.
And I still like my coffees, but I've found a new like, and it's artisan beers.
Until next time, this is me, too, signing out and wishing you happy trails and happy beers.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
ShareLite, 3.0 license.
