Episode: 2696
Title: HPR2696: HPR Community News for November 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2696/hpr2696.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:41:29

---

This is HBR episode 2696 entitled HBR Community News for November 2018 and is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 72 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment posted in November 2018.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hello folks. K-wisher here to remind you that it's that time of year again.
Time for the Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve show. For those who don't know,
on New Year's Eve, December 31, 2018 at 10am UTC. That is 5am Eastern Standard Time.
We will have a recording going on the HBR Mumble server for anyone to come on and say happy New Year
and talk about whatever they want. We will leave the recording going until January 1, 2019,
12am UTC. That will be 7am Eastern Standard Time or until the conversation stops.
Please visit HackerPublicRadio.org to find all the details and links about how to set up the
PC Mumble client, your favorite mobile app, the mobile server connection details.
Our Etherpad show notes and the live audio stream if you only prefer to listen in on the
lively banter. So please stop and say hi and maybe join in the conversation with other HBR
listeners and contributors. It's always a good time.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This time it's Community News for November 2018. This is a community podcast,
net or a choir of the shows are submitted by people like you and we are the volunteers
across them on the background. By which we mean they shows that get posted by you,
we comment on them because we can and some people listen to the show and then we'll go and
download them as a result of what we say. Joining me tonight as ever is Mr. Dave Marles.
I don't know what that is, you've got a sore throat there Ken. Hello everybody.
And as I said, basically this show was started to make sure that
everybody likes all the shows. It's just sometimes you don't get any feedback because you go hey,
that was a good show. I bet all the people have given feedback on that show. But usually they don't,
so we will do that and we comment on them and read their comments and then we tell you if there's
anything going on on the network. It's kind of been busy this month, Dave, with shows needing
three hours and stuff. Yeah, I was going to apologise quite early because there's three in the
list here that I couldn't actually listen to. I think my ears are now in a state where they don't
they don't function too well and some of these really just I just couldn't work them out.
It's probably maybe I could have identified, you know, hacked them around a bit and slowed them down
or something like that, but I haven't got around to doing that yet. So it's yeah, we'll talk about
that as we go, but it's has been that sort of month. Yeah, sometimes it's quite sometimes it's busy,
you know, with mistakes people make and when they're posting, so better that than more shows coming in.
So anyways, do you want to welcome the new horse because that's what you tend to do?
Yes, we have one new host this month and it's Dessertia. Now, I assumed he would his name
would be Dessertia because it's D-E-S, but I heard him saying it himself and it was Dessertia,
so there you go. Yeah, and welcome to the network indeed. So let's start, shall we, with the Raspberry
Pi 3 Open Media server and somebody sent me in that there were, so this was how to set up a Raspberry
Pi as an Open Media server by a JWP and yeah, a good show. I didn't have problems with myself,
but some people mentioned that that was one of the ones that was difficult to listen to.
Yeah, I'm afraid I didn't I'd listen to it, but I didn't get all of it. It was too quiet,
and he must have used really, really harsh silence truncation because it just blew my ears up.
I don't know what it was. I'll have to try it again because it's a subject I'm really interested
in and I know JWP knows a lot about these types of things, so I haven't got ran to
re-listening to that one, I'm afraid. Okay, Jason Lewis commented volume, volume is
goo quiet, so I think it remains too quiet. So this is one of the ones I sent off to audio
fanics or all fanics place and they tidy it up, so if you had trouble listening to this one,
download it again and the audio will have improved quite a bit. That's actually quite a good service.
It was a tip from the Dave tips about podcasting was mentioned there. Yeah, I already have an account.
I don't use it all the time because sometimes if the audio is coming in over compressed and edited
too much, there's nothing I can do about it, but which is why you should always try folks,
always try and send us the original. Don't worry too much about editing, don't process this,
just if you if you can record stuff in WAV or FLAC, a lossless format, then the best thing you can
do is if you want to edit it, that's fine, convert it immediately into, so if you're recording it
in MP3 or ARG or something, convert it immediately into FLAC in Audacity, don't edit it in MP3,
don't edit it as a lossless format. This is also a daily give this tip in their show as well.
So basically, yeah, what am I trying to say Dave, record the absolute best quality that you can,
we ask for FLAC but don't convert it from something less to FLAC for us because then we will just
process it again and it's going to lose even more quality in the process.
But as ever, any audio is better than no audio, correct or not, indeed, indeed.
So the following day we had how to solve a problem with following YouTube channels and this
was by Ahuka who once basically his problem is how to play on the web form from back to front
and Gus says praise, thank you for two excellent tips, both how to manage a playlist and the
iridium plugin, it works great. And Ahuka replies saying, my pleasure, I'm glad you found this
useful, that's why record shows to share with the community and I have recorded an audio response
to the show. It was one of the shows when I heard seeing the coming into the queue I was going,
no, I was going to record a show about something like this but it actually turns out to be
complimentary and perhaps we'll have a series. Yeah, it's interesting isn't it? It's odd that
they're it's actually quite difficult to do this with the tools that you get on YouTube
and I've certainly struggled watching playlists and myself in the past and wondered why I can't get
them in the order I want them. So yeah, cool. Yeah, I'm going to refrain from commenting because
all my comments are in the show that I posted. So then we had the community news itself and there
were some comments about that Ahuka says, what were you going to say? I noticed that on my show
as you kept saying we'll get back to that but I don't think you ever did. Did you have a comment?
Yes, I did. Ahuka, thank you for bringing that up and I'll get back to that in a minute. So Dave,
if you could read the next one. I'm just going to go on for months of month. So do do do he says
smiling all the way to the end? I love the addition of RMS's rendition. However, I did not intend
to replace, I didn't, yeah, I didn't intend it to replace Ken's version. There you go.
So Do Do Domi says, Ken's perfect example. Ken illustrated my point well. Buster dynamics might
be might have scripted Atlas's latest test, but there is still nice progress in the last couple
of years. Seems clear to me that soon we'll be able to navigate things as they come, same with
Watson. It won't take many doubling cycles before he stops making these types of mistakes.
And with AI robots automation, whatever you want to call it, the knowledge is transferable,
whereas often osmeet sex have to repeat the mistakes of our previous assessors to relearn as they
did. Seems odd to me to look back on tech improvements in just the past 20 years and not think these
areas, not think these areas will be vastly improved upon too. Yeah, yeah, I can see it has a point.
I can see it has a point. Why should this trend not continue? I guess he's saying.
Oh, do you want to read your own comments? Sorry, we got the time. I got the order wrong.
I said, we'll get back to that. I often face a hooker shows with trepidation, given I know that he's
likely to say what I'm not wanting to hear. This is about his health series shows. The old head
in the soundtrack has worked for grandpa, so it's good enough for me. But then you listen to his advice
and it's always good and it's always doable. And now I just feel guilty about not doing it.
Yeah, yeah, quite so.
Anyway, my thoughts on learning the RPG part four. This was from Dododomi,
D-O-D-D-D-Domi, sorry, and looks like I forgot to try to get silent. Sorry about that.
I didn't find it was a problem, particularly, did you? No, but then I was reading that I have
an automatic trunk silenced truncated silence on my script, so I might not notice it.
Do you know what? So do I. So yeah, yeah, we're good.
Sorry, I don't know if anyone else had an issue with that.
Then the next day we had explaining controls on your amateur HF radio part four,
and Mr X, yes, milking this for all that's worked. Good man. Yes, come from the Ken Fallon
school of podcasting. That's for sure. What is actually, to be honest, if it was any longer than this,
it would be just too much to take and he's gone through to the controls and it's, yeah, it's
he's able to explain it and I'm not getting confused during the process, so I think that's quite good,
whereas I think if he just did it all among gold, it would be tougher. Yeah, I like the fact that he
was actually demonstrating a number of the functions he was talking about, and as well, that really
brings it alive for me. Yeah, I can't. Oh, that's what it means, yeah. Very good, very good,
like this. Don't feel, I'm a bit sad now that this series has come to an end, possibly using
the amateur HF radio series for the good next, you know. Yes, yes, yes. Turning on my device,
how to check it, regular maintenance, that sort of thing. Yes, yes, yes, I'm sure this
more shows in that one. Speaking, speaking of segueing nicely into how to milk shows for all
its worth, bash and silry tips 13. What are you saying? This is our bash scripting series where
their bash and silry tips sub-series is up to 13, where we're up to making decisions in bash
part five. Yeah, come on, I mean, have you ever tried reading the man page or the bash man page?
Series dots, series 42 dot 13 dot five. Definitely, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm just writing number 19,
so you know, it's gonna run and run this one. I'm, yeah, keep keep keep doing that.
But, yeah, what was this on about? Let me just check. This was all about bash regular expressions
of the rematch thingy. I was walking under a bridge in my way home from work when I put this
on. Didn't know you could do the rejects in bash, and then I looked at some of the scripts and I'm
doing it, but didn't know I was doing it, so there you go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I think it was
Mike Ray who was saying something to this fact that he'd been using it, but he never quite got his
head around it, though, for Mike, I'm surprised that he hadn't completely got a grasp of it,
because he's a pretty sharp guy, but maybe I haven't had the time, but I'd agreed that I would
get around to talking about this at some point and trying to explain it. I don't know whether I did,
but, you know, no, no, I followed it helped. I'm working on the assumption that you need to follow
the following the show notes helps anyway, but, yeah, I'm looking forward to the book when this is
with the CD Compendium. I'm about to be one hell of a book.
Clackay says, immediately useful. Don't we like that? Very good episode about some functionality.
I was always vaguely new was there, but never considered using or even looking into.
Well, low on behold, a week after listening to it, I have already made use of my new phone
knowledge to parse some predictably formatted JSON. I ran into an issue with quoting the expressions
and worked around them by assigning the expression to a variable and referencing referring to the
variable in the conditional. I'm now listening to 2669 and I understand exactly what
why it went wrong. For the sake of a readability, I actually think the assignment work around was
the best way to express it. So, I replied to that saying, thanks, Clackay. Clackay found the
show is useful only using bash-regal expressions and capture groups. parsing JSON with bash is a
challenging task to take on though. I used jq to do this myself or the JSON module in Perl, of
course, smiley face. Yeah, jq was absolutely awesome. Well, yeah, it's a brilliant thing and I've
not actually used it much in bash, but I'm sure you can do some clever things of turning things
into into bash statements or something. I'm not an expert on it, but would really like to have
somebody walk me through how to request all variables and stuff like that. Stuff I know we can do,
but walk through series would actually be excellent if somebody could do that for us. Who
has brought that to our attention? The quann line tools? Was that who was that? This wasn't a
easy one, was it? I remember where it was. Yeah, it was easy. He's often finding really, really
useful, being a data manipulator by day. He knows lots about these types of things. Very good.
Cloth, Cloth, that would be easy. jq series. Oh, Cloth, they're winter coming on, you know.
Anyway, yes, some additional talk about characters 0, 1. Lost and Bronx having a series about
random elements of storytelling. I really, really enjoy these. I don't know why. Just why I do
know why, because they're great shows. And I'd love to know, right? Lost and Bronx and Cloth too,
both of them sit down and you have the feeling right, excuse me now I'm sitting in the car,
blah, blah, blah, stream of consciousness, consciousness, and it's all cohesive and it's all
coherent. And I've never had a conversation in my life where I'm not going, oh, no, let me just
think, I'm sorry about that. Oh, uh, um, um, Zanas. How can they record these things so well?
I find I have to use about 90 percent of my brain to drive these days.
I don't have, but 10 percent of it left to even have a conversation, which,
yeah, my kids know that when I sort of trail off and I'm concentrating on what that guy in
front of me is just about to do. Maybe the rods are just a little less busy in the
Arizona, I don't know. Maybe, yeah, yeah. Bad brilliance, I'll love it and recommend it to my son
to have a listen. Yeah, I like the comment about Star Wars and the the odd disjointed nature of
some of the some of the stories there, which was a really good point to make. And he's also nailed,
not necessarily on this show, but in some of the shows nailed it on the head. I found certain things
irritating and annoying and never really understood. I couldn't put my finger on why I felt like that.
And then, yeah, it's it's obvious. It's a one-dimensional character. That character was just
put there for that thing and there's, yeah, no, I understand. Yeah, yeah, it's good to have that
that extra insight, that sort of depth of viewing into into the structure of these things.
I think that it's an excellent thing to do. Let me join the series for that reason too.
So the next day, very short show with a very good show, Hacker's Forcharity. If this is something
that you can you can help out with, it's an excellent an excellent project, didn't great work,
four-minute show, but it's all really packed to punch in there with that interview.
Yeah, I enjoyed this one. Yeah, so that's very good at this. Yeah, that one anyone can listen to,
just have a great listen. Not all about Blender. Now, this is one of the ones that needed to go off to the
to the school of fixing, but that said, so if you happened, if you downloaded this one and you found
it a little bit tough to listen to, and I don't think it was the guys fault. They were recording one mic
between two people, and that's difficult to get that working out well. So if you are sending
in a show that you think the audio is going to be a bit dodgy on us, can you tell us? Because we
don't listen to the shows beforehand, and there's a reason for that. The reason is we are volunteers
here and we don't peer review any of the shows. So when I pick a random period of time within the show,
I have no reference as to whether it's louder or quieter or whatever. If you want us to do
actual editing with that, just make an note. Somehow, how would you do that?
You would email us. You would email us and tell us. Yeah, exactly. email us and say that
can you do something with the audio audio on this? So don't do any super cool processing with the
show one. We can try and get it fixed. They all phonics or phonics is it?
It is. Yeah. Yeah. They have cleaned this up no end. It is night and day different. So
if you have already downloaded this, this is in the queue. If you haven't downloaded it, we've
already replaced it. And so you get much better versions of this. I listened to the first one and
then went back and re-listened. It was listenable, but it's a good show. Gosh, they're a chuck
full of stuff in the show. I like it. I know the bits that I did listen. I have to listen to this
or the second part yet because you said you were going to process them. I was waiting for the
nod to that was now ready and was going to go and check it out. But yeah, I'm going to pick
them up later. And also we need to re-upload the audio to. I have another good few shows in the
queue as well because I need to. The new year show is going ahead more about that later. And we
want to add a promo to the shows for December. So I've not processed them all week. So I need
to process them tomorrow morning. So expect this one in so that we can get it up and then I'll do
them all tomorrow, I'll do them all tomorrow, including this one if that's okay Dave. Yeah, Shusha.
But a good show. I recommend a beverage of choice sitting down, open fire. And then you have the
feeling that these two guys are stuck in a lab cabin somewhere and they're basically talking
about shooting the breeze about cool tech stuff. Well worth a listen. Yeah, excellent. Good.
The following day, using open source tools. No, this one doesn't deserve that sort of thing.
Let me go back and do this properly. Using open source tools to visualize the heart rate and
blood oxygen saturation levels of my stepchild. Yirun. Yeah, my comment on this is
so he uses Python, PHP, J query, and Linux to visualize the heart rate of his
daughter who needed treatment. The only thing I miss from the show would be I would love to have
seen some of the some of the charts, not necessarily from her, but you know, just to see some of
the cold and you know screenshots. And I replied, super dad, wow, which I think is
as a folder myself, I just, you're fucking hats off. Yes, yes, yes, absolutely.
Clinton Roy says, thank you. Thank you for being so open with this. And yeah, I very much agree.
It's it's a brilliant thing. It's really is a wonderful thing to do. I mean, to be faced with
with that situation and then see a device and think, oh, I wonder if I could get data out of there.
And I wonder if I could make some use of it and and to be able to do so is it's just amazing.
That's true hacking. Yeah, I'm I'm I've just seen a PBS documentary on
on people opens, you know, using open sort of hard monitors where they're able to get our insulin
injections where they're able to monitor their insulin and they're using open source firmware
on these devices so that they get the steady flow of insulin and keep a so there's no peace and
peaks and troughs that's yep. And a lot of these things are of course not approved by the FCC
because the FCC takes a FDA federal drugs administration because the FDA takes a long time to
approve them having worked in an industry where we did get FDA approval. I think the work that
they're doing with medical devices is absolutely imperative to get right because you really can't
mess around with those stuff. That said, I also think there there should be the ability to, you know,
the open source software in your hard monitor so I can see I can see both. I don't think both are
necessarily mutually exclusive. So there you go. Yeah, it would be nice if maybe we can solve a lot
of this by having the code open and that code is audited and approved but then they read a lot
of the data should be exported to the open protocols so the device itself can be controlled safely
and the open protocols can give you information on your device which can be then approved by a doctor
to be put back in if you know what I mean. Yes, yes. This wasn't about controlling it of course.
No, no, it's about getting data out of it and understanding what it was doing. It wasn't
necessarily doing the right thing this device. It was given the information but it was not given
enough and then he was able to take that data, give it back to the doctor and then the doctor can
make an informed decision based on the data that they received which I think is awesome. That's
the best of both worlds. So yeah, great. How it should be isn't it? So these things should be
if you can't they can't do what you need them to do. There should be ways in which you can get
random and you as absolutely as the parent or the person involved should be able to do that.
Yeah, brilliant story. So how do you follow that? Well, I did so you didn't have to
I didn't know at the time but okay. I walked out one day I think after recording a HPR show
and my daughter showed me this remote control and I thought okay, I'm going to record a show
about that because it's awesome and it still works. It's a great solution. Yeah, absolutely.
So I have to see you know this sort of natural thinking going on in the family. Wonderful.
And Claudia Miranda says, lol, ha, hilariously short sweetened at the point. Thanks kids. Thanks, Ken and kids.
Paul B says, great hack. Great episode. I'm absolutely going to do this. Thanks a lot.
Excellent. So my daughter was chuffed. She was a bit annoyed that I wanted her to record it but
I said we recorded it in the Wednesday. So I'm not going to say I'm scientific and medical reports
by health and health care by Ahuka. I wanted to just make one comment about this but before we do
we'll go on to the next show. And that's the second part of Merit Shades which I think we've
already talked about. There was no comments on that. That's not fair. The health care reports. If
you're not following the series guys you really need to cause especially this one he's not
actually asking you to change your life in any way that would be hard. This is just evaluating
medical studies. And you got me on to what's it's sceptic, sceptic podcast is that's the guy?
Um, what are we doing? Sceptic's guide. Oh, sceptic wood. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, sceptic. It's a brand earnings one. Yeah, he's done a few on these and I think Ahuka's
done an excellent job of bringing it to our audience. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He's done a great job here
as you say. And it's, um, that the business about using a bit of critical analysis
as you hear all this stuff because there's so many, so many factions that want you to
get excited and rush out and do something about the messages that are coming through
all the various channels. You know, you'll never, you'll never guess what happened after such
and such. Click here for the whatever and all that sort of stuff is all riding on on these,
these reports, some of which are perfectly valid and great, but they've just been puffed up into
into nonsense that selling stuff. Some of the researchers just are very annoyed that their
reports are being mishandled and so. Yeah, well, I've certainly had tales of universities
where some useful and important research has gone on in that organization, but they have a
publicity manager at the front who doesn't really understand it, but knows it has to get out there
and, you know, make make the name of that university and that that's how the whole spiral of
nonsense can can begin, you know. Yeah, exactly. But good show. Well worth it. It's actually a show
that even if you think you don't want to listen to it, you should listen to it just so you know,
in the back of your head, the things that you should look out for. It's seriously not that long
and it's really worth it, really well worth it. Yeah. Yeah, no, Hook is doing a brilliant job of this.
He's summarising it beautifully. I think very, very impressed with this. I want my daughter to listen
because this is the area that she wants to get into the whole business of science communication.
So she, I think she should, she should listen to this and start thinking about how she could do
similar, similar things. Yeah. Not all about Blender Part 2, the discussion continues.
And it isn't all about Blender. Quite a lot of us about different types of games and bugs and
stuff and I'm very interesting if you're, yeah, it's basically fireside chat. And this is the
second part of was the following day, Lost and Brunks. Some additional chat about characters Part
2, typical ways to create characters and your story should you create the plot first,
character first and excellent examples as always. It's Mr. X explaining the controls of the amateur
HF Radio Part 5. I wouldn't mind getting my hands on one of them, actually, as is.
It's, yeah, yeah. Remembering the pictures that I think he either referred to or put up on the
an earlier show, it's a proper looking right? Yeah, it is. Of course, I need to get my license.
Bash tips 14, the four loop, the break loop on the continued loop, as a direct result of that
discussion we had two months ago, I think. Yes, yes, yes, of course. I have been part of my place, okay.
The argument was about SFF MPEG and not working with four loop, which I can't replicate now.
Well, I think it could be the yes, I never fully understood what your problem was, but yeah,
there's hopefully there's some useful tips for things to do and what not to do and stuff.
Well, expect in four years, David, come into this episode gone, I told you so.
To which you reply, yes, what you're piping in the colors from the console and that has got
special characters, which also spawns off another shell, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Did you not read the mandate? I make great reading, yeah, ever have a sleep this night,
then you just get that open a year away. The following day, I had some training homework
from these guys and you know, from Hive in Q about MQTT brokers and stuff, so they've got,
they actually run a broker on the internet. They run a free version on the internet,
for the community, and okay, there are software's, probably, yeah, the other, but they have an
absolutely excellent blog. So the MQTT essentials follow up page one, right to whatever, just the facts,
nothing more, nothing less, and it's about MQTT in general on the protocols that's underneath it,
and it'll just give you a clear understanding of how MQTT works.
Yeah, that's very cool. Yeah, it was nice to hear something about MQTT. We haven't heard
that. I'm sure a lot of people are using it, but nobody's said much about it in recent times,
but it's a great way of doing things, I think. I was a bit skeptical about it, but it is a
fantastic way to be able to distribute messages about the place. I was a bit concerned about the
queuing system and about redundancy and about all that sort of jazz, but I think they've,
they've got it covered, but even if you're not using their server, there are other servers out there,
Mosquito, for instance, is a broker that you can run yourself on a Raspberry Pi.
But it's actually a very valid way of communicating on the network,
and secure enough as well. Yes, yes. The Mosquito security was not brilliant to start with,
I'm not going to see whether it's got better, but hopefully the whole subject is moving forward.
I must check out the blog and see if that's a subject there.
Yeah, I think if you've been dealing with MQTT a lot, we suffer from the,
we know about technologies a lot, sometimes prior to them being fully matured, let's say,
and if you form your opinion based on back then, at least, which I did, then you really do need
to keep yourself appraised of the updates and changes. Right now, I think it's quite a good protocol,
it's low resource intensive, and it's for the type of protocols.
There is a niche for it. There is a niche for it, so if you're thinking a lot of the stuff that
was previously UDP type messages, that would be good enough for UDP. If it's good enough for UDP,
it's good enough for MQTT, so that's what I, it's the message I took out of it.
Yes, yes, it's not the big boy queuing type system that exists out there.
I don't know many of that, but I've got a, I was looking into alternatives, and before I
implemented MQTT for one of my little projects, but for fairly simple lightweight stuff,
it's great. The only problem I hit was that the thing that handles the message is like an
interrupt routine, you can't hang about too long, you can't do too much in there, because if you do,
then you can tie up resources where you could do forking, you could fork it, but I don't think that's
necessarily a part of what you get with MQTT, with MQTT. So there are factors like that that I don't
know that you have to worry about some of the, the more powerful systems, but for the sort of
stuff it was designed for, it's brilliant. That's why if you're looking into some serious
MQTT servers, the IVMQ is one of the things that you should be looking on your list, you might
choose not to use it, but you should definitely compare whatever your solution is against this to
see, because these guys are leading the field up in a minute. Cool. Okay, Derby can't interview
with John Strand, who didn't Zolk score one there for people in the security fraternity John
Strand is one of the big names, so that would be recognizable to a lot of those security researchers,
so a nice, a nice win there for us on the network. Yes, yes, good, very, very powerful stuff.
Sure, sure, both are quite good. Yes, yes, yes, it's short, but very, very good quality.
And Spawning Dissearcher says YouTube, URL, and Tricks, I'm liking this, what he's doing with the
letters on the, right, okay, I don't know, two shows myself on YouTube playlist, which are in the
YouTube, and you can update the user upload playlist by modifying the letters at the, at the
channel, what I thought were the channel or playlist URLs, so you can change the letters,
the second letter from a U to a C, and it'll behave differently. That's very interesting.
Yeah, yes, indeed, yes, I've never wanted to do this personally, but it's weird how that
that would work, isn't it? Yeah, I assume that was some sort of a hash or something like that,
but it's, yeah, exactly, secret stuff in there somewhere. And, personally, I don't watch,
I don't use the web player, but this might be useful to people. Yeah, yeah, I never use playlist
personally anymore. If you see it, but if I join a new channel and they look like there's good
stuff to watch, I'd quite like to use playlists to play older things, but otherwise I don't do that,
but what you're saying there might actually be something I should be looking at.
Yeah, so if you're following up on these YouTube shows, if you're interested in YouTube,
playlists and stuff, that's definitely one you should have a little listen to.
Following day, getting started with web-based games in Haskell and LM by Turo Toto.
And, wow, again, did you try to get this running?
I've not had time to do that, let's say. Yeah, yeah, somebody who did was tattoo.
Cool game idea, cool intro. This sounds like it would be the kind of an amazing game actually.
I hope it happens. If not, it's still an neat idea. And thanks for a taste of Haskell,
I'd been mind-le-curious about it for a while, so it's nice to hear something substantial about it.
Yeah, absolutely. Turo Toto replies, thanks. Thanks, I'm kind of fond of the idea too.
Ideas of course are cheap and actual implementations tricky part. I'm trying to get at least
very minimally working system up and running at some point. Main idea is just to explore the idea
of writing such a game and learn a bit of Haskell and LM on the side, which is fantastic, I think.
That's a great way to learn. Yeah, I don't think I'm going to be able to contribute much to this
project, so we'll see. No, no, no, I wasn't really planning to do that. But I would really like to
learn Haskell, but I'm not sure whether I'm up to it. It's not easy. It's just totally different
concepts to my mind anyway. So, the following day we had Bandit update in my build as a quick
episode to mention there are new over-the-wire and bandit levels out. You did an episode in 2138
and I didn't get time to finish bandit. It's something on my list and yeah, I really want to do that,
which is an SSH kind of game. So, you go to the first level and you basically catapult or something
and then you get the key to go to the next level, etc. But the thing about this show that got me
Dave and not judging the street cred of in my build, the geek cred or anything, but I would have thought
somebody like in my bill would have used Gator something to put all his clothes into and check
them into the repository and then wouldn't have to worry about if his laptop got blasted over.
I like that. Yeah, yeah. I was catching up with shows when I was ready for tonight's recording
and I listened to this one and I thought that sounds motentry. I was just going to check
that out so I landed on four hours of bandit. Exactly, exactly. And I wrote to in my bill on
new social and said, massaging actually and said, well thanks Bill, I blame you for that for all that
time away. But it's all frustrating yet stuck at the level. I know. I know. I think I've got to
13 so far, but I just had to stop because there was nothing it was going to get done. Nobody is going
to get fed, you know, I'm not going to go record it. I get stuck doing other than thinking about
it the whole time and then gone, all right, okay. And then now that's me. Me and Lemmings, after Lemmings,
you know, hours and hours worst at the Lemmings. And I'm not one for computer games, too addictive.
No, no, but the thing about this is that it's teaching you Linux or Linux or both. And you
you think, oh yeah, I'm just reasonably good at this stuff. And then you hit a level and you
realize, oh no, I've never had to do anything of this sort before. How the hell do you do this?
You know, and I can't say anymore as Bill couldn't, otherwise I give away spoilers, but
but the things there you think, well, wow, this is this is hard. This is difficult.
You really got to think. Yeah, but I'm not sure if you're doing it, if you, you know, the ones
that you're going, oh, I do this every day, I'm sure there are people stumbling over what we
consider easy as. Oh yeah. Yeah. Oh, I'm sure that's true as well. Yeah. Yeah. But it's an
excellent exercise in learning the subject, I think. So as it happens, because he had brought
this to my attention before, as it happens, there was a kid in who I came across who was,
let me say, demonstrated a interest in hacking to protect the innocent. And I pointed them to this
going, look, dude, if you want, if you want, there are plenty of places out there that run
competition servers that allow you to go and detect them and stuff. And this is one of them. So,
yes, hopefully you haven't put them on the street in a row. Oh, yes, yes.
Righty, the following day, problems with studies. This is another one from Ahuka, last one from
Ahuka, and I can't use my, we'll talk about that later because we're at the end of this month's
shows. And yeah, this was more details about, about what's good research on where I can go wrong.
This one was just interesting from a, from a human point of view, really, what people
walk in. The pressure people are on there. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it says a lot about,
I mean, the whole subject says a lot about the way that aspects of science are broken. The way
that science is done in, in higher education is broken because there's a huge pressure to produce
papers and, and results and stuff. And the journals don't want negative results. So if you do an
experiment, you get a negative result, then that's effectively thrown away, even though it's
valuable information to the world, but it doesn't get, it doesn't further your career. And it's,
it's a mess. It's an awful mess, I think, and, and it's just, just becoming clear that, um,
that's the case when people can't replicate work that's already been done, been done on all this
p-hacking business. My daughter finished her degree last summer, and she, she got a lot of stuff
about, you know, she was told a lot of things about things to avoid and how you shouldn't be
taking your results and filtering out the bad ones and using the good ones and stuff like that.
So that was a subject that was being kicked around this family affair bit. So, you know, it's a,
that was an excellent, um, survey of the situation. And it's finished with a comment,
ignore whatever Gwyneth Paltrow says. Absolutely. Which I loved. Absolutely loved that.
So if she offers you a, a Jade egg, then you'd tell her what she can do with it.
No, I mean, more power to ourselves,
person-ship for being able to, no, actually not cause there's lots. No, no, no, it's, it's
complete and out to nonsense and fooling people to make money for them is, is a thing I appore
personally. I had, uh, I have to agree with you. Um, I had, and the pithany, after listening to
this show, when I was thinking about this and the U-Random podcast where I have probably, uh,
I've been having to question my political stances and things listening to those guys,
which is always good. Always questioning is, uh, is a good thing. Not a four o'clock in the
morning when you can't sleep, obviously. But I was thinking, just talk him into my mind,
should we have a fourth branch of government, which is the scientific branch, you know, the,
that, you know, going to powder stuff should be just fucking, you know, shut down straight away.
There is no scientific evidence to support this, you know, should, should we now treat
include science in government a little bit more because it, it seems to me that there's a need for it.
Well, yes, I mean, my view would be yes, but then I was trained as a, as a scientist,
there are not too much of it lately, but, but yes, I would say so. And engineering, I mean,
obviously, but, you know, the cost and accounting and whatever, that, you know, rational fact-based
yes, the department of facts, filtering out the nonsense is so important because, I mean,
when, if you watch, you know, cowboy films of the day's gone by, then a lot of them
consisted of the, the medicine man coming to town selling snake oil and it's was sort of a joke
that people were, were very, very vulnerable to being sold this sort of nonsense. And now,
look, we've, we've, we've got much better systems, we don't let people do that sort of stuff,
but hang on, that's not true at all. No, in some cases we're supporting, it's worse, yeah.
It's the snake oil sellers are all there and they're, they've got TV advertising and in some
cases they're in newspapers in what look like genuine articles and they're not. They're, they're,
you know, at such and such, discovered that if you rub this oil of such and such on these dog,
then it, it occurred in before these ill, these sorts of strange things are still there and
a cloak behind all the fake news stuff that's going on these days. You know, it's, it's not,
it's not moved on at all. So, yes, I think we do. We do need something like that.
Now, even, even stuff like fake news, I'm, what particularly bugged me was,
the recent budget in Ireland, which probably nobody outside of two, one or two Irish people
listened to this know, but, you know, we had an economic disaster in Ireland and now they,
they put in a fiscal advisory board and the fiscal advisory board says, well, the budget you
just produced is madness and it's a, you're completely heading down to another fiscal disaster,
but they're still doing it to invoke, you know, I'm not sure, be a, those guys should have legal power.
No, you're not allowed to, you're not allowed to spend this. I'm not going to tell you what you're
allowed to spend it on, but go back and go back to the draw board. Which would actually get
the politicians off the hook because I, you know, I'd love to, but the old fiscal advisory board
let me do that, you know. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, it could work, it could work.
Okay, but if you've got thoughts on that, folks, don't put it in the comments. Good God, no,
we'll help you wasting shows and we've got 260 brand new spank and fresh straight out of the old
fridge here. Sure, slots ready for you to upload. Yes, absolutely, I can't, but agree. Yes,
okay, enough about that political. Actually, this whole point of HBR was supposed to be a political
tab diverse political topics to be discussed, but it morphed.
Okay, additional comments that were not included in the last shows. There are nine in seven
previous shows and note volunteers, comments marked in green were read in the last community news,
I should be ignored by this one. I love reading that out every time. Hello,
it's at this point, Dave's tries to get his comments out. So this is a comment by Dododomi to
using superdue to create landmarks on your keyboard, which was posted in 2007 by Dododomi himself.
There's nothing new under the sun and I found out that it is not a new idea. So he's points to
YouTube video showing somebody doing something similar. Yes, I did look at that video.
Somebody who had keys on his laptop, which had red blobs on it. Yeah, 51.50 says you missed one.
Okay, probably more than one. I can see why English is so hard if it is not your first language.
Amazing. We forced it down the world's throat as a universal tongue over Latin and French.
Ye team Anglo question mark. Anyway, in a future episode, you should reference effect and affect
an effect. I also learned something else. No American would think of using tenant as a verb.
That's another elephant in the room. In the US, we reference ourselves with a term that applies to
an entire hemisphere. The topic abounds on YouTube, British versus USA culture. Maybe we should open
this up internationally and ask for a third party to tell us why we are both farting.
Farting nuts. Farting nuts. Fart. Thanks for to you.
That's a great email. I like that one. Farting nuts.
So I said hi 50. Oh yes, English is difficult. It's rich and interesting to me anyway,
but it's a beast as well. Yes, to affect an effect. I thought it was in my list, but it was not.
Can I just tell you I spent an hour looking on my wardrobe of Dave's corrections looking for that one
because I couldn't believe you had it had not done it already. No, it's an easy one to fall into.
I have to do a double take on that one myself sometimes and think, which one? Oh yeah, yeah, but yeah.
So it's something to bring into the series. So continuing British versus USA stuff.
As I've aged, I've tried very hard not to do the finger pointing and criticizing a US English.
I try to be critical across the board. Exgoation mark.
Annick, though, in the 1980s, I went to conference run by Burrows, the big mainframe
manufacturer, and we had we had a mainframe at my work. And the speaker from the US said the word
instantiate. Some British guy interrupted and criticized them saying it was not a word.
I don't need to be shot down with a dictionary reference. He looked, he looked a fool, I thought,
and I vowed to myself never to do that because it's not, you know, it's not just letting him
blight for one thing, but it's not possible to say this is correct and that's not, you know,
you can say using it that way is not sensible, but it's not more, not traditional or something.
Yeah, yeah. Well, there's, I've got a list of things like that, which I'll come to in due course,
but yeah, I take Stephen Fry's stance on this. He's very good. Basically,
Bollocks, language evolves, you know, you would imagine he or all people would know the correct
use of this and the correct use of that, but you have to, you have to let it evolve to some
degree, but sometimes you can see it evolving in a way that's just really silly. It's a,
in many cases, it's an ignorance. There's a certain ignorance. People miss here a thing,
and then the misheard version becomes the norm and you think, oh, why? That seems so
dark. Those are the ones that irritate me and I have to point out, but not that it will make any
difference. It's okay. You can vent on this network, Dave. Okay, 5150, this time without all the
smarmy comments, 5150 said, and this is actually comment. Getting paid in crypto currency,
it's a good comment because I was thinking of commenting on this. I didn't. This is a response
to HPR 2562, I bought a laptop, tangential to the main topic. I was intrigued to learn that
you were paid in crypto currency. You did that mention which type, but given the volatility
in better known crypto currencies, I'm curious how that might affect one's income, as am I,
also will send us in a show. I'm sending this to your email referenced on the HPR website,
but I'm also posting these questions to show comments, so any listeners getting paid in crypto
currencies can weigh in. I'd rather hear from community members whom a significant portion of
their income comes in the form of crypto currencies, but maybe somebody who makes extra money from
a hobby side project can contribute their tails of fortunes won't and lost. At this time,
I'm not asking for stories from miners or people who lost their stash due to alleged mal, what?
Mal-feasons. Doing bad things. Yeah. Mount Gok, for instance. One, you said you were paid
in crypto currency. Is this the form of you get equivalent to ex-euros or place that rather
than national currency, a week based on the currency exchange, or is it a fixed unit, why units
of crypto currency? Good question. If the latter answered the question one, what happens if the
bottom top side of the cryptocurrency, are you under contract, stuck working for nothing? I guess
the calorie would be what happens when crypto currencies go so high that they can't afford to pay you.
Has volatility in the cryptocurrency market affected your financial status? In other words, have you
ever made plans based on the sudden uptick in crypto currency savings only to have them dashed
when the bubble was burst? Almost a year ago, my non-techy friend started asking me about Bitcoin.
By that time, Bitcoin was the very first stage of its ramp upward.
I really hadn't been paying attention, but suddenly Bitcoin was all over the news.
Has this magical money tree that nobody ever knew existed? I wore my friend that I thought
the bubble was speculative or driven, and it would burst as fast as it had inflated.
That's the comment. That's a hell of a comment. It's a really good comment.
Yeah, it's brilliant. Might have been a show.
Joel H. comments on episode thoughts on knowledge learning game story mode,
where D-O-D-D dummy is working through game. Good idea. I just wanted to leave a quick comment
comment about the show. I think the ideas and theories you present in the episode are very good.
While the contents of this episode, with the contents of this episode alone,
I believe somebody could make an excellent video game. You've done a great job
of working out education small details to encourage learning. A point in click game sounds okay,
but I was wondering, what would you think of these ideas in a first-person exploration,
again, something similar to this Stanley Parable? Not knowing what the Stanley Parable is.
One duck-duck goal later. Wikipedia. It's an interactive storytelling video game designed
by David Warden. The game was originally released on 27 July 2011 as a free modification of Half-Life 2.
There you go. Random Windows. That's probably why it's probably not why it didn't hear about it.
I don't do gaming. Lemmings. Common's first session of earlier. Also, I don't really
run Windows. There you go. Okay, this is a comment on exercise and diet.
DODD dummy says, okay, you've convinced me. Hooka, I have a couple three of conditions you've
described and I found myself being more and more convinced as this episode was that I could change
my lifestyle to thanks map. Actually, I don't think it was meant to be read like that. It's like,
okay, Hooka, I've coupled the conditions you describe and found myself more and more convinced
and this episode went on that you can make lifestyle changes to thanks map.
Yeah, I think so. So I do Kevin's one. Please do. So Kevin O'Brien replies,
it is about making a decision. I'm glad I could be of help. My purpose in this series is to say that
we can take charge of our health rather than be passive victims. Then I can offer some tools to
help in that. You just need to make a decision. Yeah, very good. Very good. Very good. Now I know
I myself, I'm failing because because it's my fault. Do we have the last and Bronx one?
Great gear. No, we did. We did. Yeah, so we read that last last week because it was just forward
on from the previous one. Okay, yeah, yeah, super excellent. So that is all the comments,
additional comments for legends, but there's one there's one more. Is it? That's the the show 2672
port is by cloud two. Okay, quite as we have it. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So Alison,
should I do it? Yeah, Alison Chacon says particularly informative episode. I've never made
much use of live media except for installation and system rescue, but I found the idea shared by
cloud two particularly thought provoking. I've been traveling and wanted to perform some simple
task like airline check in from a lobby computer that hesitated over using windows of any flavor
for anything. It would be fun to at least try to reboot these machines as Linux. I don't think
things like network proxy configurations screw up such a tense question mark. I would also
it would also be fun to test drive Linux on PCs or laptops in computer stores, but don't staff
wander by and tell the perpetrator to stop and doesn't secure boot stops such attempts anyway.
I'm curious therefore cloud two and what kinds of systems has this approach been successful.
Older, pre-secure boot systems, the PCs I should say.
All the other questions I think. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's that's a good point. Yeah, the thought of
actually booting a live media on a computer in the airport. I think there would be guys with
thing with firearms behind you quite quickly. More than likely the probably shops they just don't
care. Yeah, I was just thinking I knew that name from somewhere. I did a quick
Google of her name. And I know she was she came to speak to us at the HBR table at
all camp in Liverpool some number of years ago. I don't think you were around that year,
it was the year that NY Bill visited Liverpool second term year in his wife for then.
Yeah, it was the year after that. Yeah, yeah, missed him. Okay, and then we had any other business
breaking news. Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve show. Yes, folks, it's that time of year
again when Hacker Public Radio does this 24 hours, 24 hours, I laugh in the face of 24 hours,
26 hours New Year's Eve show. For those who don't know, a New Year's Eve 2018 12 31 at 10 AM
UTC. That's five o'clock Eastern. We will have a recording going on the mumble server on CH1.teamspeak.cc
on port 64747. That's the port we're server reusing right now. For anyone to come along and say
happy New Year and talk about whatever they want. We will leave the recording going on till 2019
0 1 0 1 1 2 0 0 UTC AM, which is actually 0 0 0 0 UTC 7 AM Eastern or until the conversation stops.
So we're definitely going to be recording that long. And for those who have never used mumble before,
there's a guide over Linux logcast that come and section explain how to set up a mumble client.
Mumble isn't only available on desktop, it's available on Android and IOS.
And we're going to be an etherpad. So please stop in and say hi. And there's going to be a
live stream as well of that. So if you don't want to join a mumble, you can just listen to it along.
So it's always a good show. And even better in the last few years when I haven't had to do anything, Dave.
Makes it even better. So this is honky and and let me see.
Kevin Wysher obviously. Yeah, thanks. So honky McGoo and Kevin Wysher, thanks very much for taking the initiative here again.
And I actually quite enjoyed it last year because of the fact I didn't need to do anything.
Yeah, it was a good thing. I joined in briefly and had a little chat with Clot 2,
is that correct? And yeah, it's cool. So yes, there's a new podcast, haven't listened to it.
Yes, it's called Libert Lounge. Libert Lounge is a podcast where we casually discuss various
topics involving user freedom, crossing free software, free culture, network hosting, etc, etc, etc.
So you might want to give them a try. The link is in the show notes.
Do you want to take the next one? Yes, excuse me, internet archive, who as you know,
we upload all our shows, current episodes, as they become available to the internet archive at archive.org.
And we are also in the process of uploading some of the older shows. So I think we have something
like 1,830, approximately on there now. So still a way to go. But anyway, so we're very, very keen
that the internet archive service keeps going. I'm sure many people are. So I just wanted to raise
the point that they're currently having a fundraising exercise, which they tend to do at this time
of year, every year. And as last year, donations that are made are currently being matched by a
generous supporter. So anything you donate will be doubled. So that would be great. So now is
the time to do it. Do recurring donations also get doubled? I don't know. It didn't say on there,
on there, on the news site. If you just go to the main archive.org site, you get a page that shows
a series of information, which I just sort of paraphrase into the notes here. And it doesn't say
how that works. Okay. And it has been Thanksgiving in America. And I would just like to say thank you
very much to Dave, especially for all the work that he does here in HBR. But in addition to being
a very good friend and getting me through a very dark period over the last few months. Without him,
I think life would have been a lot tougher. So thank you very much, Dave. Thank you.
Well, you're welcome. So I mentioned the tags and summaries. Please do just to keep
harping on. I hope it's not getting too boring. Just to say that we've added 23 or we've added
two 23 shows, which were without tags and or summaries. And so we're gradually whittling the
number down, but we've always opened for contribution. So if you'd like to contribute,
there's a link here to go to it. And I had to do that. Yeah. And as I said, I wanted to
do some start working on some of the wiki so that we can split out. They work logically.
But unfortunately, I found that time to, well, previously I hadn't had the energy for
to be honest. But now I'm getting a little bit a little bit more back on my feet and
I'll see if I can maybe do that on the train going into work or whatever. Do a little bit every day.
Very good. Very good. Yep. Yep. I've just as an an aside really, we need to be moving ahead with
our ideas for a replacement database and things got stuck about a year ago. And actually been
trying to resurrect things in the past couple of weeks. So we'll we'll try and put some
material out there that we can get comments on in the not too distant future,
within the next month maybe. Yeah, we should actually, if I know where they're there, they're there.
If we can talk on telegram or one of those places above that and maybe chat on
mumble because that is a better way to get me to focus on stuff. Just have a quick chat about
us and then draw diagram and maybe yeah, we'll try doing that. Yeah. Yeah. The one of the issues that
makes that transition a little complex is that we really want to include the previous shows from
today with the techie. Yep. So there's 300 of those to add to the database and sort of
meld them into the the structure of the HBR shows as well. So there's a sort of continuous
but precisely how to do that is not completely clear that this needs to be discussion.
And also some of the holes from there. There's only half thing in the hole. So they need to get
added back to the. And yeah, I've got various, various bees in my bonnet, which is probably dead.
But anyway, about making sure that if the show has multiple hosts that we recognize them as
individual hosts and all that sort of stuff. And also the HBR community news we should have
both of us down this whole site, maybe not. Well, yeah, personally, I would quite like to see
that because we've often had other people along to join in with the with the process. Yeah,
it'd be really nice to recognize them. Cool. Yeah, well, okay, cool. Yeah.
We should and we should publish these discussions as well, I think, because that's why I want to
record some of them. So that get people thinking about it as they go along. And hopefully,
and then if there are experts in that field, because I don't claim to be an expert in everything,
but I do have a feeling for how, how things work and what I've seen because I think,
yeah, even even this month, there's been a lot of problems with people filling out the forms.
And you might think that's new users, our new users, I think. No, let's work coming in.
New hosts, but it's also old hosts and myself as well, I'll submit a show and then all of a sudden,
why, why has this happened? And this, why did I fill that tag out? Why did I miss that?
Yeah, yeah, I sent in the show within the past month where I, yeah, I just accidentally hit
the return key and it says, oh, you finished then, that's fine. I was going to upload the,
oh, no. So yes, it's not, I mean, this is the nature of form, and sometimes it's quite hard to,
especially could get cleverer or and put JavaScript-y thing to catch all that, but we don't
want to do that, you know, so it's to, yeah, anyway, it's not that difficult. And the results of stuff
like requests that people have wanted to do is a common one is, oh, I messed up my show,
can I, can I upload a new version of the audio to which the answer should be? Yes, of course you can,
but we can't do that. Well, we can't do that, but at a particular point in time, also,
you're not going to be allowed to do that because at what point does it become posted,
because you release it to us under the CC by a say or whatever license, and then at what point
is it hours? And okay, you can upload a new version, but yeah, so it's, it gets complex.
Yeah, it gets complex, but these are interesting discussions that I think people should also hear
because it's interesting. Okay, I will, I will go out to the family and continue celebrating
Puke Year's Advent. Yes, Dutch people, I know it's the Saturday, and it should be on the Wednesday,
that's what we do, so that the kids have time to advertise, and yes, I know they're all too big,
but that doesn't matter, since it lives on here. Yeah, why not? Why not? Exactly. Okay, guys,
tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Echor Public Radio.
You've been listening to Echor Public Radio at Echor Public Radio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Echor Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
