Episode: 2529
Title: HPR2529: What's in my podcatcher
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2529/hpr2529.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:51:43

---

This is HPR episode 2,529 entitled, What's In My Pondcature, and in part of the series, podcast
recommendations.
It is posted my first time postbookium, and in about 10 minutes long, and carry my next
visit flag.
The summary is, listing on podcast, I listen to.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge, by heading over to archive.org, forward slash
www.hackerpublicradio.com
Hello, hacker public radio.
This is Bookworm doing my initial contribution back to the community.
I just wanted to kind of get my feet wet, figure out the process, and introduce myself
a little bit.
So I thought the best way to do that would be to do a What's In My Pondcature, and I guess
I'll just do alphabetical order, and I'm going to run through them pretty quick.
I know that some of y'all are familiar with some of these, because I've heard other people
do this series, and they mention some of them are on my list.
First up is Bad Voltage.
Bad Voltage is a combination of British and American.
I think the American on the show is an expat, Linux news, current events, around computers
in the PC world, cell phones, etc.
Next is Command Lying Heroes.
This is a relatively new podcast sponsored by Red Hat, a lot of historical information about
the development of computers, computer technology, DevOps, things of that nature, some history,
some current events.
Third one is Critical Hit.
This is a long-running Dungeons & Dragons real-time play in a custom world, and they do seasons.
In their off-season, they do continue to release episodes, but they play other games.
During the off-season, currently, they're playing urban shadows.
It sounded like an interesting concept, but I quickly lost interest in the story, so
I'll pick it back up when that series ends.
Next is Dan Carlin's Hardcore History, loving that series, great in-depth looks at individual
history events, especially battles, and turning point battles in country's histories.
Followed also by Dan Carlin's Hardcore History Addendum, just little short episodes that
might have an interview or a book author or an excerpt from a book or some other single
point that he couldn't fit otherwise into the Hardcore History episodes.
Also, oh, a missed one.
Common sense with Dan Carlin.
This one he's admitted is going a little bit infrequent, so I don't know how often that
one's going to be updating, nor does he at this point.
Deep energy is back on track.
Deep energy is music for sleep, meditation, and prayer, which is what it says, sleep, meditation,
and I don't say.
But original music by the artist released free of charge under, I believe, the creative
common license.
Next is the Dune Cast.
Also another relatively new podcast, went on hiatus for about eight months, released
a new episode at the first of the year.
They're going in order through all of the Dune books, interviewing people that are involved
in the Dune universe.
Next up is Floss Weekly.
This one is from the Twitch Network, it's free Linux open source software.
They do reviews of software, in depth interviews, and how-tos with the creators of the software.
Next up is Geek Grant, formerly known as Everyday Linux.
Three guys get together every day, or once a week, and talk about life in the digital age.
Now they're undergoing a format change, which is kind of interesting, where on the first
week they do one type, the second week they do another type, one week a month a release
they'll do.
I think a week has five weeks, they're going to do listener feedback in that fifth one,
so a couple of times a year they'll do listener feedback.
They might do book and movie reviews in one, or they might do technology reviews in another.
So it's kind of an interesting way to develop a different format.
Up next is Going Linux.
Great podcast for new Linux users, and you can occasionally as an experienced user get
a good helpful tip or two out of it as well.
Next up is Groove Electric, Downloadable Soul, DJ Steve Boyette, also a sci-fi and fantasy
author, good books by the way, does one hour long dance and tech music about every other
week.
Up next is Hacker Public Radio, don't need to describe that one, followed by Job Fest
by Monster, job site, monster.com has sponsored a fairly irregular podcast.
The most recent one was five months ago, how to be happy at work, but nevertheless when
it does release there's always something useful that you can glean from the podcast.
Up by Late Night Linux, and that one is the one that was formerly the Linux Luddites
that regrouped, changed a couple of members around and started doing Late Night Linux.
Up next is Linux Action News, this is from Jupyter Broadcasting, kind of a replacement
for the Linux Action Show, short format weekly.
Next up is Linux Unplugged, also from the Jupyter Broadcasting Network, and followed
by the Linux Voice Podcast, which I understand is currently on hiatus, and although I understand
from rumors that they are possibly reformatting, renaming and coming back out in a new form
soon, because that was based on a magazine and the magazine got bought and now the guys
are trying to figure out what they're going to do with the podcast.
Next is the Linux Luddcast, free and open source virtual lug meets on the first and
third Fridays of the month.
I believe on all comers are welcome, although I've never had a chance to join in, my schedule
just never quite works out.
Followed by No Guts, No Galaxy, this is a mech warrior and battle tech podcast.
One of my all time favorites, although they also, it seems, I have fallen into irregular
release.
They do tend to release at least once every other month, but always full of good useful
information about upcoming updates to mech warrior online, new mech warrior games, and the
new battle tech game that's just been released.
Next up is Paul's Security Weekly, just what it says, Internet, computer security, weekly,
hour format, sometimes it can go a little long to two hours format podcast.
Followed by 2600 off the hook podcast.
This one is actually kind of interesting.
It's actually a radio show in New York City on station WBAI.
They record their show on a weekly basis and release it the following day as a podcast.
They tend to be a little bit more political and current events and social as far as computing
and computer networking and that kind of situation goes.
Next up is the Sam's Internet Storm Center Daily Network Podcast, 15 minutes every morning.
It's like you're morning news while you're getting ready.
One that I look forward to every day.
Next up is another one from the Twitch Network, this one is Security Now.
Security Weekly Podcast, typically running in at somewhere around hour and a half to
two hours.
Next up another one from Jupiter Broadcasting, tech talk today.
This one he's doing just a brief season of and going to be like another two or three
episodes and then it's going to go on hiatus until the next time he needs to bring it out
of the closet I guess.
This one I'm afraid has bit the dust but they are still managing to release an occasional
update but the most recent one was about three months ago but it was two guys in the Philippines
talking about basically life in the Philippines being Linux users in that environment followed
by user error another one from Jupiter Broadcasting that seems to be on hiatus while he's doing
the tech talk today podcast.
Last but not least, welcome to Night Vale, theater of the mind with a twist for the odd.
Like Lake Wobegon set in the Twilight Zone the best way to describe it.
It's really well done professionally produced.
If you see something, say nothing and drink to forget.
Well that's all I've got, hope I didn't bore anybody to tears and I hope to be doing
some more podcasts on other topics in the not too distant future.
Thanks again, have a good day.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwave.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution,
share a light 3.0 license.
