Episode: 2437
Title: HPR2437: Interface Zero Play-through Part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2437/hpr2437.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:04:37

---

This is HBR episode 2437 entitled Interface Nero Playthrough Part 3 and in part on the series,
tabletop gaming, it is hosted by Klaatu and in about 42 minutes long and carrying an
exquisite flag. The summary is Klaatu, Loma and and played in Interface Nero RPG.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hey everyone, welcome to HackerPublicRadio. My name is Klaatu and this is Interface Nero Playthrough
Episode 3. Today I have with me low bath. Hey everybody.
And Taj. Let's get everybody. Before we get started, I wanted to mention to everyone that yes,
I've got another digital starter kit for role playing games available. All you have to do is
email me. If you're the first one to email me upon hearing this episode, you will get a voucher
to go to piezo.com and download among other things the beginner box, the digital beginner box.
So it doesn't take up any room on your shelf, but it has a bunch of great content including
the hero's handbook, which essentially just ignores probably 80% of the Dungeons and Dragons
Pathfinder universe and just calls it down into something that's that's approachable for a beginner.
So if you've never built a character for an RPG before and you've wanted to do that,
then you can you can follow this step-by-step instruction in the first chapter of the hero's handbook
and it tells you exactly how to create a character. I mean, it labels the character sheet for you
with big yellow numbers, like big numbers in a yellow circle and it says, you roll this mini die,
take the number from from that and put it into this blank. You know what I mean? It tells you exactly
what you need to do. It leaves you without any question on the process of building your character.
More importantly, it tells you why things work a certain way. So rather than just kind of
looking at pre-generated characters or having your friend tell you, oh, put this number there,
this tells you exactly why you're getting certain numbers into your character sheet based on
the choices that you've made and the choices they actually limit as well. So rather than having to
look at 99 different races and 150 different classes, you have three races. You can be a human,
a door for an elf. You have four classes. You can be a rogue, a cleric, a fighter, or a wizard.
And so with that limited choice, it becomes a lot easier, I think, for a newcomer to get started.
So I highly recommend this book and it's not just me saying that the layout of the book is good.
It is. It's great. It's got nice big colorful boxes with little icons to help you visually,
just kind of like, oh, okay, this is when I'm rolling a D6. Okay, I got that. There's a picture
right there. It tells you. But it also, it's also something that I've used to introduce people to
this. Just actually last night, I was with two friends and one of them had never played an RPG
before and was really curious. The other had played an RPG before, but it never built a character.
So I took them through the character creation process by showing them the hero's handbook and we
built characters and then we ran through an old school dungeons and dragons adventure called Cave
of Shadows. Not a terribly great adventure, but that's the great thing about RPG. You can make
pretty standard kind of like, oh, look, it's a crawl through a cave into something completely
different and unique because it just, it always changes. So we had a great time and it was all,
it was all based on this very limited sort of scope of the beginner box from, from Piso and the
pathfinder world. So I'm recommending it strongly because I really truly believe it's a great,
a great little book. You can get it for free and it's open game license. What's not to like?
Shoot me an email. I'll give you this thing and it comes with a lot of other stuff too. Like the
Game Master's Guide for it within the beginner box anyway and then the whole pathfinder rule book
and I think a couple of other things like some digital comics or something, but yeah, it's worth
an email if you're into this sort of stuff. Okay, so now let's, let's get started with the story.
Where are we today? Let's see. You guys had gotten in and out of Peter's apartment and you are now
on your way back with a data dump back to your hideout in the Cromwell District. So the Cromwell
District is a little bit rough but not too rough. It's a safe place. Your fixer has, has hooked
you up with a little bit of a safe house. It's tricked out with all the technology that you would need
for investigating all the different things that you've investigated in order to make the extra
cash that you guys or extra crypto dollars that you guys are after. It is well disguised from
the outside. It appears for all intents and purposes as I completely broken down a building,
but once you get inside, the first hallway that you go into is similarly demolished, but the door
at the end of the hall, you open that step into a smaller room, close the door behind you, open the
next door in the privacy of this small area and sure enough it is a well guarded and high-tech
workspace that you can do whatever you need to do. So although the exterior is quite run down,
the interior is quite well kidded out and not in disrepair at all. It's got a bunch of money thrown
into it. What would you like to do first? I think I'm going to call in my contact record stone,
the local cop, and see if we can get some more information about the penthouse that we were in
and Peter himself. Good idea. Tosh, is there a sit? Is there anything that you need to do before
we go into that? Not that I can think of. As far as the data dump, until his contact gets here,
I'll go in the corner and meditate and maybe kind of work on my interfaces between my cybernetics,
just to kind of tune everything up in case we get hands on again. LeBath, are you just going to call
him on the... you're not going to call him physically in, right? How do you guys communicate,
do you think? That's a good question. I think probably would actually give him a phone call.
Just chat him up a little bit. So he answers and he probably knows that it's you because he's
probably got access to that kind of information or else you guys have a private number.
Yeah, we have a, I guess, what the game calls a minor relationship. So we have worked together
before he knows me and trust me a little bit. Cool. I will then... let's see, how does this
contact thing work? I forgot to check that out before we started here. Yeah, so the way that it'll
work is depending on what you're asking him to do. I will roll for him to see, and there's a
different threshold depending on your relationship. So if you've got a minor relationship, it'll be
harder to get something totally illegal done, but normal information probably won't be a problem.
Yeah, just, let's see, look for any record for Peter and any records of him recently that have
come up specifically. And then I'd also like to know more about the penthouse we were at,
like who actually owns it if it's his and who maybe put those guards there. I don't know if he'd
have any information on the guards themselves, but yeah, just about Peter and then the apartment.
He answers and he says... Chai Wei, long time no talk. What can I do for you?
Hey, record. I've been... I'm on a case and I'm looking for some information. I need to know
who a property is registered to, and I'll drop the address. And then I need some information about
the... about Peter, and I can't remember Peter's last name off the top of my head, but...
I don't believe you guys ever asked about Peter's last name to be honest.
Oh, how do we not know his last name? Right, and then any information about the occupant who is
there, I think his name was Peter, and hopefully he can find out more information based on that.
Okay, so he... why don't you make me a diplomacy check? Okay, I got a 12, and my diplomacy skill is...
11, so 23. Okay, so that's super good. Fert for what you're asking. So...
Yeah, with the DC, yeah, hopefully that'll be good enough. It's not super, you know,
I'm not asking anything, life threatening or job threatening, so...
This is probably information that he's not supposed to give out to the public, but then again,
I mean, who's going to know? It's not that big of a deal, so... Yeah, he looks...
type some stuff into his computer, does a little bit of research while you're with him on the phone,
and he says... Yeah, building 2019 in the Zhijin district. It's registered to somebody named Peter
Nazari, that who you thought it would be. Yeah, that sounds about right. It looks like Peter has
been renting that property for about four years. He still is. What else you're looking for?
Let's see, I was wondering if there was any... if you had access to any more like recent
information on him. Let's see, how would he know that? Maybe any associated vehicles that he has
or any sort of ID checkpoints that he's been through lately. He does a little bit more searching
and he says... Doesn't look like there's a vehicle registered to him, but frankly, each
way for people like him, he probably doesn't need a vehicle. He's probably got people to drive him
around, so that's really not unusual. I don't really see him on our grid, so to speak. He doesn't seem
to be very active. I don't see much activity. Could be that he just goes from home to work.
I see he works at Global Omnium Digital, and I know that that place is pretty self-sustaining.
He might have everything he needs taken care of for him right there.
All right, let's see. I guess I will ask him then if he knows we didn't get any ID from those
guys from the guys at the penthouse, did we? I don't think so. No, so I wouldn't know what to ask him
there. I guess? Yeah, I don't have anything else to ask him right now, I guess. Don't hesitate
to call if you need anything else. You've been good to us, so I have no problem helping you out.
Sounds good, and let me know if you need any help with anything, too. Stay safe out there.
Okay, so... All right, well, I'll get off the phone and say that was kind of a bust,
but let's take a look at this data. You pop the data into one of your
sandboxes to one of the sort of virtualized environments, and when you put it in to the
virtualized machine, you can look at all the data, and it's got a couple of different
things in it. So there's a stash of what probably are emails because of the file format.
They're probably a series of emails. There's a stash of photographs and documents,
and then there's yet another stash of emails. What would you like to look at first?
Let's go through the photos and videos. Yeah, try to pick out a couple of the most recent ones
and see what's on there. Okay, so they all date back about a year. There's nothing really more
recent than a year, but the photographs are of a man, and he's consistent throughout all the
photos. So you're probably thinking that might be Peter, might not be, but he does seem to be a
subject in all the photographs. They're a variety of photographs, so they're taken some are
like selfie-style, some are what you would, you know, from long distance, almost like maybe he
wasn't aware that the picture was being taken inevitably. There are women with him. The girl with
him most often is an Asian girl lady, I should say, and they seem to be pretty friendly. That's
mostly what it is, is photos of him and some woman, and typically it's this particular woman,
this one Asian woman. Can I do a search or and see if I can figure it find out who the lady is?
You know, run some facial recognition or something like that. Yeah, give me, give me a look
of what kind of research role that would be, hang on me, me look around a little bit.
Otherwise, I could try to call that back in and see if Rickard has would be able to do that for
me too. Yeah, let's actually, let's do that, because there's not a whole lot about like research
in this hacking system, so yeah. All right, sounds good. I will crop one of the pictures of her
out like a, you know, nice, yeah, driver's license style, sort of like this is her face, yeah.
Yep, and then send it off to Rickard and be like, hey, do you know, can you give me an idea on
who this is? It's related to Peter, so just see if there's any information on her in your systems.
Yeah, and he comes back and almost not instantly, but within, you know, that one sitting, he says,
Oh, that's Tina Tommatsu. She's a bio-roid, basic pleasure model. She's been in and out of our
system for one thing or another, but she has some powerful sponsors so we can never keep her
in for anything. So she's living pretty well. Any information on where she's working recently or
where she may be staying? Sure. It's 134 Marina Street in the Dolphare district.
All right, it might be good to check out later if we don't have anything else. All right,
we'll go back to the video. He said there was some videos as well. Anything in particular
in there or it's just more footage of Peter and who you now know is Tina and it's just, it ranges
from just a day out having fun to sexy videos of them doing sexy things.
Okay. All right, and I guess within those videos you would hear him refer to her as Tina,
and she would be referring to him as Peter. So the identities you would feel are confirmed.
Okay, that sounds good. Let's check out one of the email troves and the first one, I guess.
Yeah, the first email stash is a bunch of stuff between Tina and Peter and they're just,
they don't really, they don't say too much. It's just about meeting times and meeting places.
Any common, any common meeting place for the two of them? She usually comes to his place,
but he's been over at a place in, yeah. All right, so he does know where she lives, too.
Right, so that would be a good place to check out. And the second email troves.
So the second one, second email stash is, it appears to be from Elizabeth Ravadun who had hired
you in the beginning. And she's talking with someone named Yazid, Yazid Faruna, and it appears
that he is employed at Global Omnium Digital as well. So he's one of her employees and it's an
email thread about her instructing him to go get Peter's emails from the internal system,
because Yazid works in IT. So the first email reads, Yazid from, from Elizabeth to Yazid.
The first one reads, Yazid, I would like for you to commence the operation you and I discussed
in our meeting last Wednesday. As I told you in the meeting, this needs to be handled with the
utmost care. I trust you understand what I mean. And please know that I have an outside consultant
monitoring your work to ensure you've left the system tidy. Please report to me as soon as you
see results. The next email from Yazid to Elizabeth says, Ms. Ravadun, I understand and will start
work on this immediately. Systems will remain unaffected and I'll bring you whatever I find without
delay. Thank you for choosing me for this important work. I won't let you down. The next email is
from Elizabeth to Yazid. The files you dropped off to me are marvelously helpful. This is exactly
the information I needed. You've earned a bonus for this work, but I don't feel comfortable giving
you a reward of this nature here in my office. Will you meet me in the corporate apartments of
Gen Grove Pharmaceuticals in one week at nine o'clock p.m.? When was that date from the email?
Assuming it's in the past. That email is dated six days ago, meaning that they're going to meet
tomorrow night at nine p.m. at the Gen Grove Pharmaceuticals apartments. Okay. Do we have the address for
that too and what district is that in? You do have the address for that. It is in the it's in the
Gen Grove district. All right. So that'll be tomorrow night that we would be able to catch them.
Yep. All right. I guess I'll come out of the space and get back with Sid and let him know I found
a couple leads. Cool. About Tina looks like Peter and Tina have been together for a while. So maybe
he's hanging out with her. I think we should go check out that place. Definitely. It seems like a
place to at least start. Yazeed one is going to be a little bit more of a stealth mission. So I
think I might be a little better at that. I guess I don't know. It's really up to you if you'd
like to split up and divide and conquer. The Yazeed and Elizabeth, there's going to be at least
we know two people. Possibly more she I'm sure is going to have some sort of security with her
being kind of high level in corporate. If Peter's hanging out, it might just be him and Tina.
So that might be something we take into account before we make a decision. Which one would you
rather do? I'm pretty sure you have a better stealth than me. So that does seem like the better call
for you to go to the Elizabeth meeting. And I'll just go see if we can find Peter. If we do,
how do we want to handle that? Do we want to kind of bring him back to us or just kind of
tail him and find out what's going on? That's a good question. I don't know. I think we should
probably let him know we're looking for him. And maybe you guys can just hang out there or take him
see if he would want to come back to the hideout so we can figure out what's going on.
That's cool. I kind of feel it out as I get there and see what I think is going to work the best
and then go from there. Okay. Cool. So Sid to Tina and Chaiway to Gengrove. Is that the correct?
Yep. That sounds right. Okay. Let's start with, let's start with I guess the way that the time
would fall would be you'd probably go to Tina first because the other meeting isn't until a little
bit later. So Sid, the Dolphare district is a fairly high-rint little district.
Maybe a really, really well-known and popular and well-to-do bio-roid
pleasure model would be able to afford it, but you know that probably she's being,
you know her rent is probably being paid by one of her clients. And it's a very nice district.
It's got a man-made lake behind all of the houses which people tend to use for recreation.
And it's daylight 24-7 there. They never turn off the artificial lights. So it's daylight and
there are always artificial birds chirping. It's it's supposed to be the brightest and happiest
place on the planet. So it's, it's, yeah, it's, it's, it's a happy, it's a neo-Disney. That's exactly
what I was about to say. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah. It's, um, it is exactly that. So you, you,
how are you, what's your, what's your plan of approach? It is a gated community. So you will have
to go through the, the front gate and sign in and everything, but, um, work, work. That's certainly
the obvious way. And what's your, any ideas on how you want to approach this? Well, would I have
problems going through the main gate? Is it, is it fairly, uh, exclusive or is it something that
I could just walk through and not really raise any eyebrows? There is a security robot there.
But, um, it's like the gate is open. So you looking at it, you get the impression that it's
probably just a sign-in sort of situation where you, where you have to identify that you are going
in, but it doesn't, you wouldn't guess from, from looking at it that it's going to cause problems.
Okay, let's try the easy way. Um, I'll, I'll go up and, uh, sign in. Uh, I think I will try to use
a fake name, uh, just to maybe not be too conspicuous as who I am. Do you have fake ID on you or
anything? I don't. Okay, still want to sign in? Yeah, let's do it. I might have to bluff my
way out of it. We'll see. Okay, you approach the gate and, uh, there is a security robot there.
So he says, you know, sort of, he lights up once you approach and turns to you and says,
I need to find myself. So I feed him, uh, I need to come up with a fake name really quick.
I tell him that my name is Mark Schwalb. Mark Schwalb. And he, he does some kind of internal
chat and he, he doesn't find a Mark Schwalb in the, the history of, of visitors. So he says,
Mark Schwalb, please position yourself for a photograph. Okay, I give him the biggest
chewsiest grin I can. And he takes your picture and he logs it away. Enjoy your stay out Dolphare.
Thank you, kind of robots, sir. Cool. So you, you walk through the gates. You know from the
information that Chai Wei, uh, provided you the address of Tina's house. So after a little bit
of wandering around, you, you come across her, her home and it's, it is like everything else in,
in Dolphare, it's, it's manicured and neat and, and absolutely fake. It's got astroturf in the
front so that it's always green and never overgrown and there's flowers and there's a white
picket fence. I mean, it's the whole nine yards and, uh, the door is, uh, not open, but the, the gate
is opened. The door is, is in front of you. You said there's a lake around the back that, um,
kind of goes all around all these houses. Most of the houses are, are the ideas that everyone gets
a lake front property. So, so all the houses are kind of a long one side of the street. Uh, and yeah,
their backyards all in, in, in, in lake. Okay, instead of going straight to the front door,
I think I'm going to try to go in the gate and if I can circle around back towards the lake,
just to see if I can get any kind of view inside the house from the back, um, before kind of
taking any action to go in. Okay, cool. So you, you, uh, step through the front gate and then go
around the side of the house, um, and, and yeah, the, the windows at least along this side are all,
the, the blinds are drawn, um, the curtains are drawn, whatever. So you can't really see in
through that way. But once you circle around out behind the house, uh, the, the rear doors
are sliding glass doors that go out onto a little, uh, a deck. So they're, and, and they're,
they're not the blinds are not drawn there. So, um, you see a person, I mean, I'm assuming you're
being somewhat stealthy. Yeah, I'm trying to be as stealthy as I can while not acting weird to where
I, I kind of look out of the place. I mean, I'm obviously out of place. But if somebody was walking
along the lake, they wouldn't think that I didn't belong there. Do you have any stealth at all?
Yes, I do. Why don't you give me a stealth roll just to see what you do? 15. 15. Okay.
Um, so you, um, yeah, you kind of casually glance towards the, uh, the sliding glass doors and you
see a woman sitting at a, at the kitchen counter, which is just sort of perpendicular to the sliding
glass doors and she's smoking a cigarette and drinking some drink from what you see she appears
to be alone. And it is the woman in the photographs, which I'm assuming, um,
Chaiway would have showed you. Okay, so I at least know she's in the building. Um, I guess
let's go back around the front and let's knock on the door. So you just try to go the easy
direct route. Cool. Okay. You knock on the door and, uh, there's a little bit of a delay, not much.
And she, she comes to the door and what is, so you're wearing your cyber monk outfit again,
right? That's what you wear. Yeah, I'm not very, uh, into other clothes, so pretty much just
looking like a cyber monk at this point. Yeah, so she looks at you and the confusion, uh,
on her face is, is, so she hesitates a little bit and then she, and she kind of relaxes and
leans in the doorway, takes a drag off of her cigarette and says, well, you're not with security.
So who are you with? I tell her I'm an independent contractor and, uh, I'm really not looking for her
and she's not in any kind of trouble. But we're trying to find, uh, let me see, I wrote down the name,
uh, Peter Nazar. Um, as she knows, we know that she has been with him in the past. We have some
intelligence on that. We're just trying to find him, um, mostly a protection reason at this point.
We want to make sure that he's safe and he's secure and, uh, that you're the only contact we know
that has had any interaction with him. So we thought we would approach you first.
She takes another drag off the cigarette and says, so you're working for Elizabeth.
That's not information that I'm privy to. I'm, I'm working for a second party.
Oh, I wasn't, I wasn't asking. She says, come on in and she steps away from the door and she,
she sort of leads you inside. Okay, I follow her.
She sort of motions towards her, her little bar and says, help yourself to drink if you want.
I, uh, I say thank you, but because of my tenants, I actually don't consume alcohol. So I'll,
I'll find the way I am. Thank you. She sort of raises my brow and sort of laughs a little bit and
says, okay, suit yourself. She says, um, yeah, I know, I know Peter Nazari.
When was the, uh, last time you had seen him?
Why do you need to know? Like I said before, we're trying to, we're trying to find him
in order to offer some protection to him. We think that there may be some sort of
threat against his life at this point. Why do you think he needs your protection?
I don't think I'm being paid to do a job. And so I'm just here to do that job.
Well, if you're being paid by Elizabeth, you're not being paid to protect Peter.
Like I said, I just get a check. I'm not sure who I'm working for. I'm just giving the
mission and talk to do it. All right. Let's see. Now, do you have a bluff
rating at all? Do you have anything in bluffing or, or even just a flat out charisma?
No, I've gotten either. This is gonna be awesome. Yeah, I feel like she's seeing through that.
Let me, let me look at your character. She really quick. Yeah, usually that would be like a sense
motive versus bluff check. Yeah. Okay. You literally do. I see. I'm looking at your character.
She, now you literally do have zero in bluff. Okay.
This promise is not by strong. Yeah. Okay. Let me, let me, let me see what she's up to. Hold on.
Well, go ahead and give me a charisma role. No joke 20. Oh, wow. Okay. So your charismatic
today. Natural 20. Yeah, must have been a natural 20 because there's no modifier.
Yeah, natural 20. Nice. Okay. Okay. So she, she stood as you and sort of
looks at you and sees that you are after all a month. You won't even touch, drink.
Um, seems unlikely that you'd be lying to her. So she says, um, take a seat. She,
she goes and sits down in the lounge and in a, uh, at a sofa and lounge.
Okay. I go and, uh, make myself comfortable riding across from there.
And she gets right back up and goes to the sliding glass doors, which were, uh, the
blinds were open. So she, she closes the curtain there and she looks around the house,
you know, in the immediate area to see if there's any other open windows or anything like that.
And she seems, she seems fairly confident now. So she, she, she comes back and she sits down again
really close to you. Um, possibly slightly uncomfortably close for you. I'm not sure what your
personal space about boundaries are, but she, she's, it's really close to you. And she kind of
leans in and she says, you may not know this, but you're working for someone called Elizabeth
Ravadun. And she's on the hunt for Peter Nazari. Peter and I used to be very close.
He disappeared about a year ago. I haven't seen him in over a year, but I think I might know
where he went. Well, that information would definitely be helpful and make completing my job
at this point. She says, I understand that, but I'm afraid that if you complete your job,
Elizabeth is going to get to Peter and I don't want that to happen.
Do you have any idea why Elizabeth is hunting him down?
Because Elizabeth thinks that he's trying to take over her job. In fact, she thinks he's trying
to overthrow the entire corporation. Do you know if he is trying that or is that just something
she believes? She sits back and sort of thinks on that for a little while.
And now we'll cut over to Lowbath, who has made his way to the Jingrove district.
And the Jingrove district is a little bit, it's certainly nowhere near Xi Jinping in terms of
high rent and quality and sort of corporate-y. But it's clearly, Jingrove is an old pharmaceutical
company. They came up right around all the... They made a lot of money when the death happened.
They were doing anti-radiation stuff. So they're an old company, but they're not necessarily a
hugely popular company. They're just one of those things that have just always been there. So
they're well-off, but they're not a super sexy company. They're just a pharmaceuticals company
that made a name on actually helping people. And now mostly specialize in recreational
drugs for the corporate people, which is pretty standard now. It's just sort of what happens.
Gotta have those uppers to keep everybody happy. Exactly. And nobody ever got fired for hiring Jingrove.
So Jingrove is there. It's big. It's monolithic. It's boring. And the Jingrove apartment complex
is an older apartment complex. And you kind of get this if you ask around for directions or whatever.
It's... Or you can see it with your own eyes when you get close to it. It's actually quite run down.
And it's pretty clear that nobody's actually in the Jingrove apartments anymore. And that probably
whoever used to be there has been moved into something closer to the company, which is kind of
in fashion now, to house your workers inside of your compound. So in other words, it's pretty run
down. But from the outside, it seems to be pretty much... There aren't any security people roaming
around or anything like that. It's a run down apartment building. All right. Is there many people
around? Am I going to have much trouble hiding out around the building? No. It's nearly abandoned.
And you get the sense that this is an area that people have more or less forgotten about.
All right. Well, I'm going to hide around the side or around the... Yeah, I guess it may be
across the way so that I can watch anybody coming in or out of the building. And then see if I can
get on the locals on the network inside the building. There is no network inside the building
or if there is, if there is, you're not detecting it. But given its state, you wouldn't be super
surprised if there just wasn't one there. But I get the impression that you got here pretty early,
right? Yeah. So yeah, as you sit behind a abandoned vehicle, you do see an individual dressed
fairly conservatively, typical employee kind of dress, like not a suit or anything, but professional
looking. He approaches the building, kind of looks around, kind of puzzled. He doesn't appear to
know where he's meant to go. And then he just kind of makes his way inside through the front door.
All right. Let's see. I guess I will follow him in. So let's do a stealth.
Stealthroll try to follow him upstairs without him noticing.
And I gotta see. I gotta roll the three so I got a 12 stealth.
Okay, well, he's not really looking for people to be following him yet. So you get inside easily.
And you're able to kind of catch sight of him turning in through one of the the back doors or
the doors at the end of a hall on the right. So you can go to that door peek through. And then
you see him making his way sort of towards the back of the building. So he just keeps going towards
the back of the building until he arrives at probably what used to be maybe a garage or maybe
a storage room or something like that. It's kind of super gutted out at this point. But it's just
this big open space. And he goes into that. And then he just kind of sits down on a ledge and waits.
All right. Was there any information in the emails? So he was just getting the emails from Peter
for Elizabeth. Yeah, he was. Yeah, was there anything else there? Or did that seem like it was
that was it just the just the email infiltration? Let's let me look. Hold on. No, there was nothing
else there. There was one email that I that I hadn't read yet. But it was it's just him Yazid
replying. Yes, I can be there tomorrow evening at 9, 2,100. I look forward to seeing you. Should I
break anything? But she didn't respond to that. All right. Um, let's see. Do I want to try to
be an agent for Elizabeth for this? I don't even know. I don't have anything to pay him. So
no, I don't think so. All right. Is there a good place? Another doorway like by the front
that I can hide and wait for somebody else to show up? So to see if anyone else comes through
the front door, you mean? Yeah. Um, I mean, you could go actually is there any other doors to the room
that he's in that I can see? Well, there's there's not exactly a door, but the the far the far
right corner from where you're standing, the entrance that from from there it's sort of diagonal
across the room. The the wall is pretty much crumbled out. So there is an entrance, although it's
not yeah, it's not a door, but but it's certainly an opening in the room. Um,
yeah, I guess I'd like to yeah, just find a good place to sit and wait for somebody else to show up.
So, um, if I think I could get back around to that towards that opening or otherwise
somewhere along the hallway entrance here to the main room, uh, just so I can be close by to hear
anything that happens too. Make another stealth role just to see how how how you can yeah,
where you get to. All right, I got a seven so that's a 16 stealth. Okay, nice. So yeah, you feel
like you could probably circle around the perimeter of this open area and get back towards that
sort of crumbly wall if that's what you're looking to do or I mean, it would be trivial to just go
back out the main hall and just watch the front door for for anyone to come in. Yeah, kind of like
the heading spot by the crumbled wall. So I will I think I'll take a position there.
Okay, so you take you kind of position yourself so that you can see the crumbled wall and and
you're you position yourself I'm assuming so that you can still be hidden. So you you you hide
another you know a pile of sort of a desk and a and a filing cabinet and just old office equipment
that someone had you know dumped there and never got carted away. So you you hide out in this just
rubble and you wait for about 15 minutes and then from from a dark corner across from where you are
steps out a guy quite well dressed. He has a briefcase and he he steps into the room and he appears
to look directly at the pile of rubble that you are hiding behind and then he kind of moves
inside through the crumbled wall and and and he looks at the guy on the ledge and he says
Yazeed Faruna and the guy on the ledge just stands up and he says
yes I was here waiting for a misravadoon are you with her and the guy says
yes yes I have your I have the payment that you were expecting
and Yazeed says oh okay I thought misravadoon was going to deliver something we had talked about
something that she wanted to give me personally and he says the guy says I'm sorry she wasn't
able to make it but I have something for you and he draws a a pistol and fires at Yazeed
and kills him with one shot blows his head right off and Yazeed falls through the ground
then he turns toward your pile of rubble and he just sort of stands there so he probably knows
that I'm here I'm gonna stand up okay and and and let myself be known and ask him who he is
he says he says I would prefer to know who you were first I tell him I am also working for
Elizabeth and I was wondering what Yazeed had to do with all this he says
Yazeed was an employee of misravadans she needed him she needed him dealt with due to some
disciplinary action it's really none of your concern I tell him that we've been that I've been
in vets excuse me I've been investigating Peter and I think his involvement is my concern
the guy studies you and he says how did you know to come here um let's see what do I tell him in this case
I think I'm gonna try to bluff and tell him that Elizabeth told me I should come and check
should come and check this out okay yeah give me a give me a roll a bluff roll because you have
bluff right yeah um four so that'll be a seventeen bluff nice okay um he cool so he says
I tell her that Elizabeth I say that Elizabeth should told me I should come and make sure
this goes down he but I need to know more information he smiles and he says I should have known
Miss Rava Dune wouldn't even trust me it's just like her what do you need to know I'll start asking
him how long he's worked with worked for Elizabeth and what he and what he knows about Peter
he says I've worked for Elizabeth and he starts putting his his pistol away now because he
seems to have relaxed a whole lot um he's just yeah he's under the impression that you are
you're the yeah you're the reinforcement um so he says I've worked for Miss Rava Dune for
two two three years now and I don't know who Peter is but I was told to show up here
and to dispose of Yazeed so that's what I've done as you can see you can tell her that the job
is sufficiently taken care of unless you want to examine the body yourself um I'll ask him what's
in the briefcase just because I'm curious or was that where the pistol came no no the pistol came
from his coat so um yeah the briefcase is has not been uh opened at all yet so he's he says um
this was just just backup data um it's stuff that Yazeed gave to Elizabeth I brought it here to
dispose of it next to his body um all right I would tell him I'd like to take a look at it
uh see if it has anything to do with my investigation and uh tell him I will uh arrange the body
after he's gone he says okay yeah sure I mean he hands you the briefcase and says you be sure
to tell Miss Rava Dune that you you did this part right I killed Yazeed but you're doing the data
stuff uh yes I will uh I will let her know that you did your job well very well and he uh he
takes his leave of you um giving you the briefcase all right and I think that's where we'll stop
for tonight Sid will get you back talking to Tina and then check back in with Chai Wei and what
remains of Yazeed in the next episode you've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker
Public Radio dot org we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday
Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like
yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum
computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution Share Light 3.0 License
