Episode: 2576
Title: HPR2576: My swedish and german podcasts part 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2576/hpr2576.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:57:25

---

This is HPR Episode 2576 entitled, My Swedish and German Podcast Part One, and in part
of the series, Podcast Recommendations.
It is hosted by Focus and in about six minutes long, and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, I'm recommending six podcasts in Swedish and German.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
University Access to All Knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi, this is Foki.
I'm recording this on my sensor clip-zip, so we will see how it works out.
As I told you earlier, I'm a heavy podcast listener with a long server list in my.potkit folder.
Most of the English speaking ones have already talked about in earlier shows here on Hacababra
Gradyo, but we aren't only English speaking in our community, yes, I am German accent.
And some may wish to learn some other languages as well, so I thought I could begin some kind
of expansion of the podcast.
I listened to a series by giving you my podcasts in Swedish and German, but I don't give
you all the advance, I think it's getting too much too soon otherwise.
The URLs will, of course, be in the show notes.
Let's begin with three from each language, and I'm taking the Swedish first.
Sweden and Germany have good working public radio networks with a great bunch of shows
available as podcasts, sometimes even exclusively produced as such.
The Swedish network is called Sveis Radio.
Sweden's radio, you could translate it or short, SR.
It's first station, P-Ed, P-1, you could compare to BBC 4.
And one of its shows, fully dedicated to language, is simply called Sproket, the language.
How you have two persons answering questions about the Swedish and in some cases also the
related Norwegian, Danish and German languages.
It can be about grammar, but mostly it's more about what a certain word is meaning, if
it's special for a certain region, where it's coming from, and so on.
It really helped me learn more about the language of my home country by choice, and if what
I'm hearing around could be an example for the regional dialect of Småland.
Well, I'm leaving.
To continue with the good shows from P-Ed, Wittenskopp's Radio in Historia, also
Science Radio History, is for all those interested in history.
It's nowadays about three-quarter of an hour, and you can hear much on Swedish and Scandinavian
history, but also European and word history.
It's often one of the contributions is a work of one of the journalists with some specialist
on some historic important place, talking about what happened there, or what the place
is representing.
One more great show from P-Ed is Medjona, the media, where you have journalists reporting
on the work of other journalists.
They don't give you the news of the week, but instead weekly take a look on how the news
got reported and how the media are changing.
Often, they take up ethical questions in the development of media, including social media
too.
Something similar you got from the German radio station Deutschlandfunk.
The show is called Media's Rees, with an ad sign before the name, to show that it's
not only talking about the old media, but the new media on the internet too.
That show is transmitted every work day and has some funny extra such as Schlagzeile
von morgen, headline of tomorrow, where some editor of one of the many newspapers in
Germany, or Austria or Swiss, is talking about the headline his heard newspaper will have
the next day.
Sometimes it's called Schlagzeile von heute schon morgen ist, headline where today already
is tomorrow, and you have an editor on the line from a country somewhere on the other
side of the globe.
As someone calling himself in European by heart, I like to hear some more from other
parts of Europe, Sweden and Germany, and on European politics.
That's why I love the show Europa heute, Europe today from the same station.
At the last one more show from Deutschlandfunk called Computer on Communication, Computer
and Communication, talking all about our favorite issue, computers and all things connected
to it.
It's aired once a week on Saturday.
This way the news often are no news anymore for netizens, but you get quite some good
background information and talks talking the big picture of developments in the digital
world.
That's all for now.
If not too many listeners are protesting aloud, I will continue with more recommendations
as soon as I get time over.
Maybe you would like to distribute to with something on shows in other languages.
Go for it.
I for myself would like to hear some more on Norwegian shows, for example.
Goodbye.
You've been listening to Heckerpublic Radio at HeckerpublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is.
Heckerpublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution,
share a life, 3.0 license.
