Episode: 2182
Title: HPR2182: why say GNU/Linux ?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2182/hpr2182.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:25:12

---

This is an HPR episode 2,182 entitled Wise Agenius Ashlyhux.
It is hosted by Spaceman and in about 8 minutes long, the summer is dedicated to all the
people that sell Linux instead of the Anus Ashlyhux.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hey, what's up hackers of this world?
Today we're going to have a hot topic and the topic is hotter than your mom for sure.
So GNU, Slash Linux, GNU, Linux, Free Software, Open Source, FOSS, Floss, GTK Plus, GNU, GNU,
Plus System D. So what's fucking terminology should I use, right?
And if you dare to say GNU'd and people is going to just roll their eyes backwards and
say, oh man, just say Linux because it's more fucking convenient.
So this is basically my message to all the fuck bags up there who just can't even have
enough calories just to just think this through and just say GNU, the GNU operating system
or GNU Linux or whatever the fuck.
So I like to address this one first.
You know the kind of people who are like, oh yeah, you know, I've studied University of
Bullshit and I have a PhD in what the fuck and I am a programmer, I have a certification
level retard and I use the Linux operating system.
I use the Linux operating system.
Yeah, you fuck with like you, you've studied how many years and computers and you don't
even know the fucking name of the operating system you're using.
You are a complete fuck bag and you're abyssening people and you're a fucking retard.
I don't know how, like how, how you don't get the point that a kernel is just a component
of an operating system.
It's not the operating system.
Now here's what's important.
When you're seeing GNU, you're referring to something that stands for something bigger
than what Linux stands for.
It's not just about fucking seeing the code and people that change it.
It's about society and how they live in a better world.
We need more ethical people in our society.
Ethics, like nobody fucking gives a shit about ethics.
People just throw junk everywhere, they fucking throw their cans and paper and plastic bags
everywhere and people fuck each other's over with fucking licenses.
It's software and all that and people just want to control things just to personal gain.
But then when you actually, when you're actually fucking saying GNU, you're referring to a system
that it's the same as nature.
Nature is a giant circle and everyone who's born in and can just join in and just live
with the earth and then produce things and just put something, give something back.
But then with proprietary software, but with Linux, like what I'm not saying Linux is proprietary
but I'm just saying it with Linux.
It's just for convenience and ethics is just disregarded.
Isn't it better to just have this fucking approach where nobody's in control, everyone can
give, everyone can modify, everyone wins rather than, oh yeah, we're doing it for fun
and it's just practicalities and then I order you to give me back your changes if you're
using my software.
This is just bullshit.
Like we have this fucking tendency as humans, we just want to control things.
I'm in control.
Do what I want.
I'm in control.
Just fuck you.
Now there goes the free software in open source.
I've just talked about it.
Fucking open source.
It does, like it means that you see the code and a lot of shit can go wrong there.
Imagine if you could see the code but you can redistribute your modifications, you're
missing a freedom.
Or imagine that you can see the code but then the programmer is actually using a license
where everything that you're doing with his code, you have to give him the changes
otherwise you can sue your ass and then yeah, you just end like the person is actually
using open source like he's freeing the code to make people work for him for free but
he doesn't really give a shit about the ideology of science.
So lots of shit can go wrong there.
If you have any for essential freedom missing, it's not free software.
So you see free software is where everybody wins and the minute it's not free software,
there's some fucking monkey out there who's trying to control shit for personal gain or
whatever.
No.
For those idiots who's using FOS and FOS, this is what happens with FOS, okay?
Free in open source software.
Free in open source.
Do you know how ignorant people read this fucking shit?
Free they say gratis in their head.
And open source means they can see the code and they can fucking modify it.
It's you don't call upon ethics, you're not educating anyone, you're just keeping everyone
in the fucking dark, ignorant as fuck and then yeah, I'm going to use windows but then
I'm going to run some FOS software, it's just pointless man and then FOS free Libre open
source software, it sounds better but it isn't, you're being a political fuck with.
You have to fucking take a stand, you have to say this is fucking wrong and I'm going
to go for what's great and good and the best and everybody has to win.
So being a free software advocate isn't difficult, it's just hey, you're just using fucking
words, you're just saying I'm using the GNU plus Linux operating system and I'm running
free software.
And all you have to do is to take a minute or a 30 second more during a conversation
to just say well, here's a difference between open source and free software and you should
say free software, that's all you have to say.
You have to deal with people who's rolling their eyes backwards.
Ooh, this is too much, I don't want to do that.
Oh, it takes too much energy, too much energy to just fucking do that.
Imagine fucking installment, imagine installment back in the day, he had to fucking write
free software, like it was fuck all man, it was fuck all of free software and he has to
start everything from the ground up.
He had much more like much more fucking excuses not to do it, but he still did it.
And today we have free software on a silver platter given to us and all we do is, I just
don't want to use the word GNU man, it's just hard.
What a bunch of fucking retards, not to want things to change, not to want to create
a better world than just, I don't know.
And meanwhile, we have like people who's under the control of Apple and Windows who's
running proprietary bullshit, praying preposterous amount of money just to have a word processing
software, it's ridiculous.
So yeah, this is just a small podcast to say, just say GNU Linux, just say free software,
correct people, and this is all you have to do to be a free software advocate.
You just have to say no, this is false, this is not Linux, you don't understand, you don't
know what you're saying, you don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
And I know some people is going to say, well you know, they are 100% Linux operating systems
out there.
I don't give a shit about that, even if that would be the case, you would still have to
say GNU because GNU calls upon ethics, calls upon learning how to live in a good society,
which Linux doesn't promote.
You know, I'm sorry, you fat fucking programmers out there just eating McDonald's and shit
with your fedora as on your head, but life is bigger than fucking software.
So you can find me, you can give me some fucking insults on the loadaverage.org slash
Spaceman one, happy hacking cunts.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the
infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a like, free dot org license.
