Episode: 2806
Title: HPR2806: HPR Community News for April 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2806/hpr2806.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:08:48

---

This is HBR episode 2866 entitled HBR Community News for April 2019 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 114 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comment posted
in April 2019. This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and welcome to another edition of Hacker Public Radio.
Joining me tonight is from top to bottom. Hello, it's Greg Morris. Hello, it's Janik
Frenzied from Sudan. Hi, I'm sorry, it's quite difficult to make the mental change from
to be a happy bunny from just observing a minute silence for the Dutch remembrance day is there
now so and happens to go inside with the H lock kick off of HBR. So in a rather somber note,
we'll start off saying that this is the HBR Community News for 2019 and HBR is Community
podcast network where shows are submitted by listeners just like you. In fact, very much like you.
In fact, yes, you could send in the show and become a podcaster and this is the Community News Show
which is put on by HBR volunteers or just random people who decide to join the model server.
The first Monday they saturday before the first Monday of the month as 6 o'clock 1800 UTC
on mumble. So, did we have an in you host this month Dave? We did not have any new host this month.
Shame, shame for shame. I'll cry a little tear. Anyway, how was your previous month? Let's do the
banter section. Well, mine was mine's good. Mine's good. I seem to have resigned somewhere other
in some parallel universe, but luckily, luckily, we fell into this universe. So it's all okay.
Sorry about that. Strange what happens when you're not around. You miss one day, Dave.
That's what happens. Well, this month was cool. Not a lot happened except that I broke my
3D printer. So it's not working. I'm waiting for replacement pods. And yeah, that's, oh no,
I did record three, four, three, four episodes for HBR. So when I was published this month,
his next month and then I still got two that I need to submit. And I'll show you. Excellent.
The busy month. Cool. And I finally got to start thinking about new website redesign and
stuff like that more and on. And I've just come back from a two week visit to my in laws in Ireland.
So yes. Anyway, this show, this show that you're listening to now is an opportunity for us to
make sure that every show gets a mention since last month. And the first show in the roundup is
2781, which was HBR community news from March 2019. Oddly enough, this was not filed onto the
community news. It was filed under April Fools section. But it didn't have any comments. So
nobody cared about that show. The next day we had never stop gaming ways to feed the game impulse
even when you can't game. And without even looking at the host, I guess correctly, that it was
flat too. Yep. Sorry, go ahead. Go ahead. No, far ahead. Now I was going to say that it's
an interesting take on the game. Well, I was going to say the gaming universe, but that's not
what I'm looking for. But the way to not just say, okay, we're going to play from this time to
this time on that particular day. It's a continuous thing. And I remember when I was doing role
playing game, I was constantly reading in stuff and building characters and building scenarios
and campaigns. And I think he did depict this very well in this episode. I would say it's kind
of a way of life. And I just, just, it will be. So I think the premise of the show was that
between RPG games, your character goes off and does other things. So it's not just like
in Minecraft when the character is away just stands there. It's you're busy doing other things
and you can come back and then you have more experience and stuff. So yeah, go ahead, Dave.
No, no, I was just going to say that. I thought Yannick's summary was actually very good.
I struggled to write notes to myself to explain what went on here, but yeah, it was interesting
to listen to, but it's, it was, I guess, because it's a mindset that I don't have. I don't,
I find myself not being a gamer and somehow rather being away locked out of it all somehow.
I don't understand it, but there you go. That's just me. I think I'm just afraid of this exact
thing that I will be compulsively doing it in between sessions. Yeah, that's a risk.
Well, I was playing when I was a student, so I had time off. Yeah, fine.
One thing, Dave, though, about this is the link to the show notes is a link to somebody's blog,
which is an excellent blog. Don't give me wrong, but as you know, how do you deal with that
on Internet Archive? Well, the notes are as they stand, and it is a thing that bothers me
slightly as well, because it means that if that link ever, ever deteriorates or goes away,
then we're stuck. What I've tended to do in the past, for past shows where that's happened,
and I've found them, and I don't have a, have a process of doing it yet, is to go and
fish around and see if I can find the site that's now gone away and on the way back machine,
and then either link to what I find there, or in some cases, gather up what was there and put it
into the show, if it's pictures or something like that. So it's a difficult one. I know,
but the reason I was a bit silent here was because I was gazing at these notes thinking,
wow, I'm sure the notes behind these notes are great, but I can't remember reading them.
I'm sure I did, actually, I have looked on mixed signals, and there's some great stuff there,
but it means that we're sort of left high and drive, anything happens.
Yeah, my temptation would be to go to the website, download the text and the images,
and store it locally. Yeah. Yeah, more to be thinking about this. I've had this as well with
my own shows where I put on, where I've edited them on my own blog, and then basically copied
the HTML across, and it's not, there's not an elegance to it. So yeah.
It's a problem. It's the issue of archiving, really, isn't it? The whole business of archiving
is a difficult one, and you need to have some sort of a strategy and a plan and an agreement
as to how you do this, because maybe people don't want stuff to be archived in some form,
but the fact that they've put a pointer to it in an HBR show, which is being archived implies
that they do, but it's something that needs to be thrashed out a bit more in a bit more of a
public forum, I think. Yeah, I mean, it's CC by SA, so it's compatible with the license like it,
just we can just take it, and of course it's complicated audio and slacker media, so it's no,
there's no question there, and that's why I'm comfortable discussing it with Tlatuz,
you know, he Tlatuz and Lost and Brunks' material, even Lost and Brunks, just throws
this stuff away literally. In a good way, to mean that negatively at all, he just gives it away,
he encourages people to do so. Yeah, because I'm going back specifically related to one of the
topics that we have at the end of the show, about archiving, and it's difficult to get shows,
to get context for even some of the early HBR shows, let alone today with a techie stuff,
let alone Freaknik, let alone Ben Reveredio, etc. You know.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, these things, these things sort of deteriorate quite in quite an upsetting way
over time. A personal anecdote, I'm thinking of doing another show on how I got to computers,
having started, many, many years ago, and I started looking for information about stuff
from the 1970s, and wow, there's so much that's gone, so much has disappeared completely,
and it's so disappointing to find it, so I'm a strong advocate of archiving whenever possible.
And this is actually what I was doing this month, for some reason I was able to get my head
together and, you know, started thinking about HBR and how we do, how we how we move forward,
and actually writing some text downs, drawing some diagrams, etc, and raising them and throwing
it all away again and just starting again. And basically the idea would be to have everything
available as an, you know, either a nursing, people could, or sink it down, or get pull it down,
or FTP it down, or mirror the website, so that everything is a physical unit. You have a show,
and in that show, you have a show note, pretty much what you're doing, Dave, and your shows,
you have a small index.html, which if it's enough, then there's no need to have more detailed one,
and if there's a more detailed one, then there's the full show notes, following the convention,
and then, you know, every day you do a nursing of HBR and do a lot of the new shows come down,
everything else is, is there anything that's been updated, so the RSS feeds will be updated.
They series for whatever series that happened to be in gets updated, and what else we get
updated, the main page, I guess. Yeah, but in that way, then we have the internet as our
orsync server, so, you know, anybody who wants to orsync against us, then
we have, they have a copy of all the HPR stuff, as an individual unit, so you can take that entire
episode, and you've got all the show notes, you've got all the audio you've got, you know,
if this video, you've got everything there. And that's where I am at the minute. Okay,
sorry, a little bit of a tangent to there. Why, maybe, maybe, maybe it's just you and I, Dave,
that finds this interesting. No, no, I was listening very carefully, and what I actually wanted
me able to do is that when people pull that down, that if they put a web server, or if they open
it up in a browser, like in them, Dolphin, or Windows File Manager, or something, that they
can navigate the static site locally, but if you put it behind a any form of a simple website,
web server, then you can serve a mirror of HPR. You know, back in the old days, there used to be mirror
mirror networks around the place, it was a thing, and it stopped being a thing. And that one of
the shows this month will talk about the heydays of podcasting. So let's pause until that point.
Yeah, okay, meanwhile back to the plot. The Windows shut down that EXE command explained by Claudio Miranda.
Didn't even know this existed. Awesome. Yeah, didn't know it existed either. No, me neither.
Who's using the command line on Windows anyway?
Yeah, lots of people actually. That's how I got started on the command line was doing command lines
stuff in Windows. Well, doing command lines stuff in DOS, and then Windows come along, and all those
commands still work. So Bobba says, shut down command. Thanks for the insight. There's a scheduled
power outage of work next month. And with this, I can make sure everybody's workstation is shut down
properly without running around looking at the lights. My friends, that right there
gives the show a reason to exist. Yep. Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. Of interest to hackers, plural,
meaning two people. Yeah. Claudio M replies, also useful with PS exec from Sys internal suite.
Glad you found it useful. While you can use it alone, it's also useful with tools like PS exec from
the Sys internal suite. I might do an episode about that particular command as well. That suite has
so many tools, but PS exec is the one I use the most, and he gives a link. You could probably create
a batch file or power shell script, go through a list of host names and have them reboot or shut down
remotely. Claudio, please do an episode on PS exec. It is a phenomenal set of tools, and you are
literally baiting your head against a wall on Windows machines until you have that stuff installed.
It is brilliant set of tools. So please, love to hear more shows about that. So he now owes you a show.
Yeah, did he say that he was going to? I might record. Is that enough to say? Yeah, yeah, it's enough.
Okay, okay. Okay, for enough, yeah. The Yamaha disc lab here.
Chris decides my pronunciation, Dave. Well, now I would pronounce it that way because I
fall naturally to the French way of saying it, because disc lab here is the more German way of
saying it, which is where it comes from, I think. Yeah. Yeah, I think so too.
Where John Colp talks about his Yamaha disc lab here, DK C500 or W, that's in my office at work,
or in his office at work. Basically, this is a player piano. Oh, John, John, John, John, John,
John, John, John, John, John, John. I'm not even going to, I let you comment on this so I can
pretend I didn't hear the music that he used as examples. Yeah, but it was not too long.
No, it was very short. Very easy, I guess. Yeah, very easy. It says it too.
But despite using a copyrighted music, it was really interesting and the sound quality of this
piano is amazing. I mean, it did play a track that he we wrote. And I'm not really into that
kind of music, but yeah, it was really, really nice. And it sounds like a very interesting piece
of machinery, this clever. Well, blue, my mind was the recordings of actual computers actually playing
the work. Yeah, can you imagine if this existed in Mozart's time, the number of debates that will
be on nighttime BBC TV would, would like just to finish. No, you're completely wrong. Here it is.
Here's him playing it. Oh, right, you're right. Well, sorry about that. We'll move on to our next piece.
Yeah, yeah. Anyone want to do the old comments there? So, shall I start? To, to, to,
says music to ears, music to ears literally, that disc levier must be really high tech as it
can replicate playing so well. And watching the video of disc levier playing was a really nice
bonus. This reminded me of time when, as a wee lad, I made a trip to a museum of mechanical music
and they had completely mechanical piano that could play different dynamics, flourishes and whatnot.
The young responded. Translations. Hello, folks. This cat is the German word for thropidisk.
Clavier is the German word for piano. Tastatur is the German word for keyboard, at least in terms
of computers. The pianos keyboard would be called Clavier. So, this Clavier can be split into
discit and Clavier. Thanks for the financial. Excellent, excellent. John says,
okay, but it wasn't the world temperate piano. But remember, in 1722 Bach wrote,
does, oh my god, Clavier. And at the time, the piano, as an instrument did not exist, it had to
mean either keyboard, harpsichord, or club the chord. Keyboard is most generic.
Do you ask somebody else want to do the next one? I'll do mine after.
So, Gertres responded, so cool. I'm not by far music literate, but the technology in this
is so mesmerizing. I'm wondering if the tech exists for other types of instruments. I
wind and partition them. That's a good question, actually. So, I said, what a wonderful device.
Hi, John. I love this. It's a magnificent instrument. I never knew there was anything
quite so sophisticated. I watched the music machine Mondays on the Vintegarten YouTube channel
a couple of years ago. They visited the Speel Clock Museum in Utrecht and looked at the
marbles there, and they're referred to a playlist of all of the visits. But this
disc clavier is a significant evolution of these machines. Listening to your show, I was reminded
of a thing I like to listen to when I was a kid, Sparky's Magic Piano. There's a link in Wikipedia.
It was often the radio and Saturdays on a children's music program. It was probably in the 1950s.
I was slightly puzzled by the pronunciation of disc clavier, thinking it should be pronounced
the French way. A bit of googling proved me wrong, and you write, of course. In my defense, I used
to live in an area of rural England with many villages named after Norman French families,
which were pronounced strangely, at least to my ears. My favorite place called Little Oat Bois,
as I would say, in the French form, not very far away, an easy cycle right away from home,
and it was called by the locals Hobbes, and there's a link to that as well, so pronunciation has
always been a thing, as far as I'm concerned. What do you mean exactly? What do you mean exactly
by strangely pronounced French words? Well, Hobbes is not how you would say Oat Bois, which meant
Hobbes. Hobbes. Hobbes. Well, yeah. My French pronunciation ain't that good, but
my level of French is schoolboy French, where we probably would have said that.
And everybody in French books that we read lived on Rue Barbe, which was a British joke, of course,
because it sounded like Rue Barbe, et cetera, et cetera. You know who said, just give you some
idea of a level. And it's Spale Clock Museum. If your ruin was here, he would be very disappointed.
Did I not say that? Nope. What did I say? Spale Clock. No, it's Spale. Anya.
Guy says, how far away are you? You said you could listen over the internet no matter how many
hundreds of thousands of miles where you are. What moon replanets would that be? Sorry, couldn't resist.
It was an interesting show. Thanks. And Jean responded. Or not of referring to this
this comment, I guess, hoops. I thought I said hundreds or thousands, not hundreds of thousands.
Windigo says, Library of Congress. First of all, this has been one of my favorite shows of all time.
What a fascinating musical instrument, not to mention a cool piece of technology. But then you
drop this in nonchalantly. I was working at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC one summer.
Dude, it's possible that you've covered this elsewhere, but I'd listen to a whole show about
that, how that happened. It's always great to hear from you. And Jean replied,
a great summer job. Hi, Windigo. Thanks for the comment. Yes, I did work at the Library of Congress
in the summer of 1993 as a junior fellow. A paid internship, which was quite prestigious. I didn't
know if they still have this or not. I don't know if they still have this or not. It was an amazing
gig for musicology nerd to get to work in the music division, helping to process the recently
acquired archive of Arnold Copeland. Maybe this is worth an episode of its own.
To stop, to stop only a show as well. Yeah. Gosh, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm telling,
morning today. And Jean also said, all their near-perfect player pianos. Dave, sorry,
took me so long to respond to your very thoughtful comment. I appreciate the link to the self-playing
instruments video podcast. There are some really good ones in there. I'm especially impressed by
the self-playing Steinway duo art piano, recorded by Sergei Prokofiev. That one is nearly as
faithful to the actual playback as the Yamaha disc labia, but is limited by the length of the
paper of the paper that is recorded on. It's an analog equivalent, incredibly accurate in its
reproduction. There were earlier, earlier ones too. That whole phenomenon would merit an
entire series, but I don't know that much about it. Ha, ha. Well, I guess he has, has a series now.
Yeah, you could, could at least start it. Well, you see what happens here. You send it in the show,
and then you watch more shows. Ah, well, swacos. What is UCPE? A short talk on the
networking standards, and this was on JWP about network foundation, virtualization, universal
customer premises equipment. Well, you seem to know a little more than me on the subject.
Yeah, I looked at some of the links, because I think John had forgotten to give any tags, so those
are mine. Oh, okay, yeah. So it was just me reiterating the sum of the keywords, and so
but yeah, I wasn't, I didn't come away a lot, a lot more knowledgeable from, probably,
didn't spend a lot of time though. Yeah, I've, I've some, I actually intended on my holidays to talk
to somebody in the know about this, somebody in the know being my brother, but he refused to talk
to me on this whole list. Didn't want to talk about work on this. So, fair enough, I will get to
them, get to that again, universal CPE. I get the concept, but I don't know the blurb that we have,
what is universal CPE has got a lot of buzzwords in it, but it doesn't actually tell you what it is.
It's a software virtual network functions running on a standard operation system, hope, and
hosted on an open server. The idea, the idea that UCP deployment supports a multi-tier,
multi-component configuration. As such, UCP brings the power of the cloud to Telecom network
in its gateway to innovations, and that's all very well, but why would you put customer
program's equipment by definition? It's customer premises equipment. Why would you put that
into the cloud? Are they sort of running an individual Docker container for each of the customers,
and then rendering all the video and sending it back down to the, so what's the point?
I understand that you can do. It might be useful for testing. Working in, basically, my day job is
TV. I can see how that would be useful, but it kind of defeats the purpose. So,
more information to come, guys. The following day, my YouTube channel's inspired by Ahuka,
Tony Hughes sends in his shows, including Big Clive, category 5, computer explained,
dusky, big daddy linux, raspberry pie, and free audacity tutorials. All of these are very good,
and I have been at all of them before. Big Clive, of course, I watch religiously.
I know most of them, but I don't really follow them, as I'm not subscribed to them, but
you have watched at least once. Yeah, I've worked a fair number of them as well. Some of them are on
my must-watch list. Some interesting point is I didn't know about the audacity tutorials.
That could be fun. Yeah, that could be useful. Yeah, especially here. Sorry, go ahead, Ork.
No, I was just going to say that I actually appeared on Big Daddy linux a few times.
Did you know? Yeah. So, the following day, we had Node.js Part 1. I don't know JavaScript,
do. Yeah. Is that correct? That's the way it writes. Somebody told me Dave.
I think somebody forgot the word in that thing. Yes, I completely forgot to ask him what he missed out
to, to be honest. Yeah, strange data, but hey, it's a data. It's eye-catching. It's got us. Yeah,
Tutorial says, looking for more, great start to a series. I love learning how people are learning
new skills like programming languages. And this is a very good one to be learning Node.js. It's
kind of popular at the moment. Yeah, Node.js is the JavaScript interpreter. So, technically,
Node.js is not a language. JavaScript is the language, but yeah, it's like Java and the JVM.
The JVM is, Node.js is the equivalent of the JVM and Java is the, well, JavaScript is the language.
And then, yeah, Node.js is really interesting in that when you know how to write JavaScript for the
brother, then you don't really have to learn anything more to write back in the programs. So,
that's great. I thought this was a great premise for a series, actually, especially since he
says, he's obviously a very skilled guy, because he knows a lot about all sorts of stuff, but he's
not, I think he said something to the fact that he's not, he doesn't seem himself as a programmer
as such. And I thought that it was a great, a great voyage that he set himself on, and I was
fascinated to hear how he gets on with it, you know. I don't think, am I right? Do you, he said,
I didn't make a note of it, unfortunately, something like he, he hasn't had any formal programming
to tuition. That's interesting to have a script. I don't remember if this was,
I might misinterpret it, I hope I didn't, but yeah. But still, I'd be fascinated to
to follow along with with his exploration of this thing. Well, this is title Node.js Part One,
so to be expected. Absolutely. One Part Two, please. Yes.
Although it's a show moving on, looping in Haskell to the total is describing how to do loop-like
constructs in Haskell. And it was interesting to find out that they don't really exist. You
need to do recursion in order to do loops. Yeah. Fascinating. Yeah, it's, it's kind of, I think it's
it's a threat of functional languages. I don't recall that Scala has any looping structure either.
When I listen to days, I remember my days when I was learning Scala. So, yeah, you need to map, you
need to fold your lists. Yeah. It's interesting to see that pretty much old functional
languages work the same. So, basically, a four loop or a while loop is really a procedural thing.
Yeah. Yeah. That's a good way of putting it, actually. Yeah. Because things like map is,
is an iterator in as much as it is applying a thing to, to a list repeatedly.
By some magic means that you don't necessarily know about having been an assembly level programmer
when I first started working in IT, I find myself always wanting to understand what the
underlying process is. And you sort of imagine that these things map onto a bit of
iterative looping in an assembler. But I don't know if that's a good, good insight or not,
sometimes not probably. It really depends on what you have to do and the language. But Java
recently added those things that they called that the stream API. It's, it's really interesting,
but you know, it's like everything you get to, to be really careful not to make your program more
complex by using things that you think will make it less complex. I don't know if that makes any
sense. But those maps are, let's take the map function, for example. It's really, it's really
elegant. But then when you chain that with other functional stuff, and it can be really hard to
read the program. But you can do awesome stuff in like one line. Of course.
Yeah, yeah, I am being a bit of a pearl fan. There's, there's all sorts of things that do something
vaguely equivalent to it where you can process lists with a, with a map command and so forth. And I
have been, I have ended up writing stuff where there are lots of, lots of those sorts of things
chain together. Because at the time you write it, you think, oh yeah, yeah, just add another one in,
another one in. And you come back to look at it later on or you hand it to somebody else and they go,
what, what is this? Yeah, yeah, exactly. I've had fun calls from having retired saying, you know,
that script you wrote, but the hell is that being supposed to be doing? And yeah, so not always
wide. You're very right. You have very, absolutely agree. Yes. I think I've struggled with the map
function and some of the scripts you've set me to. Oh, no. You know all the magic because you
explained it to me, so that's why. So the following day, we had pacing and storytelling,
lost and bronx ticks a stab at explaining why pacing in your story really matters.
Yeah, as usual, really interesting, even though I'm not into this storytelling subject, but
yeah, still very interesting to listen to. Should I do the comments to, to tell you what says,
what about non-fictional stories? I love listening to this series and started wondering how applicable
and or easy would it be to adapt these topics in a non-fictional story that isn't the story at all.
If there's a book that teaches readers about programming, can some of these topics still be relevant?
Could a study book build towards some climatic revelation that is hinted more and more as it
comes closer and then revealed in all its glory? I've seen that attempted a few times and
it would be great if it could, but it's also if the counter to that is if the story isn't engaging
or a lot of interest to people, the students, for example, it can put you off because, for example,
sometimes when you're doing a, in the last Python programming course that I did, the example was
computer gaming and I had no interest in it and half the class had no interest in it. The other
half did and for half the class it was great and they were really enjoying it. For the rest of us,
we were really struggling because we had no idea of these concepts and not having played multiple
games that he was designing. It was all no relevance to us. But then again, a regular story.
It would be interesting. I'd love to hear Lost and Bronx view on this, actually.
Yeah, me too, actually. It would be an interesting approach and somebody with the skills to do it
talking about it would be most intriguing. Now you know how to record your next episode about Bash.
It was a nice secret. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, we're thinking now.
Knowing Tatoo, he's already hidden encrypted messages in all his previous shows and
there's some person going out there. Yes, I cracked his code. Sorry, Kariot.
Hello. I think I'm, can you hear me? Could I? Yeah. I can hear you. Yeah, okay, I thought my button was
stuck. It's okay. Anything else to say? Next series of Bash. Yes. That would have been good.
Okay. The following day, we had YouTube subscriptions part five from Mahooka,
Mental Fast, Minute Earth, Minute Physics, Mona Lisa twins,
Monty Python, Objectivity, Official Goal, or being PBS EOS,
EONs, PBS, FaceTime, Periodic Values, Physics Girl, Roll On TV, RV Education 101, RV to Freedom,
Scienceium, Science Friday, SciShow, Biz, Biz. So, I now understand why the ordering of them seems
so random to me. He's doing them in, uh, alphabetical order. Yes.
Well done. Yes. Actually, PBS EONs is one of my favorites. I love that. It's really, really well done.
A little bit too short and a little bit too polished for my, my tastes. I could get the point
quicker, but still it's got some amazing stuff in it. Yeah. I've really started going away from
shows that have really quick cuts in it. It seems to me to be defeating the purpose of a YouTube
video. I mean, you're attempting to chop it in your face. Look, give me four hours of, of big
lives hands just taking something apart. It's fine. I was saying to my, I was saying this to my
kids who, who, when I make utterances like this, you sort of backwank, oh god, he's doing it again.
But saying that some of the, some of the way they cut these things, they, there's a sort of
image about, vaguely about the subject. And then they keep showing it over and over and over and
over again. The other thing they do, and that's so irritating, the other thing they do is they
do a full shot of the, the presenter, then they zoom in, and then they zoom right in as if
somebody's grabbed your head and shoved it at their face so hard that you want to, want to pull away.
And one who has quite a large personal space, I find that to be really disturbing. Why? Why must you
do this? You know, but yeah, they think I'm nuts and probably, I don't like it. It's the content.
Yeah, it should stand by itself. And there are plenty of other YouTubers out there who,
who can do it, smarter every day, for instance. He just looks into the camera, kind of interesting.
And then you'll cut to a diagram and then he comes back and talks to you about it. Well, I get what,
what's going on? Anyway, sorry, yes, it's just, I find it sad that I unsubscribe from some channels
because the content is good, but I just can't look at them. Yeah, yeah, I haven't quite reached
that point yet because PBSEM, for example, contains a lot of really good information about
paleontology that I find fascinating, but the presentation really hasn't quite got to the point
of grating so much they want to stop, but it might do. Okay, folks, and if you have podcast or
YouTube recommendations, please contribute to this. If you've got podcast recommendations,
I'd also like to hear the following day we have looks like TrueCrips. Oh, I see what he did
there. Do you see that looks like TrueCript, LUCKS, Linux, how does this, Linux crypto file system?
Then what do you stands for? Tattoo demonstrates how to use LVM and crypto setup to create and use
portable encrypted file systems. Now, what I would like Tattoo to do for me is, and this is a show
I've been trying to put together myself where in theory, it could be possible. Say you have two
Raspberry Pi's, right? You whip me so far? Only two. No, you've got two Raspberry Pi's, yeah. They're
both identical. Two people either side of the world, one person in, let's say, the Netherlands,
by one, and one person, let's say, in a pick around the country, New Zealand, by one, right?
Two identical Raspberry Pi's, yeah. And you've got download a default Raspberry and image
on both of the Pi's. Now, the person in the Netherlands knows the root password for
their Pi, and the person in New Zealand knows the completely different root password for their Pi.
Would there be a way to connect in a, so both of them do a backup with their, both of them by
a, I don't know, five terabyte drive, right? And they encrypted with locks, and they ship it to the
other person. Okay, it's now encrypted. It's now encrypted on the other side. Would there be a way
to mount that disk? So the Dutch disk is now in New Zealand, and the New Zealand disk is now in
the Netherlands. Would there be a way to mount that disk securely through the other Raspberry Pi
without the person decrypt, been able to decrypt it in transit? I'm sure my good feeling is it should
be possible to mount the remote disk on your PC. So if I was here in the Netherlands, I should be
able to connect to the other disk over there via SSH, and then mount over SSH FS, they encrypted disk
sent so that the looks file system would be decrypted on this side. I don't know if even that's
possible, or I may have been not. If somebody has an idea on this, I'd really love to hear a show
about this. And I'm happy to work on this particular one as well, because I think this is actually
a good way to keep backups of your stuff around the place, because once you did the initial transfer,
then the rest is just rsynced across, and you can set your disk to time out once your rsyncing is
done. So it just comes on once a day, copies in your data, trickles it in, and then shuts the disk off.
But what I'd like to be able to do is prevent the other person from ever being exposed to the
to the data, not that I don't necessarily trust the other person. But so the other person doesn't
need to worry about low enforcement officials or whatever whereby they can say, I genuinely do
not have the access to this. You can take the disk, I have no problem with that. I don't have any
information that will allow you to decrypt this because there's no way that I can do it. And even if
low enforcement's not not suggesting that we're doing anything illegally or it's just
could could you do that for the whole concept of off-site backups?
Yeah, probably, but then you would have to expose the
yeah, it's got to be a device. Yeah, can you can you mount the looks device
back so that the ones and zeros, the encrypted ones and zeros are sent back over the wire
locally to another, say Raspberry Pi in the Netherlands. And you hide that transport bit in the
middle. It's got to be possible. And yeah, somebody with more more time under hands.
You think that you need the R thing would need to have a view of the file structure which
you can't do if it's encrypted. Yeah, but they are saying we'll be mounting two disks locally
because you would mount the encrypted, so on my laptop here, I will be connecting somewhere via SSH,
SSHFS. So you would encrypt both both the both the master and the copy and back up one to the other.
So what are you saying? Exactly. And both will be with a pure local. So I'll be
our sinking slash local local disk to our sink forward slash mount forward slash remote disk,
which would then guess encrypted via looks and then get sent over SSHFS and the ones and zeros
will get dumped onto the disk on the other side. So if even if somebody was sniffing the network
on the other side, you've got the SSH traffic, which will go in the clear in the kernel on the
Raspberry Pi, but even inside of that tunnel, the ones and zeros would still be encrypted heading
down to the file system. Yeah, you know, do you see anyone see the use case because this is
as clear obvious to me as, you know, it's full and turned encryption, basically it's over talking about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now again, I get where you when you go into. So that's the thing what I'd like to
be able to do is basically ship a disk to somebody and somebody can download the default
image on a Raspberry Pi so that this is remote or sinking. So, you know, your body,
you send a disk to them, they sit and disk to you and yeah, Bob, you're on top. Okay, enough about
that. The next show was playing around with text to speech synthesis on Linux, playing around
with different text to speech synthesis on Linux. Obviously that calls no commons whatsoever.
So that's let's move on to the next show. The basic co-proc, the future 2009 is here.
Clacket discovers Bache's co-proc keyword and explains some toy examples. There were two
commons as I strongly suspected that would be reading with the voice of Dave Morris is Dave Morris.
Who said, I really enjoyed this. Thanks, Clacket. I enjoyed this a lot. Nice to be on the
receiving end of the Bache info for a change. Smiley, winky face. Command substitution.
It's my understanding that the new dollar open close parentheses form is an improvement on the
older back tick form. Not only because the substitutions can be nested, at least when I found
it years ago, I was excited to be able to nest them. I assume it's nestable because the new form
is easier to parse. Then co-proc subject, this seems cool though a little involved. I'd
look briefly but hadn't really thought about the feature. Thanks for covering it. Since Be Easy
and I've woken the AUK series through its hibernation recently, I'm going to cover redirection
and AUK's co-process feature as well. And episode 15 is almost ready to be recorded and uploaded.
It is uploaded but not yet posted I think. So there's co-processes in other places really.
He did give us the challenge of coming up with a real world example.
Well, I've got one in episode 15 of The AUK thing but it's nothing very much though.
It's not that wonderful. I think your middle name is contrived examples Dave.
Why not? What's wrong with that?
Well, I actually would love to hear somebody who goes, yes, this is exactly the thing I need and
here's the reason I need it. It's not a thing you'd want. I don't know. I can't see that many
uses for it that couldn't be achieved by other means really.
Seems to me, the only reason I would see somebody doing that is some young man comes up to a
graveyard and goes, yeah, this is crap because you run into this edge scenario and
graveyard pulls out core proc to fix that problem and you know, rather than rewriting a script you
put in a dirty hack to clean up some sort of edge case that could occur.
Yes, yes. I struggled to find anything. As you say, I contrived an example.
Taki says, re-back holds versus dollar per end. Yes, that's why the dollar per end was
introduced. Back holds can be nested too but it requires escaping them with back sashes and we
don't want to go there if we can avoid it. Apart from the nesting thing, I find the dollar per end
easier to read, especially when enclosed in double quotes as it usually is. I thought that one
difference between the two is that the dollar per end trims any trailing new line but it turns out
I was wrong. They both do that so the difference is purely about quoting and readability.
Cool. I can date my bash groups by whether I'm using backticks or dollar per end
to your episode actually. I hated the backtick thing. I didn't actually know in my earlier days
of using bash that you could nest them because you get yourself in a hell of a knot with it
but when the dollar per end thing came along it's such a delight. It's so obvious where one
starts the next end and ends and the next one ends and so on. You can see the nesting very,
very clearly which seemed much nicer. So the following day we had an interview with Martin Wimpress
Monsieur Janik. Yeah. Managed to track somebody down and force them into an interview.
We approve of this. I didn't have to push in too much.
Yes, those mate people do love to talk. Yeah, yeah. This was very nice. Very nice. I enjoyed
it very much. You said your first interview in English, well I thought it was very, very well done.
Thank you. Congratulations. Yeah, well, I've got another one in the pipe which is going to be
released pretty soon. I think with, well, I'm not going to reveal anything. So stay tuned.
I have two for you. Yeah, I have two for you. I need to edit them and submit them but yeah,
they're ready. Excellent. The following day did earth. A review of a 20-year-old
canoe-free documentation licensed RPG about post-pocalyptic turmoil. Say that when you're
drunk. Needless to say, it was tattooed. Yeah, never heard of deaders, but yeah. It's
impressive that he's actually managing to resurrect this. In fact, my notes to myself
are resurrecting this from the PDFs. And it's very, very impressive that he's doing that.
So yeah, congratulations on that one. Yeah, it's awesome. This website that there is is actually
quite a lot of information on it. Hold on, no. I just sent my wife looking for an alarm that's
going off, but it turns out it's the fan on the computer behind me is making some every so often.
So I'll just go and get her back. Be with me one moment. Or you could later run and then say,
oh, really? Sorry. Yeah, sorry about that. No problem. What did I miss? What did I miss?
We were just sitting here thinking about the silence compression,
cleaning that bit up. Yeah, and then I go and root it. His show notes are absolutely excellent
over there. The blog articles are the business. He really, when he does sit down to do show notes,
he does show notes. I wonder if we did the file print to PDF with that fix it?
I'm just attached them then in case they were ever gone. And actually, in saying that
that will guarantee that tattoo will send in show notes from now on.
The path that his show notes will end up as PDF files at some time in the future.
Yes, yes, one of his non-preferred
minutes. Anyway, the next the operator sends in something completely different.
IRS credit freezes and junk mail. Oh my, this was a nice, this was a good one. It was a
doubt. Yeah, just credit freezes and stuff and opting out of a sort of junk mail.
Yeah, the whole business of credit, worthiness and credit,
analysis and so forth. It's a scary, scary process for as long as I'm concerned.
I've avoided credit as much as I possibly can in my life that I find it to be
a repulsive concept. Yep. However, that's just me. My parents sort of taught us my sister and I
to avoid buying things that we couldn't pay cash upfront for, which you know, was a,
I suppose, an appropriate thing to do post-war, but certainly not the way the world is now,
but it's given me an aversion to the whole process of credit.
I've led to subprime mortgages and the disaster that that had yield, which we're still living with.
Indeed, indeed. So, yes, I agreed. My wife has strong feelings as well, so other than the mortgage.
Yeah, the mortgage account avoid really. Not really, no, unless you've got, which is, yeah, you know,
you've got a rich uncle or something. If you have a ton of money to avoid mortgages,
then you don't have to worry about this. Yeah.
Anyway, Congo Man says credit card security. Though, he's a capital orn commercial.
Capital one, I think that is. Yeah, it could be.
Yeah, they have something new and notable. The O, E and O product is a credit card that gives
you a new credit card reference number for each vendor you buy from. So, if your credit gets stolen,
you only lose the reference number and all the other bills you pay with your credit card
are unaffected. On top of that, you know which vendor compromised your credit card. That is
interesting. I also think the whole way that credit cards are done, you know, the number of
digits that are in there, the way you can break down a credit card, there are only a very small
number of credit card numbers as such. And, you know, I don't think it's a very safe way to do
transactions at all. Yeah, I think there are companies in the UK that the office is something like
this, a sort of virtual credit card type concept. I think my son has one. I've never really asked him
a lot about what Orie is doing with it, but I think it might be offering a similar sort of thing
that you can subdivide your credit card as it were with different reference numbers. Yeah,
I guess I was not a thing I've got into much, but the ability to partition stuff
sounds like a very useful capability. So the whole thing can't be vacuumed up and stolen.
Fures back, there was a bank in front. I don't know if they still do that, but they were offering
one time credit card number. So each time you had to, each time you wanted to buy something online,
for example, you'd first go to the bank's website and request a credit card number, which was
valid, and then pay with that virtual card, and then it would not be usable anymore. So if
if anyhow, this would be stolen, it wouldn't be useful. Yeah, but then you had to go to the
bank's site every time you want to buy something online, and I'm not sure this was really practical.
And also you were not in numbers because there's only so many valid numbers. There's the visa
identifier, then there's the country identifier, blah, blah, blah. So the breakdown of credit card number.
Yeah. Okay. Yes, I see on anything that I buy now on Dutch websites or whatever, even on
Chinese websites, they have the banking ideal, which is a Dutch banking thing where it just
transfers you to your own banking website, and then you transfer the money directly from your bank
over to that. And the beauty of that is if it goes wrong, then you can get it back from the bank.
Cool. We don't know. Yeah, it's in Switzerland. What? Switzerland of all places, I would expect you to have
loads of things to do with money. Or is this more about getting money as opposed to giving it away?
Yeah. I guess so. Yeah. Okay. The following day, writing a web game in Haskell,
simulating at high level to Rototo gives an overview of a simulation in their 4x game.
So far, we've been concentrating on separate pieces of the game. Now let's pretend to put them
together in a simulation. Yeah. And the sample code, if you're looking at it, kind of with your
eyes blurry, you can kind of make out what he's doing. Yeah. Yeah. You can do so many things in
so little lines. Yeah. And half of that was comments. Yeah. I'm afraid this one passed me by because
I was listening to it while I was doing something else. And it sort of skimmed it over the
top of my head. And I've meant to go back and and listen again with the notes in front of you.
The notes are great. They do help a lot, but I'm afraid I didn't get around to doing that.
I completely forgot. So yeah, you really got to sit down and with those notes in front of you to
to get it. Which is not a bad thing. It's just that you don't need to do it. You need to actually
take the steps to do it. I do e-speak on his show notes and include those with the show. So I
listen to the show notes first and then listen to the show and then I read along as he's gone.
That's good. That's a good idea. Yeah. Just five minutes after he's finished, it's like,
oh yeah, I kind of get what he's doing there. And then five minutes later, it's all just seeped out
on my head again. But that's my fault, not his. Should podcasters be pirates?
Nightwise, Lexa's very nostalgic on the early days of podcasting and wonders if we all sold out.
I was wondering about this. Oh god, he's going to start playing some copyrighted music.
But no, it wasn't about that. Tour de Toto says, yeah, record me positive, record me episodes.
Now, the mandatory pirate speak has been done. I can comment. There is a market for both kinds of
podcasts, grassroots ones and more slick commercial ones. Latter ones won't disappear as long as
there's money to be made. So it's our task to keep them all grassroots style alive. Very good.
Point. Yeah. So I said, I said tonight was memories of early podcast and pirate radio,
not really answering his question, but just he sent me off thinking.
Well, you know, I've reached the age when I can drop anecdotes. As I was sent to that woman on
the bus the other day, anyway, it said, interesting show. I started listening to podcasts in 2005
with their events. I just bought our first family PC, which is Windows. Signed up to my first
ISP and started looking for stuff to listen to. I bought my first MP3 player that year,
and I River, I have P899. I was using juice or similar as my pod catcher. Yes, I listened to
the daily source code and today winner, who's the originator of RSS, and those were some great times.
I also remember pirate radio in the 1960s. I was at school in Norfolk in the east of England.
We all listened to radio Caroline, which was just off the sort of east coast of the UK,
and also radio London, which called itself Wonderful Radio London, and they were from repurposed
ships off the east coast. I'd listened to Veronica, which he mentioned at times, but not a lot since
it was in Dutch and the signal wasn't as good as I recall. Also, good times though. Thanks for
the memories. Did your originators or RSS? Did Dave Weiner originate RSS?
Yeah, did you know who was RMS? Oh, Schwartz. RMS Schwartz.
No, I think it was, well, there were lots of arguments about where it came from at the time,
I remember. Dave Weiner claimed to have, he and Adam Curry claimed to have come up with the idea
between each other and Dave Weiner set up a company or something where he used it and he played around
with OPML, which I think he invented as well. Though he never, it was never formally
accepted as a standard, at least that version wasn't. I thought so. I thought it was the case,
certainly. I've not looked it up, though, to confirm that I'm right. Interesting.
There's a Wikipedia article. Yeah, it seems to be Dave Weiner. Okay. It was used a land that he
created, wasn't it? And I'm looking at the same pages, you should have done that earlier on.
But yeah, he used to do a podcast, you think he lived in Florida and he used to podcast as he
walked along the beach, and stuff like that. RMS Schwartz, he was also involved in the development
of the web-free format, or SS. Interesting. Yes, perhaps we will never
meanwhile back to the show. Dude named Ben says in a voice of a Frenchman living in Switzerland.
Oh, sorry. I was thinking about something again. Yeah, so dude named Ben says that
but father Adam Curry. This is a great rant, nightwise, but you don't spend any time talking about
what Adam has been up to lately, which is exactly the kind of podcast you are encouraging
all of us to create and explore. From your handle, I assume you were also a night of the No Agenda
Runtable, but you fail to even mention Adam's twice-a-week podcast done with the Crunky Geek
himself, John C. Dvorak. You need to hate more people in the mouth about The No Agenda Show,
and the link to Dvorak.org slash NA. No AgendaShow.com. And I have no idea what he's talking about.
Consider yourself clovered, dude. What's the last line of that? Oh, yeah, sorry.
It's the in jokes within the podcast that he is referring to. Okay.
And actually, on the enough, I went back to listen to some of the today with the techy stuff and
the Troops Radio, Infonomicom Radio, and RFA, and it was a lot of wild truth to be told.
Like playing copyrighted music, for instance. We would never do that. We would never do that here.
Back in the days, because I also reached an age where I can say back in the days. There was no
rule, no. It was jungle, but the podcasting was. And music podcasting, surely, was not as paranoid,
I would say, as they are now. So yeah, playing copyrighted music was not a problem back then.
Yeah, there was no way anyone was ever going to find out, you know.
And then somebody physically listening to every single show and your
butty show that had three listeners, including your mark, you know, who is ever going to find out about it.
And now with the search algorithms that, yeah, you can ban and the law has changed with the DMCA as
well, that you get thrown off the internet and you get lawsuits taken against you, you know,
the whole world has changed legally. Back then, you were hosting your own MP3s on RSS, so there was
no, no really central directory nowadays. As soon as you start your podcast, it has to be on iTunes
or Apple podcasts, sorry, and Google podcasts and and all the major podcast hosts. And they apply
or if don't, if they don't, copyright holders do look for podcasts on those platforms. And this
can the podcast and then they know exactly where to look, what to look for for music. So yeah,
and I'm not even talking about Spotify and those hosts, podcast hosts, wannabes, you know,
they should probably stick to their original business model and leave us alone.
That's my run. Sorry.
The following day, we had building an Arduino programmer turn an Arduino nano into a programmer.
And this is a relationship to one of the shows that I did. And this is basically taking my crappy idea
and doing something pretty cool with it. I like it.
So you can explain something to me.
I can. What's the advantage of using another microcontroller to be used as a programmer for a
microcontroller as opposed to just, you know, using the bootloader and loading the Arduino sketch
directly. You can get in there. Yeah, it's been a while since I've looked at it. So
bluffing as you do there. You can get rid of the bootloader inherently, I believe, and just put
your code on there. It could be both here. That's when. That's what I understood by that. I just
wanted to be sure. But this will also be just useful in that you have a dedicated machine to
to use as a boot to copy the bootloader onto the other machines. You don't need to set up one.
It's permanently fixed for you.
And the reason I had to use it in the first place was there was no bootloader on the chips that
came. So I got them without any bootloader. So I had to put a bootloader on.
Okay. And the only way to do that then was either you had a
you basically went through this procedure. Use another either a dedicated bootloader for
our dedicated thing to burn these the code on today. Arduino or you use another Arduino as a host.
And in this case, it's just sacrificing a Arduino to do that.
Okay. How big is a bootloader on those things? How much space do you gain by getting rid of the
bootloader? I do not know. Because it seems to be that it's it's kind of lots of work to just gain
a few, you know, tens of bites or hundreds of bites maybe. I don't know. But yeah, if it's
it's a lot bigger than maybe it's worth it. Yeah. But as I said, the one the reason I did it in the
first place is that there was no bootloader on there. So they had to shift anything. So you're
screwed. Or if it gets cropped for any reason, then you might want to update it. So a new version
comes in. Why would you change your bias? It's kind of the same idea, I guess. Okay, okay, good
it. Thanks. And whoever is screaming up the microphone right now can just press record and send
in the show. I am finite under Kenna's wrong series, which is increasing by the day.
The following day we had. I thought you were right, by the way, that was what I would have said.
Not knowing less about it than you do, but I've seen to meet the right answer.
I just, with electronics, I'm just so dipping my toe into the water. And I'm now, well, if you're
listening along to this HBR episodes, I envisage somebody on night shifts somewhere, having started
listening to all the shows. And if you had, can you please fill in the tags by which time it's too
late by the time you get to this one? But if, for example, you're downloading this show because you
got hours and hours and hours of boredom ahead of you and you go back to the back catalog,
please fill in the tags for Dave. He'll be eternally happy. And basically, you need to wait
about three or four years of night shifts before you'll be able to, before you'll be able to hear him.
Thank you for it, but okay. Well, I was like, oh, I'm with this. I don't know, two episodes,
two hundred and two thousand and eight hundred maybe. Yeah, okay, let's do that. My YouTube
subscriptions, Sargent Pepper channel. This is a hookup, Sid Marriors civilization, 60 symbols,
smarter every day, space from tier foundations, streaming freedom, sub Dave helped me out there.
I think that's Irish. Yeah. Yeah. That's what he said in the podcast anyway. That's why he thought
that's what he thinks it is. She's not done. Okay, she's not done. I defy anybody to contradict me.
Talk more talk. The Beatles, the Economist, the Extraordinary Universe, the Great War,
the Plantry Society, the Saxi Gamer, the Total Trailer, Trailer, Life, DOI, Vartassium,
Finchespace, and Bloodblothers. Unless he's got a lot of Zeds, I think that's the end of it.
Yeah, that's his what he said. Yes, that's definitely the last one.
Good, some good stuff though, some good stuff. Yeah, I'm subscribed to quite a few of these as well.
Not the Beatles, obviously. Not obviously, but now obviously. The following day,
my guitar set up part n and the pictures for the episode are on a remote location
that may or may not go away. We will never know. Well, yes, this also concerned me. I have to have to
say, yeah, I look at these every time and my Beatles sends them in and think, what should we do?
What should we do? We need to do something. I think we need to contact the mailing list about
this Dave and everybody will go, there are only two people on this mailing list who gives a crap
about this. I know that's not true because I know Jason Scott is on there and I know he does give
a crap about archiving stuff. Oh, if anybody would give a crap, it would be him, yeah, sure.
Well, I like this episode and I look forward to the fact that it's part one and there will be more
of this to come. Then the midlife assessment by Plackey and this was, it seems life goes faster
and faster and turns around and goes slower and slower and this was an interesting episode. I found
myself wondering how I was going to respond on this show to this episode. So I'm just going to
check it out and say, Dave, what did you think of this episode? I also was not sure exactly how to
respond. I said, Clackey's turned 40 and is ruminating about the next 40 possibly years of his
life. Good luck. That's not meant in a nasty way. He's probably right that those 80 years are
quite likely for somebody of his age, if he is lucky and a fair number more perhaps, so long as
the anti-science movements in the world don't say, nah, now all this age research is to go down the
drain. It's stupid why would anybody do that and so on and so on and so on. But, yeah, it's I don't
see the business of things going quickly and slowly so much from where I sit. So I'm about 10 years
away from that endpoint. So you know, it looks different from where I am. Things are going fairly
quickly faster than I'd like, let's say. But yeah, it depends where you are in the scale of things,
I think. Well, my view was he's described a fairly idyllic sort of bell curve for what somebody's
life could be. But yeah, it only takes one little thing, one tiny little thing to throw a
spanner in the works and I would not wish that on anyone touching wood very on scientific and on
non-skeptical thing to do. But yeah, I hope his plan goes according to plan. But
my own experience has been if, yeah, life delivers you the unexpected from time to time.
Yeah, yeah, I've seen people around me who are looking forward to, you know, fair number of more
years of life and then they don't arrive. But the opposite does, you know, it's a gamble,
it's a big old gamble. You just do everything you possibly can to make sure that the stakes are
good for as far as you're concerned. Well, the best thing you can do is send in all your
tools now and then we'll make sure they're on the internet archive, which we will make sure gets
rocketed into space before the planet is annihilated so that your essence will be maintained
for eons to come. Absolutely. And it does not have reason to do a show that I don't know what it is.
Yeah, we can contact SpaceX and put the whole HPR archive on the next SpaceX mission.
Yeah, yeah, while the center tells the space, I mean, they could explain to you space in the book
trunk for the US listeners. And at the risk of just to prevent
they're blowing a fuse, I'm not going to read the next one because that will be going into next
months and then that would be more scripting that you would need to do. Oh, the pain, the pain
that you saved me is. Thank you so much. So, missed comments from last month, note to
volunteers in a big red box. You should really leave these in, Dave. Don't go back and edit it.
Just leave it. These comments are for the last show. We're not ready to last show because they
arrived after the recording. This section would be removed before the notes are released.
That sounds like a mission impossible. Yeah, Miss Agino.
Good enough volunteers. It's fading as I watch it. It's going. It's going.
Now, what happened if we record inside the month that we were reviewing, then you can get comments
that occur in that month, but they don't get, it could potentially not be read. That was the
thing that bothered me and these things really know where my brain to wake up in the middle of
the night thinking, I must solve this. Everybody's pointing and laughing. I still have to solve
that somewhere or other. And then the thing is, this one has got one comment that was posted
last month, so should have been discussed in the last one show. And now another one that's going to
be in that's been posted in this month, which obviously we'll do together. So,
so anyway, okay. Hipster says, enjoy this great sound great. And for those of you wondering what
it was that he was commenting on was they, uh, Alden P, HGTP, IPFS, and Torrance replacing the
web with a new decentralized protocol. And IPFS is interplanetary file system and hypertext
transfer protocol. And he says, thanks for the podcast I learned to lost, these protocols are
fascinating because to the end user, a few bytes here or there seem to be insignificant, but
across the entire network, a few bytes here and there can add up to millions of dollars.
Oh, the audio is great. Yeah, all those pictures of cats actually. Yeah, there's that cost a lot.
Exactly. And they take a lot of bandwidth. And Flake says, although he said it at the last
comment from Dave's thing, that the audio quality, uh, take it from somebody who records shows and
mobile phone, your audio quality is great. Meanwhile, Dave is in editing the show notes to say,
this has already been read. I hate you, man. I hate you.
It's because I'm striving for perfection in a chaotic world. Yeah. And it's the story of my life.
The next comment was on getting ready for my new MacBook Pro. And it was from Bart.
Arten, you for getting a hub. You have a cable and a case, but you need a USB-C Docker hub to
connect your old stuff. You can get them from various websites, USB-C adapters.nl. Okay,
I guess that's that's going back into January 2018 that the show he was commenting on,
which is fairly unusual. Yeah, I remember that show. I remember all the shows.
The next one was on one of my shows, so two, seven, three, nine, bass tips, number 19,
Clack says, local, more on what local variables are and how they work in episode two, eight,
oh, seven. So he's doing a look forward to next week, which is good. Thank you very much. And then
a clacky commented on Alton Pee's episode, the two thousand seven hundred and seventy four
CGDNS and Iqdrasil and the comment is titled Iqdrasil pronunciation. As a Scandinavian, I can say that
your pronunciation of Iqdrasil is entirely accurate. And if anyone doubts it, doubts it, they can hear
Hugo weaving pronuncit in much the same way in Captain America at the first adventure,
which by coincidence, I saw only a few days later. So I don't know if I'm pronouncing that
correctly, actually. Because we all know American movie houses take so much effort to get accents
off. Exactly. Yeah. But isn't Hugo weaving Australian or something? I think he's an
Antipodian fellow. So he's can have an entirely different approach to Iqdrasil.
Well, I suggest Alton Pee sends us initial proving us, proving why we're wrong.
I'm explaining in great length how to pronounce Iqdrasil.
It's always been pronounced that way in my world, because it's that Linux version, isn't it?
They're talking about that. Anyway, whatever. So shall we deal with the mailing thread, which has been
smidge and busy this month? Ooh, gosh. Okay. Yeah, exactly.
HVR LLC. This is fascinating how
people commenting on this. I think we should probably just leave those.
It was needless to say an April Fool's joke that I sent around a
to the center on the day. Where is the original?
Send it on the, yeah, a pretty first. Why is it not on the list, Dave?
Maybe the day before. That's an interesting thing. I don't know.
No, actually, you didn't send a message. The first message was from
from nature. Yeah. It was a response to the episode.
So you just chimed in later, I think. No, I sent him, I sent a, you did?
Yeah, I sent a, as you know, HVR as long-term history of providing
holiday technical content over the years. Yeah. And then basically, I think something's
got confused about times in this, because the thread is all sort of back to front.
I'm not sure where you're, if you look at the thread view, where your original message,
yeah, it's not, it does, it's not seen as being in on April 1st for some reason or other.
Is that because the server is in a different time zone and it's not being adjusted somehow?
Yeah, it could be. Although my, if you look in the comments, sorry, I applied to one,
on April 1st, 2019 at 5, 25 PM NZDT. New Zealand isn't there? Strange.
Anyway, it doesn't matter. It will figure it out.
Basically, at the end of last month's show, Dave was off sick and then we announced that Dave
was leaving the project because I was accepting a financial reward for doing the show. And that's
what we're going to do. Yeah, that we're going to start monetizing HPR basically and
HPR LLC and stuff. But all jokes aside, we do get quite a lot of these things regularly.
I think once or twice a month, we get somebody contacting us about how we can improve our
advertising opportunities blah, blah, blah. Oh, yeah, yeah. It's not just that.
It's not what gave me the idea. Yeah, yeah, yeah, just kind of sick of them. And also,
basically, people ran to go on about, oh, the podcast, I need you guys to support
if only one person sent me one dollar and then I would laugh, well, you just do it.
And then the people sent you money good and well. But we know ourselves just from getting
somebody to contribute that you're lucky if you get 1% of your people actively engaged. And for
the rest, yeah, I'm really with lost and bronx on this. You put on your shows and you give it out
there. If somebody, and as I said in my reply here to this, if somebody wants to take HPR
and monetize it near your problem here, no problem whatsoever. It's all released under the
Creative Commons licenses. And so long as you adhere to the licenses, no problem. In fact,
I'll set up a special this feeds are there. So you should be able to take the stuff. And
if there's anything that we can do to make it easier for you to do that in the future,
then let us know we're not going to make it more difficult. It's about spreading the message.
Yes, I know that it's like down to the GPL debate or versus the MIT license. Do you
which is more free? But yes, if you do want to give money to HPR, go give it to Josh or
go give it to archive.org.josh at nonstalls.com. Better yet, sign up for one of Josh's plans.
You do get excellent service. I know as somebody under receiving end here on HPR.
But yes, there are some good, some interesting reactions from people about us. And I saw cultural
differences with the way April Fool is treated. So there you go. Just to once the question of where's
my email, it's actually in the March, your original email is in the March archive thread,
because the mailman systems running on PST and PDT over the DST change. So I did not know that.
I'm not sure how you can tell mailman to use Blum in UTC, but probably you can't, but I don't know.
And there's some other ones, Mike Ray's reply is in there.
I'm talking about this one. Yep, there's a whole collection of things that a dean
who've been in March rather than in April, including Dustin Brock saying, I don't like this day
of the year. I like that one the best to be honest, because it's, yeah, never been my favorite day.
Oh, what other stuff are we talking about? Static site generators, not a flat file CMS.
So that one was, yeah, probably we wasn't clear enough either of what I wanted.
And what's for HPR, we generally have a lot of static files. So you get the website
and you produce a show. And then the show has some comments or no comments or some comments.
And then after six months, it's still being downloaded, but it's not going to change. So
the number of physical things on the website itself as a whole that changes during the day are
the OSS feeds, the main website, the series links, but the episodes themselves remain pretty,
pretty static. So what I wanted to do as I explained earlier was be able to dump it into
a, from the database, into a flat file system. And then have that or think to
necessarily about that about that. So the database that's on the website, the HPR website,
I eventually want to get rid of and only use it for don't panic, don't panic, take deep breaths,
breathe in, breathe out. The one on the website running on the active PHP that that would only ever
be triggered when somebody sends in a comment or somebody sends in a comment or a what I show,
something like that. And even then we might be able to get rid of that. But right now limited to
the reservations table and the comments table are actually reservations table because the comments
doesn't even hit the table at that point. And then when those files hit that would trigger
back in processing, which would be available on the HPR GitHub repository boss due to the
sensitive nature of it, that would be taken and then run through the processing servers. And then
at the end of that, that would spit out a flat file, the flat file changes that are needed
on the various different shows. So if somebody sends in a comment, that would go to a
JSON file using PHP, be saved, be picked up by some Chrome system that would go get imported into
Dave's database. Yeah, Dave. And then some flat file CMS thing would take the database fields and
map them to dollar, you know, placeholders in HTML templates that will get populated and sent out.
And then this thing would know, oh, this episode has been updated. This episode 21 or whatever
has been updated with a new comment. So I need to rewrite that episode. So that way,
tonight, then when you go home and you do your arsink, it'll pull down today's show,
but it lots of pull down episode 21 because there was a new comment to that episode and you've got
that text file as well. So that makes sense? Yeah. Yep. Yep. So I've got lots and lots of good feedback
on that. If you have recommendations for that, please send them in as well. And what else? Yeah,
that's pretty much it. I'm focusing a little bit on the elimination of PHP on the website.
The reason the reason we have PHP is that we use variables for
if somebody goes to hacker public radio and that's blocked by your firewall, then you go to
hobby public radio. But I saw that we could actually do that with Apache. So if we were running
a website that has got a HTML file that says hacker public radio, there's a module that you can
load into Apache that will just change any particular word or instances of word. So rather than
having to rewrite separate instance for that hobby public radio, it will just simply read hacker
and then display hobby to the consuming system. And everybody would be happy. Makes sense?
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. So with that in mind, I was looking at some
templating system, how we could combine templates and stuff and how we could do some things with
CSS and how we could include menus and include various different pages and stuff. So I'm just
going to see how all that goes because what I don't want to do is if we make a change to one of
the menus, which is in the header file, that that will trigger every single web, every single
page that is on the HBR website to be re-downloaded in this rsync. So I want to try and do that
slightly elegantly if I can. I don't know how yet, but we'll see. But more information will be coming
and it will, the information is on an honest hole. Get lab.ananas.com. You can
mosey over there and see how we're doing. There has been a proposed change to the upload form.
And so now the tags and explicit tags are not set, but they are flagged as mandatory. And Jason,
a start replied, I don't mind the tags. At the same time, I don't find them kind of uses unless
the tags themselves are curated so that I get a list to choose from and I don't have to create
new ones all the time. I typically find that searching the whole post gives me better results when
I'm looking for something. But don't let that stop you. I'm for requiring at least one tag.
As I said before, these tags are more intended as being something that will allow you to
commit your show to a ongoing internet campaign or other. So for example, if we're doing a show
on UGCAMP, we can do hashtag UGCAMP and then have that appear in general searches for UGCAMP.
And the tags are also propagated through to our character org. Yeah, they have a really nice
search interface to find stuff. And again, the tags, why you don't want to prompt the tags
rather than having to use JavaScript and back end database, etc, etc, etc, is that it would allow
cross content to be discovered on archive.org. So if you're thinking about using tags, then you
should equally think about using tags that are on archive.org. So for example, using a
Apollo computer one that we did that you would tag it on Apollo mission or whatever that would be
on archive.org and then they would pick those two up in the search. It's just a bite bite.
And you put in comment, remove default, explicit tag from form, but didn't say what you wanted to
done. Oh yeah, there was some weird things with the SGV files. Yerun wanted to print off the
HPR logo and it didn't open for him. It opened for me and some other people. So I'll go through all
in this refresh of the entire website. I'll go through those files and make sure that they
all open. I'll probably bug Tlatu for that as he's Mr. Mr. SGV.
SVG. That's the one. Thank you. Okay. Err and comment. This is related to text to speech.
And the episode that Yerun did on text to speech and basically it can be summarized to this.
E-Speaks author Jonathan Dunnington in my humble opinion deserves a Nobel prize.
So I don't think anyone is a contradiction there on that.
Kirk Reiser. Notably commented.
Saying E-Speak is great and I would really love to hear an interview with Jonathan
unless I miss my hunts. She may no longer be with us. I haven't heard anything about him
in years. So the emphasis is on e-Speak-NG. I'd like to be wrong on that front. Yes,
sure we all agree. And to which Mike put us in the loop with regard to Kirk is.
A non-insignificant contributor to text to speech and access text for the blind and via users
on Linux. Anything else to say about those threads? No. No, I don't have anything.
And Yerun commented on this episode again saying it wasn't intended to be in any way an attack
on e-Speak. It was just evaluation programs with regard to HP or intro text.
And I just submitted a show as well with two other ones that I found. So
with a few or a few other ones that I found. So I'll have a look like that.
HP or by request. Anyone want to do this? Or oh yeah, Yerun sent to site it to get into podcasting
in a big way and sent us a link of the stuff he was getting. And Yannick is right in there
asking for some episodes on the stuff that he's done. Yeah, of course. I mean you cannot
you can show pictures of really nice hardware without doing a review for HP or can you?
Not at all. Not at all. I really did like is the not SVG. Scalable vector graphic. Yeah, SVG.
The SVG logo that you did on PoloShirt. That's quite cool. Yeah, yeah.
I should have. We should each have one for a hookump.
Somebody want to mention a camp? I am so excited. Yeah, so a camp,
29 and 20th of October. Actually, hold on one second. Hold on one second because there's even
better. There's better to come. Better. Hold on one second.
Lost in Bronx was talking about the mics. Yeah, and he needs to do a show basically. He's
talking too much. He needs to do a show. Okay, Yirun did mention. Yirun, as you know, is Dutch
and I live in the Netherlands and he happened to be around where I worked. So we were left for
dinner one evening. And in the course of that conversation, he mentioned that LWN.net has a
community calendar, which I had no idea about. And he said that on the community calendar,
on campus happening over to you, Janik. So a camp, a camp, it's going to be the 10th anniversary
of a camp on the 19th and 20th of October in Manchester in the United Kingdom, probably in Europe.
It's an uncomfortance, so it's really nice. It's a two-day event.
Really, for me, I went to my first on-camp last year and I'm really looking forward to go back
this year. It's a way to put faces on voices and names that I hear about during the year.
I made lots of friends last year and I did have the chance to meet with Dev last year at a camp.
Which is actually what drove me to HBR. So the event starts on the 18th on the Friday evening
with a social event. And I think, really, if you want to come to a camp, that's the good way to start
with the first pub event. And then there would be an official track with the talks.
The CFP is open. So you can submit talks idea to a camp and then there's usually a corridor
track, which is something that people put the ideas for unscheduled talks on the whiteboard and then
talks get voted. And the most popular talks have a room and an hour or something like that.
And they were also talking about, sorry, about reinstating the flash talk. I think that's
how they like the lightning talk. So lightning talks are like five to ten minutes stock.
And it's a great way, I think, to give a talk if you don't know how to give a talk or if you
scared to or something like that. And I'm maybe possibly perhaps going to make one. So look
at for that and run away. Cool, cool, very cool. Yeah. So I'll just on the, on a
component, the CFP is open. So a camp.org, if you want to submit a talk to the committee.
And I contacted LWN.net and asked them for their permission to use their, their calendar basically.
And they said straight away, no problem. Go ahead. That's why it's there. So we could technically
go through some of this stuff that's going to be coming up in, in May or possibly June. What would
you reckon, Dave? How would you do this? Well, the opening of the structure, some of it is already
over in Vienna. Latch up 2019. Hi, Khan is going to be on from now until next Thursday. The
OSTC is going to be on the week after that from the 14th and 15th OS camp. So on the 16th,
BSD can is on the 17th to the 18th. Sasha, the 18th Linux, Wuchren, Lins 2019 is on as is OSC,
Albania. Those continue on for the entire weekend of the 18th to the 20th. Then Khan,
Khan and Cube Khan, Cloud Nation Khan are both on the week of the 20th to the 24th. OSC starts on
the 24th and continues over the weekend. Many DEFCON starts on Saturday, the 25th in Marseille
and continues to the 26th. On the 28th is pre-con live open source database conference in
Austin, Texas. And that continues the 29th and the 30th. Then the Libra graphics meeting in
Sarbuken in Germany is on from the 29th to the 31st. And after that. And after that,
DevObstase Toronto is on the 29th of the 30th and PG Khan out of what Canada is on the
actually is that being going on? No, that's on the Thursday to the Friday.
Yeah, should we go to the conference? June, Libra graphics in Sarbuken, Germany,
Libra graphics meeting, Samba XP is going on in Hutt, Huttingen in Germany, UK on open MP uses
conferences on in Edinburgh. This is on all in June. Maybe Dev, many DEFCONs is on in Hamburg.
Celtics Lennox first is on in Charlotte and see in USA on the 14th. Not the Carolina.
Yeah, North Carolina. Celtics Lennox first is on in, did I just cover that? Just said it.
Yeah. What do they miss? Hong Kong open source conference is on the 14th and the 15th,
lackey is probably at that. And on the 24th, we have Kube Khan, Cloud Native Khan,
open source Samba in Shanghai, China. You can actually tell from this the ones that are from
Monday to Thursday tend to be the business ones and the ones at the weekends are the community
events. Yeah, clearly. So that's pretty cool. They even have a sea call for papers deadline
calendar up this week. Does anyone want to do that? Tell us if this boring. Lennox developer conference
is up this week. Pi colorados up. Conference or open source users and promoters and Taipei
twilight. Euro python is a depth conference and going to be in Brazil's call for papers are
sending call for papers for Euro python 2019 is up this month. Gnome user developer conference
in Greece is up this month. LPC Lennox plumbers conference in Portugal is up as is the last two
academic academy in 2019 in Milan, Italy, if you're a KDE person and the Lennox security somewhat
in San Diego, that is it. That is a lot of conferences. Yes, but it's nice to have it on one page and
it's a great service that LWN has put on. I've contacted them about doing an interview so hopefully
that'll be coming up in the future. You owe yourself a show. I do indeed. You have no idea how many
shows I owe myself, but that's a good addition. And then finally, not finally, tags on summery's
day because I need something to drink. Well, there are two things in the other business. One is
the draft of an HPR article on Wikipedia, which anybody who is a host can't contribute to.
Yep. So we're looking for anybody who is not a host yet to assist and hopefully then afterwards
become a host. So I think I don't know what else to say about that one, particularly have a look at
it and see what can be contributed. One of the things about Wikipedia is that they always want
citations and certain that sort of thing. So yeah, I'm not sure exactly what's involved in doing
that for some of the things there. So to that end, I have been going back to listening to
HPR episodes, today we're going to take a year episodes and read your free America episodes.
Linus Link does net episodes to see what the history was about when it started and how it got
involved and what the original plans were. So I'm making links to that for the talk section of
that web page so that other Wikipedia's can review it and decide yes or no whether this is valid
or not. And I'm transcribing snippets of text so that you get a feel for what the conversation is
including links to directly to the audio where those shows discuss it. And I will also be putting
in links to places where we've been in the media before as well in that talk section as I will be
trolling the interview section to find links to people who have Wikipedia pages so that we can
link back to those people. Good idea. Yes. And particularly we should also try and
guess people who are we have discussed projects with that they for example you see the Hacker
Public Radio interview is linked on the slacker, slacker page as we were talking to Wonka
Dink, what's his name? Patrick, Patrick Volka Dink. That's linked back as a reference to Hacker
Public Radio and that will be a nice way to reinforce the eligibility of HPR being
a web page. Generally it should be because you know there are loads of pages about things a lot less
a lot less imposing everything. Yeah. Or a lot less that have a lot less impact. I mean we're one
of the longest running podcasts in the world full stop and the story. You know we have
transmissive we have the number of hours of content that we have available the whole approach to
the way podcasting is done. We've been reviewed in several articles and stuff so yeah it is it's
norm and it's also a way to get people into HPR. I also want them to take from my name out of the
draft because I don't think it adds anything to it. It's better just to say it's maintained by
volunteers and here's how you can become a volunteer. So I'm not doing this for an eagle thing. I
think that when you say oh I'm part of Hacker Public Radio and then people can go to Wikipedia and
see ah these are these are not weird you know these are yeah Hacker is a name we struggle with but
having a good Wikipedia presence and a good archive.org presence gives a certain
veritas. Is that what they're looking for? Yeah yeah. Reputation that yeah these people are hackers
in the sense of contributing in the way that Wikipedia does an archive.org does. So we had a good
hackers the one with the white hat. Sometimes not all of our shows have been like that. There have
been interviews with black hats. Black hats as well but that's that's as with all walks of life.
You we are an unrestricted platform for discussing where the world, world, west, yeah.
Oh yeah be right. Yeah yeah okay uh Dave the tags. The tags and summaries I want to highlight the
fact that Tony Hughes was our contribute to this path. He um he was I forget now exactly how we
we came to discuss this but he said oh what do you have to do to do tag the summaries and I
pointed him to the page and he said oh I'll have a go and he got he got a bit between his teeth
and did 36. Good man three points for him and thank you very much Tony that was that was very very
good uh it's moved just on a goodly bit and being incredibly lazy I didn't actually do any in this
path so uh so these are all down to Tony uh saxos chipping away at these is brilliant actually yeah
and I'll camp we're all officially going to I'll camp even your ruin. Yeah it's coming back it was
now the last year we'll be back with uh misty room cool excellent I am looking forward to that
and you will be there too yes don't ruin it for me and Tony Hughes will be back because he said uh
see you in the next course of course yes yes the quickening okay cool uh tune in tomorrow for
another exciting episode of hacker public radio join us now and share the software you'll be free
hackers you'll be free you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
is. Hacker public radio was founded by the digital dot org pound and the infonomicon computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise status today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share light, free dot org license
