Episode: 2034
Title: HPR2034: Frank's Five Seed Bread
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2034/hpr2034.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:33:07

---

This in HPR episode 2034 entitled, Frank's 5-seed bread.
It is hosted by Frank Mel and in about 7 minutes long.
The summary is, Frank describes his recipe for 5-seed bread,
which wins by a carried-win wood mystery novel.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Howdy folks!
This is 5150 and I'm here to tell you about Kansas Linux Fest 2016,
which will be happening on the campus of Wichita State University,
May 21 and 22.
KLF started last year with the idea that a first-rate Linux event
could be hosted in the underserved Midwest.
I think KLF 2016 is the further realization of that dream.
The full schedule is now available at KansasLinuxFest.com
but highlights for me include Alex Worez from Rackspace
and Ryan Sypes from Kansas's own MyCraft.AI project.
There is also a talk on Sunday morning about promoting free software
and the role of the hobbyist podcaster.
Attendance is without cost but donations may be made on the sponsor page.
Guess who arrived Friday evening may attend a free showing of Revolution OS.
The Saturday Night event will be hosted headshots of Video Game Bar.
I know it seems a little late to put the word out
but please don't miss this opportunity to interact with your fellow
open source enthusiasts and professionals
in the only venue convenient to the Central United States.
Hello, this is Frank Bell.
Today I want to describe my recipe for 5 seed bread.
Actually, it's more like 4.5 seed bread
for reasons that will become apparent.
This recipe was not completely my creation.
It was inspired by a sentence in the mystery earthly delights
by the marvelous Australian mystery writer, Carrie Greenwood.
I started reading this because I had read all of Carrie Greenwood's
Friday Fisher mysteries and enjoyed her writing so much
I decided to try her other series of books.
In this series, Karen Achatman, the detective, is by profession a baker.
And there's lots of tidbits in the stories about baking, bakeries, and food.
In fact, so much so that there's even been Karen Achatman cookbook produced
of some of the recipes that appear in the stories.
There'll be a link to information about Carrie Greenwood
to the Karen Achatman cookbook and other related material in the show notes.
I'm going to read to you the sentence that inspired me to come up with this recipe.
Karen who's narrating the story says,
I began making seed bread.
This is my secret recipe.
You need seven kinds of seeds.
I use kippled wheat, oats, poppy seed,
dill, fennel, caraway, and coriander.
I did a little looking around extensive research
about 10 seconds of searching on the Internet
and found out the kippled wheat is in the states
what we call cracked wheat.
And kippled oats appears to be the same thing as steel cut oats.
I had neither one of those on hand.
That's how this ended up as four and a half seed bread.
I don't have much use for oats anyway.
Having grown up in the South, I never have understood why people would eat oats
when they could eat grits, as far as I'm concerned, oats are for horses.
But that's another story.
So here's what I use to make this bread.
This recipe makes one loaf.
One cup of warm water,
and I will include a link to American and metric equivalents in the show notes.
A packet of yeast, about one and a half cups of white flour,
and about one and a half cups of rye flour.
One tablespoon each of dill seed, fennel seed, sesame seed, caraway seed.
Now since I didn't have any coriander seed on hand at the time,
I now have, because I plan to make this again,
I use the teaspoon of ground coriander.
That's why I call this four and a half seed bread.
About a quarter teaspoon of salt, and I threw in about half a teaspoon of light brown sugar
just to give the yeast something to chew on.
The procedure is very straightforward.
Dissolve the yeast in warm water and proof.
That's fancy cooking it off,
for give it a sniff to make sure the yeast is still alive.
Add the seed, salt, and sugar, then add the white flour,
and I put in all cup and a half at once and stir well.
Then add the rye flour, about one half cup at a time,
stirring after each addition until the dough is nice and stiff,
and firm enough to knead.
In other words, it's not sticky, it doesn't come apart in your hands anymore.
It will still probably feel a little bit moist.
Pour the dough out on a floured board,
and the reason to put flour on the board,
it keeps the dough from sticking to the cutting board,
and sprinkle with a little white flour on the top,
again, to keep it from sticking to your hands,
knead until it's firm and springy,
and forms a nice coherent ball.
If it feels a little sticky, as you knead it,
just sprinkle a little more flour in until it feels right.
Then pour a bit of olive oil into a bowl,
an opaque bowl, like a stainless steel bowl,
and roll the dough around it,
and the ball of dough in it until it's coated with the olive oil.
Then cover it in a lot of it to rise,
until it's about twice its size.
This will take approximately an hour and a half,
depending on the heat or humidity.
If it's a nice warm day,
and you can put it outside,
and the sun is going to rise a little faster.
When the dough is approximately doubled in size,
shape it into a loaf,
or place it in a loaf pan.
I like to line my loaf pans with a little olive oil,
and then sprinkle some cornmeal in there,
and shake them around.
It makes it less likely that the dough is going to stick
to the loaf pan when you're cooking.
Then let it rise again for about 20 minutes.
Once it's ready,
place it into an oven preheated to about 400 Fahrenheit,
and bake until a knife inserted into it comes out clean.
In my oven, that's approximately 30 minutes.
If you want the loaf to be a little crustier,
you can place a pan of hot water in the oven,
or place a pan of cold water in the oven
when you start to preheat it,
and that humidity inside the oven
will help make the bread crustier,
and then you can brush the bread
as it's cooking with the hot water a couple of times.
Say it about,
if you're cooking it,
it's going to cook 30 minutes,
say it at the 10 and 20 minute marks.
And then,
when it's done,
take it out and enjoy.
The resulting loaf of bread is very savoury.
I can't see eating it with something sweet like jam.
It's very good with butter.
It's also very good just to dip it into our oil.
Good, good grade virgin olive oil,
as you often see done in Italian restaurants,
or just notch on it.
It would probably be really good also with Swiss cheese.
I hope you all enjoy this.
I look forward to making this again
and trying other variations,
and I will catch you on the flip.
If you want to contact me,
you can email me at Frank
at PineViewFarm.net
and my website is PineViewFarm.net.
Thank you very much.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded
by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released
under Creative Commons,
Attribution,
ShareLite,
3.0 license.
