Episode: 2243
Title: HPR2243: My Quick Tips E01
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2243/hpr2243.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 23:35:15

---

This in HPR episode 2,243 entitled, Mike Wicktip Senior01, it is posted by OperaNeroR and
in about 8 minutes long and carrying an exquisite flag, the summary is, I remember on about
some of my tips I recorded.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
This is Rob McCartney for another HPR public radio, quick tip, wanted to say, I'm currently
listening to a cool stuff part 5, I can't remember what the guy's name is, but he was talking
about ad blockers within Android.
What I would do is I have a LinkedIn post about it, about all the different plugins that
I'm using, we'll kind of include all that.
But anyways, I'm using currently Firefox with extensions, you can actually put extensions
on Firefox for Android and you can add all the ad blocker extensions you want for that
outside of grease monkey or the grease monkey scripts.
But anyways, there's more info, I'll put more information in this show notes on this
one, but essentially you add that along with LuckyPatcher or there's another one called
like ads away, let me just one second look forward, yeah, ad away, and I think it's kind
of a bit like the way ad blocker works before if you had root on an Android, it adds kind
of a host file and where the stuff goes through the thing, so I feel like ad blocker
for Android and root with root will give you the best bang for your buck and then on top
of that if you use Firefox with the ad blocker that will help with the scripting part.
I haven't quite tested the difference between the two, but both of them combine, my experience
is pretty good, I don't use any other browsers except for Firefox.
But just want to make a quick comment on that, blocking ads and Firefox.
If you do host base, that actually helps go around like ads away or things like the plugin
for ad blocker that actually turns your, all your traffic goes through a local proxy, that
works for other apps too and also might kind of make other apps crap out or be squirly.
So you can keep that in mind, but I think I have AdOA, I did have ad block because of local
proxy.
I'm actually using the host file within LuckyPatcher.
LuckyPatcher has a tools and then under tools there's like a host blocker or whatever,
it's just normal host file blocking and it's not too large, but I just wanted to make
a quick comment on my status with the ads and blocking ads within Android.
So here's a quick tip if you have cats, we have one more litter box and you have cats
that's what you're supposed to do.
The idea here is that you get a bunch of industrial strength trash bags and I use a vacuum cleaner
on reverse the blow cycle and we'll blow up all the trash bags that way you're not doing
the trash bag maneuver and then you take those all upstairs and then I wrap them around
a old baby gate I think or something big wide board or something like that and then
you put like two or three of them inside of their cells and then you roll them up and
then you can put them away.
And the idea here is that you wrap them around the litter box and then when you pour the
cat litter on top, the cat can do whatever and then when they scratch at it or they poke
holes in the litter box, you don't have to clean the litter box.
If you have the throw away, we call it the scoop away stuff.
We've only had one UTI and that was just because we didn't change the litter out good enough
and he was a kitten.
But other than that, we haven't had any problems with our two cats doing this method.
But the idea here is once they start poking holes in the plastic and plastic that's going
all over the place from the trash bags, you can just rip the lining out.
And then you have two or three more after they've ripped a hole in that one.
So I started getting frustrated with the cats and then having one liner of the trash bags.
We actually bought cat back liner thingies which were ridiculously expensive.
They're a little thicker but still it's cheaper to just buy like a bunch of trash bags.
And usually when you get to the last one and you're ready to actually change the litter
out, it's usually easier just to pull all the litter out and you can change all the litter
at once if you're ready to do so.
So that way you don't have to worry about like dumping it in a bag or anything like that.
But anyways, that was a quick tip while I was doing the litter box change here and thought
people might get some use out of it.
Here's a mother quick tip.
If you're doing leaves, you can instead of doing all the stupid bags, the ridiculous amounts
of bags, you can buy like a leaf eater and then put that over your industrial trash can
and make quick work of any of that stuff.
So one full trash can full of leaves is like four or five or six of those bags.
And what we'll also do is what I did with the old one is we haven't bought a new one yet
but the old one's on its last leg that we got from my wife's father.
But the little weed eater cord is really thin like just regular weed eater corded.
So what I did was I bored the biggest hole like it's bored for the biggest gauge weed
eating stuff that's got like a star bit to it and it has all these little tiny little
leaves like a star has like five corners on it essentially.
And even that doesn't really go through as much as you would think.
But anyways, that's a quick tip.
Just bore a hole through a weed leaf eater thing that goes on top of like a trash can
and it will make quick work of any of your yard stuff.
So it's another quick tip from operatorarmacurry.com.
You can go to places like Best Buy, Cell Phone, Places, T-Mobile stores have recycle bins.
There's also recycle bins in your home depot.
They have drills and stuff you can pick up.
So look around if you're looking for a battery for something or I just picked up two tablets
from Best Buy that I could either resell or get to my child.
So with that said, check out your recycle bins.
A lot of people just let you take it, don't ask, don't tell.
They're just going to recycle them anyways.
So try to walk out the door with them and then maybe come back another day or later that
day and see if you can snag them again if somebody doesn't let you out.
But if you're looking for another Android phone, you can go dumps or dives inside of cell
phone shops and really anywhere they have electronics, just ask if they have a recycling
place and say that you've left your phone in there or something like that.
Tom, that you needed a SIM card out of it or something, just come up with some BS.
If you see the one you like, I hope that helps, later.
Here's another quick tip for shaving A's True Fit and Hill, West Indies, West Indian
Lime Shaving Cream.
But what I do is I get one of the little foam soap dispensers and I put a mix in there
of just a fair amount of the cream and then a mixed water in with it.
I'm not sure if that hurts the longevity of it or destroys it but I've been using it
very successfully and it makes it easy way to make a foam for your any shaving cream really.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution,
Share a Light, 3.0 License.
