Episode: 2324
Title: HPR2324: Opensusecon 2017 and Ubuntu 16.04
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2324/hpr2324.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:19:30

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Good day and welcome to the podcast today. My name is JWP and today I wanted to talk to you about a little bit about the open
Susicon. Some of my experiences with my Windows Surface tablet since I put Ubuntu 16.04 on it and made it into a test
top even though it's sort of like a tablet. So a couple of weekends ago I went to open
Susicon and it was a new in Berg at the Z-Bowl and this open Susa folks put on a great show.
They had a Brazilian barbecue one night and some nice lunches there. It was extremely well-organized.
I'm not sure if it's going to be in Prague next year or if it's going to be back at the Z-Bowl but in
any case it was a great inexpensive weekend and it was all open sorts and of note that new container
OS Cubix or cubes or something that the open Susa folks came out with. That's really, really, really
interesting. Of course it spins off of Susa's container as a service kind of thing but it was a
great thing. They had some the European FSF guy and the CEO of Salt Common Talk and there was a
lot of own cloud people there talking about different own cloud stuff. Of note the Canone project was
there and they gave a they had a pretty interesting PC there a little it was a little gamer PC that
originally had Windows 10 run from a company called WinGPG and it had like some embedded joysticks
and a keyboard right there. I went online and it's still a little much for me. It's a
285 euros for 40 device but since I have a touch device in the surface I was looking to see
what would happen when unity finally goes away. I probably won't move it away from unity until the
very last the last of the last of the last. Speaking of unity you know I've been running it I'd
never ran that Pete tablet you know 12 13 14 days in a row and you know I did I like to fool around
with the H top and I had noticed that it had gotten up with no applications open up into say
about the 850 to 900 megabyte range with no applications open and I don't have like dropbox or
anything like that installed it's just flat out stock of Ubuntu 1604 and you know I thought
that was a little high so I said well maybe I'll reboot and I reboot it and it was only 50 megabytes
difference and then I opened I immediately opened a VNC and watch a video and then it went up to over
a gigabyte and didn't go down let me check it right now see how it's doing now so with with
me doing audacity right now and in the software center open then it's got at 1.8 gigabyte right now
but it's moving quite quite well it just has a lot of memory and out of the four gigabyte used
right now and all the CPUs are all pretty low only one core is really at 23% and that's with me
talking with audacity right now so yeah it does it does seem to be a little unity does seem to be
a little memory-hungry than my normal XSE meant that I use or are Ubuntu or Zubuntu that I would
normally normally use it's pretty much on par though when I was using Katie Neon okay well
to sum it up I'm really enjoying using this in the surface with with with Ubuntu 1604 it's been
over a year now since I booted into the Windows partition and updated it let's get we're
going to go on vacation and it's going to be a complete vacation experience it's going to be our
only computing device on on the device or on the vacation or pulling six weeks to the states and
so it's going to be the only one and I really had a great time at OpenSusicon they really did a
fantastic job of throwing a great show and I look forward to the Susicon the enterprise version of
it and they as always thank you so much for your attention this is JWP you can reach me at JWP5
at hotmail.com thank you for your time and you have a great day
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released under creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
