Episode: 2193
Title: HPR2193: a clean podcast with no swearing
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2193/hpr2193.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:31:54

---

This in HPR episode 2,193 entitled A Clean Podcast with No Swearing.
It is hosted by Spaceman and in about 18 minutes long and carrying an explicit flag.
The summary is discussing the Swearing drama.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Well, hello there to all the listeners and I promise this is a clean episode.
No jump cuts.
I have free software to write right now and I'm going to take like 10 minutes of my time
just to speak out my mind about it.
Yeah, so the whole thing is quite funny.
I just really don't care.
I don't really care about the whole thing.
There is something that is actually serious.
So I'm going to start out from things that doesn't really matter.
And we're going to move forward to what really matters.
And then I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do in the end.
But first of all, let's read the comments.
I'm going to try not to actually swear.
Yes, so someone says, hey, I thought HPR was supposed to be family friendly.
This guy needs to be screened.
Well, if you just read a little bit about HPR, you can actually post whatever you want on it.
You're not censored.
They just don't care.
Well, I think they care.
That's the point I want to come at the end.
But anyway, now I just feel like second comment.
I just feel like I'm being trolled.
I counted 34 F's.
You actually took the time for that, man.
You actually took the time to count how many F words I said.
Anyway, in eight minutes, so four per minute.
Do you do statistics or something?
You should do that.
And let alone the C bomb.
The C bomb.
Anyway, it's not just a language that's turning me off the whole tone with aggressive and counterproductive.
Am I aggressive when I speak right now?
Is it aggressive?
I wonder.
Anyway, other comment.
Do you have some bet running on how many F's you can fit into one episode of HPR?
Seriously, you should have just left the first three minutes out.
Well, yes, yes.
I'm actually like, I won't be able to pay my bills right now because it's actually a clean episode.
So I can, I don't know what's going on.
Other comment.
Waste of time.
This one is my favorite.
Waste of time.
That was the worst F word.
Think I've ever heard.
So the guy's upset.
I'm using the F word.
Who's using the F word isn't cool.
So I'm, I'm so mad I'm going to swear in my comment to tell them it's not, it's not cool to use the F word.
Anyway, a clean comment from Clinton Roy.
This seemed overly squarely for my taste.
And I miss where he was trillion.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Short fat bald guy said.
I'm not proved.
And drop the F bomb as much as anyone.
Express yourself however you like.
But.
Express yourself however you like.
But it's like say.
I'm a racist.
You know, but.
But as the helpful hint for your uncle Harry blah blah blah.
In a forum where the primary purpose is not a transfer your colorful language will decrease your SNR because.
I'm going to discount your message perhaps completely.
Okay.
So.
Some people can look beyond the words like the words.
Anyway, I'll get to that in a minute, but he's basically saying that because I'm.
Like when I'm trying to say just people just don't care because I'm swinging so much.
Anyway.
I'm not complaining about HPR far from it or faulting you or the podcast or anything.
I don't see the tags the way I'm living on my phone.
Like this could be a technical thing.
You know, maybe people really don't want to have like an explicit podcast and then you know on certain.
Certain environments they cannot see it and then they just.
Hear me swear the F out of everything and then they get they get mad that I couldn't understand that's like a valid point.
Anyway, let's keep going.
I also don't care that much about specific language.
It seems out of place for my primary knowledge transfer sending.
Okay.
So there's no really.
There's no really a real way to share knowledge.
Sometimes it makes sense.
Sometimes it doesn't.
Depends on the person.
You know, you could talk to me about anything.
How to fix a car and whatever.
Sharing knowledge doesn't mean that it's useless because the person is wearing.
It's just doesn't make any sense.
You just don't like it.
That's it.
So it's your personal view here.
It's not objectively saying.
Oh yeah, this person is talking to the other person.
That person can understand what they're saying because the person's where.
You see that doesn't make any sense.
Anyway.
I have to wrap this up like this is.
I'm not complaining about HBR about that black.
It's always like, oh, you know, it's okay.
HBR is fine.
You know, and it's okay because we are a community that just doesn't censor anyone.
But it's always that but it's okay, but it's not.
You can do what you want, but don't do that.
That's pretty much the setting here.
So let's go to the critiques like how I see the whole thing.
So point one about point zero because my compiler is going to not like it.
Point zero.
All you see is the F word everywhere.
You just didn't listen to what I had to say.
You just, you just were stuck on the F word.
You didn't, you didn't commented on the concept I shared or the utility of it to use of it.
Instead of upgrading your life from what I said, you just only, he said F.
That's it.
I don't want to hear anything from him.
Now, this is you personally because some people just didn't care.
And actually listen to what I had to say and just didn't care that I was saying F.
It's a big deal because you are making a big deal.
Because in fact, it isn't.
It depends on your perception.
And because more people are saying it's a big deal, then you tend to follow the group like a sheep and say,
well, it's a big deal.
It's not.
It's not.
To me, it's not.
It's not like it just, just don't listen to my podcast.
Anyway, the second point, the first point here, you are out loud and you're all there to criticize and because apparently I did something wrong.
But when I did actually something good according to you, which means without swearing, you didn't, you didn't write anything back.
You didn't write any comments.
Look at my first podcast.
I wrote like I was introducing myself talking about the things I'm going to talk about as a programmer who hired in my life, I interpret it.
And there was just one comment and the comment was just like the person didn't understand what hacking means.
And she doesn't know what hacking means.
It's like it is super okay to hack.
Of course, it's an intellectual tool.
It's an intellectual concept.
Of course, it's super okay to act.
I was introduced to Jai hack 11 at jima.com.
Okay, he's using some proprietary thing corporate garbage.
What the hell?
And dude impressed me.
He did a great job and happy feel, I feel happy and in depth to him forever.
Okay.
Like this is the kind of like sharing knowledge we're doing here.
Like you didn't say, oh yeah, that's great that you're interpreting all of those things that, you know.
You said nothing, but now I said I did something wrong apparently.
And then we're all over the place lines of comments.
And in your comments are just as aggressive as you're seeing my podcasts.
It's kind of funny really.
So yeah, apparently I'm doing something wrong.
You're like, oh, this is crazy. You shouldn't do that.
And then when I'm doing something fine and okay, there's just no comments, no exchange going on.
So think about that.
Then I knew there would be the balance people.
You know people who was always about balance.
Oh, you know, even meat is okay.
You know, you just have to have a balance.
No, no.
It's better if you just don't eat meat at all in your life.
Or, oh, it's so good to have beer.
But you know, you need to have a balance.
It's okay if you drink beer, but you know, it's better if you just don't drink any.
Oh, it's okay to swear.
You know, it's okay.
But don't not too much.
No, it's fine.
Whatever you want to swear.
Who cares?
You just want to swear.
It doesn't do anything.
Actions is that actually is more important than words.
And this is pretty much how it's going to end talking about actions versus words.
But let's move it bit forward.
Again, I don't care because I know that people aren't children.
I don't treat people as children.
And I know that they can just go through it and say,
well, hey, what he's saying is making sense.
And then you go on my blog.
And I can assure you just no swearing.
There's no anything.
All the information is well archived.
And put into categories.
And then you can learn lots of stuff there.
Now, family friendly.
This is really funny, seriously.
How many people here don't want their children to say the F word.
But they're fine.
They're fine.
Teaching them, you know, you can eat a dismembered animal.
That's fine.
You can cut the throat of an animal.
And that's fine.
You can have a cow, rape the cow, then drink its milk.
And then that's just fine.
And then you're losing your head over me seeing the F word.
Because it's family friendly.
Like, do you want me to be like,
hey, hello?
Well, it comes to the HBR episode.
And today, we're going to crack the Pentagon's firewall just for fun.
No, nothing like that.
Now, what is really preposterous about this whole thing
is censorship.
That's all that really pisses me off here.
Just plain censorship.
I'm not blaming this on anyone.
No one can fall in or whatever.
But he did write to me.
And I have a screenshot of this and you can see I'm new social.
His opinion of how I use the word I don't care.
I couldn't care less.
But really got to me is how you act now is, of course, your call.
How HPR acts after that will be decided by the community as a whole.
Oh, oh, that's not even.
You see what I'm talking about, like, actions matters more than words.
I'm just saying words.
Words are just words.
How the effect you is actually your fault.
How the effect you is actually your own interpretation.
But then actions, this is imposed.
When you're doing action upon something,
you're actually doing like you're actually causing either arm
or you're causing like a change.
You're actually changing the world.
And you're having an impact on the world.
So basically, HPR is like, hey, it's okay.
You can see whatever you want.
You can swear it's okay.
It's going to be marked as explicit.
But then I'm literally being asked to stop doing it.
This is what I'm doing.
Or stop doing what you're doing or just do it less or whatever.
Trying to control me, basically.
And if I refuse that, well, well, we're going to silence you.
This is what's the most egregious thing about this whole thing.
Now, I have lots of knowledgeable to tour network, how to use it.
So my information is never killable.
You cannot kill my information.
You cannot kill me.
I'll always be around.
I have buttons on new social, always continuously sharing knowledge
that empowers you.
And you can access my podcast or videos or whatever through there.
I'm just not killable.
But if someone just doesn't know anything about the tour network or whatever
then they decide to go there because you know, we're not Google.
We're HPR.
We're here for freedom of speech or whatever.
And in that person just decided to produce some time of content
and the community doesn't like it.
Well, all of a sudden, you're not welcome here anymore.
You're going to upload anymore.
You see, you have to walk your talk.
If you're saying it's fine to upload whatever you content you want.
Like we want censorship.
Sensor you.
You actually have to do it.
Like lots of people say, hey, I like, you know, all the humans of the world,
all races.
And then one day they're about to get a job.
And then they don't get the job.
And the person who gets it is, you know, I don't know, man.
He's Asian or whatever.
And oh, man, I hate those Asians, you know.
Yeah.
So HPR should say, you're allowed to post whatever you want.
But if the community doesn't like you, then you're gone.
Because this is what it is.
And it's pure censorship.
Well, actually, drastically censorship.
It's okay to say we're a community.
And we accept what goes into now.
But actually say it.
Don't put yourself forward saying, oh, you accept everything.
And you can do what you want.
But then after that, if you don't change the way you produce your content,
we'll, you know, we'll just terminate you.
Because that's pretty much how it sounds here.
Anyway, that's the past.
So if you're still, if you're still dwelling about this,
I can, there's nothing I can do about that.
So let me tell you straight right now, this is the past.
What matters is the present moment.
And now, because now it's going to dictate the future.
So if you want to keep dwelling, keep dwelling.
Just keep saying, I hate you, spaceman.
This is crazy.
You keep just always swearing and stuff.
Keep doing it.
But now I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do now.
So basically, I'm going to keep on producing content for HPR,
where I'm going to include no swear at all for a short period of time.
And during that period of time, maybe a month or two or three or a year or whatever.
I really want to see people in the comments saying,
well, I like that part or people just improving.
And listen up.
Everything that I post is actually something that somebody else told me.
And then I've actually used it in my life and seen the benefits of it.
So it's not me who came up with nothing that I'm saying, basically.
It's just things that you incorporate in your life and actually enriches it.
A couple of years ago, I was fat, miserable.
I hated myself.
I had no money.
And I wanted to make free software.
Now today, I'm fit.
I'm really fit.
I have lots of money.
And I'm a successful free software programmer.
And then I'm learning how to grow my own food, which means that I spend less money.
I'm more independent in everything.
And I'm stronger mentally and physically.
And I just want to share that with anyone.
I want everyone to be free.
I want everyone to be equal.
I want everyone to do whatever they want to do.
So in all seriousness, I'm really looking forward seeing people reacting to what I have to say.
And like you can already, like everything that I'm saying here,
if you don't like me swearing, just go on my website, like my, my hidden,
engine X server, you're going to see the type of information that I archive.
It's all in there.
And just no swearing.
There's no nothing.
It's just, hey, do you want to go garlic?
Boom.
You know how to go garlic in five minutes?
Just five minutes of your time.
Hey, you want to, like, learn how to grow food, like a complete guy.
30 minutes of your time, you know how to do that.
You know how to make, like, concrete things.
Like, you know how to make things happen within 30 minutes.
You want to learn how to program, you know, or do you know,
it might take more of your time because it's more complex,
but within the same day, you can do it.
Do you want to make money recycling cans?
And you can make quite a lot of money if you're, like,
if you don't have any job or stuff, you can actually learn how to do that.
So really looking forward to that.
So comments, insults, whatever, get connected,
load average or slash space one.
And I'm really looking forward for my next podcast.
I'll be going to react.
And by the way, I apologize for my botnet podcasts
because there's the F word in the title.
I don't know if I said the F or the C word during that 18-minute long podcast,
but anyway, sorry if I did.
I'm really sorry.
And happy hacking.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareAlive, 3.0 license.
