Episode: 2087
Title: HPR2087: Magazines I read Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2087/hpr2087.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:05:46

---

This is HPR Episode 2.87 entitled Magamine Myread Part 2.
It is posted by Tony H.1.212 and in about 4 minutes long, the summary is more of the
Magamine Myread.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Get a web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, Hacker Public Radio.
This is Tony Hughes again with the second episode about the magazines I like to read.
All the magazines I'll be talking about today, I read on my Magister application on the
tablet.
The Magister Gold subscription, which gives me access to literally hundreds of magazines
and the following are just a few that I currently have set as favourites so that I can access
them on a regular basis.
The first of these magazines is a magazine called The Vegetarian Times.
I'm a bit of a foodie and I've been a vegetarian for many years so access to good food magazines
is important to me.
This is a US publication so not all the advertised products are available in the UK but the
articles and recipes are excellent.
Feel Good Food is another magazine I also set as a favourite.
A British magazine aimed at women but nonetheless still a source of some brilliant recipes for
delicious food for food lovers everywhere.
Lots of veggie magazine but there is usually something of interest.
Like most of the food magazines I read, I dip into them, find recipes I like and
save them and move on.
Moving on from food, my other interest is sci-fi and cult fiction.
So I bookmarked both these magazines, Starburst magazine and SFX magazine.
I've grouped these together as they both deal with the same subject really.
They review the latest books, films, TVs, comics and audio recordings for the genre.
They also cover classic examples, often examining work from the so-called golden age of a
particular subject.
Along with Total Film Magazine, you will always have access to reviews of the latest films
and TV and if they are worth the price of a cinema ticket or space, there's a series
record on your PVR.
Another armchair, Hobby of Mine, is Archaeology.
I've loved the time team series from the beginning.
My next magazine on Maxter is Archaeology.
This is a bi-monthly magazine published in the US, but covering the latest archaeological
news from around the world.
For someone who is into my modern technology, it's interesting to read about what the latest
technology was hundreds or even thousands of years ago.
Moving on, one of my other interests over the last 20 years has been motorcycles and
motorcycling.
Although no longer ride, I still retain a keen interest, so a bank magazine has to be something
I dip into to drill over shiny metal every so often.
So I currently have a backstreet heroes as a favourite in Maxter and dip into it when
I need a shiny metal fix.
Finally, more active Hobby of Mine is photography, so there has to be a photography magazine
in the list.
Or amateur photographer claims to be the world's oldest weekly photography magazine.
It covers also aspects of photography and the equipment you need from high-end professional
stuff to point and shoot cameras and all the other stuff from bags to flashlights.
It also has good articles about techniques and how to do various things and they'll
focus on things like landscapes, portraits, things like that.
So there you have it, some more of the magazines I like to read to pass a bit of time when
I'm not too busy with other things, like listening to or recording HPR podcasts.
So this is Tony Hughes signing off at HPR, hope to be back with another show soon, thanks.
Every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is, HECA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum
computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
share a light 3.0 license.
