Episode: 2481
Title: HPR2481: HPR Community News for January 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2481/hpr2481.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 03:58:12

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15 that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is the community news where HBR volunteers bring you some news and stories
that have been happening in the HBR community over the last month.
Join me tonight and as ever is... Hi there everybody, hi there Ken, it's Dave Morris.
How are you doing Dave? Oh I'm not bad, thank you, it can be expected.
Exactly, I'd like to thank you first of all for taking up a lot of the slack at very little
spare time with one thing in the other this month and you took over very admirably as always.
Thank you very much Dave. No problem, no problem. Do you want to welcome our new host?
Yes, we have a new host this month which is wonderful. Joey Hess is our new host, we'll just
be speaking about him later. Excellent, so this is as I said in the intro, this is basically a
what's going on and a HBR community, we have a few announcements at the end I think and I think
we also skipped the mail list for last month what happened in the mail list so we need to kind of
quickly go through that. But before we do that, we make an effort to go through all the shows so
that we can basically give people a rundown of what's been happening in the last month.
As it turns out Dave, people actually listened to this show, I found out on the new year show.
Yeah, I was quite surprised to hear that as well, I imagine people switched off about 10 minutes in.
God, I struggled to listen to myself almost to God, but apparently people use this as a kickoff
to go back and listen to other shows that the media have skipped over.
So, what are those goals? You've got some people in spot that there are comments that they missed
as well, I've noticed, which is an interesting observation. So, we're sort of doing the job of
reading the comments to people. Speaking of comments, there were six comments to HBR community
news for December 2017 already, times are moving on. And the first one was from Mike Ray about
workload. I sort of drifted off a bit during the talk about the image and show notes and
know the videos so I may be a bit off track here, but I caught the sentences talking about a
skillless obturances, traces of our frequency distribution per hole, some other stuff like HBR logo,
Excel, etc. This made me think of my mantra, I have always used my professional life, that is,
don't promise to or start to provide something periodically or on a regular basis that you're likely
to regret. And I would just like to say, yes, you're absolutely correct. Come back to the
comments. I don't know about how other people consume HBR, but I typically do it in bed with my
iPhone, typically I'll show content stuff I need to look at, like Dave show about Bash,
I will go to the site next day and copy and paste stuff from Shane, Dave show notes into a
markdown file, which I'll file away on my raid system. Some shows I delete just given the subject
without even listening, typically anything which looks like how do I make coffee or how do I make
it last of water now. Show that hurts. Other shows I listen right through without any hesitation
because of the reputation in my own mind of the quality of the whole past shows. But to the point,
I would not recommend you make a rod for your own back by promising stuff like video embedded
show notes, oscilloscope traces or any stuff that increases the workload further than before.
Maybe I'm biased here, but the fact that the video is pointless for me because I can't see it,
and I'll have to admit to being scared that the next step will only have show notes embedded in
the videos, then I'm sorry, but I will have to shoot you and that will never happen in the end
of my grace comments. So yes, Mike commented again, the subject was soldering on,
said my ears pricked out when Ken was extolling the virtues of a 25 dollar temperature controlled
soldering iron. Somehow I've missed that recommendation who it was ever aired. What is the make and
model of the iron? I hear a loud cry of, why does a blind man want a soldering iron from the land
of clogs and windmills? I do soldering. I know Mike is a better solder than me, so not at all.
It's a very able fellow in all sorts of ways, so yes. Back to the comment, I do sold
occasionally, especially things like PL259 coax plugs and even components into veer aboard,
but more recently I've decided my fingertips are too valuable to me to risk them.
And anyway, the plastic surgery builder eroding my beer fund, but I regularly take stuff
to the local Linux user group where my good friend Tony would aka soldering slave solder stuff for
me under my guidance. Unfortunately, Tony soldering iron is only one step short of being a big lump
of copper in the end of a steel rod, which he plunges into hot coals before bringing it to bear
on the legs of a surface mount AVR microcontroller. I've been thinking of getting a temp controlled iron,
I can stuff in my rucksack and lug to the lug. See what I did there? So yes, so I buy rites I should
do mine as well as where I shouldn't I? I replied to this. So I said soldering iron, hi Mike,
I bought myself to solder station Ken was mentioning having seen it on big Clives YouTube channel,
and there's a link. I recommended to Ken and he also bought one. The link I sent him was and I
provided an Amazon link. I also bought a few extra hand rods and a load of spare tips which I found
on eBay. I can send you eBay links by email if you want, but they may not be current anymore.
Thinking of the big lump of copper in the end of a rod, that's what I learned to solder with at
school. We used a gas heating unit so we'd advance a bit from the hot coals smiley face.
Not here and you can. I know. Yep, I can hear you. Okay, Mike says soldering. I also learned to
solder at school with the things where we were talking about trust into heaps of clinkers heated
with a gas torch. The first thing the metal teacher got us to make was a tin plate tray.
This involved cutting a V out of each corner of a square of tin plate folding it up slightly
and soldering into the mating of the edges to make a tray. Unfortunately, I never managed to cut
the V's accurately and ended up trying to solder across a gap after beaming the cuts out back and
forth to break them. After about six months, the other kids were making hasps and staples or
paint scrapers milling stuff on the milling machine and I was trying to get the solder to bridge
one millimeter gap smiley face. That's a terrible thing. Yes. Then we'll read you the next one so
you can. You can change the next one. Yeah, okay. And it's by Frank about US college numbering
course numbering regarding 101, 102, etc. It is common but by no means universal that US colleges
uses the means of numbering courses generally 100 refers to freshman year first year courses 200
to sophomore second year. That's what sophomore means. Level courses up to 400 and above for
advance or graduate level courses. Generally, the more advanced the course, the more narrow and in
depth it's focus. 101 usually starts as a basic intro course 102 is the next intro course and so on.
A first semester US history course would be history 101 say colonialization to civil war.
The following second semester course would be history 102 civil war to present as an aside judging
by what's happening domestically in my country. I have concluded that these courses are no longer
taught but that's another matter. History 412 just to pick a random number topic might be an
exhaustive dive into early federal freedom roughly 1790 to 1832. Again, it's not a universal system.
Just a very common perhaps the most common system. I do not know the origins of the system. Here's
a more detailed article from Cal State North Ridge and there's a link. Yeah. Yeah. Yes, I was tempted
to answer that comment actually from Frank. Thank you, Frank, for that. But when I started looking at
the numbering system in the university, I worked out. It's massively complicated. It's got more
complicated than when I was there I think. So I just started against it because it's a journey
into a whole diatribe about stuff. But it's the British systems in general are a lot more complex
for no reason that I can find them. So back to the comments, I. Tradition. Tradition.
Yeah, yeah. We've always known that way. Regardless of whether it's stupid. So I mentioned
the learning disorder at school issue. Mike and I tend to bounce these things back as a voice
apologies to everybody. I just realised I still have a little metal scoop I made at school.
It was made from what I think is tin plated sheet steel bent in a box bender. If that's a
British term specifically, but a thing that bends metal with tabs that had to be soldered.
Getting those tabs properly aligned and soldered was a challenge and there are some wide gaps
where the solder just didn't bridge them. It wasn't a showstopper because I remember learning to
braze some tools for the fireplace later in making tile levers at the forge. Fun times,
smiley face. Nice. So it was good that you got to learn that stuff, practical stuff. Yeah,
people don't do as much I think these days, but most, most state schools in the UK anyway.
Nightwise is about to order a new MacBook Pro and share some tips and tricks, none of which I will
ever use. But yeah, I don't, I don't think now in fairness nightwise and he'll be the first to
challenge me on that. I don't think he seriously considered any other laptop other than a MacBook
to be brutally honest with him. No, no, I think there's, I was having my son with
having a laptop, a MacBook for many years because of his music degree, he would not consider
moving to anything else. And I can see his argument because there are some really nice features in it.
There's also some pretty foul things in my, my reckoning book and the money. Yes, it's one.
Yeah, the money will be one. Well, it's, it's a, it was an interesting show nonetheless. Yeah,
yeah, it was interesting, interesting insight, wasn't it? No comments though. And then we had the
following day operator with a list of Chrome plugins that you must have and how he secures his
browser. It's actually quite, quite cool list there. Yes, yes, I made the note to myself that
there was some that need following up, but I haven't done it yet. But yeah, some, some,
some potentially good things. Quite a few with other people I've discussed here in the past,
but still an all very, very handy list, have it in one place. And he links to his blog there.
There's one comment from Zolke and he says, you missed you Matrix and he gave a link. No script,
but done by the guy who did you block, so they play well together. And there is a learning curve,
so I don't recommend it for my family, but it does great work for techies, you Matrix.
And clicking the new next first previous latest button, which I put in since the last time,
free solfers long tail, the PD menu by PD menus author in response to PD menu by the PD menus author.
This is just awesome. I think DoDoDoMe's comment says it's the best. My favorite, my new favorite
episode, if this episode doesn't warm your heart, you don't have one. Yes, I said thanks for
this, Joey. This is Joey. Yes, as you said, I think I was surprised and very happy that my
episode about PD menu resulted in you becoming an HBR contributor. I hope you feel motivated to
contribute more. See what I did there. It was great. Also, as a poll in these days, I'm delighted
to hear that's where PD menu originated. I was thinking about this, you know, now that we should
review all sorts of stuff and all sorts of weird eccentric software and mention the authors by name,
then we get even more contributors. Yes, yes, if you say the names three times to the
executive director of contributors, yeah. Speaking of people appearing from out of nowhere,
the Alien Brothers podcast, season one, episode three, deadline, deadline of the American Empire,
aliens penetrate the Van Allen belt to tap in and transmit an intergalactic podcast.
An interesting talk actually from, you know, setting outside of the U.S. and not really
being, you know, being involved in it. It's nice to hear discussions about policies and stuff.
Yes, yes. The net neutrality issue was exercised quite a lot and was quite interesting, I thought.
No, indeed. And there were some comments from Brian and Ohio. Alien Brothers podcast. Oh,
do you want to read that and I'll read my own reply? Okay. Alien Brothers podcast is Brian
in Ohio. Okay, I gave it a try. Listen to the complete third episode of Alien Brothers and I think
this series of podcast is terrible. If these guys are trying to be funny, they are not. If this
is a Kickstarter like attempt to gaze the market for a podcast, I think it's a poor use for how
it could probably read you. This book, these shows in the emergency cues that when we start hearing
them, we know the end is near. Sting, sting, sting. Oh Brian. Hilarious though, that may be
not very supportive. And then I made a comment actually, not to Brian's comment, but to the show itself
which was about their no restrictions along the show can be. They've mentioned a few times
that you know, they want to keep it to an hour if they do. That's fine. But we have 71 shows
longer than an hour and the longest one running at two hours 36 minutes 58
seconds so yeah. So yes, the Alien Breastlinger of Alien Brothers podcast
replied, Hi Brian from Ohio he says, Hi Brian thanks for your feedback. As far as
I know we're not being or striving to be anything funnier or smarter or
longer or Kickstarter supported than being the Alien Brothers podcast. How to
zone hack a public radio. The considerable help support bandwidth space
largest. Our overviews, overused phrase is this is the Alien Brothers podcast,
not some other one. If we're terrible, we invite lucid critique because I mean
we already know it's terrible. It's the Alien Brothers podcast. I can only assume
I use that single world. You mean tremendous as in as the great is
Casper and I have had conversations acknowledge acknowledging our segments are too long.
Keep coming back and then he gives a reference. Although I believe length is
important in in certain contexts, I know Casper and I are conscious of the fact
that our submissions are almost certainly too long. Now I don't think so. I think
you do the show however long the show needs to be and I know the Brian
has given his opinion and that's absolutely fine. And then we have Clatoon with another
brilliant episode. The last time I heard audio performance this good was the yes
concert in Denver. Sadly the band couldn't make it but the opening act was pretty great.
What? It's kind of experience. Two aliens are completely on their own channel here.
It's absolutely absolutely. That's a rather wonderful comment. I'm not sure I'll ever
understand it though. Okay guys remember keep the constructive. Okay how much of that did you
get? Well I think you went off about two minutes ago according to my timing. So what was
I talking about? Hello? Yeah I don't know. I thought we'd finished with the Alien Brothers but
I don't know. You sort of suddenly stopped part way through a sentence. No I moved on to sorry
guys they I moved my laptop and then I have an extension USB cable which I've always used for
the show and for some reason it is just popping out and then my microphone doesn't work anymore.
So I've got a new shorter cable and we'll see if that works any better. So you'd move down to
two four six one. We had read a tattoo's comment about another brilliant episode and then let's move
on to the next show. Needless to say I will not be editing this. Geolite using Geolite would you
get server? Yeah and I think I would pronounce it but yeah. Geolite? Yes because it's
Git and presumably like that. But yeah you want to do the comment? Well I've already done a one
step. Okay my turn then. So we have Jim Zat says Geolite and HBO 2446. Thank you for these two
episodes 24462461. I've been using Git at work over five and a half years on two desktops, one
laptop, one Windows XP and two Linux using SSH keys that I've manually put in place on the various
machines. I currently have over 60 unique repositories of which some are customer configuration
specific and some are globally common. At this point in time I need to allow access for other
developers to my repos. It took me around a day to implement the method explained in episode 2446
and less than a couple of hours to replace that with using Gitolite. Langing the keys and wildcard
repos within Gitolite is so much easier than the manual requirements of the method from episode 2446.
And tattoo replies, which I think is an excellent excellent excellent. By the way this is a perfect
example Dave of the importance of the impact of a show that I mentioned to Zulk. How to measure
the impact of a show, one show, one person absolutely at the right place at the right time.
It's happened before but this is another excellent example. Yeah yeah yeah sure that's what we're
all trying to do you know and pass on info. Well a lot of it is going on anyway a lot of information
is being passed on and hopefully it's finding its mark in many cases. Which is quite interesting
is that our shows tend to well based on the data that we have at least they tend to be downloaded
equally shows in the last month. In only given month there will be about 50% of the shows
in the last month and 50% will be more older shows where people are specifically going back
to hear that particular show because that's what they're looking for right now.
Yeah yeah the the archive.org stuff does quite a reasonable job at linking together
shows too. And if you've looked if you browse that a time very impressed with the whole the whole
thing over there. It's so you might be looking at something. Oh look there's other things ready
to do and follow follow through which is brilliant. Very cool. Well the next day Dave was a wet day
here in the Netherlands and no it wasn't actually it was because I was outside on the bus stop
and it was triplanetary the first in the Lensman series and I had put off the show in order to go
back and hear the audio and God that was that was a tough book to get through I have to say I did not
enjoy the book but I did enjoy this show. That's interesting you say that I I read it years and years
ago some tatty old paperback that I think my sister's husband had and dumped in the corners
and weather. I thought I really enjoyed it um to know it just depends where you are and so
but it was reading rather than listening so I don't quite what the difference is in this case but
I enjoyed it as a book it's old fashioned and strange but it's just not quite fun. That said
I'm now going back reading some of my favourite Azimov novels from when I was a kid and man
they're so much worse I don't know worse I just think the time has moved on for for that 50s
I don't know I just they're not aging well. No no no I can understand that yeah yeah I
tell it go at foundation a year or so back and I started reading that. Why did I be so excited
by that the first time I read it? I didn't enjoy it very much second time round. I'm not in a way
when you when you go back and like when I was reading like 10,000 leagues under the sea and stuff
like that where you know the premise is you know obviously technology has moved on but the stories
themselves were still engaging. I'm thinking some of the 1950s stuff is just missing missing that
longevity. Yeah maybe so maybe so yeah I was trying to in most of my reading that that sort of era
so I have hesitated to go back and listen to it. To a ridden shut up. Anyway who can completely
disagree with me. At long last I am fanatic about the Lensman series in fact my email address
comes from that series. Well now that's interesting. You know I didn't realize that I knew
Zwillnik Zwillnik which is his email address was a sci-fi thing but I couldn't remember it being
part of the Lensman series so yeah my memory is crap. The following day we had setting up a 32-bit
Ubuntu server repurposing a 32-bit small form factor workstation and this is part of kind of a
series by JWP of getting all stuff out of the closet and basically doing it up and seeing how
how it'll go. I do like what he's trying to do here. He does some interesting things. Not sure
I would bother personally but that's just me. Yeah but you know good all-power to him for doing it
and I must say as the guy who often wrangles the notes he's doing some excellent notes to go with
these things. Very good yeah. No comments on that yet. The next day we had another Alien Brothers
season 1 episode for digital instruments and this was a this is a nice little one about various
different particularly Mac and Windows-E digital audio workstations but also is it Rutger who
was doing they just make an interesting sound and I liked it I liked that. It was it was kind of
cool. Yeah yeah I found it quite appealing. It's not sure typical Alien Brothers podcast but
it was good. No no it was um there was an element I wrote down here TLDA too long didn't attend
but it wasn't meant to be a criticism it was just my attention wavered a bit as I was going through
this too. They've already got pride. It's not a criticism it's just you agree with the
the ill brains not up to listening for too long. So I was actually listening to that on
the bus going to work and then I rarely I normally turn it off but I actually continued listening
in in work until I got everything booted up and stuff so yeah pretty good not that I used
Mac and Windows but it was just an interesting their approach to creating music and sounds.
An interesting topic was sure. Yeah pretty good. Tron script where have you been all my life
an initial view an initial look at Tron script and all its features. Do you want to read the
comment on that because I've been talking too much. Yep Tim Timmy says thanks just wanted to say
thanks to operator for bringing Tron script to my attention I hate maintaining the Windows boxes
at work. Five Windows boxes and seven Linux boxes. I've run Tron script on three of the machines so
far and they're running a lot quicker now including one of the wind seven machines we've got stuck
installing updates a while back and even after hours of searching for solution to the problem
nothing. Tron script has resolved the issue and the machine is now up to date. It looks like
Tron script has been around for quite some time has remained under my radar so thanks
against the episode and bringing it my attention. I wonder what other tools HBO listeners use that
I or others have not heard of. Oh they're a slip of fiber to Tim Timmy yeah yeah all the tools
ads come on and indeed lassies in between. That was an interesting comment actually yeah I must
admit I sort of filed it ways yeah Windows I'm not all that interested but look that one
on my back pocket now thank you. No I absolutely I should pay more attention but yeah having
looked through the list of features it's very rich in capabilities. It's very impressive yeah
yeah yeah we'll do a lot to unbund Windows systems that got themselves in a messed up state cool
can you still hear me yeah yeah yeah that calls me clear my throat oh it's okay. Surex apparently
is awesome and it was surex for all your windscreen shot needs a more and I was thinking through
this yeah this is the zonkiri zonkiri oh what yeah that sounds kind of cool that sounds kind of
and then it's Windows only zonk hello yeah oh I was really excited to see the two movies I
sounded really good I even looked at the web pages and stuff there's no bloody even the next thing
but and now I'm yeah well we actually it's it's kind of cool still open source and so pretty cool
Sunder says a useful tool for streamlining screen captures this sounds like one of those long tail
tools that you never knew how much you need it until you come across them I have a few like that
and that's one of the topics I have in my one day when I make a hpr recording oh dear
publicly on record dev ideas surex might go into that list if it works on my
potato overlap top and then brackets but by making an informative quality podcast episode
doesn't excuse your mispronouncing of jiff zok please repent by sharing tang jiffs
of adorable kittens and poppies online and so it comes back with the response jiff
felt with the jiff will always be a micro liquid and you find so a youtube video which is
I think it's a you you can add for a for a cleaning thing that you it's good for
getting the gun off your the top of your your home and stuff which is the gold that's been
playing for about 50 years and every person knows that you know I yeah yeah I have made a special
effort throughout my entire life to avoid advertising because I hate it with the hatred that
knows no bounds so I did not know this I did not know this so it's proves that I my attempt to
avoid it has worked well done good joke good yeah very good following day I randomly talk about
my laptops and this is Swift 110 random talk about laptops and the Linux distros that he has
on them installing ubuntu mate and on his x60 seems to be a lot more of those
Lenovo laptops in the states available because the only people who have them here tend to be IBM
workers or PM was a consultants computers consultants right yeah my son's girlfriend has a has a
Lenovo which she got second hand and it's brilliant she she loves it but I don't know whether it's
an x60 I'm not sure what model it is but I have seen them you do see them at the likes of old camp
and post them and stuff hmm you see a lot of max as well because that is true but a good show
and good to see Swift 110 around again I yeah I really enjoy your shores they're comforting
I like his style of just sort of just talking about what's going through his mind at the time
you know yeah exactly the events going yeah I don't mind that nice it's like to catch an up with
somebody the well a bi operator oh yes this is not the first time we've had we had episodes about
the well either as uh but this is actually quite quite interesting that they put light bulbs and
stuff down to stop freezing in all sorts have you seen the video I did yes yes there were no tags
on this one so I had to listen to it early to because I like to make sure this tags on stuff that
goes on the on archive.org so I listened and watched and everything so I could try and add something
useful to it but now it's wow what a problem I'm glad I'm not faced with that yeah it's it's it's
it's an interesting one though I like the hardware stuff oh on the next day some more on
doing a bash script to do flight artillery I mean seriously also you stole my show about doing
date Steve did I know more of a story if you want to show record the show it's on the server
whoever gets it first yeah you hadn't done it I see what you mean I was hunting around to make
sure I wasn't treading on anybody's toes make sure I reference Dan's show on date which he did
did in in his usual detailed style but yeah yeah yeah well it was just me fapping around waiting for
you know messages from working yeah I don't know whether all fathers are like yeah and then
also yeah off galibanting but yeah yeah it was it was just a personal challenge can I do this in
bash yes again no well yeah Jesus an excellent excellent tool I use it are absolutely an old day
on a weekly or daily basis in in scripts in order to increment you know in a loop instead of trying
to figure out January of February March you just plus one day so a day plus one day and away it
goes and just counts on the next day it's freaking awesome yeah yeah if you read the the bash reference
manual and various things canoe documentation for date there's there's several references the fact
that they put a lot of effort in making that parsing code be be very very comprehensive so
it's it's amazing you know that somebody's that they put so much effort into it for a thing that
people maybe don't really appreciate the the the features of so and it is this is hard stuff
guys converting dates that dates there's a Tom Scott video on YouTube about dates and his
analysis is basically just getting open source library and do it that way but and this the power
of what you're able to do here what I normally do is take the dates and convert them to epoch
time and then just store them as that and then translate them back when necessary and I have
yeah that was my my first situation did that but you can't add add you know stuff like one one
week or something yeah yeah it's it's not a good number to to to do arithmetic with yeah
but the stuff I'm usually doing is adding 60 seconds or you know 15 minutes and then you just
add the number and you're done but then convert it back into a proper ISO it's a one day for
display using the formatting so that's awesome yes yes yes yes cool well done thanks for that show
by the way even if you did steal it from me fine I you have to reserve it yeah I didn't say that
I didn't say that it isn't the show of it isn't on the server that's that's the rule and we got an
update on Obamacare at the end of 2017 which was a nice uh a nice one to get actually just uh
rounding off things um yeah and Windigo says thanks for the update uh I've enjoyed every
episode in the series and find your explanations of the concept behind the policies invaluable
with so much rhetoric rhetoric and propaganda surrounding the alcare debate a factual explanation
is just what I needed to hear thank you so much yeah and uh Dodd dummy says time to update the
elimination of the individual mandate does the removal of the individual mandate just to find
an update he asks and a hookah says I did cover the repeal of the individual mandate was covered
in the last episode I believe okay cool and tea time one which Mike Ray will have missed
I go over where I am with tea uh can you read special selection yearba mate yearba mate
not never going to be able to get that though you're ba mate so well known tea tea
to cover tea isn't it it's um yeah yeah if it didn't pick it it into a harrito is it a special select
yeah yeah yeah never try it itself but uh I don't really know how it pronounced it but I'm guessing
this was by operator again and uh yeah if you're entities if you're into coffees why not go for it
yeah yeah it's uh tempted to to give it try though I'd quite like the caffeine personally but
yeah yeah there are times uh my I've switched to drinking roiboss mostly because there is no
caffeine so it's basically just warm something that looks red yeah it's actually quite nice I've
drank that one quite a lot yeah yeah so hard to get without the infusions in us for just regular
roibosses quickness a forum failures lost and Bronx talks about his recent experiment running a
forum he loves forums I hate forums you know why I hate forums oh no Ken tell us why you hate forums
do do to do to because you ask a question can somebody please explain this to me and then the
very nice answer by law is what do you want to do with that for why don't you do it with this
and then the discussion disappears and you will never get it back again now it's it's like
the I wouldn't have started from here if I were you to get to that but yeah exactly but I am here
and I'm asking this question about this so answer the the fact that people derail conversations
however that's probably different for lost and Bronx as it's specific to a specific thing it's
not for asking asking for help but really my main issue with forums is the setting up multiple
accounts and more accounts and I think that's everybody's issue with forum yeah yeah yeah we tried
to run one at work at one point what was the popular one I remember it was full of full of holes
and easy to be that's one yeah yeah yeah yeah we tried that she thought it'd be useful to have
everybody's able to to discuss things that that way without going into interminable meetings but
yeah we we liked it no good good episode and LMB does ponder and stuff which is good yeah
frots a portable z-machine interpreter how to use frots to play the old infocom text adventure
games from the 80s Claudio Miranda oh yes he had me following his links Dave that's never good
yeah I I went and looked in the devian repository and yes it's there yeah I already installed it
actually but I've not used it much I could be a dangerous one now be a dangerous one
but a good show like this like this Claudio thank you and more open source gaming number three
the Atari Jaguar by the dude and they published those that has Hasbro published they published the show
or published they released the software under open license D.O.D cubed Omi says they won't sell
how did I miss this from Hasbro interactive cool as for making new consoles which will play
the old cartridges I don't think that would be economically feasible and I doubt money would buy
them in my experience people who want to play on real hardware want to hatch the actual real harder
perhaps this will change as more of the old systems die out in the case of the 2600 where I lost
countless hours of my youth and there are only a handful of 2600 games were playing I don't see
the majority of any major players creating such a system perhaps a small expensive one would make
the most people use emulators on machines they already have you may have a point but it would still
be cool quite an interesting machine I read a little bit about it after seeing hearing the show
never heard of it before show my son at least I might know about it no nothing no information
underground sex drugs and rock and roll should actually sex drugs and jazz probably would be a better
description deep geek and tattoo look back at the flappers and speakeasies of the 20s and 30s
flappers were a generation of young western women who wore short skirts bobbed their hair and
listened to jazz and flaunted their disdain for what was considered acceptable behavior an interesting
show yeah yeah and I was lacking some serious female input but yeah it's a good show yes it
the American context was an interesting element to that I found the sort of changes in
more a's in the USA over that period I had never really considered before I think it was
deep geek who was talking about it and obviously has a wide knowledge of these these things and
insight and so forth so yeah most interesting do you want to read for any comments I said
will do Frank says this show excellent discussion one fact I would contribute is that women throughout
most of history have been treated as property much of what you all said about the states of
women before prohibition was reflective of this I'm old and I can remember when in the USA a woman
not get alone a mortgage a credit card without a male co-signer if she could get one at all
and as we can see from current history many men still view women as property indeed as plaything
in addition as a lifelong reader of playboy and at the risk of starting something I must
with some trepidation question how playboy pictures can be conflated with pornography unless the
conflater believes that nudity is inherently pornographic a position I do not share I would argue
that said person at least is never seen a copy of hustler nor an image of the Venus Demilo wife
of that matter do you think the great masters of painting have painted so many nudes I guarantee
it's just an awesome use to say it wasn't solely because of an abstract appreciation of color
and form once more an excellent discussion cool very well put yeah and this is all for the other
discussion more shows folks more shows yeah absolutely and back to our GNU OX series episode nine
who clatoon forgot to mention uh on his show where he was recommended GNU OX that be easy as co-authoring
this one with you in what is turning out to be an absolutely excellent uh handover I really
am enjoying the way you both are handing over from one to other in doing this show very well done
we're we're making up the identity sort of as we go a lot it doesn't matter if it plays well
otherwise it was it's a little bit of a discussion about well where should we go next because it's huge
the subject is huge it's surprising how much there is in in GNU OX in particular and so we thought
that the printf thing was something that needed some some looking at because I think it's easy
to to miss a lot of the features absolutely and this one this one actually was one of the more
comfortable ones I must say I do dredge them when they come along like when you were doing your
said ones because you never know how deep does this particular rattle go you know um but this one
made my move to python a lot more understandable with the percent you know s percent
way of formatting the text it has just been directly lifted by python or vice versa from
ark so this was uh this is a great explanation I think it originates in c exactly this is largely a
c derived thing and pearl also uses oh yeah yeah yeah yeah and and again derived from um there's a
uh brine kernigan is is on youtube this is quite a few episodes of computer file I've got a show
in the the queue uh talk about that in fact yeah um and he he's got some fascinating things to say
about how how these decisions were made I don't think he's anything particular about printf
but you know the sort of thinking was well let's gather together lots of the the features that
you find elsewhere and just make them better and easier to use you know so it's uh yeah we should
maybe make a make a reference to some of those in this in this series I'll mention that to be
easy when I speak to him next the thing I like about linux and unix and free and open source offer
is the fact that this stuff keeps popping up you know you're if you come to a new computer
language and then all of a sudden there's a block of familiarity there but in some ways just
it's it's a in many ways it's it's great because you know all of a sudden your life your learning curve
just got a lot less steep because you understand the concepts and and the fact that sometimes the
syntax isn't exactly the same is bit annoying but the fundamental concepts of it makes that the
learning curve of learning the command line is a big learning curve but because so much stuff is
shared between the various different applications so much so many of the concepts and the and they
I don't have all of a column norms or help me out here Dave what's the word in the computer
but the syntax yeah exactly the logic behind it or the idea is behind it or so similar that
and yeah it's easier you know once you get onto a role then it becomes very comfortable to
the further down the road you go the more experience you have and then you pick up this from
there and that from there and then it becomes a lot easier to pick up new stuff yes I don't know if
that entire thing was coherent but sure we'll move on well there's a there's a bit of
commonality which is which is nice to find when you're hopping around exactly that's language
yes that's good yeah speaking about people who get distracted uh D O D D D O M M Y I'm going to now
do that as D O D cubed U M squared Y says reading all your books while distracted this was a nice
one I've I've suffered from that as well where you've been doing something that's just not boring enough
that you can automate it in your head and then just not interesting enough that you're
entirely focused on it and this was his attempt to fix that by breaking up audio into smaller chunks
yes yes it makes makes a lot of sense I find myself replaying episodes of VHPR and others
because I've my brains wandered off course I've been distracted by something or other and
so yeah alien brothers sorry alien brothers I'm just teasing but they yeah and you wonder why
all the alien every alien movie they all attack us and destroy our homes and stuff yeah it's
cause of these negative feedback that they get oh yeah guys remember you know the daily
and invasion could be down to comments like this and the HPR shows those tripod machines
anyway uh D O D D O M M Y commented one correction I meant to say that I'm walking around
I prefer to listen to sped up not normal speed yes just like everybody else yeah that's a perfectly
normal thing to do yes no it's good show good show I like it nice notes too yeah exactly and also
also I liked the his his trail of thought as he did yes yes he yeah but is this the one where he
seemed to be sharing the room with the with the cockroach oh yeah yeah want to mention that
well yeah was he trolling us or what the hell is going on there but see I thought he's making a comment
about the bird song shows lately yeah that's great there's ambit noise but does he have a pet
some pet chickens and I don't know that's a sure right there right it's yeah yeah yeah it reminded me
of being away in the far east and where everybody sees our chickens in the wanderin era and why
the cockroach always have to make let Dan know it anyway city of masks by the HPR audio book club
I decided after the the last one where I had to struggle through I decided to listen to this show
spoilers and all before I would listen to before I read it and it turns out I've already read this
well audio book just because it was on another podcast I came across it before I'm a very good book
and they had the author on yeah this was cruel for the first time no no no they they they've been
doing brilliantly with getting authors to come in and join but yeah this was great and might
raise millions and like a really down to earth sort of cool guy didn't enjoy listening to him talking
about what you've been doing and stuff but it was it was excellent yeah yeah I'm tempted
they didn't hold back I'm given you know criticism of the book or you know feedback you know that's
a balls you think to do right there the guy who wrote it's right there yeah yeah it's an interesting
of thing it's an interesting dilemma I guess isn't it yeah do you do you remain extremely polite
because the author's there or do you actually give tell the truth and I think if I were in that
position not that I would be but I would assume here the truth and yeah sort of flannel but
yeah but now they did it very the only criticism the game was backed up with it's like
there are one opinion and stuff and it was very positive and they had yeah yeah yeah they had
really good reason no I think I think any any author would be would be very pleased to have that
sort of discussion obviously he was up for yeah whatever also techie turned through by this
yes yeah good stuff good stuff and they the audiobook club are coming thick and fast and
each time now they'll leave 2050 it's a strange thing yes I've always taken them off because
they were on the mailing list anyway yeah yeah yeah so now it's good it's good very good episode
intergraph jwp dusted off his intergraph orchestration you just talked into february you're you're
you're away oh can't do that enter the room you know it's okay what else what else do we do on
the show after going through all the episodes no good good whack episodes they're now Dave I liked
given the city month that I had to be told this was a nice break from the from the misery that I
was experiencing anyway shall we do the comments so the comments yes yes so shall I make a
start yeah I'm sure we try and not messes up this time Dave I don't know in my try and mess it
up for a change two or three times it's and it becomes a tradition and now the traditional
messing up of the comments so we had we're now looking at the comments to previous shows in
previous months we're looking here at 2399 which was dod dummies using superglue to create landmarks
on keyboards and he had a comment himself number seven at about the same time I created this
episode I got a monitor from aoc you can access the settings menu via three physical buttons
on the front of the right bezel problem is they are those buttons you can't really feel
they're labeled on them but those labels are hard to feel too this resulted in numerous failed
attempts to make the needed adjustment it pressed make it frustrated me enough that I've used
one monitor I've used one monitor of the last couple of weeks did I finally got ran to solving
this problem but first I put the monitor on its back so I could get a good look scene with good
lighting I was able to see the buttons clearly and make the necessary adjustments and have dual
monitors again hooray in one of the most epic doer moments I thought this episode and added landmarks
those buttons so far so good generalization if you have something that would benefit from tactile
landmark superglue might be the answer awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome and that's somebody
benefiting from the wisdom of their own show excellent yes yes no it's good it's it's an it's an
interesting point to put as well that and and monitors do suffer from this nonsense I've got one
here in front of me which is black and shiny and got black and shiny buttons on and you can't
tell where one ends and eggs begins and yeah and also some of them are behind the monitor you know
just at the bottom right and corner at the behind you can never get them yes and Klaatu commented
on his own show to a busy busy who had commented about kickstarter and yeah maybe I should have
provided it easy to download temporary version of the game plus the full rules thanks for the idea
I'll try again maybe that's something I'll try if I try again maybe that's something I'll try
so that was a feedback that he had already given and the next one is server basics 102 which
was another Klaatu show and Frank says ssh this is the best description of public private keys that
I have encountered hey good Klaatu says in response to yum what provides which somebody may
remember reading 0xf10e okay I somehow missed this comment until the monthly show read it aloud
and so I was reloading too early right away yes it's good so we're doing we're doing a service here
this is good so people listen to the show back to the back to the comment the greed Frank
yum and DNF now really is great interface to packages I've found zipper in open suzer to be
pretty neat too so we have Brian in Ohio show Falky commented on it his show was org mode mobility
solution and org is Lily says I also had problems with mobile org but found another solution I have
an own cloud instance where my org mode directory is mirrored on the android device I have installed
the own cloud client app and org zilly org zilly is a sinking the local on cloud org directory
to the on cloud client is sinking with the server it sounds harder than it is in real life no I think
I get what he's doing pretty cool pretty cool yeah wow so the next one is two four five four
alien brothers podcast series one episode two strictly hacking and uh Casper um says delivery
and content thank you for the feedback we are committed to doing better work in the years ahead we
do not want to hijack the community only provide content and contribute to the community to keep
it moving along you're working to cross collaborate with other members of the HBR community to
better tune delivery yes this was took a rick she was was commenting there okay um the next
was comment for by Claudio M on um into his zero RPG part five and he has says fantastic all
video drama version of IO a wonderful conclusion to this excellent RPG series looking forward to
more of these kudos to all involved including those who provided the sound effects by provided by
clatu clatu the moral of the story is you can never please can fallon just true just true just
true we got so further comment on this one drako medallium no son like it great I saw he did there
great show he says do you plan to continue recording more of these I hope so
Ron P says excellent encore loved listening to the series as somebody who wishes they had more
free time in pathfinder dnd etc picked up the pathfinder beginners box but currently it's collecting
dust bunnies I hope this series idea and series continues actually so do I I think it's brilliant
I loved it what I'd like them to do is is uh another another one and I also have a general question
about uh clatu you know clatu's got a new uh commons and something uh series where he's going
into descriptions of uh its commons and what's it called I'm not I'm gonna have to look it up
anyway while I'm looking that up uh he's got say another show where he's talking about uh dedicated
to dungeons and are dedicated to these type of games and open source lore and and the like
but they're mentioning quite a lot about d6 and just the basic numbers and strengths and stuff
and I'm kind of missing that that thing am I making any sense no I'm not really with it so
chronicles and commons and in the discussions on the on our own mailing list related to the new
year show about the setting up of the game there was a lot of technical numbers about d stuff and uh
strengths watch which I think refers to strength and uh you know they the character creation
stuff maybe if a bother reading the book I'd know what they're all about oh right right right right
okay okay yeah I was asking my daughter about about her experiences with dnd and how how all this
sort of stuff is set up and uh she uh yeah she she was explaining it a little bit but
I'm just too old and uh inflexible in the brain to completely get it prepared so that was it
Dave we will not comment anymore because the rest we have already covered indeed is this the
actual first time Dave so we've ever managed not to mess up the commons oh my god this is uh
I mean we didn't do too badly but we have the mailing list archived and we've got last month
to do they uh to do the mailing list for last month so it quickly goes yeah so we had uh the
new year's RPG planning which uh actually didn't uh turned out not to have gone ahead but what they're
doing is they're going to have that as another time and I'm trying to scan through here quickly
uh then we had the that their email issues on the website last month um which were resolved thank
you Josh again uh let me see we had uh testing the mailing list which works we have how to safely
redirect archive.org that whole thing went through last month we uh redirected this kind of
working out quite well I think it seems to be okay yeah yeah we we even covered the lack of tags
issue pretty much I think yeah yeah um then we had uh uh HPR paying back to anonymoushost.com
and if you want to help out there there's on every page uh I asked Josh how we in the HPR community
can support him by uh and reduce the burden we're placing on a part uh we'll be reducing the bandwidth
eliminating the database and streamlining the site to static static pages in the meantime here is a
message from Josh which I'd like to have on its own thread and this is from Josh the site will still
be hosted by an honesthost.com but moving the downloads would help with the strain seems to be
caused by some people trying to download the entire archive all at the same time maybe a little
exaggerated here but to get the idea kicking in a few books would actually help with the bandwidth
cost on this end too and would relieve some of the strain caused by some people trying to download
the entire archive all at the same time see what I did there I could also make it easier to cover
other costs on HPR stuff I'd like to with HPR server the sponsorship my company has done over
the years hasn't really yielded a loss in terms of return of investment but we keep doing it because
honestly I like the concept of HPR I'm on to continue supporting it that said been uh that said
occasionally we get stuff like people thinking it's cool to try and hack the site the dots the
site and we're currently consuming all the bandwidth in the server down more multiples of 10 streams at
once all these issues uh unfortunately some bigger issues than others so not trying to sound greedy
but if people could look into kicking in a few books um getting a hosting plan for the HPR
coupon or just kicking in a few books of PayPal um that would be great and there is uh on every HPR
website page you can go and there's a link to Josh has set up some um some uh options there that
you can basically help a one time by donating 10 bucks or 20 bucks or five bucks or you can
donate uh over the month five 20 or 10 bucks on a monthly basis to Josh that would help out
and I can't thank him enough for all the work that he has done it is yes it's interesting when
you've got hacker in your name there was a there was a time when we were just you know people were
being relatively relaxed uh about that and they would do it and what I would consider a cool way
uh but now they're whoever is doing this are obviously just morons so there you go uh another
thing that if we needed to cover was uh I would like to propose this is me dropping the colon numbers
so I would like to propose the option to use the colon I would like to propose dropping the option
to use colon numbers as over the years this option has only ever been used by two hosts at the time
there has been no easy way to upload to the website I believe the need has diminished it only adds to
the admin overhead or we need to focus another work currently we're having issues with the workflow
in multiple areas firstly the UK number has expired and the HPFTP server is not working um so
it is difficult to get the shows so uh there were some other comments the two people used that was
Mr X and uh I think even Mr X last shows was uploaded via the website and the other person that
uses is JWP who also has known to email me and the reason that prompted this was that he lost
a show one of his shows was um in the eater Halas has disappeared because it uh it wasn't anywhere
so there you go we had a lot of requests for help with the testers and I want to thank everybody who
took their time out to go and test I was absolutely brilliant and it went quite well the whole move
I think and indeed and then the rest were about the new year shows and the lunch point talking about
those ones and uh Klatu sent out a mumble room request and uh he'd like a room to request a room
on the mumble server all the rooms currently appear to be named after specific shows but it's
likely to use it for several shows HBR information underground the new world order conicals uh and
commons and who knows what else so I was thinking of calling the room slacker media approved or rejected
so that obviously got approved and anybody else who wants a mumble room just yeah ask uh I don't
need uh I happen to be paying for but it's a definitely a HBR um with a HBR thing so yeah and then
Klatu's community play RPG and this was the one yes they want to dungeon and dragons and
to your license you can grab it up blah blah blah blah and I think here in this thread is where
there was the discussion about we should do this that sort of the next thing to me yeah
what they original had a 3d6 role per attribute what's that uh yeah that's me I think it's you have
three six sided dice role per attribute but no harm for somebody to explain even these basic things
to grandpa can here please I should have asked my daughter please the one who carries around a bag full
of umpteen twenty sided another dice made of metal and god knows what else so yeah yeah why do
you need so many well you need to do multiple roles and right fine fine fine but uh yeah
passes over me I'm afraid okay um there's zork has requested a reservation for a day and as has
as has uh Dave from the book cast as has um did that come up this month
there was um it was a uh bound times day request yeah but that that one's uh been that shows in
already so okay excellent excellent that's that's fine so I wanted to put it in other business because
the whole reservation thing just to give you some history the back in the day people used to
back in the day actually when the hits were started um people volunteered to do shows once a
month so the idea was that there would be about something like 30 hosts and they would do
every month every day at least one show a month and then it went into reservations and then you
uploaded and you asked for a particular slot and then people got annoyed and all sorts so now
all the reservation is done by you and person you go to the website you pick the day you want
and you upload the show so I'm proposing that um if you want to make a particular reservation for
a show you can do so and we use that for uh if you're going to fast them which is on this week and
I'm not attending this year because I needed to go look at schools from my kids and um but um normally
I would have requested from the mailing list can I have the reservation for a block of shows
immediately after fast them and then we go to fast them I spent the day editing them and then we
upload them that way but the interviews would be nice and fresh for people who are who are coming up
so it's mostly intended for interviews the problem with this whole reservation thing is that now
that we've moved to archive.org our timelines for publishing shows are a lot longer than they used to be
so the the issues that we've had in the past with um reservations is that they don't come in on time
or that there's a problem with the audio or you know somebody uploads the audio and then suddenly we've
got two hours of silence and you're trying to communicate with the person that's uh and they're
not available because you're processing this in a different time zone and then they're coming back
and then you know five to midnight you're getting struggling in order to produce the show to put
it on to the web server or to get somebody else's show and swap it out which I did with one of JWP
shows by the way and he has never forgiven me for putting them up out of order. I don't know of all
people JWP will be chilled out about this little did I know little did I know well in fairness I did
picked them completely out of order but anyway long story even longer um it's it's a pain in the ass
doing this and it's Dave has automated scripts and I have automated scripts that work on our upload
so guys if you want to reserve a slot and they know um who is it um reserves their birthday who's that
oh I can't come up please I ask on the annoying me now David Raymond Dave
do you know I just started saying it precisely at the same moment you did yes David
yes but man we're recording I just had to go and open the date of basis
I don't know why that was my head because I just emailed the other days he just did
I knew about his exactly his jack hydraulic jack hacks and stuff and claims we would not be
interested in the show about training dogs hello anyway David oh lordy anyway uh yes so basically
the current situation now is that the mailing list needs to approve so this text we have on
the website all reservations need to be approved in the case where you wish to reserve a particular
but do not have the media recorded you need to get a reservation approved in advance by the
hpr mailing list I would like to replace that text with the following text all reservations need
to be approved any host can reserve any slot one year in advance by recording their show and
posting it on the desired day as normal in exceptional circumstances it is possible to make a
reservation but only if there is no way to have recorded the show on time and with prior approval
by the hpr mailing list this is intended only for exceptional circumstances such as scheduled
interviews where we would like the audio to be released as soon as possible or to cover an
important topical situation now can you still hear me I can hear yes yes yes I'm just pondering
that because yes the principle is great the wording might the principle is a bit I will fix
the wording but actually I'll send it out on to the mailing list as well and I don't want to
point out anybody is oak and and and Dave and sorry what says the other chap who posted the show
our all thank you thank you thank you are all within the rights for asking the mailing list it's just
it is now very difficult for us to support that and also just if we are going to be resend
if we're going to be sending out to youtube or facebook or whatever as well then we won't be able to
do the switcherunies that we need to do we need shows in on time now in order to basically do the
workflow that we have okay see uploaders we're getting 403 permission denied errors and this is
because Josh has scripts on their checking morons attacking the site and we've narrowed it down to
a single quote in the file names or a pipe in the show notes so be aware of that if you get a 403
go easy on the show notes go through your show notes see if you don't have any pipes or if you
have any quotes in the file names and there's nothing I can do about it because it doesn't even
hit the web server it automatically when you put it in there I have no way of checking I have no
way of filtering without doing javascript or something which would a lot of people would not
appreciate what's doing do you want to read the new series yes there's been two new series added
to the hpr database one is health and health care that's a hookers series that we we spoke about
this evening and the one is sound scapes which which there are six episodes and things like
birdsong and various other ambient sounds and stuff have been included in there there's another
one pending I think isn't there do we decide didn't decide what to call it
it's a little to do with mechanical or hackery or something yeah I sent you a list of
possible names yeah we never decided well somebody wants to put it into the into the mailing
list far enough good ideas and comment forum justification just so you know the comment
forum has dedicated anti spam measures which I will let you in on a few secrets if you're commenting
on a show in the last month as in now and in the last month you will be just asked to enter in
what does the pee in hacker public radio Stanford Chi Chi Chi stands for public and but if you're
commenting on a show that has not been posted or a show that's older than that you will get some
asked additional questions one of those questions is pick the name of the host from the drop down list
so you don't know that scroll up and on that page we'll tell you what the host name is
and the other one is there's a tick box saying are you a spammer yes or no so you need to select
no and then the other one is justification and that's between a text between 20 and 200 characters
and I must say Dave that has been the most rewarding thing that we've put on HPR in a long time
I really love getting in the comments on that certainly got some good responses
so much so that I'm thinking of posting them somewhere because they're absolutely awesome
what does HPR mean to you is the question and some of the answers have been absolutely brilliant
yes so the last point in the any of the business was just to say thanks for some contribution to
the tag and summary project from bjb and windigo send in some updates in the past month how was that
going slowly slowly I haven't done anything myself in the past month but I did do a batch before
that so just there's a lot of other things getting the way that yeah yeah it's just just a case of
plugging away at it but all contributions are gratefully received so you have a moment give us
give us a few tags and summaries please and if you want to go back and do your own shows that will
be great yeah so if you could go back do your own shows that will be cool yeah yes I must actually
do that myself that would be a good start okay right any other business there David I don't think
so I think we've covered the whole shebang it's fun um all camp is uh going ahead apparently
it is in August yes and where will it be David it will be in Sheffield Sheffield
city of steel yes yeah very time today by I dropped a subtle hint to the old frowl there saying uh
you know we haven't visited my brother in a while and the kids are getting a bit older and it's
easier to travel you know and you know we could just fly into thingy just happens to be on this weekend
all come yeah yeah yeah yeah that would be good so yeah my kids are not away in foreign parts
at the moment my daughter will be finished her degree by then so uh so I'm hoping they'll be able
to do the cat sitting or whatever's needed so I can I can get along there so uh cool so yeah
so excellent supportive all right if thank you very much for all the work and tune in tomorrow for
another exciting episode of hacker public radio
and share the software you'll be free how can you be free
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever
thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email
the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
on this otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
