Episode: 2832
Title: HPR2832: How I got started in Linux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2832/hpr2832.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:29:19

---

This is HBR episode 2008-132 entitled How I Got Started in Linux and in part of the series
How I Found Linux It is posted by first time post-shadowed
right and in about 3 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is this is a very brief introduction on what got me into using Linux.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
I wanted to introduce myself, I'm Shannon Wright.
I have been using Linux for several years now.
I started using it back in 2008 when I had just left another company where I was working
strictly in Windows. The Windows system, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Outlook,
Exchange Server, perform technical support for those applications.
So when I moved out of that position and into another role, I was working at a company that had
a lot of Linux servers on the back end. Most of those were running Red Hat Linux and I took
on the role of taking over an application that was running on these Linux servers.
So I had to start learning more and more about Linux at that time.
I learned that it was very powerful. I really enjoyed the technical aspect of it.
So I at that point started using and installing Linux at home.
I started with Ubuntu. I tried Fedora, CrunchBang, several different others
that I wanted to try just looking at the different flavors and what I liked and didn't like about
the different ones. Found out that it was very powerful, really enjoyed having to go down into
the command line to do some commands. Not all commands you have to do the command line with
there are several that have a UI for them, which is very nice for especially for beginners.
But I really like the technical aspect of it being able to go down and
properly format my syntax to pull up different information, run different commands.
It was very fun. I really enjoyed it. I have been using it since 2008.
I have several machines at home. Most of them run Linux, some form or fashion,
most are running Ubuntu. That's the one I've been on probably the longest with the different
versions and upgrades over the years. Very interesting operating system, very powerful.
Yes, there are some people that talk about you can't do everything that you can do in Windows
and Linux a lot around gaming, which I understand I'm not a big gamer. So that really didn't
affect me. I've been able to use different applications for replacements for Windows.
I use LibreOffice for my Office Suite as opposed to Microsoft Office. I also use something called
Wine to be able to play some Windows applications or games that can run on Linux. That's about it
for now. I just wanted to give a brief introduction on my background with Linux, where I've been at,
what I'm doing now. I hope this has been helpful. Thank you.
You've been listening to HecopobliGradio at HecopobliGradio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. HecopobliGradio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at bmrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
