Episode: 2586
Title: HPR2586: HPR Community News for June 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2586/hpr2586.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:14:05

---

This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Thalon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio Community News that they couldn't stifle.
I don't think fake about this is their day.
First of all, HPR is community podcast network where the show is contributed by listeners like you.
And this show is something that Dave and I and several other people actually the community put on every month to look back at what's been going on in the HPR universe.
And we usually go through the shows first of all then we go through some of the comments that there are and then we talk about stuff that's on the mailing list and anything other business that happens to come up.
It is traditionally recorded on the Saturday before the first Monday of the month, although I would that's clicking this kind of short.
I guess it is an uptark.org now so we may have to reevaluate that one later.
Joining me tonight is, hello, it's Dave Murray so I was just about to speak before is my turn.
Yeah, we'll talk about whether we can change the timing a little bit I guess.
And I'm pretty flexible so sure we could come up with something.
Okay, so let's see on the on the first of June we had the New Year's Eve show.
It doesn't seem odd at all.
And yes, the last line of the comments can fall in the fastest solver in the west able to solve a solver component tester in a single show.
Very funny, hard, hard, hard, hard.
Yes, yes.
That's a good comment there.
It was, it was, yes.
Which didn't work by the way.
There was no comments on that show and speaking of which that component tester is now in the hands of NY Bill.
Okay, let's see what happens there.
The following day we had the community news and there are two comments on that show.
The first one was from Plaque.
The group of tabs is in the windowing of it.
I've never looked into tab grouping because what I do if my tabs start becoming unwieldy is I drag one from,
of drag one of them out of the window and it becomes a new window.
I may drag other tabs into the new window if they belong together.
You people who use tab groups, do you do this as well,
giving two-dimensional tab grouping or does grouping replace multiple windows?
And this was in relation to one of the show's vows that we were talking about the tab group.
You know, I can't remember what that was now.
I mean, I know about tab groups.
I don't remember the discussion very much.
There was Mr. X's, my favorite browser extension.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Thank you.
Yes.
So I replied to Claque saying, no, I don't use multiple windows.
Not for that context, anyway.
In my case, I use tab groups to keep useful and related websites together to make context switching simpler.
For example, in Pale Moon, I have a group per HBR series or project.
When I'm in the mood to prepare a new HBR show, I run it on my right-hand monitor with GVM on the left type in the notes that means.
And I usually have Vivaldi, Chromium, Ice Weasel running on different XFCE desktops as well.
And all of these have pinned down so I can easily visit various HBR pages.
The most used pages on my local media wiki, blah, blah, blah, blah.
I won't read it all.
And so it's probably barely organized chaos, but I like it, smiley face.
Cool.
What I have is a tab toolbar and each tab has just got a very short one or two letter thing.
So like W for a wiki and then so I'm able to squash in all the important ones.
And then I can group them underneath that using a drop down list.
And you can always use in the book manager, bookmark manager, export it to a webpage.
So that's kind of cool.
Yeah, I did quite like Mr. X's explanation of all that.
So, but I haven't had a chance to look at it yet.
Interesting subject though.
Very.
The following day we had Sun of Honky Punk.
And this was a follow up on the Frots episode by Claudio.
So, don't know if you're a game or div.
Not really, not really.
I'm interested in the this whole Z machine business, which is quite fun.
And I quite like some of these L games.
The stuff like Zorke and stuff like that.
Quite, quite amusing, just as examples of how things were.
Back to the day.
Yeah.
I son, I son of his girlfriend were quite absorbed with that when we visited the N Rahack lab.
They had an example of it.
You know, it's such a different concept if you've not been brought up that way.
Yes, indeed.
And if you hear all sorts of background noises here and I think on your side, Dave,
it's because it's surprisingly hard over here.
And we don't have air conditioning in the houses, so the doors are open.
Yeah, yeah.
Safety of my wind is over.
My little boy next door has a, he's just about to be one tomorrow, I think.
And he has a good pair of lungs on him.
Sorry, good.
That's a happy sound.
Yeah, it's a sound, anyway.
So, the next day we had what may be a series by Claudio on a personal violence
and the various different problems.
And my reaction to this episode was put my hands over my ears and go,
no, can't you, can't you, can't you, can't you?
Yes, yes, yes.
Oh, I should be doing all this stuff, but I'm not.
Well, I can't say I've been particularly good at it.
It's just that I haven't worked in the university sector and they force you,
or used to force you into a retirement scheme,
which is actually at one point the best in the country.
I'm currently living on, you know, so they did it for me.
I was just sort of standing there with my mouth open going,
oh, what do I do to them?
Just get, oh, you have to put money in there.
Okay, that's fine.
So, yeah, I think we should all be very, very much more aware of how this all works
than maybe a lot of us are.
I laughingly suggested that I should go out and just give myself put into jail.
You know, she kept free healthcare and rooms.
And you, you, you can schedule when your, when your relations come to visit
that just don't randomly drop into your, like, in an old folks home, you know,
there might be some downsides there.
There could be one or two free education and all sorts of other, you know,
your rehabilitation is just, nope, not on still the same old,
that's the same criminal life used to be.
Residivist.
That's me.
Yeah, yeah.
Norris said recent podcast, recent podcast and the US Social Security.
If you're interested in my other favorite podcast, just did the show on Social Security
and this is the MPR Social Insecurity.
There.
Good luck to go.
And the next day was tattooed with a tabletop gaming show pandemic rain of
tutu.
Is it good?
Cutan.
Kutulu.
That's right.
Yeah, good stuff.
I like these things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it sounds interesting.
Yeah, I'm, he, sooner or later, I'm going to have to do a few shows
myself on this.
So you get me interested in tabletop gaming.
So PengoCon 2018 report, the traditional report that's a hookah
sends in really enjoy this.
It's a good flavor of at least his view of the show.
But I'm sure 5150 as they didn't meet up for the whole festival had a completely
different view would be interesting to his here is version.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I also like a hookah's reports from this thing.
It does make it sound like a lot of fun.
Yeah, yeah.
A moment's sad that I could never make such a thing.
Yes.
Yes, it's, it's nice to, nice to get a little insight from, from him though.
That's a, that compensates.
It's like, yeah, I was just sitting down and I got, oh, it's that time of
you're already the report from PengoCon.
You know, they'll become a tradition.
So yeah.
And the following day, another tabletop kill Dr. Lucky.
And this one sounded actually quite like something that I get into.
I like the logic of it and the team, the counter cheers of the counter aspect
that you need to make formal legions to prevent somebody from winning.
So yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now it's the fact that it's sort of reversed form of other types of games and it's
sounded most intriguing, very unusual.
Yeah, very cool.
The next day, we had Bookworm with what's in my toolkiss.
And there was not one thing in this that I would not have had in my own
toolkiss when I was back doing network IT.
Yep.
Yeah, what have that?
What have that?
Personally, I'm a bit jealous of the Sony noise canceling headphones at the
minute, but there you go.
So yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But we went to, to buy some of those and never quite got around to it.
They're not that hard to get hold of, are they?
They're expensive as well.
They're bit expensive.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Some people use them for, you know, protecting the ears in noisy situations
as well as, you know, just being able to listen to stuff without interruptions
and so on.
But yeah, tempted.
But yeah, there's hell of a list, that hell of a list.
Klaatu with the Skit Series, foundations of a gist rebase.
And thanks very much to Klaatu for the show notes.
I know how painful that is for you to do.
Oh, I do appreciate it because this one really benefited from having
a few show notes to get the sync order of what was going on there.
Yeah.
Yeah, great.
Great notes.
Yeah, much appreciated.
And Klaatu again with personal cash only finance.
And we need, this is the time of year when the old regulars come out because we
get very short of shows and we need to rely on the stalwarts of the network to
come in with shows.
And of course, this is the time of year that you start earning trust with the
community if you start submitting shows of this time of year just saying personal.
Anyway, so it was personal cash only finance.
And do you want to read the comment on that?
Yeah, this was from JWP who said this show about cash.
Klaatu always interested to see what you will bring up.
I too, for a long time, when cash only went, I do keep a card in the glove box or
bring it traveling, but I find I spend less if I just use cash.
Also, if you can, I really enjoy many of your topics.
Might you get a better headset, sometimes.
It's hard for me to hear exactly what you say.
Audio quality between Jupiter broadcasting and Dave Morris quality would be greatly
valued. I'm not sure which end of the spectrum I am.
I think I think you should cut Klaatu some slack because he sends in the shows
are in aug due to largely, I think the bandwidth limitation study has in New Zealand
over his living.
Yes.
The internet connectivity in New Zealand ain't great according to my son's
visit there and stuff like that.
I've not really noticed that particularly personally.
It's very vulnerable and understandable I find, but everybody's different.
We always strive for better audio quality, but as JWP knows,
and the audio is better than no audio.
Speaking of which, JWP, I need your show.
Thanks.
We had a bit of a strange, strange one there when you were sending in a show.
And the confirmation emails didn't seem to go out.
However, the log show that it did, and when I tried a email on going to the same server,
it worked.
So if anybody has problems with uploading, always try and contact us if you can.
That would be awesome.
Yeah.
It looked like the problem was in the mail server given that it actually received the message.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Sometimes you have to discuss things or find out what strangeness is there are on your site,
on the mail server site.
It's tough because with mail issues, I've had those in work as well,
where mail from one address, one company to one of my addresses is just disappearing,
whereas on the exact same server, an alias works fine.
It's just bizarre.
Mail can be very, very strange.
Thanks, Spammers, for that.
Thank you very much.
The following day, we had quick tips for June 2018, operator.
And I like this.
He's just making sort of audio notes, I met the five audio notes.
Some people might have said that could have been five perfectly good shows.
Who would say that?
Who do we know that would say that?
Okay.
Fine.
Whist shows if you want to.
Yeah.
Can openers.
Can't even remember the last time I used a can opener for some reason.
It's.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I do use them occasionally.
But the manual type was was this a non-resistant electric one or something?
Yeah, I think it's one of the ones that you put your can into,
and that spins around a lot of stuff.
That's quite cool.
I've never wanted one of those particularly.
It's more gadgets to stick on the wall or whatever.
It's just the one you keep in the drawer, it works fine for me.
And so, so many cans have got the do-dad that you open them with?
Oh, yeah, they pop with me.
Like, opening a sort of counter or something.
Yeah.
Well, I like to see other ones.
Humidifier makes a lot of sense.
The Power Wheels thing is kind of funny.
I had to Google hard duck to go actually.
What a Power Wheels was.
It's one of those kids' cars.
Right, right, right.
Yeah, I didn't do a follow-up on this one.
I'm afraid so.
I'm in the dark.
So, oh, I always wanted one of them when I was young.
I mean, but probably every kid in Ireland want one as well.
You only ever see them on American movies.
Richie Rich or something like that.
And the free anonymous email over tour.
That was a good tip in general.
That sometimes sites are quite onerous with their requirements.
But if you create your account somewhere else, then they're not as onerous.
So, quite an interesting one to keep in the back of your head.
This Swedish and German podcast list.
And I've marked it down to...
I was thinking computer-uncommunication is something that I might actually subscribe to.
Just to not that I am that brilliant at German.
It's just, I think it's close enough to dutch.
That I might be able to via Osmos to pick up something.
What's going on?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm afraid I'm not gonna try.
I could just struggle through something in French if they didn't speak too fast.
But that's about the limit of my language knowledge.
However, they...
I have found this learning allowing which is a lot easier
when you're talking about a text, especially computer stuff.
Because, you know, it's going to be a North Boards words.
And they're like, blah, blah, blah, cloud computing, blah, blah, blah, blah.
You know, hackers, blah, blah, blah, you know, free software.
That you get enough of what's going on, you know.
So that's kind of...
Yeah, you can get a fair bit in my context.
That's how you can, you know, you sometimes understand the conversation
if you're in a different country.
And by just the context and various key words and stuff.
Which is a lot of commonality between the various languages, isn't it?
Yeah, that's the experience in Scandinavian countries that you can actually suddenly use.
Oh, I understood that sentence almost.
Yeah.
Exactly.
For the one word at the end that makes it negative and they are...
There is that.
Yeah.
Sentence word order and that sort of stuff can really wrangle your understanding.
So I commented on this one.
I really did enjoy the expression home country of choice.
Because I really, as somebody who has moved somewhere else,
this is my home country of choice.
It's not to say my home country isn't...
There's nothing wrong with it.
It's just...
It adds a level of attachment to your relationship with the place where you're living.
I think it's brilliant.
I shall.
Yeah.
As this show is released onto the creative commons, I will be...
I will be referring to...
Falky.
Every time that I mention this giving him the proper attribution.
So as Falky says in his show.
Absolutely.
Here you are.
Two, five, seven, six.
Cool.
Yeah.
Clinton Roy says an English stroke German recommendation.
I quite like the Omega Tao Science and Engineering podcast.
It comes in both English and German forms.
I don't think they translate the content.
It's just different stories.
But the different language podcasts.
And that's...
That's actually true.
I think I recommended this one in one of my...
This podcast thing is...
Yeah.
And I do...
I listen regulars a long but they're...
Wow.
Does it...
Does it go into some detail?
Amazing.
Yeah.
Very good.
What was it?
It's superconductors.
It was his latest one.
Wow.
That's...
It's so much stuff I'd never heard of before.
Very, very good.
Indeed.
And Falky says,
Thank you, Clinton Roy.
That one I didn't know.
I found their home pages.
Omega Tao podcast.net.
And she'll give the due language feed a goal on the server list.
Omega Tao.net.
Category podcast feed.
There you go.
And so we share and so we learn.
Immigration.
Hosted by Class 2.
Confused about leaving your homeland for greener pastures.
I actually wanted to do a follow-up episode on this.
And then I'm thinking,
I shouldn't.
Well...
Yeah, I don't know.
It's...
It's not...
It would be more like a travel book than...
Being actually able to offer anything over the vice.
I'm...
I'm not sure.
I'll have a think about it.
Mmm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
One of these ones that I thought,
Okay, well, I've tried...
I've lived in the UK and Ireland.
And...
Well, my wife immigrated to Ireland.
And then we immigrated to the UK.
And then we immigrated here.
It would be hard to do a show without...
Without, um...
tactful...
You know, very...
Very difficult to do a tactful show.
Uh...
With those...
Pissing off three different countries, you know what I mean?
Hahaha.
Yeah, okay, okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
There are...
There are issues...
And...
And what...
Ideas synchrocies, perhaps,
with different countries, as though...
Clad to...
Made few...
Uh...
Side comments, the effect that...
Some of these...
These things are easier in...
In some countries than others.
Um...
But...
It is...
It's actually quite telling.
The whole business of visas can be...
Just a means of...
Getting money off you.
Exactly.
No good reason.
And, uh...
Not talking about any particular country, but...
But, yeah.
Uh...
Being called by that one in the past.
So, yeah, it's...
It's a...
It's a...
A motive subject, I imagine.
But...
Nevertheless, the...
The process of...
Giving an insight into this, if it's something...
You might be thinking of...
Is really, really useful.
Especially if somebody who's...
Had this...
This type of experience, I think.
Yeah.
I'll...
Possibly.
What...
What I think that was quite funny was the visas.
Um...
When I was going to Algeria, travelling on my Irish passport,
I only had to pay a fraction of what...
Like, one-fifth of what the Dutch people had to pay,
Because...
Because Ireland hadn't pissed them off in some way.
So, it was cheaper to get a visa straight.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I went to Indonesia with my wife to be many years ago.
And we were not clear about visas to go to Indonesia from the UK.
So, I did this thing that you should perhaps never do.
And contacted the...
The...
The embassy.
And, of course, the answer was yes.
I got there.
And they said,
Why do you have a visa?
You didn't need that.
And it was something like 30 quid, you know.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
And you have to send your passport off to get it...
Yeah, I know.
But stick things stuck in it and...
Ah!
So, yeah, don't ever do that.
And then you go to Cuba.
And you want a stample in your passport.
But the one give you one, they give you a piece of paper
that you slip in so that you can take it out.
So, if you're an American, you didn't have a visa,
but you had the stample.
So, it was kind of...
Really weird?
Yes, yes.
Anyway,
Linux Logcast 102, the lost episode.
This, I...
This...
This was quite colorful from a language point of view, but...
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes, it was...
It's like...
I mean, we'd been warned.
We had to...
It's like a slight shock.
Not that I'm overly bothered, but it's just that, you know,
you don't normally expect it from that.
Of course.
Yeah, you're in the...
You're listening to the Linux Logcast and you're...
You're like...
Just in the groove with all of a sudden.
It's like, oh my God, somebody said...
It's like, somebody farted in front of all my...
Yes.
But, yeah, it's kind of...
It was great that they were able to put it on this feed.
Yeah, it was...
It was most interesting, I thought.
It was...
An insight into some working practices and stuff.
I'm so glad I'm not in technical support like that.
Oh, dear.
It was being painted there.
Not...
Not good.
But it was nearly four hours, I think.
Wasn't it in total access?
Yes.
So, 52 was a fact.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
So, I think I managed to shrink it to 304, but I'm doing...
So, I'm in a strong case in the speed.
Yeah.
But, yeah, I was great.
It was...
I really enjoyed it.
I didn't find that TR is...
The TR has gone through, actually.
It was really enjoyable to listen to.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's one of these things you looked at.
No, not four hours.
I can't take it.
And then you think, oh, is it finished already?
Yeah, exactly.
I did enjoy it.
Yes, very much.
Ubuntu is, you know, four Mate Mate.
Mate.
Buy.
Tony Hughes.
Akka.
Tony H1212.
How did we fix that?
And he was the first one?
Oh, was he okay?
Yeah.
So, it's meant to say A-K-A, but that used to say A-K, but now it says A-K-A.
I think this, this, we've got a problem.
J-A-W-P says.
Great little update.
Tony, always nice to hear from you again.
Actually, I'm driving, I'm, sadly, I'm driving animates right now.
Only two, I'm probably not driving animates right now.
Only two 16.04 boxes.
Maybe after 16.04.01.
Thanks so much for the update.
Cool.
Yeah, it was nice to share.
I like Tony's show.
Indeed.
He gives some nice detailed information about things and sort of experience.
What was it, stream of consciousness type experiences?
No, what do you write down here?
Yeah, yeah.
And some notes too, some brilliant notes.
Yeah, I love them.
So, the next day we had Akka talking about diabetes, and I didn't want to hear this one
either.
Thank you very much for that.
Yeah, so glad he did this.
And it all makes an awful lot of sense.
I'm also glad to hear that he's able to live his life pretty much normally now.
So, good, good on him, as they say.
Yes, yes.
They do say that tattoo diabetes can be effectively cured, but it's sort of by the way
you live and the way you eat and stuff, you can effectively negate it.
If you don't, of course, then all those nasty consequences will hear you.
Yep.
As a tattoo diabetic myself, I'm aware of this.
So, you know, you just got to be really, really careful with it and live accordingly.
It's a scourge of our times, really.
I imagine a lot of people have had it in the person not known and died just a couple of
seconds.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
So, be thankful that we have the knowledge and the ways of avoiding it, putting the effects.
Well, sometimes I think I'd just love to go off and live on the island in the middle of
somewhere, and then I think, right, in the last year, I've had a new tooth for the other
time.
I've had this two operations over my back, blah, blah, blah.
Maybe living in the middle ages wouldn't be that cool.
No, no, no.
There were no golden ages, essentially.
In fact, then it's all small parks and typhoid and that sort of nasty stuff.
I'm afraid we're going to have to skip the next show because, to be frank, I'm very, very
curious of this piece of kit, so we'll just simply move on, not even mention your 3D printer.
It's not really mine, actually.
I discovered because it came in and my son was saying, did you buy a 3D printer?
Dad, yeah, yeah.
Oh, can I help you unpack it?
And that was the signal that said, you better be quick because I'm going to be unpacking
it before you get to it.
And so it's been an interesting battle between the two of us, to who gets to use it most.
He's witted at the moment.
I don't mind.
It's great.
He's doing really well with it.
So we'll have to write.
I want him to do something, actually, but do a show.
But somehow the world will report our experiences on it.
Yeah.
Two, please.
Next one is three contribution case studies.
These, this is a tattoo again, on ways to contribute to projects and the like.
Although he didn't make reference to HPR.
While he did at the end, he was quite happy with the way we're getting people to contribute.
He also mentions that there's two things that he mentioned
about how we could help.
Oh yeah, interviewing that if somebody didn't know what show to do.
At any time that you're stuck like that, if you're out there thinking,
oh, I couldn't possibly know what show to do.
Please contact us.
Myself or yourself Dave or the email list.
And there's loads of people be more than happy to have a chat here with you.
I've seen loads of hosts come on, thinking they had nothing to talk about.
And are now in the depths of several series.
Don't you know Dave?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Seems seems impossible when you say it like that, but it happens.
It happens.
Yeah.
I thought the idea of actually having a sort of face to face conversation as it were to talk about
thing would be really a really nice nice idea.
You know, it's a it's a way of having somebody else run the show
and you contribute your bits to it in the form of a dialogue,
which is which pretty much what we're doing here tonight.
But it's it's a nice way of working things if you're not quite sure how to just launch
yourself off into the void of producing a show.
Yeah.
And it's also, you know, this is why we we recommend they introduce yourself
show as the first one just to kick off.
You just sit down in front of a mic and say hi, I'm
who ever and this is how I ended up listening to HPR.
And that's good enough of a show.
It's it's nothing more than introducing yourself to the community.
And then you're a member of the community already.
So yeah, cool.
Good start.
Other services we provide for those who don't know is we do narration.
If ever somebody has a script or for for any reason is unable to talk or
on doesn't wish to to physically talk.
If you send us the script, we will read it out for you,
nary a problem there.
And that's also if the script, if you're concerned that what you're writing
would in any way reference back to you, we can always submit your shows
anonymously under the various various creation commons artists.
So we will always open to hearing about people.
There was just one tiny point that I made in the comments that we
don't approve shows.
I know that's not what he meant.
We process them.
So we we do not approve shows.
And if you go to stuff you need to know that PHP not moderators.
Your show will not be moderators.
We do not vet edit moderators or an anyway sensor.
Any of the shows on the network.
We trust you to do that aside from checking snippets for all the
quality and spam checking.
We have a policy that we don't listen to the shows before they're
aired.
This is a long standing tradition arising from the fact that
HPR is a community of peers who believe that any host has as
much right to submit shows as any other.
HPR 2210 on freedom of speech and censorship describes the
the agreed approach to this topic.
Very good.
Just thought I had to mention that.
A random rant on US sound recording copyright laws and weird
and how I missed juice pain and good.
Couldn't agree more with this entire thing.
And I find it frustrating that the US air quotes intellectual
property is being spreading like a virus around the world
when there are other ways of rewarding artists that
could be and should be explored.
And that's all I have to say about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just remind me of juice penguin.
I remember the name.
I don't remember the shows.
It was I think it was a malgommation of various artists sending
in crazy commas shows a bit like the love book without the
waffle.
Okay.
And I mean the best possible.
If you know what I mean.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
That sounds.
Yeah.
I would agree with that.
But it's a shame it's going away then.
I think it was like a sort of a HPR sort of approach on every
every week or possibly every month.
So if they want HPR's help in bringing that back to life,
more than welcome to do that here.
Indeed.
So I've actually always gone through my now 200 or so songs that
have been my creative commons folder.
And I was just thinking if I randomly picked five of those for a
while then we have several shows that we could release.
So pretty cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The following day.
Lost and Bronx in the series which has yet to be named.
Plot twists in storytelling.
And I had to go back.
He made a reference to the usual suspects.
And the other one he mentioned that about the Russians by Yuri
going blank there.
Sorry.
Give me two seconds.
No way out.
Yes.
The film with Kevin Costner.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I remember them.
And again, he made a reference to a story where he was throwing
it together and was thinking, yes, again, another story that I wanted to
hear.
And I managed to get my hands on his book from Amazon.
Very impressed with the quality.
Well, I wanted to support the artist anyway as you do.
And yeah, mother load.
I've got the actual copy from the office book from Amazon.
And you know what?
It's got an RSVN number.
It feels like a book.
You open the pages and you flick right through it.
And the fact that it's a creative commons book just in an anyway
seemed to alter the fact that you can read it.
So pretty cool.
It's interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He done that.
Go and check that out myself.
So the following day was a show to check.
And this is the last one of the month.
To check if remote control was working done by me.
So comparing our two shields Dave, I think you're one might be a
small midget higher on the quality ladder.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so, so.
Well, I was amazed because you know, I work in the in the basically
for a cable company doing TV and stuff.
We have set up boxes around all the time.
And I was, uh, the guys were gone.
I don't know if this reward was working.
I go, just flipped off my camera.
And I'm like, what are you doing?
Yeah.
This, this thing I thought everybody knew how to do this.
And then they were going around to each other.
Hey, did you know this would happen?
So, yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
To be honest, I didn't, I didn't know that, uh, that cameras did do
the conversion of, um, of infrared.
Um, in the way you would, you were describing.
I also didn't know that a lot of remote controls are, uh,
are f rather than, yeah, I thought that the majority of me had in
this house because we don't, we only got old ones to mention TVs.
I thought they were all infrared because you could do weird things
with it.
The kids and I used to play where if you pointed the remote control
at a bouncy surface, uh, you could turn the TV on or off
change channels, you know, you point it well away from the TV,
because it was reflecting off.
And that, that must have been infrared rather than RF,
mustn't it?
Well, maybe.
Hmm.
I didn't prove it.
Did it?
No.
No.
But that's what we used to mess around with.
I didn't want to march the tele.
We just wanted to switch it on.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I love that, uh, TV be gone thing where they have a generic
network control.
I'm always trying to wonder one of those.
Yes.
Yeah.
Turn off TVs and pubs.
I never understood English.
That's one of the culture shocks in England was I just could
not understand televisions and pubs and fucking slot machines
and pubs.
I just don't get that.
I must admit there's been times I go at the gym a couple of
times a week and they have televisions everywhere.
And there's some the show at the daytime TV is so dire.
And you can't, you can't, you know, all the machines are
pointing out them.
I thought I'd be fantastic to have a TV be gone just
while I'm on that.
Yeah.
It's a bit mean, though, because it means that there's people
who want to watch Jeremy Kyle or some other dribble.
Um, come to.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Edifying wonderful programs.
Can't do so.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Am I.
Oh, I guess.
I know exactly what you mean.
Am I bill sailed?
And there's one more.
I found this out by accident in my youth that if you
point a remote as an electric guitar pickup while
it's plugged into an amp, it goes, did it, did it, did it.
Add distortion or reverb to your liking.
I thought that's pretty cool.
I need to try that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
How does that work?
Yeah.
I would be interested to know what's going on there.
Cool.
Cool.
That's it.
That's the shows.
And then let me have a look and see.
Seven shows from seven comments from previous shows.
And the first one is how I'm handling my podcast subscriptions
and listening.
And this will buy Fokie.
And I think this is a response to a Björn
against comment.
Great.
Who had a comment.
Great topic.
Fun to hear from others.
Thanks for sharing.
And Fokie says.
Change links to my GITs.
Oh, yeah.
Basically he's moved from GIT hub to GitLab.
Wonder why that happened.
It's about the fact that GIT hub has been bought by Microsoft.
Yes.
Yes.
I actually had a little dialogue with him about that.
And I changed the actual links as well.
And put an editor's note on that particular page.
So he.
So the comments are a little bit superfluous.
But you know,
I added the thing to say.
And it is no change according to the thing.
So you don't have to go into that.
You know, grab the link and then retype it to get where you want to go.
Cool stuff.
Thanks for doing that.
This was on a show from 2016, Brian and Ohio.
Not the oldest comment we've ever had on a show.
But from math, math, man.
Our club.
Great show.
And it sounds like a great way to delve into one of the mainstays.
Of human life.
Sharing it.
And the world around us.
With those around us.
Thanks, Brian, for getting all away to connect and learn.
That's a nice comment.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was.
That was an interesting show.
I remember that one.
That stood out quite quite a bit.
I thought.
Yeah.
So should I do the next one?
Please.
Please.
This is two four.
Two five four two from Glacier.
How I helped my dad run a static website using SparkleShare.
And Glacier says, what is SparkleShare?
Did we comment on this and say, what was it?
I believe so.
Apparently, I didn't explain what SparkleShare is.
He says, it's Dropbox for Git.
You tell it where your remote Git repo is.
And it keeps an iron.
It keeps a local directory in sync.
Whenever, whenever anything happens in the remote repo,
it pulls that change and makes your local directory the same.
Whenever you add, remove or edit a file in your local directory,
it creates a commit for your change and pushes it to the remote repo.
Any conflicts that occur are resolved by creating a file name,
something like my file, conflictedondate.txt.
So you never have to understand anything about Git, use SparkleShare.
Just play with your files in your directory.
That's why it's so good for dads.
That's amazing.
That's awesome.
That might actually turn out to be very good for administrators of a website,
actually, that wants to be...
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have.
I like that.
I'd used to play under the website.
I haven't bothered with one for years.
But I used to just sync it through...
I think I could do a...
No, not asking.
I had to...
I asked it to an FTP site or something.
I can't remember what I did that.
I'd say that.
But I used to use a manual method for doing this.
And this would have been so much better.
Yeah, absolutely wonderful.
From Wikipedia, SparkleShare is an open-source cloud storage
and file synchronization client app.
By default, it uses Git as the storage backend.
SparkleShare is comparable to Dropbox,
but the cloud storage can be provided by the user's own server
or a hosted solution such as GitHub.
I feel I'm wasting an episode here.
Flake.
Yes.
Yes.
There's many episodes on that subject.
And Flake commented again on his own show, Clarification.
This seems to be the month for Clarification.
And this is the show about stole, about stole.
He says, this is the month for Clarification,
judging from the feedback from Kellyn Dave
and the community news, smiley face.
I'm adding a deeper stole show to my future show tags.
I'm hearing a echo back.
I think we've just been joined by Huca.
Who's got his stand on or something.
Just me, so sorry about that, Huca.
I'm adding deeper, where am I?
I'm adding a deeper stole show to my future show tag.
But for now, here's what Dave was asking for.
Stole doesn't use any configuration.
It's a simple, hard-coded behavior.
When it stores things, it puts things in the parent directory of the stole directory.
If you're in slash homeclacky stole,
and you do a stole foo,
any stuff in homeclacky stole foo lib,
get simlinked to homeclacky lib.
Yeah.
You think about that?
I think I get that.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
That's very clever.
That's very clever.
Hi, Kevin.
Hello.
Hey, yeah.
I thought I was early.
Yeah.
We did this immediately in the hope to,
because it's a lot to do tonight.
And we're actually,
because now we need to push things to archive.org.
Yeah, let's talk about that.
Because we need to push things to archive.org and whatever.
It makes it that we need to process the shows a lot sooner.
And I wanted to do that tonight.
And we're actually also think,
well, I'm also suggesting that we move it to a Friday night
instead of a Saturday night.
Uh-huh.
Yeah.
I think, I think,
as far as I'm concerned, that's possible.
For those of us who are working steps,
that pretty much means we can't do it.
Yeah, that's the disadvantage yet.
At least in this time.
Yeah, no, exactly.
Of course.
You know how often I've made it.
So where are we, Dave,
with the next comment?
We're now at, uh,
comment on 255-7.
And this is from Clacker again.
It's been busy.
Um, he is comment is killer feature.
Wow, sorry about that.
Uh, the trouble with having the windows open.
Um, I forgot to mention that the killer feature,
which is why we use sticks,
apart from our great love for nicks.
The ability to easily include content
from remote sources.
The sticks use his nicks for getting its input.
It's just as easy to build a page off of file
in your local repository,
as getting a file from remote repository,
HTTPO,
or a whole bunch of files,
or anything you can compute or get from a network, really.
In fact, even the default templates
in sticks have fetched this way.
If you never use them, they never touch your computer.
But if you include the standard templates
in your site definition,
sticks knows to go out and fetch them
and put them in the right places.
We use this to get documentation
and change log from our code repository
into our website.
Wow.
Exactly, I'm lost for words.
If he keeps going on about this,
I'm actually going to have to start using this
and do more research into it.
Yeah, yeah.
I feel I need to know a lot more about this.
It does sound interesting.
Yeah.
Okay, next comments were
on battling with English part one.
By Dave, you're doing the wrong Morris.
Mikhail said great idea.
Thanks for starting the series.
While the first examples were obvious to me,
I can see how they will be helpful
on a global scope,
given the diverse international HPR community.
For the last bit,
I have to admit,
there were actually two new words I learned.
Make that three with learned smiley face, regards Michael.
So I replied to that.
Thanks, thanks Michael.
Glad you liked the episode.
I'm amazed by the number of times I see
then, then and there, there, there,
errors in forums, YouTube comments and similar.
I don't know if it's an ought to correct problem
or what it is, but it's very common.
I'm actively collecting similar problems,
so I hope I will have enough to make a few more episodes.
And hipster says battling with English interesting.
I like to hear a little bit about the origins of the mix-up
when it is historically interesting,
like perhaps one word comes from French
and the other from German,
but not necessarily viewing communications as the problem,
and English as the flawed tool to solve
is a good route to take,
looking forward to the next one.
So I replied to that one.
Thanks, hipster.
That's a great suggestion.
I spent some time looking at the etymology
of the words I was talking about
as you can tell from the links,
but I didn't consider talking about subject.
I'll mention such things in future if it seems relevant.
Thanks for the feedback.
And this is another series I've requested
from you before, Dave,
to go back to the point of I will find something
for people to talk about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I've been putting it off because I was afraid
I might get to contentious and rant-y,
but I've managed to control myself, so I'm probably good.
And Lucky's comment on the Pine Book,
which was also noted in the community news,
the laptops I'm queuing from the Pine Book,
and you get the links to both of them.
Cool.
I'm still interested in this.
I was looking at, I dusted off my old
Acer Aspire laptop,
which is just the perfect width,
and was comparing it to the Triple E PC,
which is just too small.
So, yeah.
Yes, yes.
I sent you a link to it.
Thanks.
Thanks to a Lenovo, didn't I?
Yeah.
So, there's things around that might do what you need.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Look quite nice, actually.
Cool.
Let's see what else is on the docket
before we start chatting with Kevin.
Kevin, I'm really annoyed with you.
You were overcycling around Europe
and you didn't bother to drop in for a cup of tea.
Cheers.
Call yourself an Irishman.
Yeah.
Well, it was a pretty tightly scheduled trip.
I can't imagine that.
I got into Amsterdam about an hour before the boat left.
That would be pretty short, all right.
Yeah.
Which was not the intention.
But we had one of those mix-ups here
because I had to fly from Detroit where I am.
In Chicago to catch then a flight to Dublin.
But there was a storm in Chicago
and basically we couldn't leave Detroit until the storm stopped.
But as soon as the storm stopped, the flight to Dublin left.
We're kind of scrambling around to find it.
Fortunately, the airline was able to hook us up instead
with a direct flight to Amsterdam, but it was 24 hours.
Ouch.
So, it was like, you know,
land at Chiffel, take the train into Amsterdam
and then run for the boat.
We made it.
Yeah.
That's the best part.
Good.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I was, you know, I had a number of people.
Oh, you should see so-and-so.
You know, we went into Belgium and was like, oh, well, you know,
you should go down and see some of the Belgium.
You know, I don't really have any.
But it was a great trip.
You're probably familiar with these mountain bike tours.
Nope.
If you live in a place, then you never do that.
All right.
Yeah, it's a, it's a touristy thing.
But a lot of them come out of Amsterdam.
And so the idea is the boat is, it's really, it's a barge as much as anything.
You have a cabin that basically you can sleep in.
And that's about it.
Very, very basic.
But the idea is that you don't really, all you do in there is sleep.
Everything else.
So you get up in the morning, you have your breakfast, and then you get on your bike, and you start cycling.
And by the end of the day, you'll meet up with the boat downstream somewhere.
That sounds wonderful. I like the sound of that.
Yeah.
It's a lot of fun.
Yeah.
Cool.
So we worked our way from Amsterdam to Bruges.
No.
I hear that's a nice city.
I haven't been doing it.
I, you know, I would do it.
It's quite a lovely place.
You know, one, one of the things that I think everyone should even get to if they're ever in Korea.
Now what we're looking at now is that 2019 is our 40th wedding anniversary.
And thought, well, you know, we should do something special.
So we're looking at doing a river cruise on the way.
Oh, cool.
They leave every morning from Skippel.
Well, yeah.
Strangely.
I've seen they, they, they go, you know, either direction.
So we were also looking at one that starts in Basel and winds up in Amsterdam.
So I guess you can go either way.
Probably.
If you're going with the.
Yeah.
You're not in first.
Yeah.
Okay.
So anyway, I just did record two more shows.
Excellent.
Because we were summer months.
Tents to dry up.
So, um, okay, there's two comments.
We heard a thing about the phonetic show name.
And Dave, you put a comment in about that.
Do you want to go through that workflow changes?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Um, it's an A or B thing, actually, but to make sense to put it here.
Hold on a second.
Ah, culture.
You did, you did.
See, we normally do in a different order.
Um, so yeah, I added them thing in the notes about change to the workflow.
And what we did was I think we talked a bit about this before.
I made a change to the database to add an additional version of everybody's host name or handler, whatever.
And the idea was that that would be the one that he speak would use as part of the audio preamble.
Um, so that way we could go and change it to make it.
Uh, maybe he speak, speak it properly.
So, for example, it was a love bug who mentioned this originally.
So his name is being pronounced as Bell of bug, which I think is lovely.
Um, but all he needs to do is add capitals to it.
And it's, and he speaks says it correctly.
So, and you can have incorporated the use of this field into the, into the workflow.
I think as of some point towards another month, the middle or end of month, is it?
Yeah, there's Tony uses one.
Yeah, come on.
So I went through the database and changed all the obvious ones to produce names that, you know, I played them in.
And he speak to see if they sounded awful.
And if they did, I tried to make them sound the way I thought they should be.
But, um, I just made the note here that if you have in case of everything.
Your name is being mispronounced, but he speaks and let us know and we'll have a go at making it right.
I kind of like the way of pronounce my name.
Did you?
Oh, okay.
Did you undo it?
Because I put it in.
No, I just was right.
The fallen Ken.
Yes, fallen.
Yeah, yeah.
Anyway, that's, that's where we are with that.
I think we're done.
Um,
Well, I got one thing that I just had.
I would mention because as I said, I just reported a couple of shows and getting ready to upload them.
By an interesting coincidence, I recently put SSL certs on all of my websites.
And it looks to me, like, maybe you don't have one on Hacker Public Radio.
And I mentioned that because what I have heard is that, like, uh, Google will knock you down in the rankings.
And, you know, if you don't have a secure site, you'll show up on page.
Yeah, don't care about fine.
Although I'm reading the Hacker Public Radio, uh, HG GPS Hacker Public Radio dot org right now.
Oh, okay.
So you just don't have it.
Yeah, I don't know how I ended up here.
Well, we don't redirect to us, but I guess we could.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fine.
So, yeah, it's so much crap with SSL certs in the last week.
And various different other things that it is.
Like throwing salt in the wound.
Yes, fine, fine.
Dave, can you send me a note?
Yes, I just wrote it down.
Oh, I bet you did.
Um, I personally, Kevin, I agree with you that we should have.
SSL certs, but I also find it annoying that it has been imposed by a company.
Uh, when everything on our website.
So here's the thing.
As far as I'm aware, HG GPS works in Hacker Public Radio.
So therefore, it's not going to affect your liking.
And I'm getting, uh, we can't find that site.
HG GPS called on Hacker Public Radio dot org.
Oh, sorry, typo.
Correct that.
And it's got a nice, great, secure connection and verified by C Penalink.
So, as far as I'm concerned, we're sorted as far as rankings are concerned.
However, every single piece of information that's on Hacker Public Radio is open to the public.
And does need to be encrypted.
Yes.
Fine.
I understand.
Well, on the other hand, there is an argument that says he arguing with himself that some people might be in worker somewhere.
And would be not interested to know, for example, might be listening to, um,
one of the more sensitive shows, for example, um,
life inside of a, you know, dealing with mental health issues might not want that publicly known.
So yes, we have it there.
The old, the unencrypted site ain't going away anytime soon.
So yeah.
Yeah.
I know with mine, it was pretty easy to sort of say always make a connection cure,
because I could do it inside a word.
Really nothing more than putting a checkmark in a.
Yeah.
But then you're, uh, somebody's on a, on a machine, a, that doesn't have SSL installed.
We are Hacker Public Radio after all.
And somebody might be connecting in via tele.
Uh, well, if they're trying to connect to my site, the helmet.
Hey, exactly.
I don't have a helmet server.
Well, you can go tell that portatey and then you get a text back.
I'm not sure I want to encourage that sort of thing, but, um,
we're Hacker Public Radio.
That's what we do.
We encourage that sort of thing.
And what's the difference between you calling it up from a teleconcil,
and you go into a browser.
The same call is made.
It's exactly the same thing.
Well, because tell that isn't inherently insecure.
Yes, because it's in clear text.
That's why it's in the,
I did a series of shows on SSH, you know.
Yeah, I do know.
Well, my, I saying that we don't need to encrypt everything.
There's some things don't need to be encrypted.
And also, if all the sites disappear into SSL, then we can't learn the protocols necessary to secure the protocols.
But I agree with you.
Yeah.
No, I'm, I'm partly just teasing you.
You are, you are poking me with a stick.
You're poking me with a stick.
Obviously, everything on my site is intended to be open.
And if I didn't have to, I never would have done it.
But, you know, basically this whole thing about, you know,
I don't want to disappear from the search.
Nice.
I find that admirable, but at the same time,
I find it a bit bullying the tactics.
We say we decide this is a new policy.
And I'm a bit concerned that they will force the,
who's rattling their microphones at you?
I don't think I'm rattling them.
Okay.
I'm a bit concerned that they will suddenly decide, well,
we're going to force HTML2 down on everybody.
And then all of a sudden,
simple web pages can't be constructed by novices anymore.
So, yeah, not,
yes, yes, I, I get what you're trying to do.
But also, no, not overly happy with the concept.
No.
Okay.
I just probably mentioned it.
No, good, good.
Just checked.
And our man Josh has taken care of it.
Everything is, oh, that's what broke the common feed.
Remember.
Yeah.
Remember that's sagative.
I do indeed.
Yes, yes.
That's, that's why we changed the common feed.
Yes, that's exactly it.
And that's why we have it now.
Okay.
With that, I think we're done.
All right.
12 years, eight months and 26 days to go.
Oh, there was one other thing.
And that was the reservation of the 2600 show.
Can you imagine what they have in mind?
Neither am I.
And I may also be reserving a show for a coverage of a Linux,
Linux foundation conference that's been held here in Amsterdam.
I've reached out to the press guy,
because tickets are starting at 400 euros,
to see if I could represent HPR.
And he seems open to the idea.
So we may be putting in a reservation for that later on.
Very good.
Cool.
Okay.
With that, I will bid you a due.
And tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Actor.
Public.
Radio.
You waiting for me just saying here.
And share the software.
You'll be free.
Free hackers.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
