Episode: 2741
Title: HPR2741: HPR Community News for January 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2741/hpr2741.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 16:10:35

---

This is HBR episode 2741 entitled HBR Community News for January 2019 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 77 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is Janik Mane and can talk about shows released and comments posted
in January 2019. This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Greetings, humans. You're listening to HBR Community News for January 2019. Joining me tonight
are... Hi, Steve. Hi, it's Janik. So Dave, crawling back, crawling back after
missing last month. Oh, I know. I'm so ashamed of myself. I'll try my best to feel like I'm
playing the fine. It just took a long time to get over that, whatever it was. Okay. And Janik, how
are you dude? I'm fine. Thank you. Sorry. Go ahead or work. It's a bit snowy here in Sweden and we
lots of snow and lots of wind, so it's a bit cold, but I managed to not get any not flu.
Okay. How are you good? So, this ladies and gentlemen is HBR Community News for January 2019 and
HPR is Community Podcast Network, where the shows are contributed by people like you and we
sometimes forget that. And I think it's very important to remember that while you hear a lot of
voices on the network that you're familiar with, you shouldn't. You should only hear each of those
voices once a year. That is because there are 260 slots. There are definitely loads more people
who listen to this show and if everything was working correctly, people would not have enough
space to submit shows. So, you're listening to this show, you listen to more than two podcasts,
then you should really consider contributing back to the community by first of all introducing
us to yourself, telling us what you do, why you're listening to the podcast, and basically saying
yellow. What do you think of that, Chaps? Sounds like a good idea to me. Yeah, yeah, and it's
really not that complicated. I mean, everyone has a phone in their pockets, so just press record
and send the audio. Yep. And all the rest of the stuff, becoming an expert, worrying about the
Omsanas, doing good show notes, all that can come later. But first thing is sending shows. The
reason I want to harp on a little bit about this was we've already had a call for shows
already this year. So, that's not good, really. In the wintertime, there's usually plenty of wintertime
northern hemisphere, obviously. There's plenty of time to be recording shows, and actually during
the summertime, the schools are off, guys in New Zealand and Australia, so no excuse not to have
some time to record a show and send them on in. Anyway, this show, we put on once a month,
to make sure that everybody gets some feedback on the shows that have occurred in the previous
month. And the previous month started with a mobile device security by Edward Miro, who is also
known as Cypher. Did you guys listen to it? Yes, I did. Yep. Me too. Me too. It scares me every time
I hear things like this. I wonder why I have a smartphone in my pocket. Yes. Yeah, go ahead.
It's funny because people tend to secure their servers and PC and home router and everything.
And yet, how phones are the first thing we're going to route or a gel break to install
applications from shady app stores, while this is perhaps the single place where you have
pretty much hold your life. Yeah. So, it's a bit strange. Although, I do exactly what he says you
shouldn't do for the reasons that he's giving the show. I have my phone and I route it so that I
install everything just from F-Troid. Nothing else gets installed unless it's on F-Troid. And I trust
those guys to have done their due diligence because they don't even allow, you know, the only allow
free and open source software in there and give you a warning. And the applications are usually
take a long time to go on there, but I route it so that I can put a firewall on. And then,
then you really see what's going on because you have all these pop-ups for applications that are
going out to websites that you're going, why is this going out there? Very, very interesting.
Yes. Yes. I was just discussing with my son putting lineageOS on my one person. That's the one. Yep.
And he was demonstrating his, which has gone on and all of the controls you have. I don't,
I have a signage and derivative at the moment, but it shines fair bit. Yeah, but it feels like an
enemy in my phone. I don't know. Do you feel like it? So, I don't like it very much. Until I have
lineage running on us, I don't trust the phone. I don't trust anything on us. But anyway, that's a
digression from this show. I am actually planning in the fullness of time on doing an episode on
that. So, hashtag, I owe myself a show. There was one comment on that and that was read by
sent in by RTSN, exclamation mark, good episode, exclamation mark, probably. It's definitely very
good then. I think that actually does summarize the, the feeling of that show. So, moving on to the
next day, what is turning out to be one of my favorite series here on HPR is genres in storytelling,
Lost in Bronx, looking into the importance of genres in storytelling. And I don't, I don't know
if he listened to his voice from the Void podcast, which is open to Patreon subscribers, Hint Hint.
And this guy, Lost in Bronx, who's also known as, what's Lost in Bronx, really? David Collins.
That's the money. David Collins. He will always be Lost in Bronx. He, the amount of effort he
puts into his craft is just amazing, absolutely amazing. It's worth it. Just throw the guy a dollar
and download the voice from the Void podcast and have a listen to it if you're into, even if you're
not into stories or space operas or stuff, the level of detail that he has on his, the world that
he's building is absolutely incredible. Makes me run from storytelling. To be honest.
Yes, yes. We are ruining it for me, Lost in Bronx, you're ruining it. I thought I was just sitting
down and writing something, but no. So there was no comments on that for some reason, don't know.
And the following day, we had Bash tips 17, this time it's personal. Bash arrays part two, Dave,
why? It's auxiliary bash tips. That was called additional auxiliary bash tips. Somebody was
hacking my show titles and adding things to it. So I decided to go back to the silly titles.
I've got a matrix of the things. So this one became additional auxiliary bash tips just to,
just to stop that person from their vandalism.
Yes, yes. Abusing the power that was laid before them. Some guy called Ken Fallon says things I
didn't know. I didn't know about the substring manipulation and also found out why the following
works, uh, their name, source, uh, with a hash hash. So the final name's extensions. But of course,
Dave has to correct me. Well, no, exactly. We're just, uh, just extended, uh, rift on that subject.
So yeah, it's, I try not to use, do a name and base name anymore, because you can do it in the,
in the shell itself. But, uh, you know, use to his own. What I find amazing with this series is that
uh, 17, yeah, 17 episodes ago from this series, I thought I knew bash. And now 18, 18, 19 episodes later,
I feel like I didn't know anything about that. And I still, I still learn everything,
uh, something, at least one thing every episode. And, uh, and now Dave, you've turned my life
into a nightmare because every time I write a, a bash script, I have a little voice in my head
that says, that's not how you should do it. I actually have a voice to my head, as we'll see later on.
I, uh, I also have that voice though, because it's saying, surely there's a better way of doing this,
and let's see more efficient way of doing this. So I'm, I'm, I'm, uh, Hagrid and myself for this,
this sort of stuff. The other thing is that when I first started using bash, you go and look at
that man page and it's vast. Yeah. And you think, how am I ever going to understand this? So my,
my goal was to sort of pick out individual bits and then learn them. And then I thought, oh, I could
do shows on this as well. So you're suffering along with me. Yeah, but it's really a really nice
series. I love it. I could, good, good. Yeah, yeah. It's, well, I like to share these things. So
hopefully people are getting stuff out of it. No, we are. I am, because I'm, I've been using stuff
for years. I'm wondering why it, uh, why it's worked. And now I'm beginning to understand it.
The following day was an episode by myself, which was downloading YouTube channels using the
USS feed, which is a thing actually that you put me on today. And I like it. This, uh, this is how
I'm listening to YouTube videos now. Yeah. Yeah. I don't actually do that myself. Although I knew
it existed. So I found that really helpful to, to have that sort of different viewpoint on it.
And it also gave me a chance to do a show at some point. Yes.
Well, this is all part of my form series that I haven't done yet, but now that I'm telling people
about how I'll probably do it in 20 years. And that is how to minimize, you know, data usage and
use Wi-Fi and stuff. So I got my mobile phone usage down from four gigabytes a month, down to
300 megabytes some months. Oh. So all of that is, yeah, basically don't watch videos online. That's
a bad thing. Yeah. That's, that's really good, actually. Yeah. I, I was bitten by that very
seriously when I first had a, a smartphone. So yeah, these are good lessons. I'm sure.
So the following day, we had the community news. Well, actually, it was a Monday community news for
December 2018. And the comments from Dave, do you want to read your own comment? Comment?
Comment. Comment. Comment. Comment. It's not that funny. It's hilarious. So I said very nice
show. Thanks. Yeah. And like I really enjoyed listening to this very well done. It's also great
to hear Jerome. Jerome. Jerome. Jerome. Jerome. I've said this so many times. And anyway,
sorry, you're on the community news again, the record, the HPR Muggers at old camp 2018 that you
mentioned that suggested he join us were JWP of myself. And I said I caught a little something
a bit like flew up to Christmas kind of in flu because I had my flu shot. Anyway, the not flu
or its aftermath is still hanging on three weeks later, cough, cough.
Yes, you can still hear us in your voice. And hinting, a camp 2019 is actually going to
take place in October this year. October. That's an interesting time. And where has it been held?
A Manchester. I wonder, I actually wondered, I'd love to hear the answer to this because every year
there's a big skeptical conference in Manchester called QED. And they're skipping a year this
this year. And I wanted if that made there were more openings for doing our camp. So I'll be
fascinated to see whether they choose the same place that QED normally uses.
I like that it's in Manchester because my plane will land in Manchester, so that means no need to
take a train to go to wherever it's going to be. Oh, it'll be really handy. Yeah, I'm looking forward to
Manchester UK 10th anniversary spectacular. Yes. And we'd be there, right? Perhaps, perhaps,
do we know what location? No, that's it. Who's the main people? Who's driving it? I don't know either.
Not sure if it's John the nice guy again. I know it's not John, but I don't know who is in charge
this year. Oh, cool. I'm interested to find out. It would be great anyway. Okay, I'm going to stop
googling flights. I'm sprued back to the comments. Yes, there's another comment. Do you want to read
the one you go on? Well, I could go my flight. Yeah, okay. So we'll start to go just so you know.
So, Windigo said, listening through the back catalogue, I'm one of the folks listening through
the HPR back catalogue in descending order. Other episodes are often still relevant and those that
are a little dated as the fascinating from from a historical perspective. Like I mentioned,
this is also a fantastic way to flesh out the tags and summaries on other episodes. It only takes
a few extra minutes per show and yes, it's true. We need HPR needs volunteers to tag all chose so
we can find them more easily. And Windigo is somebody who does contribute quite often to that
project. He is nice guy. Thanks. Thank you, Windigo. He does have a tendency to submit too many
shows and ones, but other than that failing, he's a nice guy. So the following day we had a drive
by Absorbed with JWP, RAID 6, a short description, which was interesting actually. Two protective drives.
Yeah, go ahead. No, no, that's that's all I had to say. Okay,
because we tend to be tending to sort of clash all these I do anyway. I know I'm just going to say
I didn't know RAID 6 all that well. So it's kind of quite useful to to get to JWP's pointer to
it. So I then went up and read up more about it. There are so many flavors of RAIDs. I always miss
them up. Yeah, me too. Okay, I'm dragging myself away from airport search sites and coming back to
the next episode, which was using ELM in the context of a 4x game client. This can only be
Turo Toto talks about the decisions on structuring ELM applications. And I did I did have to follow
along with this by reading the show notes, to be honest. And I'm beginning to think that I might
at some point in the future understand issues. Yeah, yeah, I think we're all in that same position.
You're all thinking I really must go and research has school in more detail and work at what
these things are doing. So it looks fascinating. Yeah, yeah, as I said last month, this episode,
I was in the car when I listened to that and it kind of flew over my head and flew over my head,
sorry. But yeah, still I'm still interesting in checking out ASCAL.
It's a it's a completely different way of writing. The whole syntax seems
completely different than anything that I've come across before. But it's a good series, keep
keep it up. Don't stop the fact that I can't follow it in any way to tell you from
because I'm closer now than I was. Yeah, you know, it's like when you're learning a foreign language
and you listen to some sort of text at the beginning, you just pick a word maybe in a sentence
and then it becomes clearer and clearer. And then one day you say, oh, that's what it means.
Yeah, yeah, I get it. So yeah, keep doing this show, please. Yes, indeed. And the notes are great.
I must compliment them on the quality of the notes. It really helps a lot. Yeah, very much.
And you if you're listening to this to his shows on this, you and you're not familiar with
ASCAL. I mean, ASCAL people, I think Clacket is having no problem going following along, but
if you're not, then the show notes really do help. The following day, a din rail to mount your
raspberry pies, somebody shoving the fact that they've got a 3D printer in your face. Hey,
hey, hey, you know what I got one to me. Oh, yeah, yeah, we're all the 3D printers shows, guys.
Well, I'm still learning. Yes, yes. This is an interesting one. How I'm interested to see how you,
how dust would work basically over time. That said, I have three raspberry pies down on the
basement, just screwed to the to a piece of board. So fair enough. Yeah, yeah, I know the dust issue
does bother me slightly, but my pies are just floating about over the place and they do have dust,
dust in the fittings. I just go and use a blower to blow them out every so often because we have a cat,
we have a cat that tends to wander about over the pies and stuff that you get cat hair all over
the place, you know. Yeah, not good, good show. They've keep keep sending them in. And I'd be
interested in getting an update on this one in about two or three years. How, how you progress with
it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to develop the whole idea. Maybe see if we could stack them and
or man them or something like that. The illuminus, the following day, illuminus shutdown command
explain a short podcast about the illuminus OS shutdown command, which is a clone of Solaris.
This is actually one of JWP's episodes that caused a lot of stir actually. Claudio M made a comment
about about open Solaris and Tlatu had the facility to be able to investigate it and do a show.
And Claudio M says quite a different shutdown, a very informative episode. I hadn't realized how
different the shutdown command functions on illuminus, luminous based operating systems is
from the BSDs and Linux. You've also inspired me to make a HPR episode on a similar command
with the same name in another OIS, another OS I have to use from time to time.
Well now, Claudio M owes me a show right there. That's how you do it. Yeah.
Indeed, I think he knows how the games played though, so I think we're going to get one.
We're going to get one. Yeah, interesting. I used to manage some systems at one time,
but I have to admit that I never noticed the shutdown, the same thing different, but that's
okay, I had it at the time. What's interesting is that he said in this episode that
in it five is the way to alter or reboot the system. On Unix,
RL5 is actually the multi-user. Switching from one to the other can be really,
if you come from Linux and you want to switch to multi-user RL5, you have to take care to not stop
your server. And I don't even think a lot of people running Linux now knows about the run level.
Yeah. Yeah, you don't bother with that now.
It used to be a big thing, all right. There was a time you were looking on the console and then
you had to run level 5. Do you need 5 by hand? Yeah, yeah, yeah. What just happened? Where am I?
Okay, the next day we had home theater part two software high level, and this one was sent in by
operator. Very, very detailed explanation. He already did a show on the hardware of the setup,
and this is a detailed explanation on the software, which was a loss. It's got coding,
you play a subsonic, spider, or a small minder. Wow, what this thing can't do.
Yeah, that's the first of that I did use before my Netflix era. And it was hard.
Yeah. Yeah, it's Google Docs notes look really impressive.
The, that's linked in the show notes here. I also took a PDF of them and attached those as well.
Yeah, we discussed that didn't we that these things can be fairly ephemeral, I think.
More about that later. So RTSN, also exclamation mark, saying cool, thanks for sharing
a very interesting episode. It's nice to get some feedback. Thank you very much. And the
following day, privacy and security, we had Edward Miro again, Cypher, already sending
into shows in January. You should feel guilty. Okay, about passwords and security,
about good passwords and to use password managers to factor on that occasion couldn't agree more.
Well, yeah, I did one step further in this, in this, using those tools that I have now,
a bit more than instance that I do host myself. So not only do I use a password manager,
but I am in control of my data. Yes.
Very good. I use Kipaz X locally. Yeah. And then sync is into Giz. Yeah, I do a similar,
similar thing. I did. I'm sorry. I was saying I didn't thought about I didn't think about
syncing the Kipaz fine with Git, which is, yeah, I should look into that.
It's a very logical captain. Yeah, I might do an HP RPG on that.
I like his password creation advice, because it's pretty similar to what we used to use when I
worked at my last job at the university. We used to tell the students and the staff to do
something very similar to that. And I've never heard anybody else say that, probably because I
don't listen to enough people talking about passwords, but I was really pleased that he talked about
that and explained it quite well too. The only thing very glad. Much more effective than using
password one, password two, password three. Yeah. Yeah. Well, if you're taking all your
passwords from the password manager, then you only really need one really good password to maintain
that. And then I do, I tell people to use a variation in the horse battery thing, but instead of
changing letters for a lot, the only issue I have with some of this is that the at sign
people know that's another ancillary for a. So you get that quite a lot in dictionary attacks
that they will just try Apple and then they'll try the at sign pull. So you want to be just careful
on that one. So what I tend to do is advise people maybe to create their own letters like a pipe
symbol, the dash and the pipe symbol would be H, for example. I never use that one myself and
will never use it, but you know, there you go. That sort of basically you need to use a lead text
generator on your password. Well, not even a lead text. It's like every letter composed of three
other letters. So, I don't know, let me let me have a look. I might be the pipe with a period
afterwards or a period and then a dash would be two extended letters and it looks like an eye on
that side to you if you're crazy drunk. Okay. But if you look at the keyboard, you can kind of go,
okay, well, you know, I can make letters with the other letters and then every time I use that
or some of the time I use that letter, I will replace it for those two three combinations of
extended characters, but not all the time. Anyway, coming out to the rabbit hole, moving to the next
show, the unreliable narrator in storytelling. And I had one comment on that, which is from myself.
As a means of telling two store, so my comment was that basically lost and Bronx explains why
you would use the unreliable narrator and gives some examples. And I said, high lost and Bronx,
love the shows ever. You got me thinking that I enjoyed the usual suspects and fight club
as two well executed movies. Both had me going back to watch it again to see how they fooled me.
I would argue that the sixth sense took the premise of unreliable narrators and did something unique
that set it apart from the other two. Namely, they produced two entirely different films
from the same series of pictures. The first time I saw it, I watched a horror film starring Bruce
Willis and saw a story about a man who discovers the truth. The second time I watched it, I saw a drama
starring Haley Joel Osmet and saw a story about a boy struggling to accept that he is different
and having to deal with difficult situations and learning to trust again.
After listening to your show, I realized that this was only possible because both characters were
unreliable narrators, one on knowing and the other using it as a tool to help.
There you go, profound thing to see here on the boss.
I think you're spun with the sixth sense. I mean,
the second time you watch it, it's not the same film. No, it's not the same movie at all.
Whereas the other two movies are the same movie, it's just, oh, I don't see that, oh,
yeah, yeah. There's a hint. There's a hint in the sixth sense when you watch it and you don't
know that. It's that I think every time, what was it? It's something with
his wife wearing red or something red, the red thing. The second time I watched the movie,
I didn't know that, so I didn't notice that and then I learned about that. So I went back
to watch it. Yeah, it was the third time and I was, oh, yeah, okay, and it all makes sense and
it's, yeah, it's a good movie and a good episode too from HBO. Yeah.
Bash tips 18, arrays and bash, extra auxiliary bash tips. Thanks Dave.
I have to insist on you continuing that those extra names.
Well, yeah, yeah, I'm just writing episode 20 where I just explain what I'm doing.
Some of these ones are very useful. Some of this, so in this one, you're repacing various
different words in an array and this would be extremely handy in certain situations as a very
clean and easy way to replace, I don't know, the first character of a of a file or the last
part of a file. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's useful. The array thing in Bash I think
is really cool. This is why I've been going on about it so much. Yeah, yeah. Of course,
I feel like an idiot now, but that's fine. Yeah, I know the feeling. Resizing images for V card
in Android was the next one. Automating the steps needed to get images formatted for V card
import into Android phones. This actually is part of my replacing, you know, having a free and
open source phone using lineage OS and having no, having all your data, owning all your data.
So as part of that, the V card thing was one thing that I needed to be able to do. So more on that.
But this was just a show that allowed you to basically explain that if you want to have images
in your V cards, there is a specific format that they must be. It's not like you can throw any
image in there and expect it to work as a ward and then just automating the process of doing that.
And the realization that graphics magic is fantastic to a lot better than image magic.
That's what I was going to say. I didn't know anything about the graphics magic now. I have to
look into it. It's a fork and it's been maintained. So yeah, and the documentation is just,
it's just sainter, I think, a lot sainter. Yeah, documentation on image magic is a bit,
how can I say that politely? Yes. You know, old. Yeah, yeah. I really love image magic when I
first came to Canada after reading all that documentation, which was not easy to read. But it
falls out of your head as soon as you put it in, I find. Whereas this, as you say, it does seem to
be more logical. I'm definitely going to learn my way around graphics magic. Use that all the time.
So it's really, really helpful show to sort of broaden my horizons, I think.
The amount of stuff you can do with both image magic and graphic magic is like phenomenal.
They're really, really good tools for doing manipulation of images.
Yeah, use that. Sorry. I use that much magic to generate
podcast, episode cover art automatically from, from episode number, date, etc. Do you have a
script for that? And you can, I did, I did when I was actively publishing my podcast, I can
look into it and see if I still have the script. Throw it over here because I want to do something
similar. Okay. So then we had my 8-bit Christmas Andrew Conway got what turned out to be a presence
that every little boy wanted. The total says amazing memories. I never actually owned the BBC,
but read about them a lot when I was a kid. Same here, especially elite was touted as the best
space game ever, and the BBC version being superior in every possible way. Thanks for making the
episode. It sure resurrected a bunch of old memories. Speaking of old people, the next comments
is read by Dave. Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave. Oh, I did. Because you're rolling back to
I did. I know how your friends are. So I said this was a real treat. It's a great episode.
I'm jealous. So much nostalgia. I actually bought a BBC micro in about 1981 having previously
owned an ACON. It was actually an electron, not an atom, I think. I used to teach a class
in basic using ACON electron. But it's more, I still have the bead. So it's molded away
many years in the attic. I bought the Z80 code processor, the press-del adapter, which is
the modem in a beige box. A dual floppy disk drive, a bunch of other stuff including
RGB monitor. It's my main computer for many years. It's been something I've been meaning to do
sometime resurrect these devices. Replacement with all the dead electrolytic capacitors might
be more than I can manage, but I'll have a go. If not, then I know I can probably refurbish one
off eBay. I hope you'll do more shows about your experiences with this magnificent machine.
Playing the part of John Culp is unique. Sorry. So yeah, John Culp commented. I love legacy
hardware. That's the title of the comment. I loved this episode in all caps. I like anything
about retro equipment, making old stuff work again using legacy equipment formats.
This was great. My own interest is mainly audio, but it's great hearing about any of these
old tech products that are still usable or are being refurbished and loved again. Thanks.
Yes, I think definitely this sounds like there's enough enthusiasm for a series here on this
type of thing. The last comment on the show was by Tim Timmy. Our Tim Timmy. First contact.
Thanks for the show Andrew. My first contact with any computer was the BBC in the big class
final year at primary school. I can vividly remember playing Granny's Garden linking the show notes
when I was nine or ten. Then at secondary school, while everybody was messing around with the new
Windows 3.1 i3.6 machines, I spent days on the only BBC left in the school typing code
in from a magazine called Quest link in the show notes. The code was some sort of database
program, but I never ever worked and so far above my skill set to the book. I just sat on my
it's just sat on my five and a half inch floppy design to stay in my school bag until the end of
time. I actually gasped and swore when you joked, well set and you'd hear bomb off in my memory
with the two words star dot. I had forgotten how simple the commands were. Anyway, please please
do a follow-up show. I would love to hear more about the BBC and see how much I can remember.
Oh no, there's loads more comments. This is what I was going to say.
So I'll do the next one please. RTSN says comment with zero. I don't know if you meant that.
Thanks this wonderful episode. The BBC's scenes are like a pretty cool machine.
More episodes on this please. And then Mike Ray says,
Janus, I spent probably most of the first half of the 80s playing Elite on the BBC Micro
or Donkey Kong or writing code for it. Last time I used the one was it too, was to calculate the
position of the moon and steer a huge VHF antenna array to point at it, late 80s and early 90s.
Yeah, that's amazing. That's like show. Yeah, we need to show that.
Wasn't ideal since the ADC port was only 11 bit, so not great accuracy with the moon's position
could not have pointed Jodrel Bunk with sufficient definition. I don't know what Jodrel Bunk is,
but it's a big radio telescope in near Manchester. Okay. I could see back then. I am very jealous
of all those classic 8-bit classic games at your fingertips and all loading fast.
You must have been sick when the PSU blew up. Last question, where can I find a wife like that?
First experience I had with a BBC Micro was in third level. There were still
using them because it was the only way to interface with relays and stuff. You could like poke
ease and we'll just turn it all. Which is awesome. When I worked at the university job I had,
we before PCs, we all were given a VHC Micro on our desks, so that was the main machine we used
for writing documents and accessing the mainframe in many cases. So yeah, it was an amazingly
popular machine. We also had e-prom programmers and used to generate our own e-proms for the things
and so on. Gosh, there's a whole series there. Yes, very good. I'm looking forward to it.
The following show was storytelling formula where Klaatu ruins every movie I ever watched Klaatu.
Thank you. Oh my god. Every movie I liked has been ruined. Thank you very much.
Boss, yes. I think it's a glimpse behind the curtain actually. Boss, yeah. What do you think of
this one? Well, I get a little bit bored with movies these days because they seem formulaic
and in many, many cases. The ones that really surprised you are quite exciting, but I just find it
so interesting to see it broken down this level because although I know it's a bit of a formula
and I'm bored, I don't know why and I haven't ever expended the mental exercise to find out why.
And Klaatu has actually opened a door as far as that's concerned. I'll probably still be bored,
but I'll know. They have to analyze it and think, why am I bored with this?
Yeah. Now, I think to a joking aside, he even does say in it just because it's following the
formula doesn't necessarily make it a bad movie, but sometimes you can see them following the
formula and you think that should have been a good movie, but it wasn't. And I didn't know about
the formula, you know, boy meets girl, boy loses girl, you know, boy gets girl back. You know,
is essentially the formula both in a delusion.
Yeah, but yeah, now we can watch the movies and see, they made a mistake here that didn't
they didn't follow the formula or, or you can, I mean, even before listening to the episode,
there were some movies where you watch for 10 minutes and then you say, okay, here's what's
going to happen. Yeah, exactly. Very true. Yeah, they're trying too hard to follow the formula.
I wonder, I mean, this is something, Yannick, that you as our official foreigner,
foreign person. Is this, this formula is very hollybody. I wonder, does this, is this a universal
thing in storytelling that we expect this? I mean, I don't think, probably France and Switzerland
are not far enough away. I wonder what aging cultures do they follow the formula? Does the formula
work everywhere? Does it work in any way tribes? Does it work in South America? Does it, you know,
regardless of your, your background, or are we now all so, um, brainwash that we all expect this
formula? Yeah, I would tend to say that it's more of the later that we're, we're so used to
hollywood movies being done like that, that Wix, we kind of expect all every movie to be
the same, well, following the same general formula. And that's when movies, you know, when they don't
follow this pattern, then that's when they can be very interesting, but also I think they lose some
audience and that's what makes those movies particularly, but we tend to say that French movies
are not as good as US movies, but that's probably because they don't follow this formula. Yeah,
to the latter. And still, there are very good movies, but I think less people go watch them
because of that. Yeah, because you don't know what you're going to get. Yeah, you're not,
you're not going to get that satisfied feeling at the end. Yeah, there's kind of an expectation
when you go to the movie to see, okay, I'm going to see a very nice story and that, you know, it's,
it's, it's a new story, but still I want to be, I don't want to be surprised or, you know,
because if I don't know what I'm going to see, maybe I don't want to spend some money on that,
because I don't want to be disappointed. Yeah, it's so shame because there are very good movies
that don't follow this San Patan. Yeah, but again, okay, I was very harsh and I'm not too there,
and I didn't tend to, as I say, didn't intend to be harsh or whatever, but this actually reminds
to, as I was thinking about what Latu put in the show here, it reminds me why I like Terry Pratchett
books because there's a safety in them where there's a kind of formula that you know what the
formula kind of is, and you know, it's all going to work out okay in the end. And lost in Bronx,
when David Collins Rivera writes this story, you do not know whether that's going to be a happy
go lucky story. It may be following the formula as well, but you don't know what type of story
is going to be. So there's a little bit of more fear and angst when you approach a lost in Bronx
production, because you don't know what it's going to be. Anyk, you know, it's going to be a comedy show,
but in his old Star Drifter series, he's had some very lighthearted stuff and some very
dark stuff at the same time. I don't really know if that's got anything to do with the formula or not,
but yeah, it's they, you know, it's going to turn out okay type thing. Right, that was a diversion.
Trunk kid silences, rules, the love silences. What is that all about? No, no, no, I'm just sort of
coach attending here because I don't, I don't really actually spend enough brain power thinking
about these things. So it's a bit of a revelation for me in some respect. Three hour commute, Dave.
Three hour commute. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And the, the comment about the French movies is actually
quite interesting. I was just trying to remember what I've seen in the distant past that are really
like the Gorshima or something I saw a year ago. Which is, I don't know what the hell the story
was about. It was just just so pleasing. I just found it when the, I can never go, I can never find a
copy of it to on DVD or anything. But anyway, yeah, yeah, there's a lot like that, I think. My
favorite French movie is Amelie, but it follows the formula. Yeah, yeah. So in a rather idiosyncratic way.
Yes, as movie, but it's, you know, this is why all my nice movies have been ruined by
it. I like Amelie so much. I spent a week in Paris going around all the places from the movie,
you know, you don't adore, don't lose, they show floor. I tried to find that place, I never did.
You know, with the guy falls asleep in the cauliflower? No, I don't, but, you know, they often
make up places names and things like that. Yeah, I know, I know. But it's just, it's just quite nice
to, to, to, to like a film so much and go to the place or this show. It's just, yeah, I don't know.
Okay, enough about this week in a movie making. But Latu can feel free to do more of these
type of shows, but I think Latu will do is whatever shows that he wants us to do. Writing web
game in Haskell, news and notifications. Turo Turo talks about the game. They're writing in Haskell
completely, completely new system they make. This seems like a very small amount of code in order
to be able to do an API sort of exchange. Yeah, very, very small amount of code.
Well, I know, I was thinking that too, because he talks about how the, the sort of
queue of news messages is in the database. I couldn't see anywhere that it was accessing a
database, except that, you know, there's, there's JSON structures that presumably are held in the
database. But, yeah, I must be missing something, I don't know. Yeah, but is that not what the data
declaration is? Is there an in-memory database? Yeah, maybe, maybe so, yeah. Wow, this guy's brain
is just operating at a completely different level. And yet, it still gives me the the urge to
look into Haskell. So there's something, there's something special. Yeah, it's like he's got a
screen shot right there showing it working. Unbelievable. Well, not unbelievable. It's just, yeah,
fine. One man's effort to get us all converted to writing in Haskell.
See, I'd be lost, I'd be lost in the, in the font and the icons and the layout and stuff.
Yeah, yeah. Where it looks like if you're writing in Haskell, you just get the meat of it and,
and, and, you know, you probably need to know a lot more than an idea to achieve that. But just,
it's, it's, it, it seems so, so lightweight in terms of its expressiveness. I really hope he,
he doesn't stop sending in tools because like we're acting like dummies here and not knowing what
he's doing. But I'm, I really do hope that in the fullness of time, I will be sitting down right
my hello world program in Haskell. Yeah, yeah. I started reading the book, but I, but I don't,
it's got me nowhere as far as this is concerned. Anyway, the following day,
Mash Potter, a poor rushed attempt at covering an excellent podcast client by Mash Potter. And
there was reading that thinking, that was a, some cobbins came in on this show and I was thinking,
that's a, that's a very harsh sort of common to write to somebody, but it's actually the,
the title by Mr. X and so, so that's why it was not that rushed. No, I mean, yeah, it's
was 20 minutes long, so it's not that rushed. I think it was rushed that he just went and did
the sort of the cough. Yes. Well, which is, which is one way to do it, you know, you want to,
because if you put too many thoughts into it and you say, okay, I'm going to do that. Oh,
no, I'm going to, well, I'm going to say that like, no, I'm good. Oh, well, okay, never mind.
Proclamation has so many fucking shows here on this network. Sorry for using the app for
a guy's, but procrastination is the killer of this network. I'll tell you right now. Yeah,
so whenever you want to share something, pick up your phone, pitch record, record send this
file to, to, to, to one of us. I mean, if you record and send, that's it. That's it. It can be
easier. And if you don't know how to upload now to do things like that, just send us the file.
We'll do that for you. Yes, Mr. X has got a lot of skills and he doesn't realize that he can
make really nice, really good podcasts just off the cuff. He's, I think it's sort of him saying
that he can't, he's apologizing for doing it that way, where I think it's some of his best work
he's done that way. Yeah, more of that type of thing. Comments we had,
tattoos. Who wants to do the voice of tattoos? Okay, I will, I will. Clato said, coincidentally,
I've resumed using my, my folder for podcasting just recently. The audio jack on my mobile failed
rendering, my mobile functionally useless as a podcast listening device. So I dug out an old
media player loaded with rockbox and I use it as my listening device. For one day, I tried
loading it manually with podcasts and then realized that I needed something to manage,
show downloads for me. And my folder is what I turned to. I started modifying it so that it would
run an arbitrary script such as a conversion script, but got distracted maybe later.
So I do Mr. X's, please. He says, read coincidentally. Hi, Clato. I took some advice from our friend,
Dave Morris. Oh, he suggested I might like to use the RSS feed to keep track of comments.
Yes, I did do that. I got hold of a simple RSS reader, feeder reader, perhaps I mean,
on the Android Play store, it seems to be working out great as I was alerted to your comment.
Without the reader, months may have gone by before stumbling across your comments.
Mash Potter is right for modifying, especially since it's so well written with loads of good comments.
I have plenty of unfinished projects so I can relate to what you're saying, all the best Mr. X.
And Mash Potter was written by friend of the show Chess Griffin, who I think has done more for
Linux than a lot of people would would be aware of. He was a podcaster, did the 100 episodes of
Linux reality. And if somebody wants to go back and listen to them, I imagine they would be as
fresh now as they were the day they were produced. Yes, his, his, his Mash Potter is great, actually.
It's, I only realised recently having looked at it following this show that he, he's actually handled
the situation that Mash Potter never did, which is if a, if a feed is syntactically incorrect,
uh, Bash Potter crashes because it uses X, XSL T Brock, which says, nah, this is not valid XML
go away. Whereas, um, Mash Potter actually falls back to using said, I think, to, uh, to pick up
the, the enclosures, which, you know, it's just, just really good, good designer, I like that.
I don't know whether it handles atom, it didn't used to, but it's very easy to modify it to make it,
uh, okay, the next episode, I have no clue how to pronounce that, div, diva pdf. Oh, sorry,
yet so free door. Thank you. Cooking sense. Cooking stuff. Really, not my, not my thing. Although,
that's it, we sit down and watch the group that you speak of, the entire thing, we bother
than DVD. Why? I don't know. Now I know all the reasons, uh, hello, second. You know,
what's funny? I, I, I kind of like, uh, cooking, but I, I don't, uh, I don't like cooking for myself,
you know, so I, I always look at recipes and things like that and say, oh, that's looks good. I,
I want to do that. I want to do that. And then I say, yeah, but why? I mean, I'm going to cook
that for myself, which is good, but, uh, yeah, so I think if I, if I, maybe if I had like good risen,
you know, uh, and a bunch of people to feed, then, uh, yes, yes, yes. Uh, I, I feel the same way.
I'm probably just to egg on toast or something for myself, but my, my kids come and come and eat with
me every week or a couple of nights. I, uh, it's just that I make them food to just save them some
money. Yeah. So I, yeah, I cooked twice, uh, twice a week for them. So yeah, I really look forward
to doing that from the, the point of view of what shall I do for them this time, you know, and, uh,
make it particularly interesting and pleasant or whatever, you know, so, uh, yeah.
But I, yeah, I do have my daughter at every, every other week, every other weekend. So I kind of
have to cook, but since she's only three and a half, she doesn't really care about what's in her
plate. Yes. Yes. The curry I made on Wednesday is, it was so popular that they wanted to come back
on Friday and help me finish it off. So, uh, but wow, there's a lot of work in that one, I tell you.
Yes. I find it. I really enjoy it. I mean, I mean, you spend like hours, uh,
preparing something that's, uh, that's gotten in 50 minutes. Oh, yeah. Definitely.
That's good. Yeah. It's a good sign, of course. Absolutely. We could do with more cooking
shows, I think. Yes. Yes. We can, especially, uh, you know, um, uh, uh, beginners level,
and I would love that. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That was the note I made to myself, but yeah,
let's have more, more cookery, please. Well, the following day, we had a response to show
2720, where Ken was brought back in time to the parent teacher meetings.
Sished down before his teachers where they go, Ken, you know, if you only just applied yourself,
you could do that. You know, it's how I apologize. Yeah. Well, you know, there's this guy who
keeps saying we need shows and it shows. There you go. You got to show. No, I, uh, yeah,
but that's the thing about open sort of, open sort of software free liberal open sort of blah,
blah, blah, whatever. You think, oh, I want to put it out there and it's absolutely perfect. And
then you say stuff and you go, okay, yeah, that's obvious. I should have fixed that. Yeah.
Especially the eGrep. I know that and I've stopped using eGrep and I have switched to moving
using e, uh, just grip capital E. But for some reason, I don't go back and refactor my scripts.
So, well, yeah, no, I mean, I don't do that as much as I should, but, uh, yeah, no, uh, the part of
the point of doing this is the fact and the, the, the reason I demonstrated the use of shell check
was that, um, it nagged you so much that you have to, you have a sort of passing on and it's nagging to
you. Yeah. And, uh, which is good. It's, it's good to have something, uh, telling you, no, no,
that, that won't work. Well, you made a mistake here and it will fail under these circumstances.
So it is good, but it's, it's, it's literally rotating, but it, it does improve the quality of what
you write. So no, I did, uh, I did laugh. I was chuckling as, uh, as you were, uh, doing this episode.
So I for one, it could have been more, it could have been a lot worse.
I didn't know that eGrep was the Pricotty, for example. So I learned something.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, this is what shell check told me I didn't know either. Don't use that.
Use this. So 29th of the month, we had my Pioneer RT707 real to real tape deck.
Yay, by JWP. Sorry, JWP, not at all. John Culp from Lafayette, Louisiana.
Loads of, uh, comments. John sent in an update saying the tape counter is now functioning,
follow up. Research on the issue indicates that a non-functioning tape counter in this machine
was about 99% likely to be from a broken belt. The reels are direct drive, but the belt turns
the counter. I got a replacement belt from eBay, installed it today, and happy to report that
everything is working perfectly now. Yeah. Uh, Bookworm says, uh, ancient media, I just finished
listening to the episode of, wow, I loved finding and listening to older media. The crown jewel
in my collection is an Edison record. Sadly, it came to me broken, but I do have all the pieces
on the cardboard storage cylinder as whole. So even if I, if I do ever find a player, I couldn't
play it. But those interested, here's a link to the Edison, to, to inform on Edison cylinder records.
And then John of Replayed, uh, Victrola episode. Thanks for your comments, Bookworm. It's too bad
about your edition disc. If you enjoyed this episode about open, real tape, then you might
enjoy what you might enjoy when I did a few years ago about my Victrola in episode 1339.
Incidentally, I recently discovered a guy on YouTube who does amazing videos about legacy audio
formats. A user called TechMone. There's, these are just awesome. I highly recommend subscribing.
I'll do mine. I said, wow, what a beautiful tape deck. Thanks, John. This was a wonderful
voyage of nostalgia. As a teenager, I had a portable clarion tape deck, and I give a link to,
one in a museum site, which I bought from my cousin. I got a lot of use. It got a lot of use,
and I learned how to splice tape and make tape loops back then. I'd record the latest
hit records off the radio to share with friends and family. I did some basic repairs on the
player and learned to solder when the leads and plugs needed fixing. The clarion died eventually
and probably got jumped sadly. I was wanted, but never required a big real-to-real
like a gronding Phillips T-Act or whatever. Great to hear about your adventures in this area.
And John said, I want one. Wow, Dave, I really wish you still had that clarion tape machine.
I love stuff like that. A portable real-to-real tape deck is definitely on my wish list of vintage audio.
Incidentally, the YouTuber Technoman did an amazing episode about the tape decks of Mission
Impossible featuring the Craig 212, and thanks for the feedback. Have you seen him at
Tecmoan? Have you followed him? I've seen a few of his episodes put up and subscribed.
I actually had a small tape deck when I was a young boy. You know what? I think
I kind of did my first podcast episode back then because I was recording stuff from the radio
and then I had a microphone and then I would turn the recording on the tape and say stupid things
and then play another song. That's the thing too. Yeah, that's the closest thing to the podcast.
There you go. So yeah, with mine I used to sneak it into sort of family gatherings and put the
microphone under a cushion and record them and stuff and then play them later on.
Ha, ha, look at that. I got you. So my drive was more to be a spy than it was to be in TG.
You got to do a lot of trouble doing that. Yeah, I can imagine that.
I was amazed at the quality of the sound that we heard in this episode when he was playing the
audio. It's amazing that you can still get such a good quality out of those 20, 30-year
tapes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You'd think they would sort of gradually leak through,
because that's what I have to take, doesn't it? So yeah, there must be particularly high quality.
Right. Moving on, my applications. This is Tony Hughes sending in the show about the apps he
uses because we were short of shows. But I think this is a very, very useful insight into what
people are using. Thunderbird, first email, LibreOffice, VLC, or that's the obviously.
Yeah, VLC is a software that you either like or hate. I think there's no mid-range for VLC.
There's a lot of people who don't like VLC because it's either not working for them or
you don't like the express. Yeah, I've never seen VLC notes working, but apparently it's a thing.
Maybe it's just to do with video cards, maybe I don't know, but I know a lot of people who
absolutely don't like VLC and they replace it with whatever they like. I like VLC. I think it's
it's really useful. It never failed me. I personally use M Player on the command line for everything.
Just because it's so simple and yeah, it's all for, you know, there's no menus, no nothing,
just M Player, few shortcuts and then replace. Then you've got your command, the keyboard shortcuts
for all sorts of stuff and pausing, rewinding, fast forwarding, one frame at a time, it's necessary.
Okay, I don't know this one, but I will. Could be a show there, could be a show.
Could be, could be. I'd like to hear that.
Yes, Dave. Bash scripting. Supplementary. Like slippery Bash scripts.
How was this one about, Dave? Let me see. Supplementary.
Supplementary. Oh, sorry. Oh, that's stuck up because of the mixies. So yeah,
declare and read only in local and map file. Ah, yes, yes, yes.
These are on Friday, actually. These are really cool. I was very pleased that I discovered these
and learned how to use them. Read a ray thing. Sorry, the map file thing is a bit of a new concept
for me, I must say. Yeah. I need to let that one sink in. Yes, I saw it's existence year to
back. I thought, ah, yeah, I can do it fine without that. I don't want to have to read it,
how to work out, how to use it. But now I've worked, now I've actually understood it. I found
it really really quite good. There's another one of the ones I'm going to have to put on my list of,
yeah, there's a reason why I will need that. But the problem now, which you're a show's
Dave, is yeah, there's so many of them that I'm finding it impossible to go back and find
the, you know, where you discussed particular things. Yeah, me too, me too. I have to make an index
or do something like that. You have to do a show, indexing all your shows. That's right, that's right.
Yeah, just read through all the topics and say, see, show, answer, these, those and such.
Yeah, that'd be great. No, but I do plan to make some sort of a document ditching all this together.
Keep saying this, but I do plan to do. What's going on? I think we've we're done with the
last month's show. Yes, looks like it. What comes next, Dave? So next, we need to look at the older
comments, I think, don't we? Yes, the oldest show is from Common Thoughts on Learning
a language part three, the game story mode by D-O-D-D dummy. And the comment was by himself
the Stanley parable. And it was an answer to Joel H, who had left a comment going about the Stanley
parable. And D-O-D-D dummy says, just read your comment. I think it would work just fine in a first
person exploratory game as I've taught us as I've taught us about this and games more.
I can't think of a game type this wouldn't work in actually as I've taught about it. Okay,
anyway, first person mode will be interesting in the thoughts could switch from initially being
in the native language, but switching to the new language as the processes progress is made.
That's a sort of ideal situation I suppose in general. If you can think of in the new language,
I suppose you want, which is correct. So this was about his idea to have a game and learn a
language through using a game. Do you want to do explaining the controls? I'll do that. Yes,
two, six, six, eight. Comment number three from Mr. X saying he was replying to Michael.
And he thanks the comment much appreciated. Very sorry for taking so long in replying.
We're not very good at checking for new comments. Probably for the same reason I didn't include
the interesting noise from my tuner. I'm afraid it all boils down to time or lack of how to set
things up and make a separate recording. I was just keen to get the show finished apologies.
Again, the same reason for not giving all due examples of the noise blanket. Also, thanks for the
information on relays having never owned a modern HF radio. I assume they would be silent.
Thanks for the clarification. But it was just a certain aside, I pointed Mr. X to the comment feed.
So he could he could keep an eye on whether anybody had written to him with a comment and it was
that. But prompted me to do it. So he seems to be a lot happier finding. Yep, if you were just to close
the loop there. If you click on the P of public radio, is that it? Yep. Or of public radio.
Yes, yes, yes. So Mr.
do you want to do it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then Mr. X also replied to
Austin Bronx. So the original comment was wonderful, Mick, and very classy,
meta-grade overall. So Mr. X said, hi, yes indeed, wonderful microphone. Unfortunately, I've never had
the pleasure of using such a mic myself. The picture was actually to show an example of a radio
with a moving analog tuning needle that moves across the front of the radio. The microphone
just happened to be in the picture. The AVO meter is indeed a classic and something I have personally
used on numerous occasions many years ago. They look like something out of an old horror film
and how very heavy built to last best wishes Mr. X.
Nice. Nice. He's right about the old horror film type things. So on Dave Morris'
bash tips 16, DODD Dommie says, in case you're worried, Dave will run out of material,
and he gives a link to a new message, bash 5! Excellent. Yeah, 18 more episodes on bash 5 and
what's different from bash 4. Well, that was my reply pretty much. Yes, I just saw that on
Masterlon. I said, thanks for the heads up. Oh boy, lots of fun for me. Infinite
vistas of teaching for my audience, right? That's all Dave. No, I actually got bash 5 because I run
Debian testing. I just looked the other day. Oh, it's five already. So yeah, yeah, I should have
to start writing some shows straight away. So the last few comments were on the Stagnography
Stagnography. Stagnography. Thank you. By Tatoo. And he was saying to our comments about where
there were winners in the last month's show, no lucky winners. Nobody emailed me revealing that
they'd found the hidden object. To be fair, there wasn't much time. It was around the holidays
and people are busy. I should look at the server's logs to see how many people actually downloaded
the sample PDF containing the payload. I believe most listeners consume HDR from the RSS
and never see the show notes. And all of my subtle hints that there was more than meets the
eye about this mini series were only in the show notes. Anyway, it was a fun experiment, an
interesting data about whatever that word is and the PDF format. Yeah, I think he's right on that.
Most people consume podcasts from the RSS directly in the podcatcher and probably not in a place
where there are access to a computer while listening. So there's a whole subject on either website
useful for a podcast or not going around in a different podcast. I listen to podcasts about
app, I'm sorry, podcast about podcasting. So yeah, putting stuff in the show notes without
actually referring to them in the actual show has very little chance of being seen.
Well, for HPR, if you have this very strange thing where 50% of the people, and it is about 50%,
people listen via the RSS feed only and don't hit the website. And then quite a lot of other people
only go to the website and download episodes from there. So that's not typical. But we are unique,
I think, in many respects. Yeah. And tattoo also said, thanks God, thanks for the comment
and offer, Scott. I'm more a coffee drinker and rarely in Seattle anymore. Sorry, since not
in any way. But drinking and talking about tech is pretty much my favorite fast past time.
So if I'm in the area, I'll absolutely broadcast it on the HPR mailing list,
so I can take you up on your offer or your offer to meet up for a coffee and stuff.
So excellent. And that brings us up to date with the comments, doesn't it? It does indeed, yes,
yes. So let's move you over to the HPR mailing list and see what else is happening.
There were calls for shows. Many calls for sure. And that was about this. And yes,
then we were, yeah, Google Plus is shutting down on April the 2nd. So you have one month to get
your files, photos, anything that you post it up there is going to be deleted in a month.
So back up your data now before it's gone. Do you want to do the next phone?
Well, you shouldn't have anything on Google Plus that don't have anywhere else anyway.
Well, it's gone away for sure. And you only have a limited amount of time to get your stuff
off there. So if you don't, and yeah, if you have any stuff out there, go and get it now,
just to be on the safe side. And Mad Sweeney's wrote in to tell us about DNS flag day. And some
software and service providers basically Google, Facebook, etc. Have a great coordinate
for moving accommodation for non-compliant DNS implementations from their software or services
on or around February the 1st, 2019. So if you go to DNS flagday.net and have a look to see if
your domains are going to be affected by this decision by people. David, you want to do the
missing tags? Yes, yes. The only thing to say is that in the last month we've managed to get
a 11 more shows upgraded with tags and summaries and stuff. Awesome stuff. So that was me rushing
about thinking, Shipweam, don't know, these ages and ages are bad. Get some ready before the
community news. So, but these if you have a moment and you'd like to look back, the old shows
and feel like and do it in the project do so because we can do it with more progress.
Can I ask the hosts who have hosted just to go and do their own shows? That will be just
the simplest thing. If you're a host, can you go back, click into the about page there and click
on host, go into your own page and basically send in a list of tags for your own shows. I will do that.
Yeah, yeah. In fact, it's listed. It's in the report missing tags.php page. It's ordered by hosts
who who published the shows that still need tags and whatever. So, yeah, because if you've hosted
the show, you don't even need to go back and relisten. You know what it was about.
You got me worried for a moment. I thought I didn't add tags to my shows, but they're there.
They get hired by Dave. Do you gradually get there? Yeah, if they're not there as the shows come
through, then I add them because I wrote my scripts that upload them to nag me saying,
I'm not going to do this because there's no tags. So it forced me to do. Okay, guys, is there anything
else that we need to discuss? I don't think so. I don't think so either. Okay, so without further
review, tune in next week for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Join us now and share the software. You'll be free. Hacker's you'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday to Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
