Episode: 2566
Title: HPR2566: HPR Community News for May 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2566/hpr2566.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:47:51

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's Ananasthos.com.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another edition of HBR Community News. This time it's May 2018.
Joining me this evening is Dave Morris, who nearly didn't get his press to intern.
Anyway, for those of you new to HBR, HBR is a community podcast network where the shows are delivered by you, the public.
And the community news is a view into that, gives you a summary of the shows that have been aired last month.
Goes through stuff on the mailing list and brings you up to date on what is going on in the community from what we can see of it at least.
And would you like to introduce the new host Dave? Well, this will be a truncate silence bit because there ain't none.
How is that possible Dave? How is that possible?
I mean, come on people. Be a host. In a way, it's a blessing because that last update to the database has broken the CRM system.
So anybody who wants to make my life a pain can, in fact, do so now by becoming a host here in HBR.
Oh, really? Oh, we need to talk about that because I ain't no PHP expert, but I could probably do something too.
Well, you know, Dave, I don't actually want to fix it. I want to write a Python script that will just go in and add the entries.
And I'm basically waiting for an excuse to do that. So I've been doing something similar to that in Perl for several years.
Nobody uses Perl Dave. Nobody uses Perl.
It's a popular language.
Was it people?
No, no, no, no. Perl six is here.
Yeah, my rule of thumb is if I can't do an ISO 8601 date in the language, then yeah, I'm not using it anymore.
It's just sure you can.
No, that's one of the pro modules that's been dedicated or not supported anymore.
The problem with Perl is that there's quite a lot of bits and pieces that are getting tatty and showing their age and stuff.
And people of people are still there. There's still a lot of people working. It's really, really busy, but it's not.
It's way down popularity charts and it's it's not getting the tender loving care I used to get.
Yeah.
Anyway, shall we go through the shows?
Let's do that thing.
Okay, the first time we were looking at was how I helped my dad run a static website using Sparkle Share.
And this interested me simply because I've been thinking of doing something similar to this for HPR.
Well, yeah, it does have similarities to some of the little chats we've had about this.
And it's centrally clever. I like this.
I didn't fully understand it from the episode, but that's probably because I wasn't paying enough attention.
I looked at the website of Sparkle Share and it looks pretty cool.
But it wasn't necessarily the sharing that I wanted to do. It was more of the how he went about doing it, taking the GitLab pages.
Because that would actually be quite cool, you know, for a horse, horse themselves could maintain their own horse page and stuff in Git.
And then, yeah, all the authentication can be done via SSH and you copy your keys off and blah, blah, blah. So kind of cool.
Yeah, yeah, there's some potential, something like that. Anyway, so I think we'll just get clacky on that clacky.
If you could just do that for us, that would be awesome. Thanks.
I'm sure he's delighted to do that project. So choking on some others dinner over there.
The following day, we had an operator with his home theater part one harder.
I always like to see the part one from operator, meaning we're going to get more shows.
And he went through the setup of his media setup quite a lot of hardware here, actually, necessary to do this.
Yeah, quite an impressive list. Quite a lot of detail. He's he's went into there. He's gone into, yes, it's very clever.
I think it's beyond my understanding of the moment. Yeah, and also cost three hundred dollars.
There's a lot of yeah, and to be honest, I, I just have stopped watching TV, which is kind of ironic given the job that I do.
Oh, yeah, I'll have I've rattled on about this many times. I don't watch the telly at all.
And I don't have any. I don't know. Nobody's coming knocked at the door and told me to pay it yet or since the last time.
Yeah, exactly. But yeah, yeah, it's I don't know. It's so many people I know tend to watch things on YouTube a lot.
So I don't know. YouTube ain't going to last forever though.
Yeah, but I think it's set up your concept now that well, you know, what's what's a video streaming service more than, you know, an RSS feed with a lot of bandwidth behind it, basically.
Yeah, true. So the following day we had somebody stealing my show using my ideas and basically putting out a show without even asking me about it.
Who was that Dave?
What a wicked bad person. I don't know. I think that could have been. Say yes. Yes.
I mean, the more stories if you don't put out your shows when you say you're going to put out the show, somebody will put out a show and study.
Yes. Yes. Have you done something similar to this? No, I had in my brain, Dave.
Okay. It's one of these ones. Like tattoo has done three or four shows and the annoying thing is that they end the show and his shows have been better than the ones that I would have done, which is not only annoying that you bet me to it.
But frustrating that you did a better job on that than I would have done.
Oh, that's a shame. Well, yeah, yeah. Well, I'm such a such a perfectionist that I have to do.
Go take it to the minutest detail and probably pour everybody sick, but, but yeah, yeah, it's, it was, it was a good, it was a fun project to do.
It's one of these things and you think, I'm going to beat this thing and you do all sorts of weird stuff and you look back and think, wow, there was a lot of bizarre things.
They must have been an easy way. Yeah. I have a built a script. Once you were talking about this, actually talking about the subscription manager, which they're hiding extremely well.
I switched my way of doing it to using the opml file that the subscription manager allows you to get.
Oh, had you been scraping before or something? No, I was using YouTube DL with a days and time.
So they have the feature download last sent. So I was doing a URL and then I will put in the date that I last checked it on and then pull that.
But the side effect of that is that it has to check every single video and there is a two second delay. So if there's, if you've got a lot of subscriptions and a lot of people, a lot of those subscriptions have a lot of videos that still has to check every single video.
Where a subscription list allows you to just look at the last 10, which is usually enough. If you run it as fast as frequently as I do.
And then I just look in there. Actually, I'll do a show about it whenever currently a bit busy at the minute with life.
Well, yeah, I also gave you an interest in a lead in, shall I say, to XML style it. We're still waiting for XML style.
Yeah, but that requires a show on XML. So yeah, I don't know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Work up some morning and just as I write, we're going to do this.
It's a big subject. I wouldn't want to do it.
Well, I actually hate XML and would have passed me to and I also don't want to, you know, people who love XML going to big discussions about the document object model and all the rest.
No, I just want to deal with it, get the information that I need, put it into a format I can work with and forget about it.
Anyway, following day, we had the New Year's Eve show part five where we had lots of talk about guitars, fascinating I found.
Yes, yes, there was some good stuff there. Not really heavily into guitars, but I appreciate it hearing other people who were.
It turned out to be that everybody on the New Year show turned out to be autistic, including myself.
So, yes, that's kind of kind of strange. I wonder why that is, Dave.
I think, yeah, I think the world is coming to the understanding that the characteristics that many people have are being classified as autism.
And that ain't no bad thing because there's lots of really wonderful people out there doing amazing things. So good for them.
Speaking of which, in other news, I have started the Github page.
Have you dropped off, Dave, or have I been pressing the wrong button?
You've been off. I thought, oh, my God.
Yes, you said.
You said, I have said I've a Github page, I think.
And then I thought, because sometimes we pause to go off and do a thing and then continue.
And, you know, Drunk & Sirens will deal with the gap. I thought you were doing one of those clever things.
I wasn't actually holding the shift button instead of the Kapluck button, Dave.
I am truly a moron. It has to be said. Okay, fine.
I put my wife has done a book. It's called Clearly Autistic in English.
She wrote it in Libra office. And I've just converted this to Markdown.
And I know what you're thinking, Dave. Markdown.
I'm thinking what a brilliant idea.
My, just proves why I hate Markdown almost as much as I hate XML.
But okay.
So it's there. And then I've started the English Literal translation,
which is basically take the Google Translate and then convert the sentence into what could possibly be an English translation.
But it is not, it doesn't meet the easy simple English definition of what the book is to be.
But I want to do the actual translation of the English differently so that it is easier to read.
But that we have the literal translation there to refer back to.
So then anybody translating from English to other languages will have two versions of the same sentence or the same paragraph to refer to.
I don't know if that makes sense.
Well, it does to me. Yes, it does make sense.
Because it's, it's, if you, you do see things which are auto translated and the English that was produced is very strange,
because it has the structure of the original language.
And it is.
So and, and languages tend to order their verbs and nouns and things and all sorts of weird, wonderful ways.
So yeah, it sounds highly, highly desirable, but hell of a job.
Yeah, it is and it, but it is remarkably rewarding to do it because it's also made me made us focus more on the, you know, on the actual book as well.
That's your, well, when you said that, did you mean that or did you mean because it's disambiguous.
A English word may have two, two words for the same thing.
Like, you know, and solicitor versus barrister or lawyer versus versus a legislator, I guess.
So I don't know what American versions would be both.
Yeah. Okay.
Anyway, that was that might be a useful resource at some point.
So the following day, there's no comments.
We're getting into the summer again and the traditional dry period and stuff.
The following day, we had the community news while following Monday, community news.
And there was one comment on that one, and that was from Clackie.
Do you want to read that?
Yes, Clackie says, rebuttering.
No butchering of fractal hide.
We pronounce it like you do.
Now tertiary and too turtle on the other hand, smiley face.
Hard, hard, hard.
Yes.
Mind you, that name is a little hard to grasp.
It's got too many use and tease in it to be paused quickly for hand.
Yes.
And the man himself did a show the following day on MCIS 2, which is a SIGWIN replacement, which is quite cool actually.
And the tall audio says, MCIS 2 is what SIGWIN should be.
First off, thanks for the mention and good service, smiley face.
Secondly, thanks for this episode.
As much as I use SIGWIN at work, I despise having to use SIGWIN to install or update remove packages.
MCIS 2 is always what I've always wanted from SIGWIN, an integrated command line package manager
for updating packages inside of the POSIX compatible environment, just as you do on any unique Slack system.
I have to start backing up my configuration files in order to make a big switch on my Windows PC at work.
And my thoughts goes out to Claudia, maybe, for having to use a Windows PC at work.
Yes.
Yes.
I have had to use SIGWIN in the past and it is very, very frustrating.
Yeah, I did use it at work because I was forced to use Windows PC sometimes.
And I found SIGWIN made it a lot more usable.
But that was doing fairly simple stuff.
I did point out to my colleagues that an operating system that had to draw you a picture of a file being moved from here to there
or scrunched up and thrown away was a moronic system, but they didn't believe me.
Gosh, I lost.
And the SIGWIN could do it in seconds.
Whereas you sat watch in this stupid graphic for ages when it deleted stuff.
Absolutely.
But in fact, there's a lot of Windows I've been using to use the console as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I know.
Anyway, there was a second comment.
Gavtrus said, Git Bash.
Linux Newbie here, I'm working on a new project.
And last week, as I requisite, needed to install Git for Windows.
I was wondering about the voodoo magic behind Git Bash.
So thank you for the explanation.
By the way, cool alternate beatbox version of the HPR outro, smiley face.
Yes, it is awesome.
I always get confused when he does the show notes and the tools that there's no intro, but there is no show.
Yes, yes.
No, it's like that.
Yes, I always look forward to hearing that.
So my son's doing a degree, doing a course in math and running computer science with the Open University at the moment.
Prior to doing another degree, the music degree wasn't good enough for anyone to do another one.
And in order to do a lot of stuff, he's learning Python on Windows has to be on Windows.
And he was saying how far it was.
And I told him about this.
Emces tune.
He was so happy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good.
Good.
The following day, we had Lost and Bronx, whose single versus multiple characters in a story.
I don't know if Lost and Bronx are doing this just for me, but I am so glad he is.
And we need to come up with a name for this series, Dave.
Yeah, I think we said that last time, didn't we?
Stories and story time.
Yeah.
I'll make a note to think of something and throw you some ideas.
Or we could ask him.
Indeed, that's another idea, yes.
The following day, Archer 72, whose back excellent, did some DVD ripping using old hardware, which is good actually, because it's getting harder to find machines with DVDs in them though.
Yeah, true.
And I found myself that I wanted to watch Cystract and it wasn't available in Netflix or Hulu or any of the things that I have available.
And I actually wanted to get it legally.
So I could stream it from thingy for five euros or I could buy it for five euros on DVD and get Cystract to with it.
So I bought it with DVD.
So bizarre, bizarre world.
Oh, quite.
Yeah.
Yes.
So shall I do the comment on this one?
There was one from Clat 2, who says, neat.
Nice to hear Slackware 32-bit still coming in useful.
I don't mind that so many Linux sisters are discarding 32-bit, as long as somebody keeps it around, because while 32-bit hardware is fading, there's still a lot of it out there.
Yeah.
And I was just the other day, had I wanted to set up a MindTest server for the kids on an old HB laptop.
And none of the major distros for Dora dropped it.
Yeah, it was a strange hat end up with Debbie and Per.
No, it's a shame.
It's sad that that's happening and it's going, I can't understand it, but it's going against the reusability.
Yeah, exactly.
Slackware for Linux, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
We had a big discussion on the last final New Year show about that.
So, how to get started playing RPGs, Lost and Bronx, and Clat 2 Team Tag, an intro to Tabletop roleplaying games, a show which I think I prompted them to do.
And the red, sorry, red driver, red rider 06 says, how to get started playing RPGs.
I started participating in RPGs several months ago, but did none of the things mentioned in this presentation prior to actually playing the game.
My GM game master took the small gathering of curious gamers through a couple of relatively short scenarios of stories, which kept the interest up and the mechanics of everything mentioned in the podcast as a double arms length away.
We didn't know it then, but he kept us focused on the game rather than too many details of the characters.
Sure, we still build characters, but it was very, very abbreviated process.
Not until some months and many game sessions later did I actually do my own research and discover parts of what this podcast brings together very succinctly.
And now I know a bit more about the old podcast process.
This podcast is still is all the more interesting.
The lost and wrongs and plateau have done a splendid job laying out a very understandable and approachable process for the curious about to take part in an RPG.
And the sound production was stellar too. Well done gentleman.
Now, couldn't say, couldn't not say, say it better myself.
Now that was a super comment and it was an extremely well done episode.
It was produced with two people doing their own pieces, I imagine, and sticking together it just came together seamlessly.
You know, they're nice editing between the two and the positions changing.
It was almost as if they were in the same room.
As far as Red Rider goes, he should be very thankful for the game master who did this and brought them.
It seems like exactly what you want somebody to get you motivated and interested and then at a later date get all the additional stuff.
But in lieu of having a game master as good as that, then I recommend this show.
And I also will recommend this show when I hear people say about the audio quality being terrible on HPR.
The audio quality can be terrible on HPR.
It doesn't have to be terrible on HPR.
No, no, no, no, it's a, it's an example for, for example, I think.
Now, N.Y. Bill talks about calibration issues with his SIGLAND oscilloscope.
And this is kind of a good one because he does side by side comparisons and his, as always, his slideshills are add to the episode very much.
I really enjoyed this myself.
And McNally said, a skill of what?
I too have a secret desire for an oscilloscope.
I'm building a Wii 1 from a kit just now, but that's mostly for fun.
I only need one that can handle 20 megahertz stock signals for troubleshooting my poor Amiga 3000.
Hence my interest in the show.
Also, the HPR robot calls you nibbled to.
Yes, yes.
And N.Y. Bill replies, a chimp by another name.
Yeah, the, he speak kind of butchers my nick.
I bet N.Y. Bill would sound about right and he's spelled it out phonetically.
Hey, he speak, I live in New York.
But he actually says any Bill, I think, rather than N.Y. Bill.
But good luck, your, your scope bill, 25 megahertz will be right in the wheelhouse of the kit type scopes, he says.
So I, yeah, really want, you know, I've got that one of those little bitscope things.
I mentioned it on the, on the show, New York show.
He really would like somebody to do a series on that bitscope thing hooked up to a Raspberry Pi with a counter or something on it just so that we could learn how to use the bitscope with a Raspberry Pi.
And if somebody is willing to do that show, I will happily arrange for a bitscope and a Raspberry Pi to make its way to you for that purpose.
Yeah, so introduction to oscilloscoping.
This is how badly and desperately I want this show.
Yeah, it's a cool little thing. It's got a logical analyzer and stuff on it as well.
So it would be nice just to know what an oscilloscope does.
You know, I'd be able to check some voltages, check pins going high, pins going low, maybe pulse with modulation.
You can do that on the Pi.
Then, you know, logic signals, maybe troubleshooting a serial interface or something.
Basic, basic stuff that, you know, would get you started or at least give you enough that when somebody is doing a YouTube video on the more advanced function, you have a start or when you go to buy a real and doing the air quotes or oscilloscope that you kind of know
is it worth it to get the bigger one or the smaller one or what you're looking for, you know, just to get your foot in the door a bit like what we did with the,
with the ham radio with a ballfiring a five that it's you never wanted as your main radio, but it's a, it's an introduction at least.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I'd never thought of that. You're quite right. You're quite right.
I used, you know, the sort of classic lab oscilloscope back in the 70s as a student because I was doing electrophysiology stuff.
So you stuck electrodes in sample cockroaches or something.
That was what biology was like in them days, no, don't do that sort of thing.
But yeah, so I knew enough to be able to do that, but I, given an oscilloscope, I would not know really how to do too much else.
And I don't particularly want to find out about muscle potentials in cockroaches anymore.
So yeah, I can see from the arguments being made here, I can see how useful it would be in a lab.
And those little bit scope ones are quite, you know, they're probably crappy.
And my bill is probably going, no, they're, well, at least it'd be a start. You know, it's affordable. They're a hundred bucks.
So it was, he did do a show on a DIY scope. You remember, yeah, yeah, copy his back.
And I was tempted to buy one of those. There were two versions, weren't they?
Yeah, there was a rip off one. Go on. Sorry.
It was the one he spent lots of time afterwards going, yes, on the joy of troubleshooting.
Yes, yes, he had, he had fun troubleshooting it, but I think the likes of us might not have seen it.
I have seen a completely built kit for sale at the local make of fair, for example.
So, but I can't justify one at the moment.
Yeah, but whether it's a kit or whatever, yeah, if it's in the bulk, ballpark of 75 to 100 euros, you know, 75 to 100 dollars, where you can.
It makes it accessible for somebody that you can go, okay, is this something that I'm even going to be interested in?
Or is this enough to be able to go, okay, well, I'm not, I'm having this problem with the thing.
I'll try and debugger with this and then I'll go into work and I'll ask the person to work who's got a better us.
So, the scope to help. But on your following day, what is a store?
How does store work? Why you want to use it and what are its limitations?
Yeah.
I, yeah, I started writing notes about this as I said, saying, sorry, Klecker, I really didn't follow this.
But then I started reading, reading, just started on the first.
And it's a good new thing for doing clever stuff with software installation.
We pulled software in one place and then simlink it to the scattered places all over the place.
And that's actually very clever. I think that's exactly what I was thinking.
Yeah, yeah.
I couldn't, from reading quickly, reading the GNU Stowe stuff, it wasn't entirely clear how you told it where the original stuff was and where it was to go.
But I'm sure that's something that one could work through.
I think the GNU project's method of explaining stuff is terrible.
Some of those manuals are grim indeed.
They don't do the themselves any favors.
But this is a good one to have because I do have situations where I would definitely like to link libraries and stuff to various different things without all the hassle that goes along with it.
That's kind of cool.
Yeah, we used to run, I think, called Decatina at work.
And that was a system where all your software was on central servers.
And you, NFS, mounted it on your workstation.
So the workstations were fairly stateless, not totally.
But well, they were stateless, but they had some local operating system.
And then you could do it with multiple architecture.
You could run a PC against it.
And you could run a Unixbox against it.
And it was also did fancy tricks with linking stuff in such a way that it was seamless.
So I'm stunned that this sort of stuff is being done still in this sort of way.
It was quite a revelation, I've found it fascinating.
It's beautiful, you see, that's why.
Yeah, yeah.
Get ahead with Githead.
See what Latu did there?
Very good.
And he actually puts in some commands into his show notes, which I approve of Hartley, Latu.
This for once made cleared up Gith for me again.
This made a lot of sense that it's like the head reader of a tip cassette.
So very good.
I'm enjoying this episode.
Githead are this series, but actually the whole.
And we'll come to that again as one of the other shows.
I'll save my comments until then.
Speaking of series, I'm enjoying.
GNU Arc, Arc Part 11.
And this one be easy, your better half.
Did a rundown of the various different numeric functions and string functions,
which you can call using a one-liner in Arc.
And support stuff that might not be available to you in your bash script,
which is basically what I got out of it.
Yes, yes.
Yes, it's powerful.
It's got a lot of stuff in there.
It's a, it's a complete standalone language to, to a large extent.
Unbelievable, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And people are just using it.
So why does it have this really weird structure?
Because you're short-hounding it, because it's a programming language.
Yeah, it's, in my time, I think I might have sent this before,
but I started using it way back in the 80s.
And since then, it's grown a lot.
There's a lot of extra goodies in there.
And it's made it much more powerful.
So yeah, it's good then, but it's much better now.
No, it's excellent.
I'm really enjoying the series.
You're doing, you're doing a good job on that to keep it coming.
By the way, have you noticed all the hosts this month are they recurring stalwarts
who are keeping us going?
More on that later as well.
Sixth annual HPR New Year show.
We had a big discussion about Firewall distros.
And I think Dota Domi made a comment on the IRC channel,
on CastPronos on pre-node, about that it was painful to listen to this
because you had a whole goal of nerds not answering the question that was been asked,
basically, you know, not wrecking, amending him what to do with Firewall
and telling him to do something else.
And while I can see his point, running a firewall, running a machine,
sometimes it's a bad idea what he was suggesting was running a firewall
on a machine that has so much capabilities.
And then he wanted to load additional stuff on that.
But then you're negating what the whole purpose of a firewall is
is to give separation of concerns between two things.
So the better idea would not be to run the firewall on there
and to run the firewall on a cheap, dedicated little device
and use the machine as a machine bottom.
Yep.
That sounded very sensible.
I thought the advice was excellent.
It's certainly something I've...
My experience has been with dedicated firewall hardware in my job.
But it...
Well, there was no other choice.
But it makes very good sense what the advice it was given.
Yeah, and I understand that you start off with something
but sometimes what you're suggesting to do...
There's not the best thing.
But I do understand, though, the least point is that it is frustrating
when you ask a question and somebody says, you know, on a forum, the classic,
I want to do this with this and then the first answer is,
no, you shouldn't use that, you should use this.
And then the subsequent thread then proceeds into a discussion about the thing
that you actually don't want to do.
But in the case of that discussion, I felt that it was fairly much covered all the points.
Yeah.
Yes.
Go on.
Yep.
Okay.
And we had discussion about 3D printers.
Well, that was a bit...
I was just going to say I found that really interesting.
Having just ordered one...
The first one I've ever bought.
I was sort of partly pushed into it by listening to that.
I have to say...
Which one did you order?
Did you order?
I bought a Creality.
There are two models of Creality.
There's a CR10, which is a more expensive one.
It's about 500 quid, something like that.
Quite a large device.
I bought the newer, slightly smaller one called the EZ3,
which is only 200 pounds.
And you can get it for less than that, actually.
If you buy it from China or you're happy to buy it through eBay or whatever.
But I've got it off Amazon, so it's a little bit more expensive.
But it looks like it's going to be quite good,
as far as I can see from the reviews and the YouTube tutorials and stuff about it.
So yeah, it was...
And I'm hoping to be able to use...
Well, I might try a Tinker CAD.
It's useful just being pointed at some of these things.
Here's a 360, means you need a Windows machine and I don't have one.
I don't really want one.
But there's open S-CAD,
which looks really interesting,
though it's driven with the command language,
which is a bit odd, but still feels to me.
That's...
Yeah, that looks like a nice little printer, isn't it?
Okay.
Cool.
I expect there will be shows coming about this.
Yes, yes, no doubt at all.
And I'll have to create something on it.
Stop the CAD, making noises in the background when I'm talking.
I can't think what that is.
And then I started soldering my board, PCB.
Yes, that sounded quite challenge.
Did you manage to get it up and running?
I got it.
I ordered another one that was fully assembled,
and that's here.
And I ordered one that had the surface mounted components already on there,
and then doing it.
But to be honest, unlike in my bill,
I did not relish the idea of troubleshooting it.
I really just wanted to work.
I would love, as well, just to know what actually went wrong with it.
So, am I trying, sometimes, building the other one,
but as you know, I'm not able to...
I don't have time for this core thing that's going on.
Okay.
Building Trust was the following day.
quasi-physilophical musings about how to build trust both online and in real life.
And there was one comment, and it was from me.
Profound, and on our above page, we have the quote,
anybody who has shown long-term dedication to a project,
and it's trusted by the community, can become an admin.
It was almost as if Tato was referring to HPR as a project.
Well, he did make several mentions of HPR, didn't he?
Which I thought was quite a good idea, given the audience and stuff.
But yeah, it was fairly well put together.
I do admire his ability too.
I think just sort of do this sort of stuff more or less off the cuff.
But I don't know that that's a fact.
But it certainly sounds as if he's able to add to these things of Tato's head.
You know, I can't do.
Yeah, I think he lost in Bronx, and another villain would be DeepGeek, of course.
It seemed to me three people who always say things that are extremely deep and well thought out
and must be highly intelligent people.
And I fear that if I ever met any of those three in person,
that there would be just waffling idiots who just use the medium of podcasting and writing
as a means to distill their drivel and then only produce the best of their parts, unlike me.
Something I've very much dealt with myself.
Yes, yes. One thing I noted here was that I like that.
I like the way you're glad to point it out.
The suspicious nature of Microsoft in their pro linux stance at the moment,
because that's how I read what he was saying, really.
But it's, I think it is a suspicion that we've all had.
It stops me from really wanting to get involved.
Well, I've always wanted to avoid being involved with Microsoft,
but I'm even less keen to do so these days.
And it seems to me like a strategy that they're working towards a goal over a long period of time.
Well, the well-known embrace, extend, extinguish.
The extent part, of course, is kind of muted by the negated by the open source free
and open source software licenses, which means you, as they extend, you can also extend.
Anyway, it's just nice to hear somebody reinforcing your own suspicion.
That's all really. It's just being in the bubble, I guess, or something.
Yeah, but I think a lot of that, well, what he said applies to HPR is community.
It's, that's how I got this job, how you got on board was, you know,
you were just around and reliable.
And it also expands why we're not rushing out to get contributions for code from people,
because if somebody comes and people have offered in the past to do coding for us and stuff,
and so that's fine, but, you know, you're going to have to support it for two years,
because if you disappear, then I'm going to have to learn whatever technology that you have,
which is fine, but then quite a lot of people just, you know, never reply then after that
or just walk away from the project, because this is a long-term project we have here back.
How long will we go now?
Sure, you can remember that.
12 years, seven months, 28 days, Dave, it's on the main page of the thing.
So like two years, two years is nothing here, you know, it's only a drop in the ocean to HPR as a project.
So yes, the following day we had likes, STYX, a purely function static site generator.
This is another one from Clackay. Read comments, tell us what it's about.
It's, I'm, yes.
Your pronunciation threw me slightly there, because I would pronounce it STYX to rhyme with Nix,
because it would be Nix.
Yeah, yeah. I see what this is.
I was hesitating to tell you or not.
Anyway, it's, yeah, so there was a comment from Clackay, who says,
in the end, STYX was written by Eric Sagnes, I would have mentioned it, pronounced that.
I neglected to name the author, because his name wasn't on my mind at the time.
STYX was written by Eric Sagnes, if you look at his repositories on GitHub,
it's not really surprising that he would be the one to write a site generator in Nix,
and he thinks to the GitHub location.
If he keeps doing these shows, we're going to have to learn Nix, you know that.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, yes, I've sort of partially avoided it, to be honest, because it sounds interesting and complicated,
and like a huge time suck potentially.
And we've got so many brain cells left, you know, so I don't want to use up too many young things.
Can I demand too much?
And I'm so glad you stopped correcting my English, because the following day,
we had battling with English part one.
Misunderstandings about English grammar, spelling and pronunciation.
And you have no idea how much I feared what you were saying on the show.
And this is an example of how I corrected Ken on show for it too.
No, no, no, I wouldn't do that, I wouldn't do that.
I think you and I both know that my wardrobe right here is covered in emails from you
with the correct pronunciation and the correct explanation of each of various different words, Dave.
Yeah, yeah, well, you know, this is my perfectionist brain saying,
this is the right way to do it, and you're doing it the wrong way.
And now you did it.
Your introduction makes a lot of sense, and you did it quite quickly.
It was interesting about the nice part, actually, that that was only recently accepted to be a nice.
Yeah, it's quite fascinating how the language is changing.
Sometimes in ways that you wish it wouldn't, I've got one or two anecdotes coming up later on.
Trying not to go into rant, because I have a tendency to want to rant about them, because they annoy me.
But just pointing out that things are changing.
Sometimes the thing that really doesn't annoy me, actually, and it shouldn't,
is that an expression gets warped by some sort of process where people misspell it.
And as a consequence, the misspelled version, which makes a species of sense,
because it's a word, it's misspelled into a synonym,
and it becomes the accepted way of doing it.
And yet it makes no sense.
Like, this one I'm not going to do in this series, probably, the proof is in the pudding.
That's not a specific one.
But what does that mean?
It doesn't mean anything at all, but you hear it so much.
It sounds like you're in the pudding.
What is this proof pudding you're eating?
It sounds like an egg with a Christy novel or something.
No, but the real expression, the proof of the pudding is in the eating,
where proof means the check on the quality, the revelation as to what sort of quality it is,
is only determined by eating it.
So the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
But people who have an eye will know that the proof is in the pudding,
which is totally unsensical.
That's what you've also mindful of, because it should be proof is in the pudding.
What was it again? The proof is in the pudding or something or that.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating of it.
You should have the of it, aren't you?
No, well, yeah, maybe the original, the original I don't think said of it, in fact.
Okay, well, have me Google that for you.
But I would need to go, this is going to be fun.
We should do a double-ended show here, actually.
You should be having battles over expressions and spelling and things.
And some people are saying the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
But that doesn't sound like there's an edge to the sentence.
No, but it's quite an old expression.
It's using a more archaic form of English, which is why sometimes these things get updated
and turned into nonsense, because the intention is no longer understood.
And then it gets turned into something non-sensical.
And that annoys me.
But there you go.
I go to my life being annoyed.
I feel your pain.
I do.
I do.
Anyway.
Mr. X with his favorite browser extension, one tab.
Any longing to use this extension at all?
Well, that's an interesting question, because I was just interested in thinking,
well, why would you want to use this?
And then I realized, hang on, he's talking about Firefox.
And I actually used the tab groups thing that he says is now no longer supported.
But it just so happens that I'm running Debian Testing, which did a weird thing
that took Firefox, renamed it as whatever it is.
Ice Weasel.
Pigeon or something.
I don't know.
Ice Weasel.
And then for some reason or other, they relented and gave it back its name of Firefox.
But in doing so, it seems to have frozen in testing.
So I've mine version.
Is it 52 or 5.2?
5.2 anyway, which still supports tab groups.
And I love them.
But if I get moved on to 57, which is possible, then I can't use tab groups anymore.
I guess one tab would be a reasonable way of doing, because you can have more than one one tab.
I think.
Do you use it?
I don't know.
No, I don't use this feature at all.
I have a tab toolbar.
Okay.
I do.
I do like to group tabs and have them lurking around.
But they do use up, they do use up resources.
And so, you know, it's great.
All of my HPR shows that I'm planning exist as tab groups on, what's it called?
Oh, pale moon.
I'm using pale moon, which offers you a nice tab group thing.
And there's bazillions of them in there.
So, yeah, it's a great feature.
I don't know.
Who is it that keeps destroying these things and telling us that we mustn't have them anymore?
I don't know.
Usability expert, Steve.
Well, I've had to go and smack them about the face.
But I'm never irritated by the way.
Oh.
I've been putting in the water all over there and stuck them.
No, but I think it was a great show.
It was, it was well, well explained.
And it certainly got me thinking.
Indeed.
The following day was GDPR Day.
Oh, I've been waiting for this one for so long.
And I would have loved to do a better episode than the one I did.
But I had no choice cause.
Basically, it, my recording setup was just terrible.
I recorded a NOS on my Zoom H3.
And my attempt to truncate silence caused a lot of issues.
But only it is.
Okay.
Okay.
Now, Clacket says,
the date have very appropriate.
This would be released precisely for May the 25th.
Smiley face.
Which is why I had to rush it out because I knew I had to look at the,
and the alarm came up on my agenda.
This GDPR Day was coming up.
Well, I knew it was anyway.
And then I saw that the date was free and then I started.
I wanted to record it immediately and then the.
Yeah.
Anyway, sure.
It's a sure it's on the server day.
Yeah, I thought it was great.
It covered the subject in a way that made me much more alert as to what was going on.
Obviously, I knew it was happening, but hadn't yet got around to looking at the details.
And it was, it was a good, good way to get me to go and start reading things.
Yep.
So, and my bill said,
it was a nice TLDR, a nice summary of the GDPR Kenna was wondering what it was all about.
And I have noticed everyone and their brother sending me out policy updates these days.
But as I doubt, the GDPR pertains to my little server.
I wasn't really paying too much attention, but you did the deep dive for me.
Smiley face.
By the way, you might want to do noise reduction, then truncate silence.
This one sounded a bit like a guy in a radio king up the mic at random times,
while he was talking.
Actually, that was caused by the truncate silence.
So, um, okay, sorry about the audio, but yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, it happened.
It was, it was audible.
I actually, uh, process audio anyway.
I do a normalize on all the HBR quite a lot of other podcasts as well.
And also speed work.
So it sounded pretty good to me just to turn the volume up a bit.
I might actually end up doing a few follow-up shows on the GDPR
and how it has panned out.
Because it's awesome to send out quite a few emails requesting information and stuff.
Ooh, cool.
Yes, yes.
I'm a start looking to see when I can, and I can do that because it sounds, sounds like it's wonderful to have such power.
You, you can do it right now.
Yeah.
All of these things apply to you in the, uh, in the, in the UK.
And who is to say that somebody else in another jurisdiction might not be any use assistant,
or might not be, might not be, uh, resident in a new country.
So there you go.
Because it also applies to say, uh, somebody coming over and just stopping for a vacation in Europe,
then the law applies to them equally.
Very good.
Yeah.
So sound escapes.
This was Mr. X taking his dog for a walk.
It sounded like he was taking his horse for a walk.
Did you get that?
Yes, I did.
Yes, yes, yes.
I think he said something like that in the, in the notes.
Yeah.
Well, the rhythmic clinking times, it's more like I'm riding a horse than walking the dog.
It was, uh, it was nice.
Yeah, yeah, it's good.
It's good.
It taught me a bit Scottish slang as well.
The totally bone is a, that word is, uh, yeah.
Well, it should, should make the episode explicit, probably.
And is it not?
Oh, it is, it is, yes.
Yes, well done, well done.
Yes.
So there you go.
That's a good one.
Yes, it's explicit.
Yes.
Yes.
I have no idea what totally born is.
I'm now, uh, fascinated.
Which of course turns this one into an explicit.
Oh dear.
Oh dear.
But yeah, yeah.
No, it's, uh.
Yeah, I'd like to know who's walking.
Uh, uh.
Can it all be a good series?
That's my front door.
Is, uh, rude words from around the world.
That would be good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That would, that would be fun, wouldn't it?
And why are they rude?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Why, yeah, yeah.
So, um, and, and rude words from history too, probably.
So, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Not allowed to say ankle in the Victorian times and stuff like that.
Dear.
Or Lego for that matter.
That's very rude.
I will, I look forward to hearing the show about it too.
The following day, I bought a laptop in which,
a lackey takes months, possibly years, to buy a laptop.
It becomes, I was pretty pleased.
I was surprised that his, he had, uh,
he mentioned a small little sub-hundred-euro laptop.
And it's not in the show notes.
What was the call?
We did.
He did.
It was a pine, something else.
I've heard other people mentioning it.
I didn't make a note of what it was.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
I was expecting to see it in the notes, as you did, obviously.
At the time, I went to, yeah,
Pine64 Singapore computers.
Uh, you'll find it at pine64.org.
But it was actually a pine book.
And if somebody has one of these,
I would really like to see it,
because I'm looking for something that I can bring on the train,
that, uh, that's a form factor of, um,
isr aspire one, you know, the netbooks.
You can't get netbooks for love and money.
And they were so handy because they fitted exactly in the small,
you know, they, uh,
the column stop trends here.
They're, um, all service trends.
So they're really tiny seats,
really crimped seats and stuff.
And they're just ideal to have an open,
and you can have your email and stuff there.
It was very tempted to get this one.
If you know of this one or another netbook,
that's available that will run, uh,
relatively modern distro,
that would be ideal.
Ideal, if it also was a 9386,
because I got some proprietary stuff,
uh, that, uh,
requires from the firewall,
or for the, uh,
use the VPN requires
a 9386 architecture.
Cool. Yeah.
Yeah. My, um,
daughter and my son's girlfriend
both have quite small laptops,
which are not hugely,
not, not a great deal bigger than my old,
um, triple EPC.
Um, so, yeah.
I know one of them is, uh,
is a, um,
suddenly brain goes blank.
The, uh,
the, the, the, the,
the thing that was,
the IBM used to sell.
What was that called now?
Pinkpad.
Yeah.
It's a little, little pink pad.
Hmm.
Um, so, I mean,
I can find out more if it,
if that sounds interesting.
Well, my, my,
my actual requirements would be,
uh, cheap,
very, very cheap.
Yeah.
Um, that,
ideally, it runs Linux,
and that it's a small,
foreign factor,
which you could still type
on it with, uh,
you know, not touch type,
but, uh,
you know, such,
and, uh, such.
Well, my,
my understanding,
both of these, uh,
are second hand.
I think they were eBay purchases.
Um, my son's quite good
at spotting these things.
I think he was responsible for,
for, uh,
finding the, uh,
the deals and stuff.
But, uh,
yeah, I'll,
I'll find out more if I,
if, I might be talking nonsense,
of course, but, uh,
I'll let you know one way or another.
Yeah.
If you, uh,
do you have your old EPC?
I do, yeah.
Yeah.
If you could take a photo with them,
with that over,
so then I get an idea of how big it is.
Yeah.
Okay.
Okay.
Cool.
Um, the following day,
action in storytelling,
L&B, uh,
forgive the audio quality,
because I'm recording it in a car.
And,
he was talking about
action in storytelling.
That's static action.
And, uh,
I was reminded of the scene
in the Good the Bad and the Ugly,
where the gun fight scene.
All that happens is,
they start in a group,
and then they go to three different corners
of the circle,
and the whole thing was,
was kind of describing that.
It was brilliant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nice.
It's an interesting analysis,
I have to say.
Very, very good.
I wonder how many more of these he has.
Introduction to Fossil was the next day,
by Klaatu.
And this seems to me,
an altogether more sane,
uh,
a system of
stalling files than
get.
I, uh,
yeah.
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
I was really pleased to,
to hear that, uh,
Klaatu was doing this.
I never really looked at Fossil,
but I certainly,
uh,
knew of it before I,
going to get.
It's about,
I think it pre-
sort of about the same event
you just get,
I'm not sure.
Richard HIP, isn't it?
The guy here created,
um,
SQLite.
Exactly.
I've certainly heard him
being interviewed about it.
I think it was on,
uh,
um, the,
uh,
Twitter network show,
whatever that is called.
Philosophy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And he is,
he is a very bright
fella,
and his, his design
sounded really nice.
And what Klaatu was saying was,
really,
confirmed that,
sand, sand,
really clever.
And it's all in,
in a SQLite database.
Wow.
Yeah.
Amazing.
Cool.
I must go and, uh,
try it out,
because it's,
I mean,
you could,
you could use for your own purposes quite effectively,
I think,
not necessarily because you,
I mean, you could share it with other people as well,
but, uh,
I don't have any call to do that.
But,
for some of my own personal projects,
it might be a better solution than get.
Yeah.
What do you think?
Yeah.
Exactly.
I,
yeah, I'm just tempted to have a look,
to be honest,
uh,
the more Klaatu goes in to get,
I mean,
I need to not get any,
for work and stuff,
whilst the more he goes into it,
the more I realize
a little,
I know about it,
unfortunately.
Yeah.
Well, same here.
Shall we go through the comments from last month,
there was only actually one,
uh,
comment by Dododomi,
and, uh,
he was a comment
that related to show,
uh, the HGIR Audio Club,
which was, um,
Audio Club 10,
which was,
let me see,
it was a review
of Revolution Radio
by Seth Kenlan.
Wow.
Back in 2015,
05,
05.
And, um,
this tickles all of my private places.
Okay.
Just,
the references to free culture.
Love the reader's voice,
like the story.
God, that Seth Kenlan's voice reminds me of somebody,
no idea who,
uh,
I agree with Porky
about the timing of things
with guarding
canned food,
memories, et cetera, et cetera,
but I don't keep,
uh,
it didn't keep me out of the story.
I thought it was strange
that people had forgotten
so much in so few years.
But,
I have some real life situations
where people are composed
anything for a generation.
And,
this is a bit like this.
I like the glitches
these guys mentioned.
I can confirm
that the issue
with Og files
in the,
in the album art.
I didn't listen to this
until,
after I listened
to the audio book.
I had the same issue.
Download the find
but wouldn't play in,
uh, rock box.
A little searching
led me to
a suggestion that
it'd be Og plays,
okay,
in BLC,
other players,
but not rock box.
The album is likely
to be the culprit.
Remove them with audio
tag too,
and all as well.
If memory serves,
the rock box folks says
it's because it's only has
one megabyte
for metadata.
Interesting.
That's good.
And that was,
well,
so I was sorry,
set Kenlin's story
about,
uh,
a universe
where people,
uh,
build communities
based on different
licenses,
are inspired by the different
software licenses
that they're available.
And nice,
essay,
if you're interested in that.
Anything else?
Their Dave
and the old comments?
There's nothing else.
We've covered everything else.
It's quite unusual.
Um,
that's,
yeah.
You must have covered
all the other ones last,
last, uh,
ever certain.
Yep.
Cool.
Cool.
And then we had
the call for shows.
Because it's
a summer again,
and now the number of shows
traditionally falls off.
We've been able to
carry us this month,
due to the fact that they old
regulars,
the people we trust,
the people who are around
all the time.
Um,
those people have contribute
you to shows for us
and kept us going.
So if you
would like to build up
brownie points
or trust points
within the community,
this is where you
show us the load
by committing
shows to us.
That is,
you know,
that's the secret
how trust is built up
in HDR.
You contribute shows.
You're listening to
the call for shows.
You're keeping an eye
on the old cue there
when things go
a bit low.
You
submit shows.
It ends rocket science.
Yep.
Dave.
Good point.
Good point.
There's, um,
any other business
just a couple of things.
Yep.
Um,
first one,
just to highlight
that there being some
changed the website.
First one is
I think most people
would have seen it.
The tags for a show
now being displayed
in the header
of each show page.
And, um,
I doubt more people
could go
even to the website,
did.
Wow.
How is that possible?
Anyway, it's there
if you want to know
what the tags are.
And, um,
we discovered a fault
in the comment display code,
which resulted in comments
that had a percent sign
in them
not to be displayed.
And, uh,
we fixed that.
So,
so it did affect
a few comments,
but, uh,
I don't think anybody noticed,
um,
till I happen to do so,
I think.
So,
it took me a while.
So,
and on the,
thanks for that.
Yep.
Yep.
On the tags,
front,
not a huge lot,
to say,
Windigo was very kindly
sending a couple of updates
this month.
I have not managed
to find the time to do
any myself,
this, this,
this particular month.
Thanks to all contributors.
Okay.
So, that is pretty much that.
Yes.
If people would like to send
in some shows,
that would be excellent.
How about you decide
on the series, folks?
Um,
you sit down,
you write it
over the next week,
you record three or four
shows
the following week,
and then you submit them.
That would be absolutely awesome.
Paste them out,
leaving gaps
for other people
to, uh,
submit chills.
And, uh,
the world would be a wonderful
place as well.
Truly.
That's hope.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay.
That was very deep.
Um, yes.
Any other new
Steve?
No.
No, I don't think so.
And I was thinking of
going to camp with the family.
Uh,
it doesn't look like
I will get there with the family
this year due to, uh,
having to go to Ireland
with the family
two additional times,
which is a bit of a bummer
because I was kind of
looking forward to that.
Um,
I've been thinking about
one of myself,
but the calls are pretty much,
you know,
except for the flights.
And the
prices will be more
or less the same.
So,
I'm not even sure I'll be
able to do that, Dave.
It's a shame.
It's a shame,
but there you go.
Yes.
It's, uh,
it's an expensive process.
It is,
it's not, uh,
it's not
hugely cheap for me.
And I,
I just have to get the train
and find a hotel.
But, uh,
trains are very expensive
in the UK.
I have to say that.
Trains are insane.
Oh,
last, last I'll come.
I went to,
in Oxford,
when I went by train,
that one,
that actual last one,
I went to,
I drove to,
in Liverpool.
But the one in Oxford,
um,
was relatively easy to find
the tickets
by the tickets,
and they,
they were not
massively expensive.
They would,
or expensive,
they should be,
I believe, but,
but I was looking for tickets this time,
and I said,
you either can,
it's either cost you 250
to get from Edinburgh
to Sheffield,
or you can wait
until 12 weeks
before your departure date,
and then,
you can try
and see if you can get,
what they call an advanced ticket.
Um,
so,
I had to set a alarm
to myself to,
to do this.
I did.
And I got tickets,
return ticket
for 80,
80,
but, uh,
it's, uh,
hugely complicated process.
But also,
the whole train system
is falling apart at the moment,
as far as I can see.
There's been massive,
uh, problems
with time-dabling
and, uh,
failure to run services
and green buses on instead,
all across the country.
It's, it's, it's,
it's, uh,
absolute shambles.
Hmm,
not good.
No.
Okay.
So,
enough of this.
All right.
I will, uh,
I will go and, um,
edit this show.
Okay.
Uh,
the last,
community news.
For some reason,
I'm getting a background
echo coming through.
Uh,
I don't know why that would be.
Okay.
The last, uh,
community news.
I ended up, uh,
having to record it twice.
Uh, that three times,
actually,
that was not pleasant.
And, uh,
the same with, um,
same with that GDPR show.
So, hopefully,
my Murphy issues
will have disappeared.
Yes.
Let's hope so.
Well,
I've not,
hopefully my recording will cover you.
Okay.
Thank you very much, Dave.
Uh,
tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of...
Hacker.
Public.
Radio.
Oh.
Join us now and serve us
up for you.
Be free.
Hacker.
You will be free.
Hacker.
You will be free.
Ooh.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows
every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show,
like all our shows,
was contributed
by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought
of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released
under Creative Commons,
Attribution,
ShareLife,
3.0 license.
