Episode: 2495
Title: HPR2495: 10 Years of Xoke
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2495/hpr2495.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:07:39

---

This is HPR episode 2495 entitled 10 Years of Note.
It is hosted by Note and in about 12 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is tomorrow marks 10 years since its first episode and Note talks about HPR.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
.
.
.
.
I'm Zoek on IRC and I'm going to talk to you about the system tunnel suite.
Doing part 2 on the system tunnel suite.
Don't turn around.
Welcome again to one of my rambling, I mean insightful shows.
I'm going to be talking about the host's file, my favourite Linux apps.
Installing has been to heck this site today.
I'm installing Windows.
They're about encryption, programming 101, part 2, part 3, part 4.
How to set your monitor up?
Something Stephen Fry did.
Copyright.
Script, I wrote past spam.
Wireless, Windows 7, Ultimate, spam.
D-D-W-R-T.
I have a question.
I'm here with Dave Kennedy at Paul Coberts.
P-W-Gen.
Share X.
This really is so good this time.
And those are just some of the episodes I have done over the past 10 years.
Yes, HPR 40 on the 24th of February 2008.
I debuted with system tunnels part 1.
Since then I have done over 30 episodes on many different subjects.
I just played most of the intros for you and you can actually tell when I changed microphones.
2008, I did 13 episodes, a couple on system tunnels.
A Doctor Who, some security episodes and I actually started my programming 101 series.
2009, I did six episodes continuing the programming and some on copyright.
2010, I did five episodes on various things.
2011, I actually only did a single episode on D-D-W-R-T.
2012, I actually did a single calling episode and that was it.
My daughter was actually born at this stage causing a big gap until 2015 when I did two interviews on Derby Horn.
2017, I only did a single episode which is HPR 2393 on P-W-Gen.
And 2018, this year so far I have done two episodes as well.
This is the second one.
I have slowed down over the years mainly due to my daughter taking lots of my time.
10 years is longer than any job I've actually ever had.
Just in fact, since I came to the US I have had four jobs.
I've become an American citizen, technically dual nationality because I wasn't required,
although they suggest you give up your birth nationality.
Two and a half times my daughter's age.
Since I started there have been three prime ministers and three US presidents.
Facebook had about 100 million users.
Twitter was just taking off.
Snapchat didn't exist and neither did Lyft or Uber.
Bitcoin was a gleam in whoever it was that made it.
The AI bot known as Satoshi Nakamoto possibly.
It's actually an amusing conspiracy theory that an AI bot created Bitcoin because it needs the CPU cycles to get smarter.
So you make everyone run the Bitcoin miners given the AI all those juicy, juicy CPU cycles.
We had a horrible slow DSL connection that was about 750K down,
although that was still much faster than my first modem that had a button switch between 12 and 2400 board.
It was also the size of an old laptop on weight even more.
I think my favourite word I use is so.
I actually seem to use it all the time, although I am very consciously trying not to use it too much.
I tend to use it as a bridge word.
So anyway blah blah blah blah blah.
I have met several of the HPR corresponds.
Mrs. Zoke of course.
Tottenkoff.
Lots of the old infonomicon people.
I met Lord D just once, unfortunately.
Lotec, John Dock, Slick Zero, Sporus, Dussman, Mirovengers, Zack.
Probably others, so apologies if I missed anyone else I've met.
This is also the HPR's 10th year.
I had episode 40, as mentioned, which was about two months after it started.
Each prior episode, one with Stang Dock was aired New Year's Eve 2007.
I remember being in IRC actually before then.
And they were talking about it with the techie people.
I thought I would do an episode or two.
I hated my first episode.
Still hate my voice.
Sounded so much better in my head.
I actually sent the episode to Dave Yates first to see what he thought.
He said I was natural and I should do more.
So if you don't like me, send hate mail his way.
Some personal stats.
My Python episodes actually took the longest.
I was writing the script and the code and then checking the code.
Although I did actually manage to get a job because of it.
Well, I got an interview, probably.
But I'm going to say that I got a job for it.
I actually had Google approach me as well because I put Python in my LinkedIn profile
and they did contacting me about it.
Although they ended up wanting more experience than they had.
And they have limits on if you apply, you can't apply for a few years if you fail.
So we decided that it was better for me to walk away at that stage.
Dave and Ken actually sent me some stats.
The top contributors are Jerome Rull.
I don't actually have a drum.
So just imagine a drumroll.
Number one is, of course, Class Who.
I don't think I need to tell anyone that he does the most.
He seems to record something every day and twice on Sundays.
This is ignoring the community news, by the way, as otherwise Dave would be top.
But Class Who is top with 187 shows.
Ken Fallon has 146.
A hooker has 132.
HPL volunteers 123.
Dave Morris has 80.
John Cope has 71.
TGTM starts to keep to me as a news team.
I have 45.
Various hosts and 6 Flop tie at 44.
Dan has 43.
And then somewhere under there I am with 32.
I was looking at the download stats.
At least the ones we have when I will come back to that.
Episode 40.
My first recent journals.
It's actually still getting downloaded a couple of times a week.
I should probably do an updated episodes.
They have updated some of the apps.
Okay, they pretty much updated all of them since then.
But a couple of them combined and renamed.
And so I should probably do another episode on that.
If you want, you can go to HTTP archive.org slash details slash hacker public radio.
You can actually sort by download.
The caveat here is we've only done this for a little bit.
So this is only actually recent downloads.
And it does give you some numbers.
Which, as I am not top of obviously wrong.
Apparently my top episode is the recent one on share x to almost 500 downloads.
But given that this is only the recent downloads it does make sense.
Feel free to look through this some more.
But I only think there's much I can say about this yet.
Maybe in 10 years for the 20th anniversary we will have some better numbers by then.
I did look through the stats Dave and Ken sent.
And again, caveat is we lost the server logs quite some time back.
So again, these are wrong.
But it does say the most downloaded episode are enigmas.
Specifically, HTTP archive 385.
Why Zanderos doesn't suck?
Were they whopping 57,388 downloads?
At least at the time they sent me info to me.
Ken does say he thinks this is because people think that enigma is the band.
And these are the bands bootlegs.
You can go to Wikipedia.org, enigma musical project and look it up there.
My top show is Python programming part 3 with a little over 4,000 listens.
Which I guess means I need to apologize to 4,000 people for never actually finishing that series properly.
The least downloaded shows are unsurprisingly the ones just before we switched over to the internet archive.
Although you're not wearing any shows with 3 downloads,
which for some reason is basically every single non-episode or future episode.
The least downloading shows are in reverse order.
HPR 00000 with 69.
HPR 8,218 with 60.
HPR 9,999 with 29.
HPR 3755 with 26 and 3754 with 24.
Now I guess the 4 zeros and the 4 9s does kind of make sense top and bottom.
Why on earth people are downloading 8,218, 3755, 3754?
It looks like there's no automated script to me,
but I really think someone does need to listen to one of the HPR programming series again.
Fix their stuff.
I've learnt numerous things from HPR episodes, even just little things here and there.
But there are lots of things I've learnt about.
Just things I found interesting.
Some people that just do episodes you just want to listen to.
You don't care what they talk about.
You just want to hear them talk.
My favourite episodes in no particular order and no means my entire favourite list.
But some of my favourites are.
Any episode talking about recording audio.
And I've always learnt at least one trick from these.
Any episode talking about useful apps, file extensions and similar things like that.
I do actually enjoy finding new apps.
It was actually a running joke about me and interviews at work.
Whenever I've been involved in interviewing someone.
I always ask what their favourite text editor is.
Now I used to say that there's no answers.
But then someone proved me wrong.
So now I say that I don't actually care what you say.
I'm more interested in the why.
I really don't care what your favourite editor is.
I wouldn't know why it is your favourite.
For example, you can say plain old note pad.
It's more of why you find that interesting to prove you actually understand IT and have worked in there.
If you turn around and say, yeah, I'm in a Windows background.
I love note pad because it's always there.
If you're copying something from a website.
Paste it into a word.
It used to do that horrible trying to put all the HTML in.
Drop it in a note pad.
Copy and paste it from there.
Back into whatever.
And it strips out all the extra HTML.
I'm going to turn around and say via Emax for the same reason in Linux.
That's great.
You can turn around and say no pad plus plus because it's fantastic.
That's fine.
Just don't do what this one guy said and say word.
Yeah.
Anyway.
Episodes about favourite podcasts, although I do actually have plenty enough to listen to thanks.
But I always enjoy hearing about other people's favourite podcasts.
There were several episodes about SSH tunneling which I actually ended up not using.
But it was looking at it for a while and it did help me understand some more things about networking.
Ubicix did a programming his art which I completely agree with.
Programming is an art form.
Just some people are not very good at it.
Lost in Bronx pretty much anything he does actually.
The watts in my bag episodes I do enjoy and then end up adding things on my Amazon wish list.
And then I carry way too much stuff around in my bag.
Sick flop talking about mental health.
Even just the episodes where people were talking about making coffee and then other people replied back.
Back how they made coffee.
There are some I skipped over.
I will be honest here.
There are some where people have talked about it and I know about it or I don't care about it at all.
I'm like I'm just going to skip this.
I do at least listen to the beginning of every single one and make a decision if I care or not.
The only ones that actually I do skip always are my own episodes because I hate the sad of my own voice again.
Also I've listened to them four or five times as I've recorded, listened back, realised I've screwed things up, re-recorded, listened again, re-recorded, listened again.
The theory is that I don't screw the audio up and have massive issues where I'm only playing out of one ear or something.
I did that one so I don't want to do it again.
I would like to thank each and everyone involved in the podcast from people running the websites, the contributors, to just people who listen and make up our listenership.
HDR truly is a community podcast and it would not exist without you.
As always do please consider recording a follow up episode on this or an episode on pretty much anything.
The general idea is that if you're interested enough to make an episode someone's going to be interested enough to listen to it.
Thank you to everyone who has recorded an episode.
Thank you to everyone who's taught me stuff.
Thank you to everyone I've met.
Thank you to everyone who listens.
Here's to another 10 years.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
Thank you.
