Episode: 2993
Title: HPR2993: 2019-2020 New Year Show Episode 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2993/hpr2993.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:36:55

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 2993 for Wednesday 22 January 2020.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Public Radio 2019 20 New Year Show Episode 2.
It is hosted by Kevin Wischer and is about 155 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is
8th annual New Year Show with King Pads.
Steam engines and corporate America philosophy.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at Ananasthost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
out there that likes what we're producing. I'm not particularly, I'm not as hung up on the figures
as mosses. Like I said, like I was just saying, you know, I thought we'd be lucky if we got 100
listeners to each episode. It's quite cool. Maybe one of these days will hit the dizzy heights of
HPR episodes and get up to the 1600 to 2000. Again, we're now suffering from the same thing that,
you know, 400 downloads could be classified as one, but also you can say you've started. There's
no guarantee somebody downloads that they've ever listened to. That's right. On the other hand,
with HPR, especially, it's more about the, I take the view that it's based on the amount of feedback
it shall get. And if that happens to be somebody going, thank you very much. Four years later,
you know, this really solved the problem. Then, you know, that's the worthwhile episode to me,
regardless of what the numbers were. Well, this, this December, I've been really poor at
listening to podcasts. I think I've listened to it three or four. I've downloaded a shed load that
I've got on the pod catcher that I've never listened to. And I've got, I've got to say, Ken,
I don't think I've listened to an episode of HPR this month. You're still welcome to use the news.
But yeah, it seems podcasting has turned hip again. You think so? Yeah, there's lots of people
in work and hey, have you heard of this thing called podcasting? And I heard, as well, on the,
what do you call us? The escape of podcasts where we're doing a sort of blog about,
yeah, that's a podcasters ago. Yeah, we've embed the podcasting and started two years ago.
Yeah, it's a bit disheartening, but okay. Yeah, I don't know, but it is mainstream. You know,
it's things like soundcloud and all the rest. There are lots of people now podcasting the
market or podcasting from work and stuff. And a lot of mainstream media are doing podcasts. Yeah,
exactly. So everything, it's actually been a concern for some podcasters that mainstream media
is breaking into the podcasting space and we'll eventually try and make it more difficult for,
you know, average person to do a podcast. Yep, that's my, that's my worry and that's my fear and
that's the pitch I used when I put in the exact same pitch I put in the last two years in
to foster last three years. And this year, I just put in with the, with the advent of commercial
broadcasters coming into, into it with things like soundcloud and basically other places that's
and podcast that don't publish their RSS feed, they have it on, like there's a news outlets in
the Netherlands, they have their feed, but they don't publish the, they don't, they have it on
iTunes, but they don't publish the RSS feed that they give tightchains. It's really weird,
quite a lot of do this. You need to go to the app or you need to go to the website to play as well.
I want to download it. That's the whole point to save money. Yeah.
Coming up to Happy New Year for Jakarta, Bangkok, Hanoi, Benon Penn in just over a minute.
Yeah, I like listening to, well, I used to like listening to Ben Hex podcast and I thought he was
just being in a minute because I was subscribed to his RSS, but then I got to his website.
And I find out he has been putting out podcasts and there's just no RSS for it anymore.
And the web page says that it's just through iTunes or says that there's an iTunes
subscription that you can get, but when I go look for the website for that, I'm not finding it.
You can find anything right now. It's just on his website.
Yeah, just the mind boggles that you're not doing on RSS feed.
I mean, it doesn't have to be right there at the beginning of the thing.
It can be under other options, but the mind just boggles why you would not do an RSS feed.
Well, he had one. Yeah, and I guess they just didn't maintain it or something,
or they wanted the actual statistics. So they're forcing people to go to the website to listen to it.
That's not how it works. You still, if you plan it from your own website,
if you go to iTunes, it's the RSS feed. It's not coming from Apple.
If our RSS feed comes either from archive.org or directly on the main website,
depending on which one you have, but it's not Apple suddenly
hosting everything. You're just redirected to the media and the server with which it has.
Yeah, archive.org. I've got the audio there. Yeah, exactly. And it goes through that.
But when you think about companies like Apple trying to corner the market in these things,
it makes me less inclined to actually publish our RSS to iTunes.
You can, if they have an RSS iTunes link, you can, there's some... Sorry, I tried that.
At that point, I'm saying to myself, well, I don't want to listen to this because you're not
making it easy. Contact them, usually give them the three strikes thing.
Well, I did try some of those converters to turn the iTunes link into an RSS and none of them work,
which is why I'm assuming that it's not on iTunes anymore either. And whenever I click on any of
the iTunes link to at least try and see what's there, all it does is try and open iTunes.
And I'm on a Linux machine. So, honky just started restarting the recording?
Yeah, it was so quick though, it makes me think it was automatic.
No, he's doing a remotely. Yeah, he's still got his lips muted.
There he is. Oh, pretending. Yeah, pretending.
Oh, what, honky. I'm just going to be very, very horny, by the way, but I just thought I'd pop on,
so I'm just going to mute myself for about five minutes because we're having takeaway for
supper right. So, I'm just going to make my choices and then I'll go back in before it arrives.
I'm back. You're still there, Joe? Yeah, I'm here.
There's not much going on. I'm going to take a nap here in a little bit.
That it was a busy night last night. All right. I usually don't drink, but it was there. I was there.
Friends were there. So, yeah, you had a few scoops as we say.
Really nice caramel crown royal.
Down real smooth. All right. I celebrated 33 years since last pixel per glass on the Sunday.
Congratulations. Thank you. I remember when my dad quit drinking. I had to be like 15 years now.
Really? I'm just going to go and see if there's anyone on this good. See if moss is around.
Don't worry. Oh, jump on. I'll send you my message. I'll just post it in his discord.
I'm here. No, I'm going to right now. Right. Okay.
I just sent moss a message on the telegram because he was hanging around there a few minutes ago.
He likes to cuss a lot. You've noticed about my brother?
Oh, yeah. Sorry. I thought you was. You mentioned moss. I was just talking about moss, although you've been...
Oh, he doesn't cuss a lot. Brother cusses a lot. Right.
Dive's little joke. He's doing good. He's a little cooped up. He acts out a little bit, but good.
Do you have any of the tilts guys have been on yet? Not well, I've been around.
Saying that, saying that net miner was around very briefly when I was on this morning.
Josh posted a picture in the Televincast Telegram channel of the Sydney Fireworks.
That's quite cool. Telegram? Yeah, the Vincast Telegram, much noise.
There was a lot of controversy about the Sydney Fireworks this year because of all bushfires
and that surrounding the city. A lot of people didn't actually want them to happen, but obviously they did.
I really recommend some headphones to me yesterday, so I'm looking them up now.
What kind? Astro A40s. All right. If you find them post the link in the mumble and I'll have a day here.
A bit more than I want to pay, so I'm looking to see what the use market is like.
Oh, let me copy that and see what they are in this country.
I can find some for relatively cheap without the mix amp, but if it comes with a mix amp,
I assume that it needs some kind of power boost.
Yeah. Well, there were $150 for you, and it looks like there were £199.99 for us.
Yes, that's £260. I think I've sticked to my £20 set that I've got, but it'd be nice to have
the one with a decent like that doesn't leak into the headphones.
You can order a set of the Z2s. It's what I'm using now. Well, you'd have to order them from the
probably from the US, and usually the cheapest I see them is about $20, but I would assume
that the $20 ones would need me to do some work on them.
Right. There is a set of astros. All right, just a minute.
Yeah, I found some cheap ones, but they don't have the mix amp or anything like that one.
Yeah, I found the cheap ones. They're 150 quid without the mix.
I can find one that has the main unit and the microphone.
So they made in the States?
Not sure.
Okay, so I'm just wondering, because normally anything that's sold in the States is kind of,
you know, transfers $1 to £1, so if you're buying it for $100, we normally paint
£100 for it every year, because you add your prices tend to be before taxes, whereas our price
tends to include tax.
There's the cheapest one I see, but it needs cushions and it needs the microphone.
Okay, so then this is the, this mic I've seen for it so far, if I wanted to part it,
then the mix amp, if I wanted to get the mix amp, to £30 for the mix amp.
About $20?
I didn't realize you could buy the headset and microphone part separate.
How was some you can?
All right, that's cool.
Like the Turtle Beach ones, I know they're not the highest quality,
but the ones that with the removable microphone, you can find generic mics that work on it.
All right, let me see if they're available on the UK commercial.
It looks like eBay's the place to buy Astro.
Buying a better price for us.
Oh, definitely.
That headset that you've just done in dollars for $11.24, I can get it on eBay in £8.57.
The only point, it's coming from the States, so postage killed it.
That'll happen.
Yeah, that's the problem if they don't sell them in the UK, but they've got an Astro A10 gaming
wired headset A4X box one with Mike, and that is UK, and that's 2029 quid.
I don't know what that one's like, the A10.
I don't know, I haven't tried much from Astro.
I don't think I've tried anything from Astro.
That's more my kind of price range.
2030 quid.
Hello.
Hello, Alan.
How is everyone doing?
Not too bad, been for a walk and knackered me back,
so I've just had to take some code code of old, but apart from that.
Oh, my gosh.
Yeah, I started suffering from real bad arthritis at the beginning of 219.
So if I go for long walks now, it kills me.
I've been looking for friends who are coming over.
All right, what we made.
I bought some steak, thought I'd splash out a little bit, went to the local butchers,
and got some steak just before he shot.
And I'm doing that in a sous vide thing above of water for three hours or so.
You've got your own sous vide machine.
It's not, well, it's one of those ones that hooks over the side of a,
if you've got a vessel big enough that you could be watering.
And I just have a big tupperware container.
I just put it in and fill it with water.
And that seems to work.
And some doffin noise potato and some green beans and the asparagus.
And I think that'll do.
Oh, very nice.
I've got two types of steak sauce.
I'm going to do a peppercorn sauce and a blue cheese sauce,
because I know people like both of those, so I'm going to do both.
Oh no, my, my missies would, would go blue cheese.
She's definitely not a fan of blue cheese.
I think that's a real North South thing.
I think I've, I've rarely been anywhere in the North where, or Midlands and North,
where soft cheeses and blue cheeses are popular.
Yeah, I love me a bit of blue cheese.
But, yeah, and I'm not sure if it is a North South, but,
yeah, it's definitely a quiet taste.
It's the vain cheeses of the call.
So look for him to eat in that later, but it's set in the,
within the slogan of the CV now, so I don't have to think about it.
So I've, I've got to take a break for a couple of hours and come and chat to you,
loonies.
Yeah, right.
Well, Mike, we just ordered our takeaway.
So when that arrives, I'll be going off to eat my curry and then come back.
Oh, what, I want to say what, what, what curry do you,
do you tend to choose and what do you have with it?
Well, I've just ordered a, because I'm vegetarian,
so I've just ordered a corn biryani and some takedal.
Oh, lovely, lovely, lovely.
I mean, it's a takedal once now.
Yeah.
Do you have any mate with it?
Or, uh, shall I ask you something like that?
The wife will probably, uh, the meal she prefers comes with a big,
non-bread, so we'll probably share a bit of that.
And I've got some poppodoms that I can stick in the microwave to have a couple of
poppodoms as well.
Lovely, perfect.
But, uh, yeah, I like myself a little bit of an Indian.
Went to a great, we were, we were up in Scotland just before Christmas,
Christmas came back, Christmas Eve.
And we took the, uh, stepson and his partner out.
We went out for a meal together for Christmas.
And we went to a really nice, um, in North Indian restaurant
in the central Glasgow, not the cheapest place I've ever been to.
Whole meal was about 150 quid, but it was really, uh, the food was beautiful.
And the waiter took all four of our orders,
didn't write anything down at all.
And everything came perfectly.
I love it when they do that.
Just makes you feel a little bit special because they're being attentive and they're clearly.
Yeah, it was brilliant.
But, you know, it was just a nice ambience in the restaurant and the food was gorgeous.
And, uh, yeah, really nice meal.
So, is Ken still drilling?
Uh, I don't know, he just popped his head above the parapet for a couple of seconds
earlier a few minutes ago, but he's probably gone off to do whatever he was doing again.
What time of the guest coming around, darling?
I've got two hours now.
So, uh, I can show that out for a couple of hours.
They're going to be here a half seven.
And I think, I think if I've timed it right,
everything should be ready about eight, half eight, something like that.
So, I should be able to hopefully get it all lined up right.
Right.
So, the kids will all be, well, no, you've got teenagers, aren't you?
Yeah, they'll probably be out doing their own thing, will they?
No, they're going to stay in because we've decided we're going to,
we went, it's my brother-in-law who's coming over with his wife.
All right.
They're leaving their homes, so my two will have a meal with us and
maybe stick around to play a few games.
We've got a whole load of board games out to play and card games and stuff.
All right.
So, we'll stick and play those for a bit and then have a few beers.
And my son started staying up quite late over the, over the holidays and we're going to have to
rain that in as we get to going back to school and sleep.
School, yes.
Yes.
He's also started staying in bed until God knows what time in the morning.
Like, I've been in there before at 11 and he still
have completely asleep in his bed.
Unfortunately, his bedroom is nice and warm and dark, so he can just stay in bed.
How old is it?
13.
No, that's normal for 13 to 15.
Yeah.
I'm sure I did it as well.
I'm hoping we can play some games because that's what we did.
Last year, we went to my brother-in-law.
They live up in Limington Spa and they got their games out.
We had a meal and their kids went to bed because there's a
quite a bit younger and then we sat and played games and there was a game that
I'd never heard of before and it's called something like
One Night Ultimate Werewolf and it's just great, isn't it?
One Night Werewolf, yeah.
It's so much fun and we sat there playing it.
The basic premise for anyone listening or who hasn't played it is
there's a village and you play the part of a character in the village
and the village is being attacked by werewolves and you've got to identify who is
the werewolf and you may be one of the werewolves.
You may pick a car and a random and you may be a werewolf
or you might be a villager or one of the other characters
and so you each get one card that defines your character
and you put the card face down and then put it in the middle
just in front of you so it's within reach and then
there's an app on the phone which has an audio narrator
who tells everyone to close their eyes and you just basically follow his instructions
so he says close your eyes and then he tells the werewolves
because there might be more than one depending on how many people are playing.
He says it asks the werewolves to open their eyes and so if there's two of you
you both open your eyes and you know who the other werewolf is
right at the start of the game and then you close your eyes and then other
characters are told to do various things and what they do is
open their eyes mess with the cards in the middle of the table
specifically like look at one or swap a card with another card in a very specific
sequence and then at the end it says right everyone close your eyes
and then everyone jiggle their card a little bit so that you know
you can't tell whether it's been messed with or not you just jiggle it a little bit
and then everyone opens their eyes and then you start a few minutes of
trying to argue about who is the werewolf with all your cards still face down
and nobody allows to look at them and it's so much fun with people
lying to their teeth to indicate that they are a villager.
No, I'm a villager, I'm not a werewolf, I'm just a humble villager
but one of the clinchers is one of the characters is a tanner
and I think the story goes that his business is failing
and so he wants people to believe he's the werewolf
so that he will get killed right because the village is going to hunt down the
werewolf and kill it right yeah and because his business is failing he wants to be killed
and so he will try and pretend to be the werewolf
but you can't just say hey everyone I'm the werewolf because everyone will say
well no you're not you're clearly the tanner because a real werewolf wouldn't say that
and so there's this whole logical deduction a bit like Cludo you know kind of
trying to figure out who and you argue for five minutes and then you all have
pointed at someone and decide who is the the werewolf and if you're the werewolf
and you got away with it and everyone thought it was someone else then you know
you win if you're the werewolf and everyone points to you you lose it's
the rounds only last like 10 minutes but you can play it for hours just over
yeah I played it at one of the local card shops did I describe it right is that roughly how it
goes I can't remember yeah that's roughly how it goes so while we were playing last year
on exactly a year ago I thought this is just a brilliant game and I had a few beers
and I got my phone out and opened the Amazon app and found the game and you know bought it
and we carried on paying it for a few hours and clearly I was so drunk that I later on in the
evening said oh that's just a fantastic game I should buy that and I got my phone out got the
Amazon app and bought it again because when we got home we couple of days later two boxes
arrived in the post and I thought well that's a bit weird I don't I don't remember buying it
twice and I looked in my Amazon order history and sure enough two out two hours apart
for the same thing yes what's he dropping but you want you're on the main cast telegram channel
are you Alan I start me out yes go have a call up with it recently well it's just Josh who's
in Sydney at the moment he's posted a few things wow the fireworks good are you on the discord
no this is this is on telegram right I'm just asking if Alan's on the discord I didn't know
what was a discord feel free to ping the link and I'll join it along with the 35 other
discords I mean let me hear in the bite
I'm on board oh have you put it in perfect that's quiet Andy actually you've been in there because
we can bring you messages about production stuff oh is that when where it gets organized
yeah I'm not sure Joe do you know who the admins are for the discord is it Moss or Leo
discord it should be all of us is it I was just thinking of I think because Rob
because Alan's going to be in on the show maybe put him in the crew oh I just sent him a link
for the crew stuff yeah probably is with all this social media with all the different channels
I got I'd go into it in the morning and he's like 2000 posts for the very channels to check
think yeah I can't do that yeah my telegram has a little indicator on it that just says
9 dot dot dot which I think means 9 9 9 9 over 9 9 9 9 messages unread because I know
a bunch of telegrams and I just never read them yeah I tend to I tend to read the ones that
have got the little that symbol next to it that means he did someone's ping me a message
oh okay okay I see how to do it I find Popeying and then I make them part of a mint cast crew
yep you've done it I can see now now yep now you have to be on every two weeks
yeah just retire from that older podcast you do and come and join the mint cast
Alan well you're on is there any chance of law wherever could be back full time onto the
year show I don't know maybe in the future perhaps I it's difficult because well at the time
she was studying for PhD yeah yeah and so that like just tune up all her time and I don't
know she even runs a bunch anymore on because she she works at IBM and her role changed I think
and she got an offer of a new company that top and she chose a Mac and she's running OS 10 now
I think I think that's right I maybe I hope I'm not maligning her but I think that's the case
I have done go help out with my kids for a little bit so I'll see you later
all right cheers yeah yeah work sometimes plays a part in the the OS that you have to run on
yeah yeah totally yeah I'm sorry I'm just gonna change the subject if there isn't anything else
in that topic yeah I was just gonna say we were we're having a conversation I can't
remember where it was I think it might have been when we were recording mint cast the other night
about so or it might have been some feedback or something from mint cast about what OS is
that whether you can get away no I think I think you were on the conversation this morning about
whether you can run the get away with not running windows and things like that went you when
we were talking about the pie oh yes yeah yeah Ken suggesting you can replace your work computer
yeah with the pie that was it yeah now there's still a lot of places you you need to run windows
or whatever operating system that a team is the company policy so what was your alternative
discussion so we talked a little bit about like EOLD 8-bit computers and I wondered how you got
what your first PC wasn't how you went to the PC world the first computer I used was when I
went back to college in 1987 and I was doing some computer-aided design stuff and the lab that we
used for it was running a IBM clone 286 so that was when I first started and that was my first
physical use of a computer oh first computer full stop yeah no that was the first physical computer
I'd ever used do you remember what what make they were were they like compact or something
like I think it was rm oh research machines right yeah makes sense and then in the early 90s my
first wife was doing a degree and she needed to be able to do some work for the producing a
college course stuff for a university dissertation and all that kind of stuff so we a friend of mine
was really into computers and he came down to London with a three second down 386 we bought that
off him and at the time it had it came with one mega ram so we went up we went up to the top
them court road and spent 120 quid and upgraded it to four mega ram wow are we having fun today people
here we're just talking of reminiscing about first computers and things I'm just telling the
story of my the first computer we had in the house which was a 386 and upgrading it to four mega
ram from one oh goodness you're still a newbie Tony for the vast sum of 120 pounds
yeah then then I went back to university is the late 90s and I bought a Pentium 2
yeah a lot of noise there yeah well my wife is working in the sink and I can't stop that
I will mute the mic and I got a Pentium 2 and I went to again I went to top them court road to
yeah tiny computers there was two wasn't there it was tiny and tiny and I went to the tiny store
on top them court road and this the the base model came with 64 mega ram and I went for the
upgrade package to 128 mega ram this is a Windows 98 I think it was by then because it was late it
was late 98 so I think they may have upgraded it to second edition by then I might be wrong it might
have been first edition but it came with a package it was kind of a full system it came with a scanner
or you know a small printer and all dirt cheap stuff but the whole system oh and I got
to Microsoft office small business edition so that came with Word Excel even came with publisher
and I got my first ever DVD ROM with that machine and it came with two three DVDs one of which was
the oh that Jodie Foster movie about contact contact yeah because that that had come out a little
while before that and that whole system cost me 1400 pounds so yeah it was more than a month's
wages did it on the drip or I put it on my credit card or something and paid it off over a period
that's the most I've ever paid for a computer because gradually ever since then we've just got
cheaper and cheaper and cheaper for far more power did you replace that or did you just keep upgrading
it with you know did it become a Frankenstein triggers broom kind of thing well I upgraded it a
little bit and then in 2003 there was a little computer shop just ran the corner from where I was
living in the East Ender London which was literally five minutes walk from where I lived and I went
in there one day and said this you know by then Pension 4s have come out and I said I want a Pension
4 box built just a tower because I had still had the screen and all the other stuff with it so I
had a Pension 4 box built especially for me came in a lovely aluminium case actually I got rid
of that PC for some reason that case was gorgeous and that cost me 700 quid and I think I think
that I don't gig of RAM it was out of five 12 or a gig I can't remember but it was DDR by then
it's amazing to think that like when we were talking this morning about the Raspberry Pi how
Raspberry Pi is more powerful than that and it's yes 30 quid or something like that when you think
how much you know we had to pay for what that was but you know at the time every generation like
my sons you see I mean admittedly it's a hand me down PC that I gave him but he's playing
modern games at 1080p resolution connected to a super fast internet connection and you know
when you think of or what we had to go through back in there well when I got my first internet
connection back in 98 when I got that to Pentium 2 of course it came with a massive 56k
modem installed in the PC PC i-card and that was you know compared with now that it used to take
about a day to download an MP3 file I'm probably exaggerating a bit but it was very slow
and there weren't very many MP3 files back then either no you used to have to find some
dodgy website to download them so I recently went through a you know those
zip closing bags that you put CDs and CDRs in that you know they've got slips in them that you
put yeah you know what you mean I've got I've got a couple of them here actually and I went
through one of those that had CDs from the past that I bird and some of them were backups that
I've made in 1997 and I had to dig out a CD rom drive the USB CD rom drive plugged it in and
had a rummage through some of the stuff that's on here and sure enough there was a folder called MP3
and in it were songs I had no idea where I got a hold of these songs from somewhere online
probably or a BDS or something but it there was super low quality super low bit rate but
they were the only like dozen songs I had in my life so I just listened to them on a loop it's terrible
yeah and this Christmas I just got as a Christmas present a four bay icy dock the two and a half
inch drives oh yeah we'll go in and I remember getting a 120 do you remember the you could get
zip drives and you could get there was another one I can't remember the title of it but I got
the other one not the zip the the other one made by the same company I owe maca was it
Jack thank you it might have been the jazz drive but I remember getting one of them with 120
meg drive uh thing to install and that seemed massive that was before I got the CD writer
yeah but uh you know things think now I can I could stick a one terabyte drive into one of those
bays and just swap that out as many times as I want it jay it boggles my mind I've got in my hand
a sand disc ultra micro SD card and the one I got in my hand is a 32 gig some sounds got an
Nintendo switch my son and one of the things he asked for for Christmas was more storage because
he's running out because he downloads games and got his saves and all that kind of stuff and he had
this 32 gig SD card in his Nintendo switch and he asked for something bigger and I went on Amazon
just bought a 128 gig card for a tenor it was like the 10 or 12 pounds and I used I just put both
cards in my laptop and just dragged and dropped the Nintendo folder from one to the other yeah
that's all you have to do and then put the 128 gig drive in his his switch and that's it either way
128 gig that's an insane storage but it sticks on your fingernail like it's insane
didn't Bill Gates say nobody would ever need more than one mega ram
well unfortunately I think it was mr. tribusy I don't think yet I think it was nobody would
ever need more than 640k of ram and he claims he never actually said it so yeah who does
for my mobile phone we need to find the tape my mobile phones got 32 gig of
internal storage and I've got the 64 gig micro SD card in it but it'll support 128
when I think back to like those the spectrum and the Commodore I um I went in the loft recently
and while I was up there I found a bunch of old cassettes that I used to have on the spectrum
and some of them were pre-recorded like games you buy in a shop and some of them were things that
me and my friends had written like software we'd written in basic and a ZAs assembler
and saved onto deeps yeah and I don't have a cassette deck so I had to go and buy a cassette deck
and plug it into my laptop and use audacity to sample the the the game off of a tape
and then inject that into an emulator and it was right these are tapes that haven't touched a
cassette deck since 1987 something like that I push 1990 maybe and I just put them in a cassette deck
and played them and they sound all over the place they're like the wow and flutter they're wobbling
everywhere but it's sampled them and I played them into an emulator and I was probably
going to say that I've written 30 years ago but that just it's amazing that audacity is able to copy
that and then use that that audio file to emulate that tape that is just boggling boggling really
it can actually do it but it's only it's only because like when you think about those those
systems that had like everything was offline there was no such thing as online and all my cassettes
still work like these cassettes that I have lined up on my desk I could put them into a cassette
deck and load them into a spectrum or whatever a bit computer from the past whereas my son
will be playing games on an Nintendo switch and in 30 years time I can pretty much guarantee
there is no way he'll be able to play them anymore because they require an online authentication
or an online component or the SD card will fail and they'll have to read down a load the software
which he won't be able to do because the servers will be offline so it's very sad it's I mean I
I'm delighted that I can go back and relive my youth reloading these tapes and playing through them
he won't be able to do that in 30 years yeah yeah technology just oh supersede it and
there won't be the backwards compatibility like there is right yeah I see all the science fiction
movies where they find this document sitting around in some sort of disk form and they just
pop in another computer and it works and I'm going aha we can we can't even get max to talk to
PCs you know yeah you don't wear like that or like Independence Day where they just invade the
alien computer with an iPad yeah or iMac you're talking about a 32 gig SS micro SD card and 120
you can get 512 ones now that's insane I know and that first 386 I think if the hard drive was
100 mech that would have been big back in the day and now and you are quite right that Bill Gates
claims to have never made that comment however there's a worst comment made by Dex Ken Olson
there is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home oh I remember that one
and that isn't the one about he says it like he seems like he's referring to basically IOT
so he's still wrong Ken just popped in and said would we wish the next lot of the happy new years at
60 clock well I can't wait for this year to get over yeah it's going to be it's 1800
UTC which is coming up in about seven minutes it will be Bangladesh and several other places
we would like to jump on because we're gone down to visit some there's only so we'd like to
come on in the traditional family wishing everybody yeah I'm going to have to go guys
yes we can hear you Ken see you Tony go happy new year okay nearly nearly all right so we'll see
you next year then when we come back bye see you later fall in family yeah I can't wait this
here to get over it's been one of my worst financially but one of my best in so many other areas
getting involved in mint cast has done my life a world of good just hasn't gotten me any more
money than I had well not significant amounts I have been trying to explain to people how they
go well what's your career path and I go from the time I was 12 I was being misdiagnosed and
drugged and there was no career because they thought I was insane they could have been right but not
the kind of insane they were drugging me for so here I am 67 years old and still managing to
carry on a conversation and everyone's saying well how come you can't get better than $9
hour job yeah yeah that must be difficult it is I appreciate that I had a fun time today I managed
to get the new version of Feren OS installed on my kudu and I couldn't get it installed on my
Gallego Pro is this the problem you're having boots in it no I got that I got that fixed I got
that all fixed it's soft but I stick in the USB jump drive in either of two USB ports on the
Gallego Pro I boot to it correctly and it comes up and everything looks fine and I start typing
anything and it's and my keyboards all wrong well then I have it set for us keyboard it's not a
layout thing when I'm hitting a D and getting in a six there's a problem that one challenge yes it
continues to be I haven't figured it out yet I've tried both USB ports and I might just have a
I can't imagine getting the stick messed up after I just installed it properly on another computer
with that stick so when you when you boot the stick the very very first thing you see do you get
like a menu like a traditional like a boot menu that asks you if you want to try or install
is that I don't I haven't seen a fair in install um yeah when it comes up and it basically has the full
um well no it first it comes up with of course the boot menu saying do you want to boot from this
disk that partition that partition that partition or the USB stick and I select the USB stick and then
it comes up with two selections of uh fairin um and I select to go ahead with fairin and then after a
while since it's KDE it takes a while to load the desktop um I'm amazed KDE is such a light
desktop but it takes longer than any other to load huh I haven't noticed that I I was running it
for 18 months on this laptop and I found it pretty pretty speedy hmm well I right now I'll go pro
i s and distros and uh had q4 s and eventually that I noticed the slowness with that one
and I could not get any good answers so I put uh the version of me on on it's really it's not
fast it's a little q4 was and then I was playing with fairin else on the kudu and I said well let's get
it over here but anyhow everything I have with KDE it runs at about 573 megs of RAM which is
light for a full desktop um but it does take longer to load um interesting I wonder if that's a
virtue of it being a USB 2 instead of USB 3 that may be a a reason why it's slower to load
hmm I don't know about it I know I'm USB 3 I mean when it's stalled it can give you time I can
give you the times of my boots and the KDE is always the slowest how strange but then when it loads
it runs uh one of the things q4 was told me was well it's just KDE they always load slowly
uh anyhow blah blah um how are things on that side of the pond island
uh not bad uh well actually awful
I've put it yet no oh that's the worst part of it no I'm gonna you've got the forest we've got
orange tangerine face guy yeah I think I I what I need to do is
start 2020 the way I would like 2020 to be which is start positive so I think given that in this
country we've got six hours left before the end of the year I'm going to refrain from talking about
politics or thinking about politics I think for the next six hours to get myself in the right
frame of mind to launch into a new year which like you say I hope is more positive than the last one
yeah well I have enjoyed listening to the Ubuntu podcast
god thank you thing else you know I'm your tip but are extra worthless
I need to pop off and go and check on the dinner so I may be back a little bit later
okay Alan I'll see you later
anybody else here or am I talking to myself I just jumped in so with them
hi I'm here I Joe I just talked to you a couple days ago didn't I
hey malls is that Taj your tie this Taj Taj okay like the Taj mall
the year except I haven't seen an h in that one but that's okay I'm too picky about things I'm sorry
call myself but I am not a Nazi in any form and it's understandable got to be a better term
so where are you Taj I am currently in southern Indiana like right on the border between
Indiana and Kentucky uh-huh a couple hours north of me then I'm out in the boonies outside of
Knoxville yeah that's not too far away and our friend Joe is in Texas somewhere
oh well that's somewhere in Texas I mean this generally likes like somewhere on earth since
Texas so big so I don't know you Taj tell me something okay what do you want to know
what do you do or I know you're in southern Indiana I my day job is I work for university
I am a director for a program that goes into underserved schools and we do college and career readiness
with a STEM focus so I basically go in to teach a lot of engineering and math and programming stuff
in a couple high schools in our area that's cool it can't be what do you do on the side um
lots of hacky things uh I do I do a podcast with a couple guys from hacker public radio called you
random and uh we do that once a month I need to pick up on that I haven't paid much attention to
HPR even though they kindly hosted Mintcast for a very long time and still have it available
yeah HPR is uh pretty much the best plan plan and for that matter they rebroadcast the first
step uh uh you knew or distraught was died uh you we got maybe 1300 or more listens on on the HPR
we haven't hit 500 on our own downloads I mean that is like a secret marketing ploy is to just get
HPR to pick up your first episode and you're you're automatically gonna get a bunch of listeners
well let's see we've got two episodes that are approaching 500 downloads that uh we're doing
we we weren't expecting more than 100 if even with HPR's help and it seems to be growing
we always speed this thing we we always joke that we have no concept of how many people listen to
the show so like we look at numbers and they're vastly different in different places so we're just
like yeah there's three people listening and that's fine and it's people on the show so you know
if anybody else listens I'm sorry uh I apologize for everything that's happened on the show uh I
denounce my co-hosts and all of their opinions what show is it you random you say it's about
monthly on HPR uh it's not on HPR uh we all met through HPR we uh there used to be
audio book club that was done monthly and so I was regular on that and then Pokey who was
he was he used to be a lot more involved with HPR than he is these days but he was on there
50 was on there a couple uh one time and then Lyle who's another HPR contributor and then we
figured out that when we were doing the audio book club that we spent half the time cutting out
just us being random so we're like let's just turn that into a show and so we do that now
and it drops on the first of the month so tomorrow there will be a new episode
yeah every now and again Joe and I tend to be making midcast into a book club
discuss audio books yeah I don't do audio books yet I am the audio book
audio books work best for me just because I spend so much time in the car
and if it's not podcasted it's audiobooks so I I find I can get through a lot of stuff
in audiobook form and then when I sit down to read it usually work it's research stuff
so um that's not pleasurable in any way so it's kind of hard to get in that headspace
I've been reading two people for a number of years just anyone that wants to have me call them up
and read them a chapter I do I haven't been very late but then I get very three years to like
read to her first year or so she just fell asleep while I was reading
fortunately she's not listening to me what was that Joe I can barely read what's your favorite
audio book Taj oh um probably of all ten this is this is going to be hard
so the deal with the audio book club is that we did is that everything had to be either public
domain or it had to be under a freely available license so I read other things but that's
that's kind of what the audio book club was from those um I mean I have to go with somebody who
I fell in love with as an author who is now my friend um David Collins Rivera
his book street candles blew my mind and now I can you know he goes by lost and Bronx on here
but I can personally call him a friend which I think is kind of cool but I fell in love with his
work first so um but I like him Nathan Lowell stuff um I'm trying to who is the guy that
I want to say Matthew Williams he did a couple books in a series called tincture which is really good
yes stuff like that cool now when it comes to my favorites I usually have to go with
um either enders game or ready player one just for how well it was done
enders game is awesome uh it was one of my favorite uh books growing up for sure
I have not read the book ready player one I'll be honest I watched the movie and was bored
and then for like two minutes I was happy because Gundam was on the screen and live action and
then after that one away I was bored again so I I don't know that it's it's my stick
well the book is actually um better than the movie but the the premise is pretty much the same
so if you're really into 80s nostalgia then yeah ready player one's good yeah it seemed very like
video game heavy and I'm just not a gamer so even when I was a kid I wasn't a gamer so I
think a lot of the references and stuff just kind of went over my head I was like wow there's
just lots of colors flashing in front of me quickly and I didn't get it so maybe the book would
be better I should probably take some time and read it yeah with the book you get a lot more
movies and uh TV shows along with video games yeah that's probably more of a speed
and it's going to go it really is plus the audiobook has uh will Wheaton as the reader and
actually references himself there's nothing wrong with that that's weird I just crashed out of
the server am I back you are back honky you are lighting up but there's no sound coming out
yeah nothing honky that is really disturbing when I crash out of the server for no good reason
yeah that's that's a little odd mumble tends to be pretty stable
you've ever read any uh Daniel SWART ends no and his name keeps coming up I think didn't he write
uh Damon and I think there's another book in that series freedom yeah I've heard it I've never
actually read it though change it is pretty good to um I haven't yet read uh what is it kill decision
uh which is about drones but I do plan to one of these days well one of my favorite authors who
I am personally acquainted with is Tin Mark Whits he's got an exceptional series called Demon Squad
that just uh it's been compared very favorably to Dresden files sometimes uh to
a gym butcher tends to love the series and keeps writing uh little comments for the blurb for
the covers and whatnot demons squad was pretty good how were you like in the first book from the
Dresden files as I said it's growing on us uh we're we're getting into it pretty well now um we've
gotten right to the chapter where uh the girl that was supposed to be coming to uh with the
sultry voice was coming to meet him and then she turns out dead okay yeah so the shoe hasn't quite
dropped yet no the shoe hasn't dropped yet but boy the the council really has it in for him
we don't like having non-dispassionate people uh in charge of like probation officer
you know what when you're sure that the guy that uh
watching it the guy and get the goods way for good he's not the best position for a probation officer
to be in I might have to switch devices because I got about one word and three on that one oh boy
sorry about that well we need to get going we've got some shopping to do but Tony wanted me to
drop in and say hi so I did all right and thank you for that oh and Tony's back yeah I'll just
finish me supper well we've got to go get some grocery shopping done uh a large portion of which
needs to be kitty litter but um yeah of course so what is it one p.m. your time just after yep
absolutely yeah okay we'll have to go now Joe I'll talk to you some other time about where
at Woodresden he's not there oh right you are there I'm on my phone but my Bluetooth is about to die
so right okay we'll see you guys later on nice talking to your Taj I hope we get some time
to do that again yeah for sure nice to meet you man take it easy everyone okay cheers most
can anybody hear me no so but I got a you can't keep yeah what's that net minor oh it was
net minor sorry home key I thought it was it was you that spoke well I just came on and I was
was a little worried that I wasn't getting through nope we can hear you unlike honky who keeps
keying up and nothing comes through hi Taj hey how you doing yeah I'm all right I've not I don't think
we've spoken before I don't believe so but I take it you're also across the pond yep yep yep I'm in
the US yeah whereabouts I'm right on the border between indian and Kentucky so pretty much
oh right okay I'm on the west coast of the UK you know small small town called Blackpool
I'm in the that minor you dropped out I get we got like the first three syllables of what you said
books like he's having audio problems I'm in the Boston area yeah that late diagnosis thing
or the wrong diagnosis reminded me it took over 40 years for them to discover that I have
Ashberger syndrome a friend of mine when I was at late teenager said your body language is very
odd you can't be transmitting what you what your body language says and in 2003 I discovered that I
had a form of autism called Ashberger syndrome how old were you when you got diagnosed in my 40s
right yeah it's quite difficult when you get an adult diagnosis like that it although in some
ways it can be quite comforting I'm I got diagnosed in my late 40s early 50s has been
having dyspraxia and it once I got the diagnosis it explains so many things from through my life
yeah does help also if I hadn't gone on disability when my mother went into the nursing home I would
they would have taken the house and I'd be on the street so
you know things worked out yeah sometimes these things help and sometimes they don't but
it's probably better to know than not well I've
met some people through through the system and you know you run into other types of
autism and family members of autistic and it can be quite comforting how do you take part in some
of the support groups and support channels yeah follow some of the support channels and I've been
able to pass on something to someone who's got a non-verbal autistic son on YouTube you know
pass on a link helpful about the holidays hmm funny thing is this fella is non-verbal and because
of my version of autism I'm very logic and verbal focused my non-verbal detection system
is completely offline yeah I'm a bit like that also I just ended treatment because I was
finding that my therapist was more interested in proving that her therapy system was
perfection itself instead of listening to the patient yeah I spent 25 years in the health and
coast social care as a professional I'm a qualified mental health nurse and social worker
and we we started changing our approach to working with people particularly with mental health
problems a few years ago where and in physical health problems where the patient is the expert
so that they can tell you what works for them rather than the therapist or the health professional
trying to say this works and you've got to do this well my therapist was a very nice lady but
uh some of the signals where she was thoroughly liberal which is not a good match for me
and she had gotten her PhD without going through a master's program which seems to tell
signal me that she had to be more orthodox than the Pope
also I'm I'm a bit of an odd duck I was raised as a 50s kid in the 60s my folks didn't
were more comfortable with 50s ethics small town USA black and white TV you know leave it to be
worship which was which is a little strange if you're going with kids with long hair and t-shirts
and jeans and sneakers when you're you're in your sports shirt flex and polish shoes
also I learned early that you could do your own thing as long as it looked pretty much like
the own thing of the guy on the left and then the guy on the right
yeah now I'm the the uh the uh I consider myself a refugee from the small towns where my folks came
from right so you what kind of age are you 60s yeah early 60s yeah same as me I was born late late
58 uh spring of 58 for me all right now one of the disconnects that I had was that uh
as someone for my background I have a very strong second amendment views
and my counselor is a logic test one in me to justify the Orlando attack
not very well up on the various amendments to the US Constitution so you might have to add
enlighten me second amendment is keeping bear arms ah right okay well seems like the people who
wrote the constitution felt that the government might stop listening to paper ballots
but a led ballot tends to have an impact if you know what I mean it does um we've pro we may have
different views on that because um I'm a quaker if you know anything about them
uh actually I am and as an aside I saw I went down when I was younger to Philadelphia which is
a originally a Quakers settlement oh yes and and I saw the USS Olympia which is a late 19th century
warship and I saw that they'd replaced the main armament with a couple of telephone poles
and I said well that that's natural they're in Philadelphia a Quaker city and they replaced the
prime armament on this warship with Quaker guns that sounds cool you know I would you know she
would say why should someone have this kind of gun and I said there's a lot of legal
ways to use a gun and I said instead of too many semi-automatics in the club there should have been
somebody doing security who could have stopped this guy the guy had such free reign because there
was nobody else armed um also in America they know when they tighten up the firearms laws the
crime rate goes up yeah I don't know much about American crime statistics so um well the places
that have the tightest arms that that prove to the crooks that they're going to deal with the
disarmed populants have the highest crime rate Chicago New York Baltimore core city yeah because
this part of America where it's perfectly legal to carry a firearm even in open view isn't it well there
is and if you if you're going to break into a house in Texas and level get your ass full of
shotgun yeah bookshop or you're going to break into a house in New York and know
know that the homeowner is not allowed to protect himself but the interesting thing of that
logic test was after a while I would answer a bunch of questions about legal uses of firearms and
she keep pushing keep pushing and when I asked her to stop because it was beginning to be painfully
clear we weren't getting anywhere and I was getting emotionally overwrought she she considered
that time to do further experimentation well that reawoke my PTSD which I had gotten from
similar interrogations over the dinner table non-military PTSD right and she wouldn't
I asked for time out anything that I could but she wouldn't stop now my PTSD the nice guy goes away
and I have a very reactive protective system that is very logical uh think of
an evil spark if you want and it took her six months to understand that she was triggering
my PTSD that's no good well when the mode that I call surviving veteran comes up
uh basically in glorious bastard verbal division uh that's not a place I want to be
also I because things were so impossible in session I actually physically collapse because I
I tried to shut myself down so I wouldn't be uh it just got too nasty going to sessions
and since I asked for help and spent 13 years asking for help and didn't get much
uh except whatever you say is a distortion or is inaccurate is I say thank you very much but uh
uh I'm out of here just just two seconds can we wish our listeners in Indian parts of India
in Sri Lanka happy New Year New Delhi Mumbai Kolkata Bangalore it's just gone over your midnight
well happy new year to all of those many people and many cultures yeah well thank you very much
for your understanding uh I tend to get tripped on this sort of stuff yeah it's all right um like
I say I spent 20 old years as a mental health nurse uh I and I've had my own personal mental health
issues over the years before even before I yeah started my own training and and went into the field
um so uh I've got sub insight into you know various things um around mental health and you know
disabilities and things so one thing so one thing is everyone's different you know you can never
say that you understand exactly just because you've got a personal problem yourself you can never
say you understand the person like yourself you're talking to me now I can't understand what
it your experience is because I've not lived it uh because you're that experience even if we
have the same condition it'd be totally different oh yes Ashberger syndrome is considered an
obsolete term they changed they changed the book however my condition didn't seem to change when
they put up a new addition yeah they just call it part of the autistic spectrum these those
yeah and we're all on that spectrum at some point that's what a lot of people don't really
understand yeah well back in the day I would explain that I'm like commander data
yeah and back on another topic back in the day my first Linux machine was a 16
megabyte 386 sx40 it was a snail but it was a racing snail
ah can beat you my first machine was a one mega mega mega 386 that I upgraded to
four meg and that was that was a dog
my first machine which died through power failure or bad power uh was a CPM machine
with two 400 k floppies and 64k of RAM wow when I built my first off machine it was a PC clone
and the big disk was a uh 1.4 meg floppy and I had something like a two meg EMS card in there
for for for speed yeah I remember in the early 90s I was in worked in a detox unit and there's a
clinician and we were allowed to go into the admin office when we were on night duty and used
the computer in there which would have been a 386 or a 486 with the three and a half inch floppy
drives and we weren't allowed to save anything to the hard drive on the machine we had to use
floppy drives to save any of our work because otherwise we'd have clogged up the machine because
it probably already had about 150 meg of hard drive space
my first experience of Unix was at MIT a PDP 1145 with an 80 meg hard drive about the size of a
small hazard and they had night TVs well if you think of a multi yeah your individual keyboard
and an individual black and white or green screen so it was like the entire video system was
running on something like a multi-headed Hercules right that's gone right open my head that
is because like I say that was where you before I really got interested in the technology behind
all this stuff well that's well Hercules was PC graphics but they did graphics on a black and
white screen yeah right in lieu of the IBM's where you had the good video but text only
or you had colors and lower resolutions so Hercules was one of the first ones where you got
wizzy wig in your word star or word perfect or whatever right yeah I remember first hearing that
term wizzy wig I'm thinking what the I think going all about and then he's started to make sense
in the end well they had screen savers if the nobody was logged in but they
tended to they had to revise them because this was at MIT a college with a lot of male nerds
and the scanned images were not exactly safe for work although also when I went over to the AI lab
and saw one of their fancy 8086 systems that they'd hand wired lovingly and may have had
a couple of mix of memory or whatever they also had a rather mature video to show off their
their big screen that's a nice you for my mature video that's good well it was an early
MIT had its own version of internet called chaos net and back when I had an account there I
actually had internet access first time through the MIT system by the way I still have a Pentium 1
with 32 megabytes of RAM oh my old Pentium's have gone years ago well I have that a P4
and a XP era seller on hanging around the P1 I keep for running three dots which is the
open source does cloud yeah when I pick up the project again I'm going to try to get it network
to the rest of my machines though it may be networked through a secondary ethernet port
and not really networked to or not not often open to the rest of the network I mean rest of the
internet right as Ken would say this is showing that
well my first storage medium for computer programs was teletype paper tape wow
and have you ever seen the data the tape cartridges about the size of a cassette
for every year yeah I worked up on a 16 bit PDP 11 micro that had a couple of those for instead in
lieu of floppy storage they were about they were about a quarter quarter megabyte right well they
actually still used tape back up in a job that I was in in 2012 we had a computer system I was
working in healthcare in the prison system in the UK here and so back up all our database for
the healthcare part that I was working in we had a tape recorder that you could swap out once
a day so that you were only 12 or 24 hours but if you did need to do a system restore you could
put in the tape from the day before and then get your system back up and running and that was a tape
back up but obviously capacity wise it was probably a bit more than quarter of a mega whatever
well the interesting thing is that this used a micro computer as the brains of the tape unit
also it was block replaceable which is to say it behaved like a floppy it what didn't behave like a
tape drive but then again your seek times could be go out for coffee but the real
kicker was the link between the tape unit and your mini computer was 38.4
serial it redefines slow yeah I should imagine it does I mean it made a 56 k bar modem look like you know
hot stuff yeah I remember the old printer cables with the massive great big serial connector on
the end of for the computer and for the printer and they were massive yeah I still have a
dot matrix printer with the with the old centronix parallel cable which is a little different
shape but same pin out at one end yeah how computing this changed over the last 20 years
for even longer oh yeah I was on dial up for way too long but but when when XP was around you
could support it over dial up oh yeah yeah I was I think the the early part of when I was running
XP back in 2002 2003 I had ADS no I had the predecessor to ADSL where you got two two phone lines
and use that so instead of getting 56 k you have 128 k connection and then I went to ADSL and got
a massive 512 yeah I've got the world's largest collection of 56 k modems again they've all been
consigned to the ethernet in the sky from my end yeah well I'm
one of the things that's on on my to do list down the road is to put in some kind of server here
since I'm basically in Ubuntu or derivatives based I'd like to build an upgrade server
with a Raspberry Pi or something so that when my systems do their upgrades they don't have to go out
to the DSL they just go out to the local copy okay because when I upgrade you know I've got two or
three machines here and whenever they do an update they all have to go out to the
out through the DSL so you but you still on what you call it over the telephone for your
internet or are you on cable you know fiber optic oh fiber is not here and cable around here is
scomcast or affinity and it's I'm gonna link up to me also it has a volume cap although I don't
know if I'd ever touch it oh I'm on a service that doesn't have any volume cap so quite lucky with
that yeah well I'm on yeah I DSL doesn't have a volume cap they just know that you can't
hold down the big stuff just like someone with fiber or yeah yeah it just takes a lot longer so
you're not actually chewing through that much data because it takes longer to do it yeah it's
amazing I downloaded a ISO of the Ubuntu studio the other the other day to to have a play with that
and thank you it took me about 12 minutes to download three and a half gig and that would
it take in the weeks back in the day yep probably hang you on dial up is why I
I am more into still images than videos also you know I just haven't had I'm not addicted to
well I'm addicted to YouTube stuff but that's a little different
do you get that over your mobile phone what mobile phone yeah oh sell your network
no this DSL over copper all right okay so you you're still using your main PC to access your
oh yeah yeah well I'm using individual PC use to access YouTube
right I have a tablet that I want to work with but that's one of the other projects getting
Android to talk to Ethernet or talk to my other machines by usb without using Wi-Fi
right so if you've not got a Wi-Fi network at home then no it's all hardwired right
living on my own I've been able to spin network cables through
various openings and door frames wherever I need to go yeah yeah it just doesn't for me it wouldn't
work because both me and the wife have both got cell phones and you know connecting them
hardwired is virtually impossible I'm not saying it isn't possible but because you can you can use
tethering and things like that wired tethering but and it's just a lot more convenient to have a Wi-Fi
network oh I understand that but um the security questions about Wi-Fi just have kept me
gun shy of it I'm also not on social media for similar reasons yeah I must have met I'm a bit
of a social media free free I've got so many different social media channels set up it's
unbelievable but that's partly because I use some of them for the podcast that I'm on oh I
understand that for someone who's got a presence out there that's active or is actually producing
material that's one reason why I keep myself to strictly secondary roles on the one podcast that
I'm a member of yeah is it to look cast or TD to the other one that you're on yeah I'm on
luck cast as well look with Joe and honking yeah
is there a chance anybody can hear me I can hear you hey there you oh you stop so I had
pair of headphones on that apparently had a microphone attached to it or something I don't think
the microphone works on that so now I'm sitting in my car waiting for it to get registered and I'm
over Bluetooth yeah you're on you're on your honky mobile connection I can see it yeah yep
excuse me just for a couple of seconds I've just had a message on ebay I'm just typing
hey hey net monitor hey Joe long time no talk hey honky what's up not much just
killing time we'll sit in here waiting for I'm in line to a car inspector so always fun oh yeah
apparently everybody likes to wait till the last day of the month to go get their car
inspector myself and myself included I guess so is that the American equivalent to what we call our
MOT is it a safety jet that you have to have done well it's steeped by seat on whether or not they
have to have the inspection but it's a safety and emissions did you have to have it done once a
year yeah well like I said depending on the state yeah yeah once a vehicle three years old in
this country yeah do I then and you'll safely in an emissions check I think your first check
lasts two years and then you have to do it every year after that right at least in Texas anyway
you get when you buy a brand new car you get three years and then at the end of the three years
you've got to do it out this annual safety check in emissions yeah well it's a big the annual
inspections around here I'm in Massachusetts are a major moneymaker for for a lot of repair shops
yeah it's the same here at least in El Paso and they like to tack on things like you could have
gone to Walmart and purchased windshield wipers and put them on yourself the day before the
inspection but on the day of inspection they're going to say that you need new windshield wipers
that's a bit naughty just a bit yeah my wife's paranoid about having the check done once a year
so she takes hers to the local the local council our local authority I've got a motor division where
they'll do them up they'll do the test but they don't repair it so there's no mileage in them saying
it's faulty or not faulty because they don't get any of the repair work so she always takes it
there to get her test done and then takes it back to the dealers to get the work done if there's
anything needs to do it well this guy's known for piling on you ask him to fix something that needs
fixing and he will replace everything that looks like it's more than you know a year old then you
get this and then you get this enormous bill and he says by the way if you don't
pay up now I've out tack on storage fees oh that's nasty well this guy is a reasonably nasty guy
he fenced there's been a lot of there's a segment of my property by the stream bank which my
family's been using for 50 years but he decided well it's attached to his deed so he fenced
right up the middle of my driveway now my other option was to give him as much of my backyard as
as he wanted which I might have done if there was negotiations but his idea of as much of my
backyard is as much he would not give me access to the rear of my property again he wanted
he wanted to take his slice out of the middle by the way there was no
talk of paying me or compensating me for the additional property he was going to use it was just um
I'm your neighbor I have this parking lot I want to expand it you have flat ground
I can just run offense behind your house with no necessary clearance so you can't get back to
your the backside of your property but I would have what I want and the law has got no
recompense with that well just cost too much for the legal will well I finally had him fence the
boundary which was based on 1917 boundaries and a lot of land had been filled since then also my
septic system came into question because it was just across the line onto his property and he
wanted it out of there it had been previously grandfathered because it wasn't polluting or anything
but now that he he and his friends at town hall discovered it wasn't meeting current standards
eventually I'll have to hook up to surge and pay fees for for something that's taken care of
naturally and has been for the last 50 years but I understand she has very friendly relations
with people in the town hall very special rates if they need repairs or expensive parts
friends in high places as we call it yeah well you know my lawyer who I engaged
said that his lawyer was a shark so there was no dealing through there and the only time that I
got a map of what he wanted to take of my property was through my lawyer he of course would not
inform me because I was just the person who had the property that he wanted to acquire
yeah he would he would trade the stream bank and the stream for my back garden that's not quite
the same though is it you can't exactly put put a patio on the stream well it makes parking
difficult yeah so now the boundary going up the former edge of the stream from 100 years ago
means there's a fence up my driveway the one saving grace is that that my town is supposed to
replace the bridge that was near my property and their project is slipping about a year per year
so as far as I'm concerned they can replace that bridge when I'm 75 or 85 with my blessing
because I'm on a fixed income and I don't want to have to pay for surge
on top of my taxes and everything until I have to now I'm depressed and I find the
holiday season depressing but the fact that the town is not replacing the bridge in any kind of
seems to not to be replacing it in any kind of hurry I find quite comforting
yeah I'm lucky I've got decent neighbours but I also don't have much land for people to
try and steal off me well this gentleman to abuse that term quite heavily is supposed to take
a corner of my of what used to be my property and have a settling pond for runoff from his
uh his parking area now he has used the corner that he has been able to reclaim again I'm using
the abusing the term but as a parking area for his vehicles there is no sign of a settling pond
being installed and with with the differential enforcement shall we say I will be surprised if the
mandated plan for him to have a settling pond for the parking lot that he already has appears
and since he's a business and I'm a homeowner the balance of forces is a little
adverse on my side yeah however I do have a good neighbour
and I may suggest to them that they expand their parking area into my front garden
for one thing you would add a parking space or two to their their situation it would give me
an area that I could use in the rare occasion that I need a driveway and coincidentally if they
plow our combined property the logical end of that plow run is against my other butters
vents now it would be terrible if when they're plowing their property that something happened
to his offensive fence but I would write into the agreement that I'm not responsible for any
damage to the abutting fence right and if one business wants to get a disagree with another I'm
perfectly wine with people with deep pockets fighting each other now just step out of the way also
the gentleman who went fence man also fenced a large amount of the boundaries
outside his business area a large part of what was my boundaries just to make certain that I
didn't have access to anything that wasn't actually my property so he blocked off a portion of your
property to prevent you from going on to someone else's property now he followed the border but
what I'm saying is the fencing that he put up was not just to secure his property but to secure
a mine so that I I didn't have a back back way across so what had been a small patch of woodland
when this guy got upset he went to extremes to make certain that my boundaries were enforced
in the most inconvenient way but then again I'm going to have to do some research I'm planning
on crowned funding his wake with his friendly nature I'm sure that I would I may have to rent a large
stadium to celebrate that event but I'm going to go stay well for about half an hour because I've
just realized I've got to go and pick something up so I shall try and get back on later
well you can't go away at all that's absence without leave you certainly have
leave to come and go as you please thank you very much okay guys I'll talk to you later
doctor later yes I think I might try and find some more more work
that minor did you ever make it to one of the MIT yard sales
oh yes I've gone to the MIT fleet many times still have some treasures from that
I don't know if they still have them anymore that's no good I know you and I were talking about
that a lot back and I ever made it to one actually I had some activities in the old building 20
which was one of which was the last temporary world war two building that they tore down just
before the turn of the century where they had their computer club they had their model railroad
they had a PDP 10 that was an interesting beast to see filling filling one of the lab bays
and I also saw a couple of IBM tape drives what you're an impressive monument to
heavy duty industrial design you know your what would be a USB cable was as thick as your arm
and the mini computer stuff that they were actually running was digital equipment corporation
and they talked about the difference between a digital tape drive and the IBM monsters that they had
there the digital drives would be rather lightweight and if they fell off a truck you'd just have
to sweep them up with the IBM drives as they fell off a truck you'd have to fill the bottle what's that
digital drives were built okay but they were built to modern you know plastics and lightweight
materials the IBM drives which came back from basically the 50s
if they fell off a truck you'd have to pull them out of the pothole and then fill it these
things were monster well hold me hearties hello is that he has a pirate out here it is a handsome
pirate that minor here what's your handles there sorry I didn't catch it pirate yes the original
libertarians it's more because I like rum I was tickled to find that pirates would
often elect their captains although I suspect their methods of impeachment were a little more physical
than ours there's a lot of caveats to a saying pirates would elect their captains yes well
well it was all a cutthroat politics well now that I'm in within the realm of being a semi-professional
mariner turns out that people that go to see for a living don't actually like pirates well yeah
but then again
perform pirates you know are far more civil than a lot of people a lot of professional
mariners consider pirates to be terrorist and nothing more on a related note people that work in
maritime museums also similarly generally dislike pirates because to the general public any boat
with sales is automatically a pirate ship no matter what it actually is is pirate ships the
assault weapons of the sea yeah basically yeah it's like what the media how the media treats guns
is how the general public treats pirate ships semi-professional mariners may I ask what kind of
semi-professional work you do or are you a charter or fisherman or what I am an engineer on a
97-year-old wood pastor steamship yeah there's none of that going on well unless the weather kicks
off I usually don't care about the weather because I'm in the engine room so
and when you say steamship you're actually meaning real honest to goodness boiling water steam right
yes with a 115-year-old triple expansion steam engine I yes an engine that invented the
phrase shake rattle and roll not really not less not less it's out of balance well I'm just
I follow some of the warship channels and they they talk about if you unleash such a beast at high speed
well it has a limited time at red line before bad things happen well uh the
reality of the situation is most steam engines can go faster than what the boiler that
sucked up to them can supply them with steam yes so they're they're really de-rated unless they're in
like military service or something where or things get crazy anyway actually the mill the navy
would de-rate them even more than civilians who would get on medical people what is de-rate run it
at less than maximum power output think of it as not only lowering your red line but
but adjusting your throttle linkage so you can't get above x rpm or what have you well like I said
in practical sense pretty much in every single case you run out of steam before you hit the point
where the uh it becomes dangerous to run the engine so the uh the maximum speed for a steam engine
determined by boiler output rather than the engine itself at 99.9% of the time I mean I could
sit here and take a little uh like a little steward kit steam engine they can you can buy online
and hook that up to a boiler and run that until it explodes but that'd be a ridiculous scenario
you know we have a 800 gallon boiler you know if I'm running a six inch tall steam engine you know
that would be that would be ridiculous yeah my brothers uh long haul trucker and
and everything that he's got a very powerful system but everything is is governed down to
for more uh long life than than the full power that his his equipment can actually produce
as an aside speaking of a long life a steam engine will uh if properly maintained and by
properly maintained I mean oiled and really that's about it kept clean all that uh properly
maintained steam engine will last pretty much forever right they don't really wear out well yeah
I mean they're literally classic example of the tortoise I mean takes a licking and keeps on
ticking you know step slow and steady I mean I've seen some of the huge london pumping engines
that are that have been running for incredible amounts of time well the engine I work on
has several million miles on it and is uh well there's absolutely no reason why it couldn't be
going in another five or six hundred years you know I'm just throwing that number out there but
if at its uh current uh stay it in uh current maintenance level it could be it
it'll just keep going forever hey they're honky even in their handsome but well it's not
evening isn't well afternoon there hide some pirate uh it's still warning for me
were you at where it's still morning I had two thirty in the afternoon of the northeast
yeah I moved to Seattle here about four years ago nice it's uh it's uh it's a starting to look
like we're not going to get fireworks tonight because they're calling for lots of wind and rain oh
yeah now do you still work on the uh the boat uh yeah we're just talking about that
I forget do you live on the boat I used to live on a different boat not uh but not anymore
and I live in an apartment okay is it was it is it a steamboat uh the boat I lived on
is the tugboat Arthur Falls it's the oldest wood tugboat afloat in the world and that boat I work
on is a steamship okay yeah I've seen them resurrecting some steam engines and
getting hit or missed stuff on YouTube it's amazing I mean they can bring stuff back to life
that's been sitting in the woods for you know decade now if the if the thing was built
school coming to begin with and uh makes it easier to uh bring it back to life by the way one of the
uh channels that that I watch is uh is a steam powered machine shop on YouTube now he's in winter
hiatus at the moment but it might be interesting to to steam aficionados to he has a regular machine
shop and then he has one that's built around theoretically 1925 or so a line shaft driven
steam engine powered shop uh could you uh toss the link to the YouTube channel on the show notes
is that be cool we'll put it up on someone in rc or something yeah I'm gonna try to dig that out
right now I don't have the show notes up so I'm gonna have to take that up but I'll do a little
uh google full and get around so if they do the fireworks up your way are you gonna watch them
from the boat uh yeah actually because where we dock has a uh has a is line of sight with the
spacing door they shoot the fireworks from all they shoot them from the needle that's pretty cool
so yeah that I mean that's uh that's what I've been for New Year's for the last uh oh I think
every New Year's have flew to here actually that's cool yeah we don't take the boat out into the lake
because well for one thing we don't need to because we're already it's already in line of sight
where we dock but also uh there's a lot of uh amateurs out there that are gonna be very drunk
yeah that is true that's a pretty cold up there in the northwest uh it's like 50 today
it's about what it is here too yeah it doesn't actually get that cold up here like
although funny thing is I live north of about 70% of the population of Canada
all right gentlemen I need a little guidance on where I should put my uh
uh contribution to the show notes there's a link to it on uh if you go to hacklebookradio.org
right near the very beginning there's a link that I'll have that'll give um there's a link to my
etherpad there so okay which Lulu are we here which time segment are we in
oh got you apparently we just missed New Year's for our Afghanistan by like four minutes
is I guess uh there are time is shifted by 30 minutes from everybody else
so it could be completely honest it really doesn't matter which time part you put it in as long as
it's next in the segment of um uh links because I'll just pretty much go straight down that line
and if the there's a link in there I'll I'll be able to find it
well if the rain lets out then uh the front of mine are going to go around and uh they're
going to be in their first suit and then we'll be taking pictures of them I think I missed that
what uh you're going to be taking pictures of them and what in first suit what's first suit
they're furry oh first suit got you honky the second David Richards is supposed to be a link
but I don't know if it came over as a link okay uh apparently the number of people driving in
Seattle is uh dropping on a annual basis it was either taking the bus or driving or uh taking
the bus or uh riding bikes or walking yeah even I was just going to say even in southern
cattle we hear about how bad the traffic is in Seattle actually I found interestingly new
accommodation requirement that if you're doing home renovation or building or business building
in Seattle you have to have accommodations for the homeless that is uh not true oh really
sorry about that I apologize it was a maybe it's Portland sometimes I get a brain phase
and in fact the uh mayor of Seattle is uh very anti-hungless and is a former federal prosecutor
not exactly a raving communist yeah then there must have been Portland they decided to solve the
homeless problem by forcing everybody else to take care of it anyway the way you solve the uh
traffic problem at least in a city like Seattle like there's no space to build more roads
so the only way you can solve the traffic problem is to get fewer cars on the road and so
that means better bus service well actually Boston has taken a slice out of that
what you basically do is take your big highways and bury them underground uh we tried that we uh
spent a few billion dollars on a tunnel under downtown and the above ground road it replaced
had something like five times the traffic that the blue ground tunnel at gets
people just aren't using it so we basically wasted a few billion dollars on something that no one
uses well since Boston was pretty much choking uh also a lot of people in Boston are
are uh going to points north um being able to bypass the actual connections to the city where
was a bonus Seattle doesn't really have a lot of points north with heavy traffic require
yeah not really I mean there's Vancouver but that's Canada well Boston is you know
three whole states north of us some of whom are remarkably sane so yeah anyway the only way that
at least Seattle is going to fix the traffic problems is to get get rid of cars you know at least
make it so that people don't drive to work every day and unfortunately we're about to the point
we're the only way to make to continue the current trend is to uh start uh enforcing tolls downtown
or something like that because you know like I have a neighbor who well we both live a block
from the bus stop and the bus comes every six minutes and where my neighbor works his downtown
a block from a bus stop and yet he drives every single day he doesn't ride the bus and there's no
reason for him to drive he like he doesn't go to the grocery store every day and it's just silly
so he's adding to the traffic problem he's contributing to the problem and just because his personal
convenience is uh more important than the common good well that's what London has turned on in the
central city they have a congestion fee there's talk of doing that here and that's probably going to
be the thing that's going to be required to get people to stop driving downtown of course the flip
side of that is the police here adult and forced traffic laws so people probably still drive
downtown anyway and just not pay the fee I've never lived anywhere where the police force was so
useless as it is in Seattle they do absolutely nothing to enforce traffic laws well I'm a pedestrian
one of the interesting things that I found out here is we have a two-tier public transportation
system they have computer commuter rail which is focused on those who drive cars and then they
have the buses and subways which is focused on those that don't drive I'm sorry I must uh could
you repeat that last part they have the commuter rail which is focused on
providing an alternative to those who drive and then they have buses and subways and a parallel
system which is focused on those who don't drive well here uh there is uh a limited
amount of commuter rail um if you live up a narrator down in Tacoma you could ride the train up
to Seattle but uh that's about it there used to be an interurban network but that got all
ripped out here about 80 years ago and of course now they're spending billions of dollars putting
it back again well what what I find interesting is a few blocks from my house there's a commuter rail
station a block from my house there's a bus stop they're very careful however to keep
a couple of blocks distance between the bus stop and the commuter rail station a lot of times
that sort of thing happens because there's people on the board that are actively trying to sabotage
public transit and so they they deliberately do little things like that to make it slightly harder
to use like here we have uh on the sound transit board there's a dude that's extremely anti-transit
and he's always doing everything he can to sabotage any efforts to make transit here better
yes well we have slow and
reasonably wide open transit and then we have fast but it's focused largely on commuters
uh I will say something like half the population of Seattle writes a bus every day in Seattle
so I'm very glad at least of that if uh all there's all these people drove instead then you
just wouldn't be able to get around it would be total gridlock yeah my brother's a long haul trucker
and sometimes he has to deal with the lost city of Atlanta yeah Atlanta and the civil
and civil cities in Texas are uh extreme uh demonstrations of what happens if you
design your entire city around cars and only cars and everything else is second class
and it winds up being really bad for everybody well as a trucker
Atlanta has solved its trucking traffic problem by banning trucks on through routes unless they're
doing a delivery within Atlanta well I mean trucks are such a small small chunk of the problem though
that that's like say uh that's like during the straw ban like it's stupid well the beltway
I guess is insane yeah the northern routes into Los Angeles are um lots of truck traffic I mean on
a four lane highway you may have three lanes of trucks oh uh gentlemen
some of the geniuses in congress would like to have a national 55-min hour speed limit for trucks
yeah we have that in California and it doesn't work that's one of the reasons you have three lanes
of truck traffic heading south is because you have some people that that follow that and you have
the others that they're just trying to get their delivery done so they need to pass them
hey they're uh trying to solve problems the complete opposite way of the way they need to be solved
well also California does not believe in 53-foot tractor trailers so trucks have to be
have to have their rear wheels moved um the rear bogey moves into the California hole
which doesn't sometimes make sense from a loading standpoint but is required because
California has scurry engineering steps uh I have to admit my biggest complaint with
California is people from California moving to Seattle yeah there's far too many people here
well my dad god rest his soul said the liberals in Massachusetts were moving up into Vermont and
New Hampshire because of low taxes and you know limited government limited this limited that
but they were bringing their same attitudes with them
and it really um was polluting the water well Seattle's going the other way
uh it's a bunch of conservatives moving in Seattle uh 50 years ago was 95 percent unionized
wow that's pretty good that's the I'm sorry unfortunately a lot of conservatives are I've got mine
types yeah that's exactly what it is and a lot of them work for the uh big company that starts with
that nay a and has a smile for their logo oh yeah yeah as a funny thing side thing I went over to
uh Jeff Bezos's balls the other day and stroked them in the hopes that some of his wolf would trickle
out but nothing happened it just had a security guard run me away yes I was watching a podcast about
gender roles and stuff and one of the guys said the reason there aren't women and
CEO position is that they're saying the guys who get out on top are just absolutely nuts
80 hour work weeks and you know no life outside the the job and they build giant balls as a statue
to themselves yes well I'm conservative and chivalrous which flies like lead balloon around here
people are saying we have to have women in these executive positions if you translate it into
real world terms we have to get more women into insane positions say what maybe they're hoping
that if women come in it won't be so insane well my around here a lot of women go into our local
beaches and go into the ocean and unfortunately their sweetness has not reduced its salt content
and the problem is the problem is that yes the women will go up but the only women that
they succeed tend to be turned into the same kind of flexible morals shall we say sharks
as their male counterparts yeah I was gonna say that I wasn't so much I mean I used to work all kinds
of hours and you know anytime they'd ask me to come in I would come in until my youngest grandson
was born and now it's like no I've already worked 40 hours I'm going to get on the video and talk
to my grandson I am a card carrying member of the IWW also MEBA yeah I've never worked in a unionized
workplace well if you go into marine engineering well they do anything marine related it's
outside of little small charter vessels are fishing boats it's gonna be unionized good for them yeah
the unions tend to have interesting friends
like mr Luciano well I mean I'm not exactly saying that unions are perfect but it's better than
nothing the alternative is the boss man walks all over you and shits all of you agree I had some
interesting insights from an uncle who lived down in Baton Rouge I don't recall his business
but labor has had an interesting interaction with management down there he said a manager would ask
his workers to do something and they would do it if he told his workers to do something
uh things wouldn't go well well that's kind of just management 101 right there you know
trade your employees like humans and you'll get better work out of them well I'm up here around
New England where unions tend to be a little different my brother was working um
installing telephone cable and whatnot
and as last joined he was in the union and he got laid off but the union still wanted their
dues so he found that to be a little impractical yeah a friend of mine who was in media production
said that after you get to a certain size you have to have a teamster's representative steward
on the job to basically allow your union systems to function but then again the unions have been
a great boon to automation I must apologize my telephone rang and I had to answer that
but yeah working uh being in the union and working a union job and my experience is light
here is ahead and better than working the non-union jobs in North Carolina
well it can be it depends on who the unions working for I mean in a lot of areas the
unions do do some good but some some of them are less functional I mean
you know shipbuilding up here that sort of thing well my uh meba dues are basically not much
different than what I used to pay for health insurance and all that stuff and in exchange then
I get health insurance for the enemy meba and retirement and all kinds of shiny stuff like that
training and it's basically the same out there so I was paying for health insurance all
that sort of thing when I was working for red hats in North Carolina well I'm saying when it works
for you now in some areas the unions are looking for a very high mineral wage except for union jobs
which would um well it leaves me to be curious about what kind of wages would be allowed under union
well in places that are in places where you don't have a lot of uh strong unions the wages are a lot
lower and I say this of experience I was I was an electrician a licensed electrician in North
Carolina and what I made there is probably a quarter of what a union electrician makes pretty much
anywhere with strong unions like I mean and it's pretty ridiculous the difference in wages
again there are some unions that work for the member and then there are some unions who
are a secondary management well oh yeah we forgot to say happy new years to uh Russia
Russia is pretty big don't they have multiple time zones I think Russia is like all one time zone
it's all Moscow time but also happy new years to Dubai Abu Dhabi and Muscat and also it is a time
for me to take my leave and I'm gonna go downtown in a background for a little while yeah I'll take care
now well take care be careful and you're welcome back any time of course it's been a pleasure
thank you very much yeah I'll probably be back on later this evening so anyway see you all later
and to those in Muscat thank you for your lovely beverage
I wonder if that'll work for these people have all turned off like they muted themselves if you go like
someone around hello you still out there yeah I'm here where are we going me it's Tony
oh hey Tony I don't know who it was I'm echo me again I don't know what's going on
that poll yeah I'm here yeah if you've got someone got my
speakers open uh maybe no do you want to say hi hi Sally hi hi Sally hi Sally hi Sally hi
hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hello hi Hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hybrid
Okay, uh, our voices come back to us through your
Okay.
But other than that, your audio sounds good.
Yeah, it did.
Good Lord.
I'm still finding bottle rockets.
You find what?
Bottle rockets.
Bottle rockets.
Yeah.
I'm going through inventorying our fireworks.
Ah, so we know what to get.
And I just keep coming up with more bottle rockets.
I don't do fireworks.
I finally got my son to love them as much as I do.
Yeah.
Now, when I was a child, my pair, uh, we celebrate, uh,
guy folks night over here on the 5th of November or a few days either side of
that and tradition is that you, you have a bomb fire and you have fireworks.
And when we were little, when I was about eight or nine, uh,
the smallest box of fireworks you could get at the time,
cost five shillings back in the 1960s.
And, uh, my parents gave us the option we could either burn five shillings,
or we could have two and six months between me and each, uh, me and my sister.
So we decided to have the money.
And I've been a skimplanes ever since.
Yeah, that sounds like something a parent would do, eh?
Yeah, I suppose it was a lesson in the value of money.
I didn't say then there's gone then there's, okay, sorry.
I was going to say, yeah, but then there's, you know,
the amount of pleasure or joy that you can get from that, you know,
and you, you do fireworks or something else.
So, yeah, whatever.
Yeah, I didn't say them any money because they still spent the five shillings.
They just gave me an assist of the five shillings between us.
Right.
Understood.
All right, Tony, well, let me go with this and I'll just be listening with.
I, I just bought King because I heard a couple of voices.
So, uh, because I've been listening and there's been no one there.
Yeah, same here.
There were some people on earlier this morning for me anyway.
Yeah, but I couldn't, couldn't really speak at the time.
So, I didn't chime in much.
Hello there.
I've also been lurking for a few minutes as well.
Hi, Wimpy.
How are you?
Hello, hello, very well.
How are you?
Not too bad.
Not too bad.
I've been geeking out with matchbox models for the last couple of months.
What?
As in teeny tiny ones or like larger scale models?
No, teeny tiny ones, the original small scale matchbox.
Is this rediscovering stuff you've already got or buying new things?
No, buying new stuff.
I, uh, I came from a, a working class family that didn't have a lot of money to throw around when it,
when I was eight, nine, ten.
So I could never afford them at the time.
So, uh, I'm kind of really living my youth.
Yeah, I think that's a, there's a lot of that going on amongst our generation right now,
revisiting the sort of, uh, the, the luxury items that we could never quite afford.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, but I'm, I'm talking about the 60s.
So, uh, it was the original, it wasn't, it wasn't these ones with the flashy wheels.
And, uh, that you risked out a track.
It was the ones that came with a, there were more realistic looking wheels than,
yeah.
So I think you might be half a generation older than me because I grew up in the 70s.
Yeah, you're, you're similar generation to Popeye.
Yeah, we're, we're both, uh, 1972 vintage human meat.
Yeah.
I'm 1958 vintage.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's talking, talking to Popeye about when he, uh, got into computers earlier on.
And, uh, we were, when he was getting, getting his first computer, I was, uh,
a merchant navy engineer in the middle of the ocean, somewhere.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good 10 years ahead of us in that regard, I think, yeah.
Yeah.
So I got into computers a bit later because they never, they never came into school when I, uh, until,
no, no, no, they wouldn't have been, yeah.
No.
Yeah, we all love our areas.
Um, so what you've been up to, review, oh, that, well, you're on, uh, how, how's progress going on with a bunch of marty for the recipe pie?
Well, uh, if I'm honest, um, there's been zero progress there from, from my point of view.
Um, uh, every so often I need to just take a bit of a break from, there's, there's kind of this blur between what is work
and what is my hobby and then when your hobby starts feeling like work,
your passion dies for it a little bit.
Yeah, I've taken some of that.
Yeah.
So I've taken a bit of a step back.
So if you spoke to Popeye earlier, he may have hinted at some silly nonsense.
We've been doing recently, which is with me, Gavin.
Yeah.
Yeah, we were talking about the, right, right.
Okay.
So yeah, we've been revisiting that.
So that has become my, sort of since the release of 1910, working on that and figuring out how we can do that as being like my past time.
Yeah, and that's been good.
It's been refreshing and energizing.
So yeah.
So I'm enjoying that.
And, you know, after we come back after this sort of, you know, holiday period, then it'll be more, you know, stuff to do with a bunch of marty and work.
But, yeah, I've been enjoying just playing some computer games with my mate, frankly.
Sound good, actually.
Yeah, yeah, it's really good fun.
It's, you know, it's, it's, it, we're trying to recreate what it was like to go around your mates house with your eight-bit computer back in the day and play those games.
And, and that's what we're doing.
And we're recreating the arguments that go with it as well.
Great.
When you do get around to coming back to a bunch of marty for the Raspberry Pi, we're thinking about doing another Raspberry Pi special on the cast.
All right.
Okay.
Maybe you could come and talk about it.
Oh, yeah, totally.
Yeah, I'm always up for, you know, having a chat with, you know, other podcasters and people in the community about this stuff.
And encouraging them to get involved.
So, yeah, totally no problem.
Yeah, like your recent brunch we bred to interview, that was good.
Thank you very much.
That was a lot of fun.
All credit to hear myself, really.
Yeah, it did sound like it, actually.
And you did big daddy interview your rock out as well.
Yeah, I did.
Yeah, I thought I thought I'd go like two weeks after brunch with Brent.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I was, I did a few things.
Obviously with the change of role, I was a bit surprised, actually.
I mean, where else would internal, you know, reallocation of staff create that much interest outside of the organization.
It's a bit weird.
But yeah, I so I did did the rounds on some of the podcasts at that time.
It was a good time.
Yeah, that, I think you better remember correctly.
The interview with Rocca was a couple of hours, wasn't it?
Yeah, and it didn't feel like it.
So I just followed his lead.
He just said, we're just going to record for as long as it takes to record.
And I'm going to ask the questions and you're going to answer them and we'll see where the conversation goes.
I think it's two and a half hours, which I realize a lot of people just aren't going to have the time or pace.
I think I split it into two sessions.
Yeah, at least.
No, but it was good into you.
Both of them were actually really interesting.
Yeah, I, they were good fun.
Yeah.
So how you settling into the new day job?
Yeah, I think I've just about figured it out now.
So I'm looking forward to getting back next week and we've got a lot lined up and a lot going on.
Yeah, the commercial dynamics of that position are something that most people will never hear about or really appreciate.
But there's, you know, there's a big part of it is, you know, being successful with the OEMs.
And that's something that I'm going to put a lot of energy into, which won't resonate very much.
You know, at, you know, in the community, but I think it's important for the sustainability of what we're doing.
So that's where a big, big part of my focus is right now, sort of from a work point of view.
No, right.
Okay.
Yeah, I don't have always problems with work or anything like that these days.
Have you packed it in now?
You're retired.
Oh, yeah, I've been retired just, so just over five years now.
Wow.
Well, what's that like?
No, no, no, no, no.
But what's that like?
So what's, what's that like?
How does that, you know, how does that feel?
What's what's your week to week, your day to day like?
Actually, as I've said a few times, I hardly believe that I ever had time to go to work.
I can believe that totally.
Two podcasts, very hobbies.
I go to the gym.
I do, you know, I'm member of my local log and make a space.
Right.
Which log, by the way, a black pool.
Right.
Oh, yeah, they're quite active up there.
Yeah.
Well, of course, we've got old chiefie, Les.
Yeah, one of our stalwarts, and he runs the local Raspberry Jam once a month.
So sometimes I go to that and various other things.
I used to go to a regular computer auction once a month over in Bolton.
And that's where I've got a lot of my second-hand computers in the past.
Right.
Unfortunately, earlier on this year, the couple that ran it decided to retire themselves.
Okay.
So I've no longer got an active access to cheap computing stuff.
So luckily, I picked up a few bargains before the shop shop.
Right.
Okay.
So probably I probably got too much technology here.
Anyway, so yeah, yeah, I've been, I've been giving a lot of my own away over recent years,
because I've just accumulated so much that I can't use, you know, routinely.
So through my daughter's school, I've been finding, you know,
new homes for things.
Yeah, exactly.
You know, families that, you know, in my daughter's circle of friends that, you know,
don't have, you know, computers to do the kids' homework on.
So I've been dishing out computers to, to some of them, which is, you know,
good for me because it makes a bit of space.
But I was shocked to learn.
I've still got like 17 laptops knocking around the place.
So it's too much.
Well, I haven't quite got that many, but I am in double figures.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I, I haven't purchased most, a lot of these are from like the things I've been doing with,
like GPD where they provide the hardware and I provide the firmware for the hardware.
So I think seven of them are like, you know, those, but every time I get one of
those, then that's another laptop in my crate of laptops from the past.
I don't need.
So I try and find a home for one of those.
Yeah.
Have you tried homeless charities who I haven't really because I haven't needed
to, you know, that it's surprising, just in your immediate circle.
There's always someone in it.
Yeah, there really is.
And it's always not just someone.
There's like a queue of people.
So I've never struggled to find a good home for a computer.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, I, if I'm get, say occasionally I get given laptops and someone will say, oh,
I've just bought myself a new one already.
I haven't used it for a couple of years because I've got a tablet or whatever.
And I'll either resurrect it.
If it, if it will run modern windows, I generally put that on because that's what
people expect.
But, right, sometimes I've put Linux on it.
If it's not really up to the map, we Windows 10, although that's not too bad
nowadays because you can get away with full gig around and a decent processor.
But and then if I get it up and running and I can't find a use for it,
I'll give it to local homeless organization that works with the,
it's got a hostel and they reset all people back into the community because
so many people need a computer to access benefit systems and all that.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, there's just an assumption that everything is,
everyone can get online to access things these days.
Yeah, well, the government assumes that everyone can go into a
library and sit at a library desk for six hours a day.
But most libraries have a maximum amount of time that you're allowed to use
a computer for.
Right.
Or the used to used to be out of log on after two hours.
You get kicked off.
Yeah.
And nowadays benefits require you to do six to eight hours of job search
use a day if you're on job related benefits, related benefits.
So you really do need a computer at home.
So a lot of these, you know, a lot of these people can't afford just to go
out and spend even, even secondhand money, you know, 150.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's beyond a lot of people.
Yeah, I mean, this is something I've heard.
We talk about what represents a cheap computer, but, you know,
what represents a cheap computer for most people is beyond the means of many.
Yeah, especially in this neck of the woods in Blackpool.
We've got eight of the 10 most deprived burrows in the country in Blackpool.
Wow.
But not borrows areas.
Sorry, right.
Districts within burrows.
We've got eight of the 10 most deprived in the country.
I think just in Blackpool.
Um, so yeah, it's, uh, it's difficult for a lot of people.
Yeah.
But, uh, I'm not, I'm not sure if you're aware of it.
It's not a UK charity.
But, um, the destination Linux network there, they're currently running a fundraiser
for, uh, uh, organization in the States that does similar thing that provides.
Yeah.
I saw, yeah, I saw Zeb was doing a thing for free geek.
I don't, I got to join it for literally a handful of moments over the,
the holiday period because we were away.
Uh, and yeah, I just, I just popped in and said hello.
And that was literally all the time I had for that.
Hmm.
I put, I didn't realize it was Christmas day.
I thought it was going to be a couple of days after Christmas day or.
Yeah.
It felt, it, yeah, I mean, I, you know, obviously that's a great cause.
But I feel like the timing was not quite right now.
Feels like doing it, not then might have garnered more support.
Maybe I'm wrong.
I don't know.
Yeah, it was a funny day Christmas day to do it.
But Zeb pitched up on Big Daddy Linux a couple of days later.
Right.
I mean, I don't, I don't think, I mean, I've met Zeb a few times now at various events.
Um, and, you know, he's not a young bloke.
And neither am I, but, you know, I, I don't think I could, I don't think I could do a 24 hour thing now.
No, he said never again, never again.
Yeah, I'm not surprised.
Yeah, you couldn't give him a million dollars to do it together.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that would be tough.
I don't think I'd want to do that.
Yeah, but yeah, I think I think I could do a 12 hour thing, but not 24.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think 12 hours because that's it.
If you do it at normal time, uh, you know, with, with the sleep period and all that,
you could probably do that without it disturbing you sleep pattern and you daily routine pattern too much.
Yeah.
And also not like taking you into the wall or anything, you know, I think he had short breaks every two or four hours or something during the, during the actual challenge.
Right.
But literally they were just, I think 10 or 15 minutes or so much.
Yeah, that's not long enough, really, is it?
No, I think if you were doing it for a record, I think that's probably a little bit more than you, probably I'm not sure because I'm not sure of the rules or these things, but he wasn't doing it for a record.
He was just doing it for, yeah.
Personal enjoyment and to raise a few quid, but yeah.
Yeah, I don't, I don't think I could do anything that I enjoy that much for 24 hours, but at the beginning to hate it.
Yeah, yeah, I went for a walk this afternoon with a few walking friends.
And one of the lads says really serious into his walking and jogging and stuff.
And he was talking about a marathon jog, but even that 78 hours.
Right.
Yeah.
And that's a long time.
That's enough, that's enough time to get you from sort of London to Toronto.
Walking.
Now, if you're on a plane, you know, if you're on a plane, yeah, oh, yeah.
But you know, if you're jogging up four miles an hour, eight hours, you've done a marathon.
Yeah, totally.
But yeah, I know, well, I couldn't do that anyway.
You're afraid just doesn't let me know quite.
So are you up to anything else geeky or non geeky at the moment?
Um, right now, I'm just coming out the other side of having a massive chill out and relax.
I think the most geeky thing on the horizon is pope.
You know, you're going to do another eight bit gaming live stream in the next couple of days.
Oh, you live stream it.
Yeah, we do it.
We live stream it on Twitch.
And then we export what we do from Twitch to YouTube top and tail it.
And then release it on YouTube a couple of days later.
So whose account is it released on the yours or Popeys?
Now it's a joint, it's a joint thing.
So it's under the guys of eight bit versus eight bit versus eight bit versus dot com.
I've just pasted it in the chat here.
All right.
Okay.
But it took us, it took us eight months to figure out how to do it.
I needed to actually write some code to make it all happen.
Well, I'll check that out properly later.
Look at that.
But I do like it when Popeys pulls that funny face of it.
Well, he has many funny faces.
So which one are you referring to?
There's a couple of front pages of YouTube and the third one down.
He's pulling that one with his bottom lip coming up over his top lip.
He does that sometimes on the middle when he's over there.
Yeah.
Let's have a look what new year we're coming up to.
Someone already said Moscow, but that's coming up in five minutes.
They must have got their time in drunk.
Hey, Moscow, but no, Moscow shouldn't shouldn't be for another three hours.
No, according to this it's oh no, am I on the wrong.
No, the next one is Iraq Baghdad and Nairobi and Adela.
No, we missed out.
We're on 20 55 now.
Well, that one says it was 2100, which is five minutes from now.
Yeah, Moscow is 20 is Moscow, Russia and 22 more is 2100, which is five minutes.
That's what I'm saying.
It's new, it will be new year that that doesn't seem right though.
Does it?
I thought Moscow was way.
Moscow is only two hours different from us.
Is it?
Yeah.
Right.
So it should, it should be 2200.
Is this because this is this is UTC and we're not UTC, right?
We are UTC because we're Greenwich mean time and UTC and Greenwich mean time are exactly the same.
So it's five, it's five minutes to midnight in Moscow right now.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
So it'll be their new year in five minutes or three minutes according to my clock on my computer.
Right.
Okay.
Okay.
So it's three hours different.
Yeah.
That's unusual.
It's usually two hours different.
I don't understand.
Okay.
Unless they don't do daylight saving.
Who can know it's that that is.
That needs to just go away globally.
That could be it.
It might be that they don't change and it's like two hours.
Yeah.
Good.
Well, during the summer and yeah, you obviously are well versed with time, time zones then.
Well, all the travel with some somewhat because you know, we've got we're a distributed company and prior to that,
I worked in the aviation industry and everything centered around UTC.
So it didn't actually matter where in the world you were.
Everyone spoke one common, you know, time signature.
So, but I still struggle, you know, because the last job I had,
we had an office in Arizona and then one of the few places which don't observe daylight savings.
Right.
You know, it's all quite complicated, you know, regardless.
I think the whole daylight savings thing could do is just going away.
I don't think it's any useful, any useful purpose these days.
Yeah.
I don't think it does either.
The analogy that someone I saw said was it's like having it,
having an unswighted loaf and cutting off a quarter at one end and moving it to the other end of the loaf
and tagging it back on the other end of the world.
Yeah.
Because that's all you do.
You just shifted it from one end to the other.
Yeah, it's just a bad rounding error really.
Yeah, it would just make life so much simpler if we didn't have to worry about.
And then you get different parts of the world change there.
Daylight saving at different times.
So when we're recording Minkcast, these about a week,
maybe two depending on where it falls for America and where it falls here.
Yeah, suddenly the time difference changes.
Yeah.
And you've got to work out what time you're actually joining the stream to do record the show.
Yeah, yeah, been there.
So don't I don't suppose you've got anywhere near planning the query yet.
No, no, we haven't we haven't exited the other side of not talking about the podcast yet.
So we we enter a state of, you know,
silence, although, you know, in this, in this case, you know,
Mark has obviously entered baby fog and Popeye and I went directly into eight bit gaming fog.
But yeah, usually around the end of January,
we start to chat to one another about, well, okay,
we need to start thinking about what we're going to do.
And then we organize a curry and have a think about it.
Yeah.
And then pretend that you decide in you whether to come back or not.
Well, everyone, everyone thinks this, but it is a really decision.
Yeah, yeah, you know, more so this year, right?
You know, Mark has now got a young family.
You know, there's more reason that there's been, in fact,
I've not been involved all that long, but every year I've been involved.
There's been a good reason as to why it might not happen again.
But, you know, then it does.
But this year there are better reasons than ever as to why we might just pack in this year.
And it won't hurt.
But again, we'll just have to see.
Yeah, there'll be a lot of sad people if that happens, but, you know,
you've been going for 12 years, but yeah, we're mindful of that as well.
You know, so it won't be a decision that's taken lightly for sure.
But, you know, I think Ming cast and the bunch of UK,
as it was when I first started listening to it with the first two Linux related podcasts that I got into.
Right.
Yeah, I mean, I've been listening to, you know, the open cast for donkeys years.
I got, I started using Linux back in 2007 when I started recycling old Pentium fours.
Right.
Pentium for Pentium fours and trying to find a decent operating system other than Windows X,
yeah, and why do you even think there was another operating system?
What would you mean opposed to the limit?
No, no, no, no, so, you know, coming from a world where there's Windows.
Why did I think there was something else?
Yeah.
I used to get my Cromart.
Uh, right.
Phil Thane used to write the, uh, Ubuntu's beginners page.
Right.
You remember that?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And I used to read it, but at the time I was, you know, like you say, I was a confirmed Windows user.
Uh, everything I did was on Windows.
Um, but then I started to get into the hardware side of it.
And I refurbished my mum's old PC.
She'd passed away a few years ago.
My dad said, oh, I've still got this PC in the apps.
And he gave it me.
So, you know, you're into it a little bit into computer.
If you have a look at it, and you can have that.
And I thought, well, it was only a Pentium.
I think it was a Pentium two or a Pentium three.
Um, and I thought, right.
So I got the hardware working.
And I thought, well, what am I going to do with it?
I don't want it.
I've got a P4, uh, you know, 2.8 gig sacrifice or no, it's no good to me.
Um, I wonder if there's anyone who might want it.
And then I'd heard a free cycle.
Well, I thought, I'll see if there's anyone out there that might want it.
Right.
Uh, one of the rules that free cycle add was everything has to be perfectly legal.
Well, there was no, there was no COA on the PC.
So even though I've got it up and running with windows, because I've got a, you know,
I've got a, uh, moody disk that I could install it on energy.
Uh, I thought, I can't give it away with that on because it's not legal.
Uh, and I'd been, like I said, I've been reading Phil's, um, articles in, uh, my
chroma, I thought, this is Linux and he keeps talking about this Ubuntu stuff
that's made Linux easy to install.
So I thought, I'll see if I can get older with this.
And I think I managed to get a cover disk, uh, of the, uh, I think it would have been
around, it probably would have been, uh, 704.
Right.
Uh, and I'm not sure if originally I got to the vanilla of Ubuntu, or whether I
got to X Ubuntu, but I ended up installing a Ubuntu on this machine.
Uh, and it worked.
All right.
There was still a few things that I had to figure out how to get working, but ethernet
worked.
Yeah.
Um, there's a few issues with codex, but then I got chatting with a few people
in the, uh, local, free cycle community.
You did similar stuff and the, and these two guys were both into Linux.
And they told me about Medi, Ubuntu and all this kind of stuff.
Yeah.
Oh gosh.
I remember that back in the day.
Yeah.
And I got, I got everything working somehow on this, uh, on this tower.
Um, like I said, I think I ended up giving it away with X Ubuntu because of the
resources on the machine.
It was, it was a little bit wider and made it a little bit snappier.
Um, gave it away and, uh, I thought quite joy this, you know, getting things
working and someone getting the benefit out of it.
And I put, uh, I put a call out on the free cycle for any old computers in my
area, uh, and I ended up getting given loads of stuff.
And over the next couple of years, I think I did about 30 computers, uh, all
with Linux on them.
And during that period of time, because I was installing it on a regular basis
onto these computers.
Of course, I did a dual boot on the own machine.
I think at one stage, I actually used the, um, the Wobby install in Windows as
well.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
But so it looked like I was dual booting, but I was actually running Linux from
within, right, right.
Um, and then I did a true dual boot, but, um, back in 2000 and moving
forward a bit in 2009, I've gone back to university in late 2007.
And I was at university and I, uh, in the middle, in May, it was, I came out,
I was in hospital for, uh, at the beginning of May.
I came home and the tower PC had a big meltdown.
So I ended up having to reinstall the PC.
And I didn't reinstall Windows.
I just installed a Ubuntu because I thought I've not been using the Windows
partition at all.
I just installed the one and I've been using Linux ever since.
Uh, I, I went over to Mint when, uh, Ubuntu went over to the Unity desktop
in 2011.
Right.
So Mint has been my daily driver ever since.
But as I said on the recent distro offers, you know, there wasn't
a mark and, you know, Ubuntu being released.
I've never got into Linux because it was just for me.
Yeah.
Um, so, uh, yeah.
Got a lot to thank Ubuntu for, you know, Linux journey wise.
Yeah, yeah, it's interesting.
Um, yeah, I mean, I think a lot of people stepped away from Ubuntu
when Unity first came along.
I don't think it was because of Unity per se, but because Unity
just wasn't ready then it was, it was kind of just, you know, put out
there.
I never, I never gave it a chance is whether it was ready or not.
It, for me, the interface was just foreign.
Right.
I like the task bar at the bottom.
Me menu on the left hand side of that task bar.
And if I want to, I can pin various application shortcuts onto the task bar.
And I'm quite happy.
Uh, but you couldn't do that with Unity.
So that's why I jumped shit because at the time Mint was still using
known to and then they developed Marta when, uh, known when it's, uh,
down the similar kind of design.
Um, a little bit Ecos.
So, uh, but yeah, I had to go, um, know for, um, the dissent, uh,
December's episode of distro hoppers.
Um, if you, if you want to, if you want to stick with it, for me,
the only way to do it was to make it look as much like, uh, Marta or cinnamon
as you could, uh, which I believe is what pop, pop OS does, isn't it?
No, not really.
No, they stick to, they stick to like the GNOME paradigm, but they, they add
some extra look and feel on top.
Right.
Okay.
But they don't put a bottom task bar with a menu.
No, no, no, no, no.
No, it's just the way I like it.
Uh, I did end up, you know, I installed, um, no tweaks.
I installed the, um, uh, what the art menu, uh, did a couple of other
things and managed to get it to, to be as familiar as, uh, I could.
So, uh, I, you know, for the, for the rest of the time I used it, it was
okay.
We've got nothing under the hood, Ubuntu's brilliant.
I've got no complaint with it.
But if I was going to use it full time, I'd use your desktop, I'd use the
Marta desktop or I'd use XFCE, um, cause they just fit the way I learned
computing.
Yeah, yeah.
Right.
Well, I think I might have to, um,
Foxtrot Oscar.
Yeah.
Yeah, um, nice chatting to you.
And you, nice to chat to you.
And, uh, if we do come back next year, I hope you'll, uh, you'll continue
listening.
Oh, I will, I will.
And, uh, I'll, uh, I'll pin you a message and, uh, about, uh, possibly
coming on Mintcast at some time.
Yeah, please do.
Yeah, I'll be more than happy to.
Okay.
Okay.
Bye for now.
Bye.
Yeah.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through
Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find
out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicom computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative
comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
