Episode: 2371
Title: HPR2371: HPR Community News for August 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2371/hpr2371.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:54:41

---

This is HBR episode 2,371 entitled HBR Community News for August 2017 and is part of the series
HBR Community News.
It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 88 minutes long and can remain an explicit
flag.
The summary is HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comment posted in August 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Phalan and you're listening to another exciting episode of
Hacker Public Radio Community News.
This time we're doing it for the month of August 2017.
Joining me tonight is JWP.
Say hi JWP.
Hi everyone, how are y'all?
And from Bonnie Scotland, it's Dave Morris.
Hello, I tried the fake Scottish accent but I'll not bother this time.
It's very similar to your fake Irish accent.
All my accents are fake.
Well, anyway, for those of us who for a lot of you probably joining for the first time
due to the fact that we got nominated for the podcast awards in the tech section.
So we're shortlisted down to 10.
There's no requirements on anyone to vote this year.
A team of illustrious volunteers will be doing that for us.
So that's probably going to bring quite a few people in to try and figure out what is
going on over here with this thing that we call Hacker Public Radio.
And just so you know, it's a community podcast that, and by that we mean the shows themselves
are produced by the community.
Think of it as a sort of bar camp thing where every day somebody walks up and submits
in a show, and you can pick the show that you want to do.
And if you're thinking, well, I don't, I've always wanted to get into podcasting,
but I have no idea what to talk about.
A very good first show that you can do is tell us who you are, where you come from,
and how you got into tech and plenty of people over 200 and something pushing 300 people
have already done this.
So absolutely something that anybody can do.
One of the things that we like to make sure here is that every single show gets commented
on.
And in order to do that, we dedicate one show a month, the first show, what's the, what's
the rule there Dave for the first show?
First Monday of the month.
So we put it out.
That's right.
First Monday of the month, which makes it very complicated to figure out when exactly
recording it, but recorded two days before that on the Saturday.
And anyone is welcome to join and just shoot the breeze.
If you're wondering who we are, we are just people who are suckered into helping out with
the administration and by administration, we mean genitorial work here at Hacker Public
Radio.
The community itself makes all of the decisions on the way we go and the way we go is determined
on the mailing list.
So if you're not on the mailing list, please free of free to join that.
And we thank our kind sponsors from AnanasTools.com and the Internet Archive for doing all the
hosting of the show.
And we thank the other individuals associated with in the background who provide gratis
and free individual services like domain name registration and various things like that.
So long story short, what we do here at this roundup is we go through the shows that
there have been in the last month.
We also will be going through the comments that people have met on those shows.
And we will be talking about stuff that went on the mailing list and bringing to your
attention anything that will be policy related here on HPR.
So without further ado, the man of the moment, JWP itself himself is right here.
And he had the honor of having the first show for this month.
And it was an introduction to Apache Hadoop, just a pretty boring summary of Hadoop and
how it works.
Dave, what did you think of this?
Well, I thought John's JWP was going to jump in there, but no, I'm interested in Hadoop
and I was glad to hear this to get me deeper into it.
But I'm not sure what I need it for, but I'm sure I do need it somewhere other.
But yeah, yeah, it's good.
I used to work in a place where this will be very useful, probably possibly in the future.
But it's a good one to know about.
I would love to have the kit to be able to run this.
Yes, it was only somebody working who would be able to ship us servers without anybody
knowing JWP.
It's all about money, man.
It is indeed.
It's all about the base.
So no, actually, that was quite good, and you've done a whole series on this and looking
forward to the next ones coming up.
The following day, we had Vim Hins by Dave Morris and folks listening along, no, you don't
have to come on here every, if your show has been posted this month, it just happens to
be the first to be the first to be the first to be the first to be the first to be the
one.
We should get people who have done shows not to be on, no, no, no, that wouldn't work
with it.
No.
Yes.
I thought the Vim Hins series was dead, or by the way, we do series as well.
So if you had the topic that is too detailed to go to in one show, you can always make a
series out of it.
If you submit three shows in that series, then it becomes a series.
Go ahead, Dave.
Yes, I wasn't sure whether anybody was particularly interested in learning more about Vim, but I did
get a little teeny, teeny bit of positive feedback.
So I thought I would resurrect this one after a couple of years of sitting in the doldrums.
Yeah, Vim is the sort of thing that doesn't get old.
Well, I just go on the basis that if somebody had done this, and I've heard this before
I started playing with Vim, I would have been delighted to have this sort of introduction.
So hopefully somebody out there is finding it useful.
And that's the, and that's, again, I've said it before about the HPR and I'll say it again,
is that fame and fortune you're very unlikely to get over here, but you will get the undying
gratitude of some poor sucker who is, who has just found a particular show meeting his
or her or their needs.
And that is, you may never meet those people.
Those people may forget even to comment back, which they should do or send an email and
thanks.
And that's why we do it, folks.
So the next day we had a customizing my bash prompt, which was a detailed look into
how and why to customize a bash prompt, and this is by Windigo.
And I did, I did at one time, or absolutely not, customize my bash prompt and then stopped
doing that.
Yep.
Same here, same here.
I, I don't know, I think at one point I did sort of multi-line prompts and stuff with
colors and that sort of stuff when it became available, because it seemed so cool.
Yeah.
It just got to be a slight nuisance, really.
I just wanted to get on with stuff rather than having, having a colored things.
However, if I thought of doing what Windigo has done, I think I might have considered
it otherwise, because it's a really clever.
Yeah.
The good thing is quite cool.
Yeah.
Do you, do you do any customization there, John?
And Ken, I don't, it got really, it got really over my head pretty quick when he started
talking about everything.
But I went and I started playing with my bash prompt and everything, and I always have
a hard time because my computer name is so long.
And so I always like to change it to a shorter name and a bash prompt.
Yeah.
It's good.
It's a good reason that it's empty today, I guess.
There has been a lot of comments on this.
X1101 is a, hello, I can't help but think that should be 1101 prompt for other users.
Windigo loved your episode very well, I appreciate it.
I had one thought when you want to run your prompt as another user or have another user
specific prompts, you don't need to do any sim linking, especially on the multi-user
system.
On servers I helped manage, I had a dot root bash RC in my home directly.
And after I did pseudo space SU dash to get a root shell, I would then source slash
home dash slash X1101 dot forward slash dot root bash RC to give my root, my root specific
RC file, just some fool for a thought, basically he was running a bash script that would do
his own manipulation to which Windigo replies.
So Windigo says, quick follow up, Zoak was conjured up to remind me that I hadn't posted
a link anywhere to my configurations.
He is the Git repository and he gives a URL of it, I actually added that in, yes, yes,
I can't remember, did I annotate it or not, I can't remember, and he says to X1101
and the third comment, I haven't finished the second one yet, Eurega, Eurega, man.
That makes a lot more sense, especially on multi-user systems, since you wouldn't want
to steam row other users RC files with your own, thanks for the tip man, he says, so go
ahead.
Okay, so commentary is by you Dave, and you said, great show, most enjoyable, I enjoyed it
too Dave, thanks for doing the show.
I enjoyed it a lot, even though I'm rather late listening to it.
I have done stuff to my prompts in the past on Unix systems and on Linux, but have just
not bothered in later years.
I like the ideas you talk about here and may well have inspired me to experiment some
more.
Okay, then next day was Ahuka's insurance and Ahuka's series on insurance, understanding
the marketplace, how the healthcare insurance market works in the US.
And this one was about the principles that go over in the marketplace in this episode.
And Canadian Bob says, health insurance market.
As a Canadian, most of my fellow assistants find the idea of healthcare being a marketplace
a little bit weird.
Universal Medicare became a reality in the province of Saskatchewan in 1962 by 1971 piece
by piece, it had become a national program.
Now the move is towards expanding into universal pharmacare, one of the missing pieces of our
universal medical Medicare system.
Kevin O'Brien says, that's why I recorded this.
I know that the American system does not make sense to most people outside the US or
frankly to most people inside the US.
So I thought it was worth a little of my time to lay it out.
And we do appreciate that, just indeed we do.
I thought it was pretty good.
He covered it really, really well and it was entirely interesting to me because I have
a lot of brothers and sisters and they're both into the spectrum.
One doesn't pay the Obamacare fine because he doesn't want any insurance and the other
one goes to the marketplace and buys and it's a bunch in between.
Although I hope one day we'll have single payer insurance just like everybody else.
So the following day, we had, oh this community news show, Murphy is strong but Ken struggles
on just barely, everything they could possibly go wrong with wrong doing that.
Yeah, yeah, I think congratulations on making it through.
Oh, I had to even edit it and it was just a mess, complete mess.
And Mad Sweeney says, channels free software song with me happy, that's a Fyaco all the
winner right there, thanks, which Mad Sweeney you also show off my friend.
For a star.
That's cute us for you, that's very good.
So Crayon says, do you want to do this one, JWP, sorry?
Just a second, I thought I heard you in the background.
It's okay, I'll do it, I'll do it.
You want to do it or not?
20 comments, there's no 72.
Dave, go on ahead and have a review on my channel.
Crayon says, amazing free software song.
Ken, damn, that's the best rendition of the free software I've ever heard.
Loved it, smiley face.
I suspect sarcasm is, is drooling off of the report.
Still a good comment.
Anyway, tune in to the end of this show to find out what the hell all that's about.
The following day we had a continuation of the Liverpool Maker Fest 2017 show 5,
where a short series of interviews done from Liverpool Maker Fest.
And this is something that we do here on the network.
We specialize in getting the whole way track at festivals.
So if you're going to a Linux Fest or a hacker Fest or a maker Fest or something cool,
in general, where there are a lot of people walking around,
bringing a microphone with you or press the recorder on your mobile phone,
stick it under somebody's interesting nose and say, hey, what are you doing here?
And submit that as a show.
Tony's been very good doing that.
He's got Liverpool Maker Fest on org, 3D meld and electric flapjack guitars,
which is a pity we wasn't able to donate one of them to us.
I walked around the org camp this year and every good show that I saw,
I reminded them that they needed to do it for a show for us.
You were a org camp and you didn't record shows.
I did not record shows, but I did talk to them about what you've done.
I talked to them about it, man.
I talked to Richard from OpenSUSA and the Mozilla girl about the photography
and every show, every one that I liked, I went and talked about Ken and they all wanted
Ken and Dave to be there.
A day that Rich is a good guy.
I've been to the interview them a few times at Foster.
So the following day, we had Robo Thermometer and a surprisingly short geeky episode
about a temperature sensor and a Raspberry Pi.
And I hated this episode at Epicanos because this was in my queue and I hadn't recorded it.
Oh, so annoying, but a good show.
Very good show.
I love this.
I'm running it.
I have two sensors on the same pipe because of the Dallas protocol.
You can actually put two sensors on the same price.
So I've got an internal one and an external one lugging to the same one.
And there are some comments.
Be easy said on my to-do list.
There you go.
Thanks for this entertain and an informative episode.
I've been meaning to test out temperature monitoring on the Raspberry Pi for some time.
Do you know if the process you described will work with one wire temperature probes
as shown below?
And Claudio M says another great episode, even with all those dry, robotic commands
and rejects.
You always find a way to make things interesting and entertaining to listen to.
Thanks again for another great episode and welcome back.
And just to answer to your question there, that is the external probe that I'm using here.
Yes.
So it should work.
Astrix.
Don't blame me if it doesn't.
Okay, so comment three or did we do comment three?
No, go all yours.
Okay, it says, so it says, uh, he begins uh,
Priviaki, a pseudonym, uh, said he was glad to be back.
And he has at BZI, uh, looks like exactly the sort of submersible temperature sensor that would work.
It's exactly the same core component as far as the Raspberry Pi is concerned.
They just stuck to it, uh, heating conduit piece of stainless steel and sealed it up so that
it could be submerged into whatever liquid, uh, potentially wet weather, et cetera.
You might want a monitor from what I read, uh, you'll need a, uh, four point seven own resistor
between the two of those leads.
The module I'm using has, uh, parentheses one has a built into the board already.
But otherwise, you should be able to plug it in right in and use exactly as described.
At Claudio M, thanks for encouraging feedback.
I swear, I'm really trying to produce a much more often than I have been.
Probably more short episodes coming real soon now.
Okay, and then in parentheses one, amazon.com, uh, slash dp and then a weird long number.
The, um, the resistor is only necessary, uh, one resistor is only necessary in the chain.
So if you've got a daisy chain, the several of these, you only need the resistor in once.
So you can daisy chain the rest of that ice put it in as some heat shrink at the,
at the point closest to the GPIO port.
Very cool. Yeah.
Good show. Enjoyed this.
Very nice.
But, uh, he has now taken, uh, taken the last person who does that to me all the time is
tattoo putting in shows that I have a mic to do list.
You know what the moral of the story is?
Record the shows and send them in first.
Don't just think about them.
Do them.
Yeah, exactly.
And there's absolutely no reason why you can't submit a show on the same topic.
Because I imagine that, um, mine will be of interest to somebody as well at some point.
So the following day, we had night sounds, night sounds in rural Tennessee.
A recording of night sounds outside Tolohoma, Tennessee.
And we do need a name for this type of series, Dave.
We, yeah, we, we used the term sound seeing when we talked about this before.
We, we should maybe, yeah, but we should make a, um, a series with that name that people
can attach to.
It's sound seeing, I would think, night sounds, uh, not, I don't really like night sounds.
But we, there's people make recordings of sounds, um, in, in an environment to,
to give some sort of a sound picture of what's going on.
That's the, that's the sort of series name we need to, for this type of thing.
That's, that's, uh, like the, uh, sensing, something we, we, we decided on, I think, okay, uh,
I think, um, I think, um, I think, um, I think, um, I think, um, I think, um, I think, um,
uh, because when I read, uh, the title, night sounds in rural Tennessee,
I knew exactly what he was talking about and, uh, from the beginning.
But Dave, what you say for your title, it's, it's not exactly clear.
No, it's not a title of this episode.
It's the title of, we want to make a series where we can put, um,
this show and all their shows.
So we have shows, for example, of, um, uh, people walking in the rain, uh,
by our rural recordings of going to work, swimming in a lake in, in the front,
swimming down a river in France, um, 50 and 50 snoring.
That sort of stuff.
So, I think soundscapes will be good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
We, we talked briefly about it, but we'd never decided on anything.
You never got on and did anything.
So this, this is something for the to-do list, indeed.
Do you want to read your comments, Dave?
I said some impressive ambient sounds.
Thanks, John. Great idea for a show.
I'd love to know more about what was making these sounds.
Cicadas, as you said, but what else I wonder?
Because it sounded like, to me, there were frogs or birds or something.
I haven't personally counted anything quite like those night sounds here in
not very rural Scotland.
You hear owls or foxes, but not a lot else in my experience.
Tony says, um, wow, that was really loud, but fascinating.
I recorded some wildlife bird song while at a study center
in Birmingham in the UK last year, last April.
It's quite long at over 10 minutes, but very relaxing.
Maybe there's another show.
Yes, there is.
And now we have the soundscape series in which to put it in.
In comment three, uh, uh, uh, Frank mentioned this reminded me of night sounds
at Pine View Farm when I was growing up.
And Jonathan replied with mystery bug.
Thanks for the comments, everyone.
Dave, I had no idea what else is out there making all this noise.
A biologist specializing in the sticks can probably make some sense of it.
But to me, it's just a bunch of wonderful noise.
Windigo says, more nostalgia.
I agree with Frank.
Noise is like this for a common occurrence where I was growing,
while I was growing up.
This episode brought back lots of warm memories.
Thanks a bunch, John.
I would like to comment here.
That when I went to Kansas City the very first time as a youth
and the guys brought me out to a restaurant and these
I walked past a, you know, in the car park just a piece of landscaping
and there was all these sort of insects there.
And the guys were walking past like nothing was happening.
And I spent 10 minutes just sitting listening to this stuff
because I had only ever heard of it in the movies
and never actually realized it was insects making that always assumed
it was some sort of weird sound effect or other.
Yes, I've actually heard them in Australia.
There's a day cicada in Australia.
I didn't realize that they only sang at night
in many other parts of the world.
So there's a lot to learn.
In Houston, an evening thing.
It's perfect.
Yeah, evening or nighttime, I guess, isn't it?
Very, very good.
I wonder, though, would you guess if you were not used to this,
would you drive your nuts?
It might be one of those things that you just tune out.
I don't know, you know, if you live a bit long enough.
But it would take a while before you get there, I guess.
My wife, when she first went to the States,
she asked me what it was and I found it and I threw it at her and I got in trouble.
I think I found it and threw it at her.
Did he just say that he picked up one or three or that?
Yes, of course she got in trouble.
She didn't know what it was and I told her it was poisonous
and she started doing the death shake.
Why did she marry you?
Seriously.
There was some big things.
There's the goddess, they're not, they're quite ugly, too.
She also didn't know what a cricket was and I told her
when we were walking across a dam that they were flesh-eating
and they weren't supposed to get on her.
It just got worse and worse the whole visit to the States.
They're a crew, man.
She is very, very cruel.
The following day, when somebody didn't know what crickets were,
what crickets were, it was like really.
We don't know if you didn't spend any time outside of the child.
It was, but you should have seen me trying to discover the casinos of summer.
I'd never been in a casino really before and so we drove from Texas to Florida
and through Louisiana, Mississippi, we stopped at the casinos and I'd never been in one
and she had, so she got me back.
I don't need rightly so.
Okay, the following day, we and we use software modding,
which by operator, this is something that I didn't even think was possible,
but quite interesting, nonetheless.
Yeah, yeah, nothing about this.
I bet my kids do, but it's a close book to me, I'm afraid.
And there were no comments on that.
The following day, we had safely enabling SSH for the default
rasbian image by myself and Tlatu says, good coffee.
That sounds like some good coffee.
Did you have a break for coffee?
I had some questions about that.
Good.
Questions about that.
Now, was that with the new, the new pixel?
Because Ben was at the, was at the odd camp and he was talking about the new pixel from,
from rasbian that that's what they're calling their new new distribution.
Actually, I think they was pixel and then they changed the name to something else,
but he was talking about, so this is for the latest version.
Okay.
Yeah, latest version.
You just run the script to download this, unpack says fixes the thing and zips it right back up.
And they have an X86 now for that too, that he said you could,
it would probably work on a four gigabyte SSD.
Yeah, don't think so.
I think you need an eight.
It just goes over.
It's about to four point something.
So it's just pushing over on the X86 version.
Oh, okay, yeah.
Fair enough.
This, this was great though.
I'm desperate to try it.
I haven't got an opportunity yet, but it's, it's good.
This was once in the making and months thinking about,
because it's part of a longer plan,
because we've got, we've got a lot of pies and ruckus.
So I don't really don't want to be putting them out and putting them back in.
And then did this, was this the SD card that I did before work?
And this, the one after work?
And so there's another show coming up related to this.
And then maybe I'll branch off into something else.
You mentioned Ansible Chef and Puppet and stuff like that.
So I assume these, these will, these will figure large on your, your plan.
I'd like to hear more about that.
Well, I, the next one in the series is how to identify
Raspberry pies on your network.
So they, the point about this is you, you just run this,
it'll download the image, and then you, at the end of it,
you'll have an image that you can put into your pie,
and then you boot your pie up.
So the pie will get an IP address from some DHCP server.
So the point you want to be able to do then is on an Ansible.
And you have one master pie that you are, that you're controlling,
that you have a keyboard screen and mouse in.
And maybe you have DHCP on that, maybe not.
But then that guy needs to be able to go out and go find me all the pies on my network.
So it'll go and do that based on MAC addresses.
And then it'll put that into the Ansible host file.
And then once you've done that, then because we now have the key
and everything already configured over there,
you can start using Ansible to do a distro update, secure all your stuff.
And because it's, yeah, because the scripts run and converge on a single fix,
then you have everything that you need to run on that one single thing.
So that's part of my Grager plan.
Yeah, very cool.
Very cool.
So the next one was Airsoft by again, by operator, Airsoft mini how-to.
I talk about my current Airsoft setup and what we should all do is obvious.
And this is a perfect example of a show that you don't think you're going to be interested in.
And then I ended up spending some time in Ireland with friend of mine getting married.
So we were over there shooting the breeze.
And his son was beginning to Airsoft.
And we had a very pleasant conversation.
And I pointed them to this very show about the topic.
It really brought back some memories for me until very recently I did the army.
And so you only get to shoot one time a year.
And it's all about the positions that you have to get into.
You have to get into seven or eight different positions.
And so I went and bought an Airsoft weapon that was an exact replica of what the army uses.
And I practiced the positions with the Airsoft.
And so that's my experience with Airsoft.
And it was same weight, same everything.
And so I was able to go through the positions and do the exercises and everything.
And then as soon as I retired, I sold it to the guy that replaced me.
He was into that immediately.
You're on a very good job.
Very cool.
I was just thrown by the fact they called Airsoft and they can draw blood if you don't have protective clothing on.
Well, in comparison with what they're replacing, I guess.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The following day we had the amateur radio round table.
Number two, various different hosts by Steve and Michele.
And this was very, very interesting.
I have a whole go of basically a lot of clarification on the questions that they were posed on the first show.
So quite good.
I've been thinking about propagation and stuff with the Doppler effect and stuff.
And they expanded quite nicely.
So I thought they did a great job, actually.
I've always been a little bit wary of the amateur radio thing because it seemed very, very obscure.
And I wasn't quite sure it was something for me.
I'm still not sure.
But I was impressed to have friendly and welcoming the atmosphere of their show was.
You know, you felt that if you did want to get into it,
people like them would be very, very helpful to get you there.
For giving more things to be scared of.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I thought, from that point of view, plus also this technically brilliant,
I thought it was very well done.
Some of these explanations helped a lot.
Okay, the next show was Android, ROM and PAIN by operator.
I go over my pain and love of Android over the last few years.
And I get his pain.
So I do.
Well, I thought it was such an interesting one, Ken.
I mean, first off, the operator, the operator or guy,
which we should probably agree that we should buy him a beer
when one of us meets him because he's really knocked himself out this month
with all the podcasts he did.
Yeah.
But the, I mean, I always have the, you know,
that I go to the lineage and I look and it's like,
the only tablet that I see is an avida shield.
And I think one from a Zeus.
So, and my phones are never on the list from those phones that they're talking about.
I think I could do it with a Kindle, a Fired Kindle tablet or something.
But it's not an official support of the one by the lineage.
So it's really hard for me to find the right device.
So it's, I wish that something was universal that it was like a X86 computer
and I just installed Linux, but it's not that way.
No, it's quite quite difficult.
I had Steve Midlock and,
oh, that's an impolon.
Who else is on Steve?
Ah, Steve Midlock and super, super,
super, yeah, that's him.
Cooper, Cody Cooper from Linux for the rest of us,
from Padnott's network.
They have been very helpful with me,
deciding on a device to pick for onrooted devices.
So I may or may not.
I've got a replacement form for my wife.
Just on the counter, they're charging.
So possibly there will be another show or possibly it won't work out.
So we'll see.
But you might want to ping them.
They have some very good shows over there on the Padnott's network
in related to all this stuff.
So listen to their shows and you might get good recommendations for a product
that you'll be able to buy.
Yeah, I'll try to try to do that.
I mean, I almost pulled the plug that Robin phoned,
the one that did the cloud storage.
They went out of business, but they have an official lineage
of us and you can get those on eBay now for 105 euros delivered.
And so with 32 gigabyte of space and for I think three gigabytes of main memory.
So there is one there that I saw that I could get, but I'm really looking for something
and I don't know, 50 or 60 euro range that will work with that will work with lineage
so that I can give it a try, you know.
Yeah, but that's you're going to get a very, very,
unless you get a second hand product.
That's what I'm looking for.
Probably second hand somewhere.
Yeah.
So the following day we had the next one,
financing healthcare means choices to be made.
Trade also the US healthcare system.
And this was basically how there is no free launch, but you have to pay.
And this was in a hookah series.
And the following episode is information on the ground working out by Duke Geek,
Lost and Bronx, and Clatu.
And I met a comment and to that Claudio replied with quite a lot of links,
which is an episode in itself, actually.
I wonder should we get him to submit that as a show, Dave.
Yes, yes, I think so.
I think so.
So whenever a comment gets into sort of thing that we don't necessarily want to read out,
because it's so long, then I think you already know that it should be a show.
Yeah, it should be.
I'll just read on the last thing.
Ultimately, what has worked for me, it was a never-lucinary process
into my fitness journeys.
Everyone's different and every strategy will be different,
but the core mentality process is pretty much the same.
And I couldn't agree more.
And I agree with his comment and it is very interesting read,
but it would make a better show in actual fact.
So we'll skip on to the next one,
or were there any other comments on that?
There was a comment from Deep Geek just correcting his,
in the cost of one of the bits of equipment,
dipstand that he had, yeah.
Yeah, rather than that, none.
So the other thing about comments as shows,
the comment system doesn't, and probably never will,
on a links properly.
So, you know, making a show means you can put all your links in,
then they're actually usable.
Absolutely, let's go.
So the following day, we had Razbian X86 Lenovo X61S,
and this is another distribution review show by Tony Hughes.
And this one has two comments.
Beezer said X86 and Atom-powered Netbook, hi, Tony.
After listening to your episode, I was trying,
inspired to try the Razbian X86 on my old nacer notebook,
which I use mainly as a media player.
It's around OK with Mint XFC, but a bit slow to respond
with opening and closing programs.
After a clean install of Razbian X86 and the Netbook,
definitely runs a bit faster than Mint.
I've stripped out all the applications I don't need,
programming games, office components.
Why far you've worked out of the box,
unlike the Lenovo as did the audio.
Pixel will never win any price for sophistication,
but if you play around with the colors,
you can improve the default appearance somewhat.
It certainly gets the job done.
JWP, you were talking about this earlier on.
Yeah, I have to say that Tony was,
that of the month, this was my favorite one,
because Tony was going really, really great
about the Razbian thing.
And then to add to it, Ben, not all was at the,
he works for the Raspberry Pi folks,
and he was there at the all camp,
and he did a talk about this pixel,
or the Razbian X86 there.
And it was, it's a really interesting thing.
And I think on the, especially on the low end,
that it's really going to, really going to pick up.
Yeah, I was impressed with this.
I've got an old Hatton Pad Netbook as well,
and wondering what on earth to do with it.
And this sounds like something well with a try.
I wonder what the other Spire 1 work on,
be any use with this.
I was thinking of an A-SOOS,
whatever, they call it, they call it the A-SOOS.
701, that's 701 that I'm thinking about, right?
I could fix that 701 maybe,
and if I could fit on four gigabytes.
See, what they told me, the guy from the Raspberry Pi told me
that it doesn't come with all the educational software,
so it has a much smaller space requirement.
He said that he thought that it would be 2.8 gigabytes.
So it fits on all the SSDs in the netbooks.
So you don't have to do the USB attachment
or anything like that.
Oh, nice.
Should we give that a go?
So the next day we had,
canceling my TV license by Dave.
Dave, who hit the automated, this is so funny,
so very funny.
bureaucracy.
Not really, I don't know whether to put this down
to evil corporations, I don't think so.
I just don't think they would ever think
that that's a use case they need to cover.
And if they do, it's like, well,
so few people cancel their TV license
that there's no point investing the money in coding it.
I think this is something like a million and a half people
in the UK who have canceled,
according to the Wikipedia article.
I think I've got a number right.
Yeah, I think so.
Check it out.
I might have misremembered that number,
but I thought it was something like that.
But if you're going to build a system,
you need to cater for all the possible avenues.
And one of them is obviously that you can cancel,
because they tell you how to do it.
Yet they don't seem to have implemented it
and they don't seem to have a clue how to make it work
and none of this stuff know what they're doing.
Yeah, but I really, when faced with something like this,
I'm more inclined to think of incompetency,
as opposed to malice.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You'll start it all going, oh, this is a system
where you can reuse your TV license.
Oh, why?
For renewing your TV license, I'm going to need to know.
I need going to need to have a TV license number
and I'll just make that the primary key of the database.
And, you know, must not be empty.
And then, yeah, then maybe the operators are going
no license as a TV license number
for the people who don't have a no license,
but so that gets them past that page.
But then you do a select query on no license
and one and a half million no licenses come up.
And then the thing goes, well, there, you know,
I have no information on you.
I, well, yes, having just received another letter
from them today telling me that, yeah, yeah, they said,
oh, your license has been canceled.
Oh my God, how shocked are you must ring as immediately
because you didn't pay for it.
We've canceled it.
So you better get that sorted straight away.
So it's like a person with a split brain, you know,
this one half of it is saying, you've got to pass
and you haven't paid us and terrible things
are going to happen.
The other half is saying, yeah, yeah, it's fine.
You haven't paid, you don't want to,
you don't need the license.
So we've got that all organized.
So yeah, I'm going to have this boy talking to another.
Yeah, absolutely.
The boy is just going to continue.
How do you guys say this makes commercials look good?
Yeah, I have to do a show about how they do it in Germany.
Yeah, so that will be interesting.
Yeah, it's not just the UK, I don't know.
I mean, so there's two American owned stations
that do German programming.
And I have to pay taxes to an American owned corporation
to watch German TV in Germany.
And of course, I don't ever watch German TV,
but they want these taxes from me.
And I'm like, well, I speak English,
I watch English shows, I don't watch them or show
that they don't care.
If you live in Germany and your own device,
they even go to the internet.
If you get on the internet, you have to pay.
I think so too.
So it just goes on and on and on.
So I think that's not uncommon.
I suspect I think about other people
saying similar things in other countries.
I think it's the way the UK will go to.
I mean, the only thing worth hated is the game of people,
you know, the people that Germany
that stopped the YouTube videos and say,
oh, this might be copyrighted content.
And so you can't watch it on YouTube.
It drives me insane.
Although that said, it will be an interesting discussion
to have where your TV license gets transformed
into a royalty license, whereby you could watch
whatever the hell you wanted.
And that would then be attributed to the people
who are producing the shows.
So if you're watching Big Clive instead,
you pay your TV license, Dave,
and your subscription goals,
a portion of your subscription goes to Big Clive
or whatever.
That would be better.
That would be much better, Ken.
Yeah.
I like that.
I don't mind the concept of paying for stuff that I like.
I mean, I support Big Clive with Patreon
and quite a number of other YouTubers.
So, you know, the principle of paying is not the thing.
It's just the nonsense of, you know,
where you got to pay.
And by the way, see this,
we've got big stick.
We're going to come and hit you over the head with it.
You could end up in jail and all that stuff.
I know I'm really noisy.
I'm actually, I've had this debate with guys and work
and about, right, we, our life would be a lot simpler
if we could just provide, you know,
that, you know, this concept of now,
and in the US, you need to be in hate to be off for this
and Disney for that and iTunes for that
and somewhere else for something else.
You know, just apply a,
I know you're going to not like this JWP,
but if you applied a one pool of stuff
and in a similar way to the way record royalties
get paid out on the radio,
although yes, asterix, I do know about the issues with that.
That's, you could fund niche products.
You could fund additional,
and it wouldn't actually matter if you got
the distribution method wouldn't matter
because then it would not be illegal
for you to download something via torrent
or some program via wherever
because the royalties for that
would already be paid for by the text that you have.
We had a similar thing here in the Netherlands
where you paid a text on your,
when you bought a cassette tape or a DVD,
you paid an additional text
and then that's divided out proportionally to the artists.
So you were allowed to make copies of music without any problem.
Of course, now they have a problem with that,
but there you go.
That was then, this is now.
Shall we read a few of these comments
or will we skip over them?
I'm easy, I'm easy, really.
Do yours there.
I see your point.
I'll go to your comment and do that.
Oh, I'll read it yet.
Yeah, sure.
I like Frank's comment.
Yeah, let me read my own comment
and then somebody else can do the next.
I see your point.
This is to Frank.
Hi, Frank.
I see where you're coming from,
but a little dealing with bureaucracy like this today
seems like a scene from Terry Gilliam's film Brazil.
The tyranny of modern advertising seems to me
to be completely horrific.
As a boy, I read the science fiction story
that tunnel under the world by Frederick Paul,
and it, the protagonist finds himself in the world
filled with loud or pervasive advertising jingles.
And I give her a link.
This image, that image is stuck with me all of my life
and has motivated me to avoid the dreadfulness
of advertising in all of its forms
on TV, cinemas, internet, and everywhere else I can.
And these are said TV detectors.
The almost mythical TV detector vans
did once exist, not many people ever saw one.
They could detect interference sent out
by the electromagnetic on the CRT,
but contrary to the propaganda,
they could never tell the channel you were watching.
If you lived in a block of flats,
they were all but uses are working out who did
and did not have a TV.
When home computers became commonplace,
each had a big CRT, the D, the detectors were scoppered
as they couldn't tell the difference between a TV and PC.
Now we can have a LED or LCD screens for our TVs
and computers and a concept of a reliable detector devices
able to distinguish between the two is outdated.
UK TV licensing and power to reliance
on cross-refusing addresses with licensed registrations
to detect possible miscreants.
That's what you are, Dave.
Oh, yeah, everybody is a possible miscreant.
Yeah, and then Tony Hughes responded to, and he said,
Hi, Dave, thanks for the show.
It makes me think you think I should do one about the situation
he's having with Virgin Media at the moment.
I get total frustration, potentially boiling over
to anger sometimes after you've had to wait four or five minutes
to get through an auto menu to speak in human,
only to be asked the same questions again.
And they wonder why we hate customer service desk so much,
more like customer wind up desk, I think.
Why a wind up desk, I think, in the comment for.
So I'll read my last one, shall I?
Thanks for the end of that.
Hi, Beezer, I'd enjoy seeing a TV defect detector band,
but as you say, they belong to an earlier time,
finally enough, the old TVI threw away
with potential detective Florida being a CRT.
Your analysis of the situation
clarifies it very well.
Talk of detectors was mainly propaganda.
And hi, Tony, good luck with Virgin Media.
It seems that the vast majority of companies
have implemented such revolting front-end systems these days.
As an aside, I longer though, decided
I don't have anything to do with Virgin Media,
I think we're revealed as being involved
with a company called Form.
To perform deep inspection of internet traffic
so they could inject targeted advertisement.
Other UK ISPs are also involved,
such as BT and talk talk, give a link to the thing,
to the form thing.
Which was a court, there was a court case about it,
I think in the UK, which stopped it.
I was just jumped to a call center, and I asked them,
every time I asked them why you do need this information again,
if they already had it in the beginning,
and the only logical answer they got at the time
from one guy was, that's because we need to verify
your details that you put in.
And I went, well, if you did that,
then why would you need it?
And he goes, yeah, also dialers who will dial in randomly
at the beginning, we're required to reconfirm
to make sure that your details are valid,
and it's not somebody dialing up a spoofing.
So, I don't know how much freedom I've been to that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So why not just drop the robot then?
I don't know.
It seems seem like it was just to get the information
about the person on the screen.
So when I dial up, the information is available on the screen,
and then I ask you the person on,
but it kind of doesn't make a lot of sense, really,
because, okay.
No, no, well, anyway, that's my personal rant over so well.
What's the night for Ranske?
One cool, then.
The following day, we had managing your Android with ErrorDroid,
which is from Frank Bell,
it's a little application to manage your Android from ErrorDroid.
Hi, Frank, thanks for reminding me about this application.
I've used it in the past because it's Tony Hughes
to transfer and manage data on my mobile,
but as it's something I need to do regularly, I've forgotten about,
I'd not need to do regularly, I've forgotten about it.
Definitely something that's useful if sometimes
a bit fiddly to get going initially.
And Frank says you are most welcome.
Sorry, JWP, do you want to do it?
I was, oh, you can go ahead.
Okay, there's a bit of delay on your line,
so sorry if I jumped in too quickly.
You're most welcome, he says.
The main irritant I've encountered is that after a reboot,
it reverts to the default copy to directly,
whereas I want to put my podcast in the music directory,
so the player application sees them easily.
Once I got into the habit, double checking the copy to
directory setting, I kept it whipped into shape.
I must say the maintainers have improved it
over the several years I've been using it.
Sounds like a cool tool, actually.
I've been using a KDE Connect,
which is, it doesn't have as many features.
It's quite nice, has some interesting stuff,
but this sounds better in some respects.
I don't, I've tried to use KDE Connect,
but with my particular choice of having a wireless network
separated from my wired network,
it never really works out quite well for me.
Yeah, I run Debian Testing,
so things suddenly start working,
and KDE Connect was one of them, unfortunately.
I guess it'll come back again.
Biza did a show about rolling out radio-based internet service
to rural England, and this was inspired by my show,
actually, on my show, just putting on microphone
in front of somebody, about the barn initiative
where they were rolling off fiber.
Tony Hughes commented saying,
rolling out radio-based internet services
in rural England, high Biza, and this was a great show.
I'm glad you decided to come back and record again.
You may, you made some interesting comments
about the way we have a free market
after many years of them, not only in telecoms here in the UK,
which provides good value for the majority,
but works against those that do not make
a profitable market for the suppliers of internet services,
just a thought, but did you investigate satellite internet?
I looked it up, and it is expensive,
and seems to have quite strict data caps,
but could be another way of getting service
if other options are not available.
Frank says, this sounds very like the type of connection
my brother has.
He lives in a sparsely populated part of Northeastern Virginia,
USA.
He tells me that it's vulnerable to the vagaries
of the weather, as he's lost his connection several times
due to thunderstorms, and he gives a point to the service.
Comment three is Biza answering, and he says,
hi, Tony, before my initial chance in counter
with a radio based system, I did look at satellite services,
but they were seriously expensive,
even before setting a download limit I can live with.
That was around 2014, and I believe they have not,
they've got a bit cheaper since then,
but they remain the last resort option for all
but the deepest pockets.
Then he answered, Frank, I can only speak
from my own experience, but since the system was installed,
we've had winds of greater than 70 mile an hour,
thick fogs, thunder, and no shortage of heavy rain,
but the connection has been unaffected
as far as I can determine.
The network nodes all transmit with a multiple
of the minimum power through theoretically required
to provide the service, and that enables signal
to blast through bad weather.
Perhaps where your boat is lives,
it's a greater distance between nodes,
and which we can see signal.
I've just returned from Spain where they've noted
large number of internet transceivers mounted
on houses and apartments, and I've since discovered
that outside of an hour is just pretty much
the default delivery method.
This is very cool, I thought, the fact that it actually
managed to cause this to happen for his village
and surrounding area, it's very, very impressive.
It's very, very cool.
The following day, we had making Bramble jelly or jam,
and this was Tony.
There were two garments to the show, and by Tony himself,
hi, sorry, I meant to say that if you have a jammed
thermometer, you can use it to find jam jelly point,
but I use visual clues such as the rolling boil
into small bubbles.
Also, it stands to reason that if sterilizing the jug
in the oven, it needs to be a heatproof one,
otherwise, use boiling water just before using.
I just commented, because Tony done this in a comment,
I wrote back to him as a comment saying,
I adjusted your original text regarding temperature in line
with your comment and left an editor's note.
You can also contact admin hack-a-public radio
if you need errors fixed.
So that seems to be a good point to have.
I thought that the show notes for this show were excellent,
and that I always tease my wife,
because it's just me and her living in the house now,
and she uses a really big pot, but Tony's pot, man,
that makes my wife's pot look like a small, Tony,
what are you gonna do with all that jam
in that big pot, brother?
That's what I wanna know, man.
See, it's gluey, look at that pot, man, it's huge, man.
Yeah, just think how many blackberries he's picked,
and the number of jars of jelly he's gonna get,
and he wants to walk with us.
This is sticker bushes, sticker bushes a long time
to find out, man.
Yeah, very impressive actually.
He was actually something in jars of char mussel.
Did he say, I didn't know, I think so.
And catch it.
Yeah, 60, I see it now.
Produced over 60 jars of brown.
That's amazing.
That's a lot.
I guess he can get, it doesn't have to worry
about what he's doing for Christmas gifts this year.
Nah, that's really impressive.
And by the way, you know,
the Americans tentacle what we call jam jelly.
But we call this one jelly because it's had all the,
all of the bits strained out of it.
So there's the difference between
bramble jam and bramble jelly.
Just thought you'd like to know that.
Oh, that's why he's using the two.
I always thought that the difference between jam and jelly
was if you were in the north or if you were in the south.
So lots of people call jam in the south
and lots of people say jelly over north.
So I didn't know there was a difference.
But in the UK, there is a physical difference, I guess.
Jam has stuff in it and jelly doesn't.
That's right.
Yeah, my mum used to, used to make tons of jam as well.
She didn't have a great time talking to Tony.
She was still alive.
But yeah, and it was,
bramble jelly was one of her favorites.
So the next day we had Mr. X with how I create
and post a show to HPR.
We were at a little bit of a dip.
And a lot of people come up and did shows.
And this was a great work through the only comment I would have.
And this is that just your email is public.
So the email that you use is a public email address
and it is displayed everywhere on the site.
With spam.spam,
north spam at north spam replaced.
So in my case,
it's kind of fellon.au is kind of north spam at north spam.fallon.au.
But other than that.
And it seems to work.
OK, do we be able to follow it?
But I guess he post shows quite a lot.
So yeah, I thought he did a nice job of explaining things here.
So it's good to hear somebody sort of talking,
talking the way through this sort of thing.
Reading the text can sometimes
overwhelm you a bit, I think.
So this is good.
Yeah, especially I think that the upload process is perfect
given the fact that I wrote this.
So what makes logical sense to me
does not necessarily make logical sense to everybody else
has been my experience.
So with anyone ever has any comments
about the upload process
and how to make it easier,
then please feel free to get in touch with me.
And every cloud has a silver lining.
Short, somewhat rhyming thoughts
provoked by emptying the show queue.
By an emptying show queue.
The only problem about this is we don't have the text.
I would love to have the text of this.
And have it on the above page.
Yes, and that was what I said as well to myself in my notes here.
What a lovely thing.
Have we had many poems?
Because that was definitely a poem.
That was brilliant.
That was awesome.
That just made me chuckle.
That was awesome.
Made my day.
That did.
I listened to it a few times, actually.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it brought such a smile to my face
that it's just a real gem.
And also nailed the whole thing about HB or what we are.
What we're trying to do.
Some reason the site seems a bit slow right now.
And then the next day we had NY Bill, who may or may not
have a problem, depending on your point of view,
little meters, two multi meters from Banggood.
And he threatens to stop buying meters.
But my gray command there go, no, don't stop buying
and review your meters.
It's a great show.
I love the sound of the bench.
Bill ripping open little bags of probes, checking battery
compartments, slapping in batteries, dropping the meter.
The sounds of NMI in the background.
And audio feast, please don't stop buying meters.
And Dave Lee says, excellent show.
Really enjoyed this.
I'd love to know more about the oscilloscope in the photo.
More miniature geeky.
Or when I'm likely to buy the 8.08 multi meter, as am I.
And comment three was by NY Bill.
He says, ambient noise.
Thanks, Mike.
You know, I didn't notice any of the outside noises
while I was recording.
Only after I did notice them in audacity,
I just wished I remembered to plug in the mic, the windscreen.
I don't like hearing the mic clip in the wind.
And comment said it all, or Ace, thanks Dave.
Yeah, it seems like a capable little meter further price.
It's been my regular small set of tools
in the laptop bag ever since the show.
Hi praise indeed folks.
Mike Gray returns to say ASMR, ambient noise and ASMR.
Don't worry about the ambient noise.
It was not intrusive.
I think near the end there, the usual burst
of distant police stroke ambulance siren,
which any city developer can tune out.
But that was not loud.
The day after this podcast and drooling over the signs
of beeps, clicks, tools, battery manipulations, et cetera,
which let me visualize the workbench so vividly,
I heard mention of something called ASMR.
Automatic sensory meridian response,
which a lot of stuff is appearing on YouTube these days,
nowadays, it's sometimes that it sounds that generate
a response that feels like a pleasurable tingling
of the scalp down the spine, et cetera.
The stuff on YouTube is all typified by women whispering,
turning the pages of a book,
drumming fingernails and stuff like that.
But the workshop sounds and the infectious enthusiasm
in your podcast qualifies.
Maybe I'm more subject to this kind of stuff
because I'm blind, no idea.
But the sound effects were great.
OK, and then comment six by NY Bill.
I meant to reply to the scope of the comment, Dave.
But I was typing above the replies
on the first thing in the morning
when I should have been driving to work.
Yeah, I don't think I mentioned that the scope mentioned
that scope in the past episodes.
I've had it for a couple of years now,
and it could warn a little review.
You've been a bit of kin and you
are trying to pull another show out of people.
He mic sounds like you heard outside my window,
which I hear as type are New York.
I'm not in New York City, but I'm in the suburbs
of a city a little more north.
And then he gives the week sign.
And that's it for the comments on this.
Sorry, do you want to say something?
Well, I just wanted to comment on the show
and say I didn't enjoy it very much.
There's always with NY Bill and those multimeters look good.
They ain't double away.
It's highly, highly desirable, I'd say.
I ended up just buying a cheap multimeter for work
because I now find it so frustrating
not having a multimeter.
It's funny thing if you don't,
the more you mess with electronics,
the more you need a multimeter at your hand all the time.
I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing.
I just went to the ball mart and I bought a multimeter.
We didn't have one, my shirt fire was messing up.
I don't know if you know about shirt fires can,
but my shirt fire was messing up.
And the batteries are really expensive for the shirt fire.
And I couldn't figure out what was wrong.
And I just said, well, you know what I need?
I need a multimeter.
And I went and I tested all my batteries in my pack
and I tested the ball.
Then I did all kinds of stuff.
And I finally figured out what was wrong with the flashlight.
But in order to do that, I had to have a multimeter.
Exactly.
So now we're moving on to comments related to previous shows.
And the first one is about
show finishing off the subject of bash expansion part one,
which was show by you.
And comment number nine has recently been left by clucky.
On the topic of LS, there's a new player.
And some people say it's both faster.
I'm assured it's starting less eagerly
than core utile LS does.
And more feature full, more coloring info
and get things more trivialization.
I haven't tried it myself yet.
The website is HGTPS, column for search for search
day.exa.website.
Also, it's written in rust,
but that's the least interesting property of it.
John Culp says awkward, that exa.exa command
does look pretty cool and powerful,
but it's way too awkward to type.
I would have to make an alias for it,
maybe even a linked LS to it.
I should have done mine as well.
Should have let somebody else do that.
Should I do mine?
I wrote, not sure about, I tended to call it exa,
but I don't know what it's really supposed to be called.
Perhaps it's too new, but exa doesn't seem quite the tool
for me.
First, I couldn't find out what the colors and underlines
actually mean.
Secondly, I find I need to change the screen background color
and font to be able to read the colored text.
And visually, it might be my eyes,
but if a file name is basically a blur,
I don't get a lot from the feature.
I have similar problems with other commands
that generate colored output, so I don't blame exa.
Potentially, the git interface is useful,
though I don't know what the symbol's mean.
The whole thing needs documentation,
ideally in the form of a well-structured man page.
Also, I was puzzled to find out that exa
space minus l minus minus git DB underscore star,
which is some files of mine,
didn't show the git details for the matching files.
These are only shown when there's no file argument.
My final nitpick is that my favorite LS minus LTR
can't be written so simply in exa.
The equivalent seems to be exa space minus LS space modify.
I'd like to see a way of setting defaults
like sort of sought-by modification time,
though an environment variable or a configuration file,
something like that.
As John says, using aliases would also be a solution.
I should be intrigued to see how exa develops.
It does have promise.
Thanks for letting me to it clicky.
So I'm winging there a bit.
I should shut up and answer.
I think it's a bit dangerous.
If something comes along and replaces LS,
there will be an awful lot of bash scripts needing to be rewritten.
That's for sure.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Although they do say a bash script with LS in it is a bad bash script.
Well, then all my bash scripts are very bad.
That's good.
Yeah, yeah, I've taken that lesson on.
I've been changing a number of mine.
I have to say, I should do a show on this, shouldn't I?
Yeah, yeah.
You should.
There is a comment on the MX Linux,
which was a show by Tony.
And he just commented to say the JWP had met a comment to say,
well, you seem to find something here for the room.
Maybe they all, maybe this had something to do with the all
mepus project at some point.
And he replies, thanks JWP.
Yes, MX is anti X and mepus community respin.
I tried anti X and it's very lean, even compared with MX makes sense.
And can MX was, I mean, if you're a debut in person,
MX was the thinnest of the thinnest of the thinnest.
You couldn't get much thinner than MX.
It was really, really interesting.
That sounds like a show to me, Dave.
Indeed, indeed.
Yes, I think we need to know more.
Yeah, I mean, I don't even know if MX is still going on.
I don't think I have anything to run MX on.
I'd have probably have to get virtual box to give it a try again.
But I mean, if you're a debut in person,
MX was really, really interesting because it was the pure
debut, but you know, the one that didn't have to do on it, any of that.
Interestingly enough, I used Sousa.
I did that open Sousa thing and I can do Sousa, though,
just like I can on Ubuntu and I can use app and all of the stuff on Sousa,
just like I do on Ubuntu.
I didn't know that it used to be not possible.
So it's built in.
I just typed it in the way that it would on the Sousa.
So I used AppGit update and upgrade and did all my Ubuntu
debut and commands on Sousa and it works out of box.
No, no extra config.
Interesting.
One last comment.
Gettys replied to his own show last of his show in the series
about the KDE and live part six workflow and conclusion.
And he says, thanks to everybody, particularly HBR
community news host for their complimentary comments.
I enjoyed everything involved with narrating and producing the series,
learned a hell of a lot in the process, discovering as I went along that
I was entering a world of the voiceover artist.
Your comments came on creative commons last month.
I felt respawned on and I'm happy to made a compute contribution
to CC community via HBR.
Yes, you have.
Yes, you have.
It is. Thank you very much indeed for that.
Dave, we have comments from why are they comments green, Dave?
Remind me again.
Yes, the green ones, which will not be green when these
those go live were for us as a hint to say that we'd already covered
those comments last time.
Well,
well, to be said again, Dave.
This is why I let you go with that.
Why do I always do that jump in for a good brother?
Well, you say it's so clear, isn't it?
Green comments shouldn't be read.
Everybody knows that.
There are two comments on the community news for June 2017.
And Lackey says, the HPEP tag, you said, half jokingly,
but my idea is that every post in Lackey's HPR
EP, HPR, not HPEP tag, HPR EP tag is a full,
a full and earnest public commitment to making a real episode.
This is because he has a whole public website about available where you can
see the shows he's working on, which actually might be a good idea.
I think it's a great idea.
Yes, yes.
But he thought we were sort of joking about it rather than another way.
So I commented back saying, it's a while ago now,
because this is the June episode that this was coming on.
It's a while ago now and my memory's not what it was,
but I think we were marvelling at your preparedness to go public with your plans.
I have a one I'm looking forward to hearing in these episodes.
No joke indeed.
And on Christopher M. Hobbs repairing a garage door,
Phil, we had Windigo who's saying,
Pew, I kept expecting a message on the end of the episode saying that it was
upload this post post seamlessly.
Can I get a spell check there?
I'll post it, but people pronounce that posthumously.
That's what I would do as well.
The post entire glad to hear things are okay.
I totally enjoyed listening, even if the problem wasn't solved.
I had never given my garage door any thought and I'm glad to know more about how it works.
I actually like these shows because it means that when somebody comes back and gets
a fixed, I get two episodes.
Yes, yes.
I'd like to see some pictures of that garage, or because I'm not going to clear how it works.
Is it one of these sort of multi-part fold-over type things or an up and over single pivot one?
I don't know.
I need to know more.
But what's GWP doing posting shows while talking to us?
I did, I did a show before the show.
Very good.
That's my boy.
That's multi-tasking.
I did a show before.
So that's the end of all the comments.
And we now then go through the stuff in the mailing list.
There's not too much bear with us.
We're almost there.
We're almost there.
I updated the stats page by default.
Everything remains the same, but now we support xml.
JSON and CSV, stats.php, question format.
JSON, question format equals xml, question format equals CSV.
And you can get stuff out of that.
The Agbot,
HPR, Agbot, HPR support has already been updated.
Thanks, Krayon on August planet.
So that's good.
Cool.
And remember folks, this is your network.
So if there's stuff that you want,
if there's information you want out of the web page,
don't be go and scrape and contact us.
And we can make it available in a format that might be easier.
We had Mikhail sending us in a comment to say that show 2017 was ongoing.
And that there was a phone in number that you could use if you wished to do so.
We've got nominated for the podcast awards, which is excellent.
And for the second time in a row, and there are some requirements there.
We need to submit an acceptance video.
And we're looking for some help on doing that.
I'm just spoken to and tattoo as volunteer to help out with that request.
So if you are willing to help us out with some doing some segments of video,
you can please contact us and you can get in touch with clatu as the following email address,
which is clatu as members dot fs f dot org member,
sorry, member dot fs f dot org clatu as member dot fs f dot org.
We had John the nice guy telling us about the country on camp festival,
which some people went to without telling us.
Yeah, it was, it was great.
Can I try somebody here recorded?
I just did a show about it.
Excellent.
Good.
You're good.
I did a show about it.
But Richard Brown, what I'm trying to do is, so Richard, he goes and does shows all the time.
Right?
He talks.
And I've been trying to get Richard, you know, that he does, he's the chairperson for open
Susan, not the community manager, but the chairperson now.
And when he does all of his shows, because he's taking on a container as a service,
the open, the open version of that.
And he's also, I think for the next year, it's still going to be the chair guy.
And so he does a lot of traveling, does a lot of shows.
And I ask him, I said, Hey, is there, if there's any way at all that when you get up,
just press the record button on your, on your laptop.
And, you know, we could get the audio from whatever it is that you're talking with
whatever group and put it on Hacker Public Radio.
And he was down with that.
He said he's drank beer with you before Ken, that he knows you and, uh, and that,
and that he's, he's going to do that.
I'm going to see him.
I'm going to, to, uh, the Susicon, uh, last week in September and Prague.
And I'll, I'm going to see him there, uh, and I'll remind him that we're supposed to do, uh,
he's, he's supposed to record.
So I know that he's going to do some presentations at, at Susicon.
And hopefully we can get a couple of shows out of him that way.
Excellent.
And that's, that offers, of course, open to anybody that's, uh,
any of the distributions or projects, yeah.
Yeah, especially folks that travel a lot and are give presentations anyway.
Just press the card, press the card button.
The amateur radio around table, the next one is going to be at a, you, uh,
say, European friendly time of, uh, 1800 UTC.
It's, the next one is proposed for the 13th of September.
And the next one after that is, uh, the 15th of November,
both of them at 1800 UTC, be there or be a square.
I think that is pretty much that.
Do we have any other business, David?
Yes.
Switching tabs.
Yes.
Um, I was looking at the queue.
So we have the, the continuous, uh, leaky,
bold thing where, where we have no shows,
some were swamped or shows.
We have no shows were swamped or shows, um, just,
we do have scheduling guidelines on the web page and they are as follows.
You need to have your audio recorded before you pick a slot.
So don't pick a slot and, uh, then come back.
You need to have the audio recorded.
The last thing you do is the upload.
And these are how you should schedule the shows.
Always try and fill any available slot in the upcoming week.
So for the next seven days, if there's a free slot, then fill that one.
Um, if the, if the queue is filled up quite a bit,
try and leave a few free slots for new contributors.
Um, if it's a non urgent show, um, find an empty week and schedule on them in there.
If you're uploading a series or you're a host that have uploading multiple shows
at the one time, try and space them out every two weeks or so.
The reason I'm putting that in is cause, uh, we had no shows.
And then suddenly now we're full for the next month or whatever.
And then after that, we have no shows again.
So, um, as it's turned out, um, and there's one other rule that we don't have in there,
but it should actually go in.
If it's interviews that you've done, try and shed the, ignore all this,
pick the next available slot because, uh, it's just polite that if you've interviewed
somebody that you want to get to show out as quickly as possible.
So that's pretty much that I was talking to you, Dave, thinking about, um,
whether we would have, uh, we will always have the option for people to pick the days
just like they are now, but, uh, having a, I don't care button that would
implement these rules via an algorithm.
So look at, um, who you are as a host, if you're a new host, then you get the next free
slot. If you've, um, submitted shows recently, try and spread them out, um,
if it's not an interview, if it's an interview, then you should do it a little
immediately stuff like that.
What do you think?
I think it, it sounds like a good idea.
I, um, I, I wonder about the implementation of big, but, uh, but the,
the principle sounds, sounds pretty, pretty sound.
Do you not think, though, that it will confuse people?
Um, one of the reasons why we ended up with the scheme that we have now, uh,
was, and it was, it was Klaatu who suggested it being like this in, in a general
way was because all of the, the, the, the, the, the previous thing was quite complex.
Is that not right?
It was my memory failing me.
Yeah, exactly.
And the, and there's always the risk that, uh, you are biased towards, um, that I
would pick, uh, I don't know, put you before JWP or something, which I'm not going
to do. However, um, you always, with this, I'm saying you still as a host have the
option to pick the queue.
And here I would suggest because we're following a logic, which would be on the,
about page, if you did do that, this is me thinking out loud here, that if, for
example, uh, you were a new host, uh, if we go, well, I'm scheduling you on the
first available slot, which was next Tuesday, because you were a new host.
And if it was a, uh, you uploaded an interview, um, I'm setting you the next available
slot, because this is an interview and interviews usually need to come out in the
timely manner.
Um, but if it was say, like you uploading, um, a show, the second VIM show for, for
example, uh, I would say, well, you have released the show, there's already been a
special from you in this queue on this series.
So I'm putting us, uh, another week out, stuff like that.
Yeah, put the actual reason into the email confirmation that you get back.
One comment that I might have, Ken, is a lot of times I'll, I'll do, uh, I'll
make a, in January or late December, I'll make a, a goal for the year, right?
And, uh, you know, one of my goals was to do, uh, a podcast every month.
And so, uh, you know, when I have time, I'll put one in November, December, you
know, or, or whatever.
But then if you reach a draw point, you go and grab my podcast so I don't get to
be, don't have one every month anymore.
I only did that once and I did that JW fee because I knew, of course, I think the
run Lord, I don't know, but it, uh, I, I did, I did another one for October,
because I didn't think I had one for October, yeah, anymore.
And I have to look and see if there's one in November or December for me.
Uh, I, I, uh, I think next year, I'm going to try to do, uh, I, I may up the
Annie and try to do 12 of greater than 15 minutes with great audio quality.
So that's, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's a, uh, a thing.
But, uh, with the scheduling thing, it, uh, maybe I don't, I don't care.
But it would be good, uh, for some reason, no, uh, audacity is not doing my
tags.
So I, I don't know why I'm using 1604 and it doesn't want to do my tags anymore.
So, um, I guess I got to get easy to add or something like that, uh, to come in,
uh, come in and do it, uh, come in and do it.
But, uh, do the tags on the episodes, the metadata, you don't need to do that anymore.
Yeah, yeah.
That's all taken care of by, uh, Dave is a two that we take when you fill out the
upload form, what's in your upload form gets added automatically.
So you don't need to worry about that.
Just, uh, okay.
So I don't have to worry about the tag.
Don't worry about the intro, so they can tell you automatically.
You know that, uh, title that you feel in when you do the upload form,
all of that gets put into the metadata as you're uploading.
Yeah, we just completely, we completely ignore us actually.
I mean, I watched those guys from the late night Linux, but those guys,
they really, they really have some serious stuff to do their podcasts with.
I mean, it was, wow, I couldn't believe the kind of equipment that they had,
uh, that they were plugging into to do that stuff.
So, uh, you know, I mean, one of the great things about HPR is that, you know,
I'm hoping that we get a more of a cross section of folks and most, uh,
channels, other medium channels.
Uh, I'm, I learned what Bramble jelly was this one.
Uh, um, so I'm hoping that, uh, that other people, uh, I, I may try to get,
uh, my wife makes a pretty good bull nasa sauce.
And I may try to get her to talk about that bull nasa sauce.
Uh, um, but, uh, I'm hoping that people would talk to their people in their
house that make stuff like that and, and, and do that more.
Uh, in particular, the jelly or something homemade, uh, something homemade,
uh, I thought your ironing board, Ken was a great example of, uh, of something
that we really thought about something and, and, and did something.
Um, so stuff like that, it, you know, spices things up.
Patents pending ironing board modification, just so, you know,
um, all right, curry on before we, we, we killed people here with the, with the
length of this episode.
Tags and summaries, Dave, do you want to talk to us?
Yeah, yeah, it's just me using the, any other business slot to, to say thanks
to people for sending in, uh, some tags and we've had epic canis and wind
to go have sent some in, we're written 950 shows that need summaries and tags.
So every little helps.
So if you can contribute, we very much appreciate it.
I've, I've not actually sent them in yet.
It's so great.
Yeah.
Okay.
Anyway, anything else that were you missed or did you, did you want to say anything
about the comment system here?
Or what's on the mailing list and up?
Do you want to, uh, comment about the comments system then?
It was merely if people who haven't necessarily tracked the mailing list to say that
we're, we're, we're, we're, we're grasping the nettle of the comment system
and we're trying to rewrite it with, uh, with a new new sort of homeroom one, um,
which will be compliant with HTTPS, whereas the, uh, the old one is not.
And it's also been a pain for us for a long time.
Yeah, major.
So, um, we'll, we'll sort of watch this space and we'll be updating people as we, as we go.
Yeah, they, um, the, uh, the issue is the commenting system as a third party
component and, um, the guy who supports the chestnut data to his web page in two years
and, uh, his demo site is also down, doesn't, doesn't support HTTPS, which led to very
interesting, er, messages and log files filling up in the back end.
So we had to disable that and now we get, uh, Google Chrome says that from next month,
all websites will, that are not HTTPS will be getting a warning in their, um,
menu bar.
So that's not good if you go to a site called hacker, public radio, and there's going
to be a warning message.
So we really need to get that fixed.
It's basically been the kit in the bot for, um, Dave and myself to actually do this.
We've wanted to do it for a while, to be honest.
I think you'd agree.
Absolutely.
It was a good impetus to get, get moving with it.
So, and we are, so we're making, making progress.
Making it a way to go.
Yeah.
There will be, um, there will be the, the, the, if you subscribe to the common
feed, the ID's changed today.
So you'll get 30 new comments that you may have seen before.
So, um, that may continue for a week or two, but don't worry too much about it.
It'll be fine.
Nothing's going wrong.
We're just messing with the common system.
And that should also have the effect of, uh, giving us ownership of the databases
and stuff again and all the code on there is now then owned by,
uh, HPR and, uh, will be, um, available at some sort of license, at some,
at some time.
Um, it does also just one point.
It does mean that if somebody makes a mess of a, of a comment and says, Oh,
help, I did this wrong.
I made him a spelling mistake.
Can you fix it for us, um, for me?
Then we can, whereas with the old system, it's a bizarre thing to be trying to
edit it.
Yeah.
So, so that's, that's going to be a possibility in the future.
Um, one thing is now we do need to put in our own anti spam measures,
which I, actually I'm thinking will be easier because, um, people have been
exploiting, know that we're using this particular commenting system and we'll
be exploiting us.
One of the measures that we'll be doing will be asking questions, um, on the,
um, when you need to post a comment, you will be asked a question.
Nothing too serious.
I don't know if it's going to be a Matt's question or, uh, something probably
like, uh, who was the host of this show and then you scroll up to the top and
you copy the host name and you paste it in and, and that should pretty more
to work or possibly what is the host ID number of the host of the show?
And then you just hover over the link, um, or if you're visually implored,
you click on the host name and then you will get the episode ID, the host ID
from there, but we will talk to our, uh, various different people.
It might just be a question like, what does the H in HPR stand for, um, and we'll
see how it goes from there.
I'm going to, uh, I'm going to put in stuff like, uh, I'm thinking if there are
more than 10 comments in the queue, then I'm just going to shut down commenting
until we see what's going on, probably the safest thing to do for a start.
What you reckon, Dave?
Yeah, yeah, wait and see how, if we do get a hit with lots of spam, um, but yeah,
having that as a way of turning the tab off would be good.
Yeah, I do that on the uploads of the minute, if, uh, because my experience has
shown that, you know, we don't get that many uploads of a day.
So if I suddenly start getting 20 uploads, then I freeze everything because,
um, yeah, that's suspicious activity.
So, uh, probably do the same thing with the comments.
Well, so if you will, we'll play it, we'll play it, um, play it by air
basically, but we're basically replacing the common system.
There you go.
That's it.
Right now we have the, um, the common feed has been updated and the
comment viewer has been updated.
And I'm currently working on the, um, on the, um, the form to create them has
been done.
And I know we're just going to write them to a Jason file on the server and then
Dave's going to pick them up from another machine and process them.
And then if they pass his stringent anti spam measures, then he'll add them to
the database pretty much it's it.
So anything else folks?
Is it a wrap tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker,
hacker public reddit, public radio, radio.
Oh, join us now and share the software.
You'll be free hackers.
You'll be free.
Hallelujah.
Join us now and share the software.
You'll be free.
You'll be free.
That was one seriously far too long episode guys.
Good night.
Good night, guys.
Good night.
Bye bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
