Episode: 2285
Title: HPR2285: The Tick Conspiracy
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2285/hpr2285.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:53:14

---

This is HBR episode 2285 entitled The Tick Conspiracy.
It is posted my first time post a nude and is about 10 minutes long and can remain an
explicit flag.
The summer is a show that covers the ongoing war between Ticks, May they rot in hell and
everything else.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
Better web hosting that is honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Okay, welcome to the Tick Conspiracy, I'm your host, the dude.
Anyway, hopefully you're listening to this on Hacker Public Radio because I'm a new
fan of Hacker Public Radio and I'm submitting to this and I'll have to remake this damn
podcast if it's not accepted.
Anyway, here we go.
What the Tick Conspiracy is about, it's about Ticks and how they're evil little bastards.
Not only that, but the fact of the matter is that the Northeast United States is under
siege people, it is completely.
For the past two years including this one, Ticks have gotten really bad.
I mean I remember seeing Ticks when I was little but that was after hunting deer and it's
on a deer.
I've never seen a tick on a damn dog or on myself until this year.
Like I've had three Ticks on me that have bitten me and I've had to get antibiotics.
Three times within literally this month it's ridiculous.
Like every time I walk outside there's a damn tick on me.
It's ridiculous and every time like you know I feel something brushing against me or tickling
my skin or anything like that, I assume it's a tick and I have to check or I just jump
in the shower.
So anyway this entire thing is to spread awareness of how awful Ticks are.
Now this might not concern like you know hackers but it will.
You have pets, your pets are in danger of getting Lyme disease, your family are in danger
of getting Lyme disease, hell you are.
And if you think oh I live in the city I'm safe, you're not safe, there's animals that
come from the suburbs that go into the cities and spread it to your animals or they could
jump on you and spread you know the tick minus to you.
And also cities have rats.
They have mice, ticks have been known to attack rats and mice and as a matter of fact that's
actually how they spread Lyme disease according to the CDC I believe.
That might be inaccurate but I remember hearing about that anyway so what can we do to
rid ourselves of this tick menace and I'm going to try to be as informative as possible
because honestly we do not want Lyme disease to spread at all.
We want it eradicated, so in fact we want the ticks eradicated.
So I've found a website that what animals can prevent ticks or how can you prevent ticks
from coming into your yard.
Now one of them is I got from a meme whether it's true or not they say possums eat a bunch
of ticks and they can't get Lyme disease.
Now yes those sources are probably heavily flawed but anything counts, anything shall count
on that.
So when you're driving down the road you know how possums will play dead in the middle
of the road and they get hit by a car.
When you see a possum on the road let it pass, let it pass, don't run over it.
The more possums there are the less ticks there will be.
Also another animal that they say is really good at that or guinea hens.
Now guinea hens are a type of foul, guinea foul is the actual type of thing.
But anyway they're a bird that look like little dinosaur things and they're very loud.
I know this because there's one that's quarter mile down the road will not one guinea
hen but like a person that lives in the community that I live in that raises them and I could
hear them a quarter mile down the road clear as day.
But apparently guinea hens roam your yard and when they just murder ticks.
So my suggestion is to raise more guinea foul however though you might attract mice with
feed and everything.
So you might have to have precautions to not attract rodents for rodents also carry ticks.
Now they say chickens also do decently but chickens are also more prone to not to roam
and they are a lot easier to be killed by predators.
However they also say that to prevent ticks putting up a fence to prevent other animals
from coming in after you sanitized your yard with guinea hens to destroy the tick menace
and that will prevent ticks from coming further in.
Also three feet of wood chips and gravel surrounding all wooded areas or in my case what
I'm probably going to do if I am allowed to by my parents put three feet of gravel and
wood chips either or whichever is cheaper around the yard the entire yard whether it's near
woods or not because I am sick of this damn thing I can't even go out in my yard and let
my dog out without having a hundred freaking ticks on me it's super ridiculous it's bullshit
and I'm sick of it I am fucking sick of it I'm about to the point where I'm going to
set my lawn on fire it's bullshit so I'm taking every precaution as possible so anyway
what other preventative measures can you take to keep them out of your yard well another
one is put chemicals in the yard unfortunately I will not recommend I mean I could recommend
that but the problem is is that you might kill like other good insects that may attack
ticks or you know like do wonderful things with our planet such as bees and you know with
the hive collapse syndrome thing that's been happening there's not a lot of bees as there
used to be so whether that's due to pesticides or not we're not sure so it's best not to
put chemicals in your yard but that is a last-ditch effort of course then again that's kind
of hypocritical with my hand because I'm thinking about burning my yard just pouring gasoline
sand in a blaze that would definitely kill everything in there but animals will probably burn
my house down but it's just kind of you know hypocritical exaggeration anyway I guess in short
what I'm saying is fuck ticks protect yourself protect your yard otherwise we might all have to
suffer through whatever diseases they carry we shall not let the ticks win we shall fight back we
will win you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a
podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at
binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is released
on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
