Episode: 2176
Title: HPR2176: HPR Community News for November 2016
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2176/hpr2176.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:24:38

---

This episode is in HPR Episode 2176 entitled HPR Community News for November 2016 and is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 78 minutes long.
The summary is HPR Community News for November 2016.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hi everybody my name is Ken Fallon and joining me tonight is Dave Morris. Hi Dave.
Hi everybody I can and this is the Community News show for Hacker Public Radio, the longest running car, crowdsourced podcast in existence in the world.
I'm scraping the bottom of the barrel here for uniqueness is about HPR.
Superlatives. Yes, anyway the Community News show is a monthly look at what's been going on in the HPR community.
So basically anybody could do the show but it's down to us usually and it is scheduled for the first Monday of the month.
And this is the first third of December when we're recording this and we would like to welcome our new host Dave take it away.
Well we have Bill NFMZ1 Miller and we have Space Man.
Excellent welcome both of you welcome both of you so how this show works mostly from tradition because it just kind of turned out that way.
We go through the last month's shows have a little bit of a chat so that if you're just subscribed to this show you can go back and listen to anything that you may have missed as on the main feed.
And we go through the mail list discussions and we we talk about any comments that there are.
So the first show of interest was tattoos apples to apples table club gaming which is now a series Dave.
It certainly is yes we have nine shows in this particular group so it's it's over due for being a series.
It's good very much and yeah it's a thing apparently you know hip and trendy people like all the people I hang around with are people who work specifically are into tabletop gaming.
It's becoming nothing and this was apple to apples.
Yes it's a trendy thing I think it was you made that point last time we were talking about this it's and I'm too far out of these things to know but good to know.
Oh it's cool I appreciate it in the same way I appreciate the shows on slide rules on the like speaking of which yes.
The following day we had splitting a block of beeswax and in this one Brian had a big block of beeswax and I think he had a third of us or a quarter of it that he wanted to take off.
And yes it would be a monstrous job but he didn't actually mention what he was going to use the beeswax forward.
I didn't I didn't I don't remember it.
It would have been nice to know what it was just if I see people doing all sorts of stuff with with beeswax you know protecting metal and putting it on as a mixing it into a polish for wood finishing wood and all sorts of things.
Kind of to know what yeah yeah yeah yeah interesting yeah cool excellent I like it in fact yes old all school tech is definitely a series I would like.
And all schools slash new school tech that would be another interesting one.
Yeah absolutely and the following day we had another one of the out and about on spot we call them soundscape tours.
I yeah it was I mentioned that it's called sound seeing tours sounds and yeah and it's I'd actually commented on this one to that effect it's a term that it was mentioned by Katie Murray in I think in a comment.
About shows and he reminded us of that and I brought back memories when I when I heard that yeah your your comment you want to read out your comment might be just a Sunday.
Yeah so I wrote sound seeing hi John I believe the name for such podcasts is sound seeing as in sound seeing tour I think Katie Murray mentioned this in a comment on show 2 1 1 1 back in September.
Remember hearing this turn back in the early days of podcasting around 2005 perhaps when Adam Curry used to record such tours for his daily source code podcast.
Should we then therefore make a series sound seeing tours and glue that well yeah that that that might be certainly tag such shows with with sound seeing but yeah yeah we need to need to think about you know what what the consequences would be.
So any any feedback would be appreciated but we'll come up with something.
Then the following day was a hooker with Ohio Linux Fest 2016 which I always look forward to actually because it gives you a view into what was going on at the show and how it's how it's changing.
And I'm actually glad to see the reports from Ohio Linux Fest this year seem to be it was a smaller fest both but a lot better got back its its it's mojo.
Yeah yeah it I hadn't realized what sort of size it was until hooker was just talking about it but it certainly sounds to be a real really good show.
Cool yeah and then we had the community news and then following that we had a bar camp Manchester par three.
This is Tony Hughes with his interview with Alan Allen O'Donohoo and the EXA dot foundation.
Yeah that's that's sort of helping teachers to to get deeper into sort of computing computer science and that type of thing I think.
Yeah I understood it right so inspired and engaged digital makers of tomorrow.
Very good yeah it's it's he's and Alan O'Donohoo has been very busy in that area from what I understand he's he's been going to as he said in the interview many of these types of events including our camp.
So he's a prime mover and then we had art club from Brian and Ohio and have fun learning about art with your friends.
And this was excellent. I loved I loved the show actually had a response spawned to our interesting conversation with my wife about tangent a very good conversation which tangent into lots of various other different topics.
Great chill yeah what a good idea what a good I like the idea of discussing bits of art which they which they agreed on and then researched because it's great going to an art gallery and looking at stuff and you read the stuff on the wall and you think oh yeah right but you don't really get a full context from that.
There is if you've done a bit of research around what you're looking at you can you can fill in the gaps and understand it much much better so that's a fantastic idea.
It's a fantastic idea you know just to get out of the house and meet other people as well but I can definitely support you know understand this because we aren't the Reichs Museum was closed for basically a long time.
And then it's reopened again and we have museum cards here in the Netherlands and if you know you pay a substantial some well 80 dollars or 80 euros and then you can go into any museum for free.
And we have that for the kids as well so we went into the Reichs Museum and they had a book from the which they got which we got them from time to time.
And it went through they had eight writers or something pick eight different pictures from the Reichs Museum.
There is an end to the story Dave just hang on and they basically described the wrote a children's story about the painting and you know a child interacting with the artist and you know what was going on on the day and that sort of thing.
Then when we went into the museum they were sitting there like you all this is his early work this was his fourth painting and that was a third.
Oh my god that's absolutely fantastic.
Absolutely that's that's good and it's it is quite important to understand these things I think and I've never been I wasn't very keen on on art at one time.
But my dad was and he used to paint in oils and stuff himself and he would he would often talk about the paint he liked it was the Norfolk school and they painted like country scenes and that type of stuff.
Yeah yeah yeah and it's I lived in knowledge of that time there's there they're all in the in the castle museum in the old Norman castle and you know so you suddenly start to realize well it's a nice picture or it's you know it's an interesting picture but there's so much more to it because it's the context of the time and the history around it and so it's there's a huge amount of depth there.
Yeah it's fantastic.
Cool great idea and you know copy don't all sorts of other stuff as all like the idea of just as all there of picking a topic animals or whatever is also necessarily have to be about a particular art or whatever.
No no it's it's a it's a cool thing to do.
Then next one coup coup tabletop game.
So you would have thought as in as in military coup and stuff.
Oh yes this is the bluffering one where you don't actually have to show your hands at all it's very very interesting.
Yes yes it's a kick start a project originally I wrote down which is which is interesting so it's fairly fairly recently.
So yeah good idea I think.
Yeah there's quite there's quite an industry in making these things I'm sure it's fascinating.
I am filtering a lot of these shows where I think this would have been cool with those in college but right now with kids with with the kids they don't like losing or they you know they get very involved in the game and then when it's the game is over there's a massive sense of loss which leads to.
So we tend to avoid competitive games and more cooperative games cancel I do have a major filter on for not distracting in any way from the series but I'm.
How many of these I'm going to actually play or not is depending on whether they fit my very specific needs.
Oh yes absolutely yeah I can understand that.
The next day we had an audio illustration tying a bowline knot and I thought to myself David man David and I thought yeah good luck trying to do this now over there but yeah you did I had it in my head at least.
Yeah yeah yeah I used to be quite keen on knots at one time and bow lines not one I've used a huge lot but the the old classic one about the rabbit goes comes out the hole and the tree and all that stuff.
And back into the hole that is brilliant I've seen it never really paid much attention to it until telling this into this and then looked at a picture of what it was.
And of course that's a brilliant way of capturing how to do it.
Yeah that's how the the hot teach kids to tie shoelaces here.
The fox comes out and runs around the blood.
Yeah yeah it's it's it's because it's you got to get into memory first and then it gets into muscle memory eventually but just just sort of getting the gist of it down in the first and it's difficult.
So the next one is what's in my freezer by by I was practicing this on the train my god can you do it.
That's exactly what I was going to say.
And yes he went to his freezer and he told us exactly what he had in his freezer which is a lot of garden veg actually.
Yes yes yes it's impressive actually isn't it.
Very much so yeah.
He looked in my freezer it's a fair amount of shop bought stuff.
Not frozen fresh fresh greens and stuff and fruit and stuff.
Yeah good idea actually a nice idea for a show.
Yeah we we have some raspberries out there in the summer and my wife just goes out in the evening and you know takes it in a half a cup.
That's just the regular cup not an American cup just you know a little bowl of raspberries and puts them into the freezer every night.
And then by the end of the year you have you have a lot of fruit in your fridge all of a sudden you know what I'm saying.
It's excellent.
Yeah absolutely hang on I'm just I'm just realized that we have we have skipped some comments.
There's some comments on this one but we missed the comments on to one on the community news didn't we.
We did both we got the other ones so what were the comments on the community news.
Clarky ah you're candy I love hearing reggex is spoken out loud brackets are complex tilde.
Is he pulling the piss?
I think he could he could be making slight fun of somebody I'm not not quite sure what's going on here but yeah that's one interpretation.
Yeah somewhere on the internet there's a porn company working out how to make money out of us.
Yes good luck to me.
Yes good luck to me.
And John Culp joins in saying talk and purdy.
I see of Oklahoma lines by Ado Annie.
Oh well don't start talking purdy.
I can't do the accent but talk and purdy.
So yeah yeah.
So what we missed definitely do more of those it was today's regular expression that can.
No no cold showers guys cold showers.
Yeah Oklahoma sorry.
Yes gone gone.
Yeah the first time I went to the state which was the story and what's in itself.
I went into Kansas City and had a look at the map on a Saturday and I thought hey you know it's only that far in the map.
Sure I'll drive down.
That was a mistake.
No I never met it.
Yeah that's I'm sure many many people visiting America come up with the same the same thing.
So where were we off to?
We were two on six one and we were just going to do the comments I think.
Oh yes yes yes.
So a comment from the love book who says nice.
I see what you did there very clever audio quality was pretty spot on what was the recorder you were using.
Which is an interesting question.
In skis didn't actually say what he said he was using using a recorder hadn't used before we didn't say what it wasn't.
Good to know.
Keeping us keeping us waiting there.
And Clark he said green beans.
I was dead sure green beans are called green beans in England looked it up.
They are there are also called string beans French beans.
But the canonical page is ENWP dot org green underscore bean.
Great episode short sweet and brilliant.
That was a sightseeing tour.
I guess it was.
Yeah yeah we did we were getting ambient sounds of well that too.
We were getting ambient sounds from the from the fridge from the freezer I think weren't we.
Sounds of frozen things being.
Here we are.
We didn't stereo mics please.
We didn't even get a model number of the fridge.
Good.
It's not running a Raspberry Pi.
Come on.
Anyway a review and criticism of hips.
Hips git just say no.
In which I take on the IRC rant to audio and look at what's really wrong with git by Clarky.
And it is Richard Hips git.
And he's a he's guy who come up with.
Fossil.
I think he's the same guy behind.
The not my as well but the small like sequel like that's the money.
Yeah.
Yeah he is he's pretty bright sort of guy but it doesn't like get very much apparently.
No no no no no.
And I think Clarky puts a lot of his things to rest.
And you know what we need Dave in the same way we have a said an org series we need a git series.
Really we do because it is not covered well enough on this network.
And somebody is going to have to step up to the plate.
Let's go.
I was I was thinking as I was listening to this.
I mean I get some of it but I'm not I use git almost every day but I don't use it at the level that.
Clarky likes to use obviously use it because he's using it for work.
I'm just playing about.
Somebody who's actually using it in that sort of way.
If they were up for doing an intro to to the things they know and get re fantastic.
And this is coming directly from xkcd.com forward search 1597.
This is git it tracks collaborative work on projects through a beautiful distributed graph theory tree model.
Cool.
You can use it.
No idea.
I just remember the shell commands type them to sync up.
If you get our server work elsewhere to leave the project and loan load a fresh copy.
That's me.
Yeah.
That's that's it.
That's really it.
Yeah.
That's about my level of using it.
I did with Clark to his episode a few weeks ago where he was describing how you could say things in two places.
That was helpful.
I'm sure I could have got them myself but but I never did.
You know, so it's people who had the itch and scratched it can then share stuff back again.
There's where the use comes in.
It's like Unix.
You know Unix is full of amazing things but you really need to have a need to go and find them to know about them.
Yeah.
And sometimes somebody just explaining it to you once off like they like the said and said a knock.
And even Dan Moshko's Linux and the shell series.
You know, just read the man page for us because we're too lazy or or whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's man pages are not easy.
So somebody who understands I'm telling you about this is a good thing.
I think.
Yeah.
And sometimes it's just skip over this part you never ever use it or you know things have moved on.
So the following day we had GNU Oc recapping the last episode and looking at variables in the Oc program.
Now I this is now a series Dave episodes about this Oc the text manipulation language.
It comes with various forms called Oc, knock, mock and gok and standard version of Linux is GNU Oc.
It's programming now just optimized for the manipulation of delimited text.
And that is I said to you before and you and be easy.
That's in proper grammar there Dave.
Do you want to correct me?
I know you're dying to.
No, no, you just go.
You're used to it by now.
Yes, you're doing a fantastic job on this.
The show notes are fantastic.
And I deliberately met an effort to listen to these without referring to the show notes first.
And it's still coming through.
So good work to both of you.
Good good.
Yeah, yeah.
It's really hard to do this sort of thing just in audio.
I mean, we we so we're relying quite a lot on you being able to look at the at the notes, but you know there's.
It's a time to meet you have to sit down there and look at the stuff as you're going, doesn't it?
So it's just a learning position.
Sometimes sometimes it's it's nice to be kind of led through.
Well, the show notes are there and they're excellent as always.
And you seem to be consistent in your styles, which is amazing considering your two sides of the world, two different sides of the world.
So fantastic work. Well done.
Yeah, this is an example of what you can do brilliant.
Whoops.
We're working towards some sort of handouts that you could take away as a as a as a creep sheet or a little booklet or something.
But it's it's it's slow progress at the moment because it's mainly down to me, but we'll we'll get there.
Cool.
And there was a there were there is has been a comment by Otto.
A very interesting episode many thanks.
I always shield away from all yet another scripting language, but now I see there's associative indexing hashes.
Maybe useful to which Dave Morris replied.
I said, thanks.
Glad you found it useful.
Keep listening be easy and I'll be talking more about such a raises we proceed with the series.
One one thing that I always knew was a programming language,
but it never really struck me, you know, what the beginning and the end stuff was.
It's really is it's like a novel at this point where I'm.
Oh, great.
I didn't know I could do that.
I wonder what's going to come up in the next episode.
Oh, yes.
There's a lot of exciting stuff.
Yeah, I think I've said before I used to use it quite a lot back in the day when I was at work.
Probably in the 80s, that sort of late 80s, early 90s.
And since then it's grown enormously.
Gnu or there's got a load more stuff in it, so it is really cool.
Excellent.
So moving on to Skippu, tabletop game.
And tattoo talks about the surprisingly amazing game from Mattel.
And I remember listening to this one on the bus.
And he is, he's quite impressed with the game.
And despite the fact that they've not done a great job as given the learning sort of theme or anything else.
So pretty cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, I wrote Dan what a weird name, but I think he even remarked on that as well.
But I see that it's actually designed by somebody called Hazel Skipp Bowman.
So it's obviously, it's a name or a version of her name.
So yeah, that explains it.
But yeah, it's, it's quite numeric as I understood it anyway.
I just never waste my time following a project that's named after somebody.
Dave.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Anyway, Falky commented going crapet.
Thank you for this show about the game.
I thought about buying, but no, now I understand I don't have to because I already play something similar.
With Romy cards, it's called crapet and very addictive Smiley Fizz.
To which Clatu replied.
You replied.
Recrapet.
Interesting.
I hadn't heard of crapet before.
I look into it maybe.
I have to admit, I'm not well versed in all hundreds of games possible with a standard Poker Deck or two.
I really need to start learning some because obviously there's a great power in simplicity.
Interesting.
Yeah, exactly.
Get your most out of the communities with the following great audio suggestions, but nightwise.
Talks about ways to stay entertained during your commute to work by listening to podcasts.
And yes, he is absolutely correct.
Basically, he goes through good pod catchers, audiobooks, free online courses, Khan Academy, iTunes, text to speech, and stuff like that.
All stuff, which I do.
Oh, yes.
Could you make it effectively making your own audio book out of text only stuff?
That's what that means, I guess, isn't it?
Yeah.
I have a little script that you can web to speech.
And I think it's up on there if you're a website.
And it just fire a webpage at it and it'll put it into text to speech and put it into my podcast directly.
That's all it does.
It's pretty cool.
I use text to speech in awful lot of work, especially for boring reading specifications and the like you get.
I'm able to extract a lot more information as a result.
Yes, yes.
I can see the appeal of that because I spend most of my day listening to podcasts.
So, you know, it's really nice to have the whole process of somebody telling you something into your head while you're doing the washing up or whatever it is you're doing.
You know, it's that fits in well with my day.
So I can quite see doing that for things that are not accessible as podcasts would be a good thing to do.
I have this thing though, and it happens every month.
I don't know if I've ever told you.
As we've gone through these, I associate the time and the place where I heard the show to that particular place.
So, so that's that one of night wise, I was adding builders form to a hall and the laws.
All right, right, right.
Yeah, yeah.
I do that to some extent.
No, I don't probably don't move around as much as you do.
My son and his girlfriend visited last weekend and I was cooked a giant meal for them because they got that was hungry.
Lots of curry.
So, so we've got the associated with, you know, making egg curry or roe, jean curry, whatever.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, I get it.
So the next day we had much, much requested show on how to use a slide rule by popular request, a description and how slew slide rule works.
And it was by you Dave.
Thank you very much for putting so much effort into it.
And now you need to tell us about log tables and how they work.
Like I said in the show, I probably have my old school log tables in the house because I'm terrible at throwing things away.
So yeah, I'll see if I can find them and then then talk about them.
But yeah.
Yeah, yes, another, another piece of my college career that was burnt by my father, not that I'm bitter or angry about that.
Well, my log table's gone on my notes from five years of college gone.
Yes, yes, yes.
This, yeah, this happened to me a little bit because there was a lot of stuff in my parents attic when they moved away and get chance to go and grab it.
But yeah, it's, I don't know.
I was an hour and a half away, Dave.
I was an hour and a half away.
I had to do was pick up the phone.
That's rough.
Yeah.
I actually, I went back.
I wanted to go back and read some of the, because I was thinking, okay, well, I'm going to have to build up all my book collection that I had.
That they, that was also burnt in that.
And I went down to eight.
It's impossible to get second hand books here because it's the Netherlands.
So people speak Dutch to, but there's a second hand shop.
So I went in and they had an English selection.
I was able to pick up an Azimov Foundation book.
And I had like all the white ones here, all of them.
But I had quite a lot, I had all the Azimov series, all the robot series and, and quite a lot of other stuff as well.
And I was, oh, well, I'll go to Amazon and see how much the books are.
Oh, my God.
The prices will be at easily a thousand euros to replace all the Azimov book books alone.
So, yeah.
I know.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, they're in demand, I guess, aren't they?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anyways.
So, you give them a guess.
I won't bring that up.
Did you get yourself a slide rule?
I did.
Yes, I did.
So, are you a slide ruler and rule using that?
Well, I would need more assistance, Dave, to be honest.
Multiplying two numbers was a good introduction, but I feel there's more that could be done.
Oh, there's lots and lots more.
Yeah, yeah.
So, I'm hoping this will expand into a series, Dave.
Oh, no.
So, yeah, somebody who could do the series.
I have to look around and see.
But actually, what you mentioned about it being gone to basically logarithms, I never, never knew that.
And I completely, that single fact and that show where you said multiplication can be done by addition and log, convert everything to logs and then do the addition on them.
Just five years of college completely full over my head.
How is that even possible?
Yes, yes, yes.
Well, if you look at powers of things, then adding them is how you multiply them.
But yes, it's an interesting thing.
We're in Edinburgh, we're, as I said in the show, we're quite, we know a lot about logarithms in general.
If we go to museums and very, because there's tons of Napier stuff.
There's a, there's a section of the main Edinburgh Museum, National Museum, Scotland is called with about John Napier and his, his things and his artifacts and so on.
So, you know, it's, there's a lot to be learned there.
Okay, the comments, Chalkum, very much enjoy the show.
I was following along with the old boot slide rule, thanks Dave.
And I'll do Steve Smith-Hertz as well.
I showed my students a virtual slide rule as example of the analog computer, became fascinated by them and just bought a fabric pastel five to eight to duplex with 19 scales.
Of course, for me, Bay, not got it though in the post, not got it the post, yes.
As a kid, I used four figure tables, but in all level classes, I was allowed to use my brand new TI 30.
Didn't get taught the slide rule.
I liked the LL scales raised e to the power of X.
I knew there had to be some way to have Y instead of E.
So, I looked up raising arbitrary Y by arbitrary X, well cool.
And the link to the site, www.antiquark.com to which you replied.
Thanks, thanks Chalkum.
I'm glad you enjoyed it.
I didn't realize that boots brackets UK-based pharmacy chain for people who don't know sold slide rules.
But I see references to them online.
I looked on the slide rule museum thing and there's lots of references to them.
Didn't know that.
But anyway, and then I said, cheers Steve.
I don't remember being taught how to use a slide rule.
Maybe we were and I wasn't listening.
I did use it in a moderate amount, but not for anything very sophisticated.
Perhaps you could tell us about the more advanced features by way of an HBR show.
Oh, yes.
Wouldn't it be cool?
That would be awesome Steve.
You could demonstrate your new favorite castell.
You could.
This would be myself, yourself and Steve standing in a row and both of us taking one step back.
Yes.
You could put one on either.
So Steve, no pressure, no pressure.
Yes.
More than three shows in the series just so you know.
So now I was at school.
I was struggling with math really and that's partly why I went in the direction of biology.
Because in those days you didn't have to be very mathematically able to be a biologist.
That is not the case anymore.
You could be even more mathematically adept.
But so it was quite interesting to do this show just to realize that some of the stuff I didn't
really fully understand could be understood in a try not.
Well, just another tangent there.
I do not understand why computer science needs computers higher level mathematics as a core foundation.
No, it's beyond me.
The computer science or the computer center, the university worked out originally sprang out of the math department, I think.
Yes.
The computer science department came out of there.
I think that's a sort of linkage that people make in their minds, but well computer computing came out of math.
Therefore computing is math.
Therefore you need to have math to do computing.
Absolutely.
I could not disagree more.
If you understand, yeah, understanding Boolean, understanding some matrixes might help but Boolean logic and being able to count to zero, being able to count to one, that's about it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I agree.
I agree.
I certainly found that when I was doing a lot with computers as a student, it was automatically assumed that I was good at math.
Yes.
It was quite a shock when people found, I don't know.
Go and find somebody to keep notes in math.
Anyways, dragging, were you finished?
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I was.
I have done.
I have done.
I have done.
I have.
Yes, not found the stick to poke enough.
I'm radio guys to get them to actually do a show.
And, anyway, Bill was discussing some of the success that Google had despite people thinking Google is failing.
And he has recorded a follow up show to that.
So I'm going to hold off my comments on this show to that show.
Well, a great answer. Very nice to have him on board. I know he posted this to his YouTube channel,
but we posted it anyway, and his replies are HPR specific. So, everything is good. Everything is
good, Dave. Everything is good. Yeah. Yeah. It's an interesting show. It's good to be slightly
controversial about these things, or at least direct and express an opinion. So that was quite
refreshing. Yeah, no. I don't think we've ever said Google is failing. I've never come across that
argument. I mean, failing at his mission, perhaps, failing at, don't do evil, perhaps,
but failing itself. The figure speaks for itself. It's one of the biggest companies in the world,
and continuing to do a pretty good job with that. Yes. Yes. I think, yes, I think it's the fact
that they've had successful sub projects, which say then just pull down for no particular reason.
You're still sort of our Google reader, isn't you Dave? I never used it much, actually, but
yeah, it did seem like a bad idea. I never understood. That's why I want to comment. He's done a follow-up
episode where he discusses some of those things. So I'm going to hold off commenting until then.
And if you have comments, record your own show. The following day, we had Klatu with Klatu punters,
analog random number generators. Now, this fascinated me because his pocket dice roller, which is a
thing that he has written on his on his GitLab instance. But you mentioned, and I was standing on
the platform number three in Skippel, waiting for my train in the evening and going, why the hell
with anyone? As a pastime, come up with random numbers in their head. Why would you do that, Dave?
Klatu, why are you doing that? Can you please do a show on that? That in itself is worth a show.
Yeah, yeah, similar question to me. If I found myself doing that, I know that I would be
a door into an in-room of infinite mirrors that I mean never ever get out of.
Yes, yes, yes. It's partly, I got the impression that this was sort of a,
how would you deal with this case if you didn't have access to all of the electronics and
the internet, et cetera, et cetera. And it's always a good question to ask and come up with
an answer to, I feel. But yeah, but I thought it was he was at a dinner party and then he was just
picking random numbers. As he's, as the conversation has drifted by, he was sitting there thinking
of random numbers. Perhaps that's all he does. I don't know. I think I've got a little bit of my
daughter's dyscalculia in my head that I don't particularly like numbers. I don't find them,
I don't like numbers. I like binary and I like hexed decimal, but I don't like numbers in general.
Yeah, yeah, I tend to agree with you. Yes, I'm famous in the family for repeatedly forgetting my
ATM pin cards. They walked to the machine and you put the card in and it says, what's your pin?
And suddenly the brain just goes, no, you're never getting that again. That's been hidden away.
You're never seeing that bit. And then it eats your card and you have to go into, I'm so sorry,
I messed up. And that sort of thing, and that happens to me, it's, I don't know what that is.
It's a bit like forgetting a word when you're trying to think up, think of somebody's name
or the process. Yeah, yeah. Anyway, yeah, interesting one. Interesting one. I don't know if
plateau listens to the show, but it would be interesting to get an idea of why he does that sort of
stuff. Okay, how I connect to the awesome August planners on my mobile, which is in natural fact,
a show by Clarkie again. Clarkie, even I keep typing Clarkie when I'm posting the show and
nothing comes up. And it's Clarkie. Clarkie. Yes, yes, he being sweet as he, he, he
sounds the E on the end. I have a Norwegian friend, his, he's, he's called Cecilia. And it,
it looks like Cecilia, IE, we have to say the E on the end. So anyway, that's, that's how he
pronounces his name, I think. So he uses Rias on F-Droid, which I actually installed. Very nice,
nice thing, liked it. Cool. Yeah, I had a quick look. I don't really have a need to do this on
phone. I tell you why, because my little Motorola Moto G is not really up to doing very much,
it's quite small and it's not very powerful. That's a, my son's just giving me a OnePlus 1,
I'm going to shift over to. So that's my, it's my combined Christmas of birthday present. So
it's, it's his, he's just upgraded. So it's, it's his second hand one. But still, it's a lot more
powerful. So, so maybe, maybe this is a road to, to follow. And he commented on his own show,
saying more discussion on Slack alternatives. As there, I briefly mentioned in this episode,
XMPP had an extension that makes it better for mobile. And he gives get cow, kaiwa.com brings up
message archivement management XEP-0313 message carbons XEP028O will be great if somebody had
been using these when, with multiple intern, me intern, mutant devices and hats and comments
and how well they work. And he gives links to both of those extensions. And I kind of know
what he's on about because of the, because of the interviews I did as a foster. Yeah, it's,
it's passing me by somewhat. I'm afraid. Slack, I don't get what people get with it. It's like
another Skype chat thing. And they're trying to get us to have it to work. And I go, well,
leave it off. Thank you very much. Anyway, there you go. Next, we had sound.io, which was a
hang on, hang on. Well, there was a comment we missed. I think was there? No, I just did it.
Sorry, sorry, sorry. See, I'm not paying attention. Yeah, are I drawing on and on and on and on, David?
Anyway, yeah, low cost open source acoustic lugger for bio, very, why can't I buy a virus?
I, my, uh, speaking speech processing has shut down day. Can you read that?
A low cost open source acoustic logger for biodiversity and environmental monitoring.
Thank you, Dave. Thank you very much. Yeah, this was the second part of an interview. You might
remember the Humboldt project from some time ago, which was related to me trying to get rid of
mosquitoes. So yes, this, um, yeah, this is brilliant. This is absolutely brilliant. I'm amazed that
they have managed to make a device that's so small. I haven't quite got my head around how big it is,
but it doesn't look as if it's going to be very large. And with, with the hell of a lot of processing
double air batteries, but it looks a lot smaller than three double air batteries. Thank you. Right,
right. So it's pretty damn small and it's, it's, it's pretty amazing. I didn't, I mean, it's,
it's capable of grabbing quite complex sounds and quite a lot of them and stuffing them onto an
SD card. Um, with, with limits, obviously, but still, because did he not say that often,
for many applications, it's, it, you're going to be doing samples every, every so often to, to,
to determine, um, how, uh, whether a particular sound that you're looking for is occurring and, and,
you can't record for hours on end, but you can sample. So yeah, it goes on, it turns us off on
every five minutes and then has a listen. And if it finds anything interesting, it'll record,
and if it doesn't, it'll go back to sleep. So it basically saves battery. And it's, it's capable
of being programmed to look in particular, uh, bands of, of sound. Yeah, it can, can spot birds or
insects or bats. Yeah, whatever your, particularly interested in the, the thing you're interested in,
yeah. Yeah, absolutely amazing. Yeah, it is. And the, the fact that he's doing the pre-processing
on this device, it's just blows my mind. Uh, so it would come so far with this, when I was a
student, um, and undergrad, um, we were taking on, uh, in the field to, to, uh, with a bat detector,
which was a real-time device, which, which changed the, uh, the frequency of bats, bats sound.
So that you could, you could, you could, you could, you knew that there was a bat flying over,
you could recognize something about the bat. He knew what, you know, you, you had to have a big
experience. We had people who helped us out with it. Um, but this is so much more sophisticated
in, in comparison. Absolutely. I remember watching David Attenborough films where they would do
that, the headphones on, and there was a bat flying past, and it's the one. And you'd hear it.
Yeah. Yeah. Cause it, there's all that business where they change the frequency of the pulses,
depending on how close they're getting to, to the prey. So they get better, better definitions,
they, they fly into it and then, and grab it and stuff. Yeah. We like bats that you'd musk it off.
Yeah. It's, it needs some pet bats. And so we have some comments on this. And Mike Ray,
says, Soundtrap IO with a different application question, greater if you can. I recently started
to learn how to play the ukulele, and I'm a stickily bought an electronic tuner without thinking
it had LED tuning indicators. I started to think about connecting either a vibration sensor or a
microphone to the Arduino and knocking something up. And then I heard this interview. I have
emailed the guys to ask them if Soundtrap board has any pins that might be capable of driving the
a centric vibrator motor from a centric vibrator motor from a normal mobile phone. In this way,
I could maybe make the tactile ukulele guitar tuner. And Soundtrap is an interesting project,
which will make sense to people if they realize that Mike is blind. So obviously, LED
indicators will be a lot of use to them. No, it's the project he's thinking of is quite an
interesting one. Yeah, you have different levels of vibration depending on how close you were to the
the target tone presumably. Yeah, very, very cool. And be easy commented, saying very interesting.
Thank you for the great show. I found the entire interview fascinating. I'd love to see some
example code for making a model for identifying species from a sound file from one of these devices.
My mind is blown. I love doing these interviews. I don't have to do a thing. Just chop up the audio
on post it and bask in the glory of somebody else's expertise. Yeah, but it's a great way to get
this sort of knowledge out to us all. You know, it's been really need to go and searching for
this sort of stuff to find that it existed. So thank you very much for bringing it to our attention.
No problem, but if anybody is listening to, you know, they come across something where they think,
hey, that would be cool. And that person was there doing an interview on this show or the other show,
then email them because more than likely they'll be very happy to record a show. Yeah, it's
easy peasy, lemon squeezy. Okay. And space, man. Well, it was first HPR show, not the last because
it posted quite a few since then. I love programming. Right, you can see free software and basically
tells a little bit about himself. So yes, he's setting up. Yeah, as you say, he's introducing himself
and suggesting some of the things he will be talking about in future shows, which is really good.
It is. And they all fall into, he owes me a show because he says he's going to do them.
There you go. He's already all pressure. He's already paid, paid his dues by doing some more shows
as you say. Yeah, excellent. And Amy left a comment saying, hack, it is super okay to hack. I was
introduced to jai hack 11 at gmail.com and dude impressed me. He did a great job. I'm happy
and feel indebted to him forever. Cool. Yeah. Cool. So Dutch Blitz tabletop game. This is Steve
getting in on tattoos or tattoos territory. Steve, get off tattoos turf, man. Not at all.
Are tattoos more than happy to have Steve along because I did check with him before creating
the tabletop gaming series, making it open. This is a fantastic game. And this one was hitting all
my points for being a family game for us until the last minute where he goes. There's no turns.
You just start doing stuff. Oh my god. Kids with anti coordination issues. That's going to be a
problem. But I can imagine this will be so much fun. Yes. I was thinking the same thing. It was
it was sort of cruising along early, easy going and tell that until he did experience that.
I was just covered down the train station. That's not a bit of a goal. Hey, what the hell just
happened there? All right. Okay. I can see how this would be massively, massively addictive.
Pretty cool. Pretty cool. It's an interesting design of game. And I love the history. I was
so good to hear, you know, first of all, why is it called Dutch? Well, it's a, it's a corruption
Deutsch, which is amazing. And, you know, and all of the, the, the, the construction of the game and
the factors that were in it that result in it, turning out the way it did and so on. Very, very,
very interesting. It's all they, it's all they very well produced and the show notes are excellent
as well. Absolutely. Well done. Well done. Cool. More of those. Oh, dude, dude, dude, dude,
dude, driving a blinked as an internet of things device. You're Raspberry Pi with
a LED array, which is set up as a notification device. I love these shows. But unfortunately,
it puts us on my to-do list, Dave. Oh, and I was just tackling some stuff. So question, though,
is, can I use the blinked on a regular Raspberry Pi? Oh, yes, absolutely. It's, it just fits on
the 40 pin GPIO, which is on both devices. The reason I chose the, the Pi Zero was because it's
small and can easily be popped into a, into a box or whatever picture frame in this case,
or incidentally, since we started recording this, somebody has submitted a comment because
the lights on. There you go. I haven't, haven't processed it though. I really actually, that's,
I like what you did with the printing off the thing. I saw that on a hackety project one time,
or was it a, was it a project on YouTube where the med, the most ugly box I ever saw, and then
the Indian Dinkscape and just printed off a lovely control panel and stuck it on and it looked
so professional. You know, laminated the thing and just stuck it on over the ugly hacked
together box and then the thing just looked so nice. Very good idea. Love that. Yeah, yeah, I don't
know why it just suddenly came to me. It started out as a thing for making the holes, but it then,
oh, that's work for labels. And then of course, if I get fed up with them as they are, I can just
take the paper and put another one in. You can't, can you, can you use the GPIO pins then once
you have this in, or is it, it's gone? It covers them over because the LEDs sit right on top.
Yeah. So you'd need to, you need to, you can, I mean, you can get stackable headers. So you should
be able to do something like that. It only, it doesn't use many pins. The, the Pimirony site
point to a place where you can find out what all of these hats and fats and other devices
that go on the GPIO, the GPIO, which pins they use. So you can work out how, whether you can
intermix them. So it's possible, but maybe not quite as straightforward.
Gone. Did you, how would you compare it out with a blinky stick that you have
or? Well, the blinky stick is great, but it's just the one LED. And it's, it's also, you know,
the fact here I've got eight RGB LEDs to play with makes quite a bit of a difference. However,
I also have a blinky stick pro, which has no LEDs, but you use it to interface to other devices.
And I, I mean, I'm currently working on a project to interface it to a ring of 24, I think,
LEDs. Yeah, yeah. I think you can also interface it with the, the doider, this one right here,
from IKEA, which is a four strand LED. Oh, yeah, yeah, diode. Yeah, that's the one. Yeah, exactly.
Yes, you can, they show you a hack where you can, you can plug it into the box itself.
And then you've got very, very sophisticated control over all of the, the sticks of LEDs.
And those are, you can buy the ones with colors, colored, presumably RGB LEDs as well,
can't you? Because you can, you can, yeah, yeah, they do show. Yeah, that's actually quite good.
That's a good solution. There's also a device from Pimironi, my kids say I'm a fanboy of that
so they do have some quite nice kit. They do, there's, there's a device, a, an interface board
and four LED sticks, which, what do they call them? I've forgotten the name of it, but which you can
also just plug into your GPIO and they are all individually addressable LED, RGB LEDs.
Yes, so there's, there's, there's, there's many mode. They call it MOTE. That's what I'm thinking of.
So yeah, if you've already got the IQ one, they would, would be nice. Yeah, see that, yeah.
I, I just am now browsing on the, on the size. So yes, I'm completely going to be lost.
So I don't want to connect her so that I can try the, the lights out with these dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy dohy.
I will be asking for that link from you. Thank you very much. And just as the buy the buy, I love Adafruit stuff as all.
Oh yeah. I could just browse when I'm feeling sad and depressed. I nip over to the Adafruit website and just browse it for a while.
I cheer myself up. All is right in the world. Anyway, Jonathan Colt commented to say I light up your life.
I am posting this comment for the sole purpose of turning Dave's light on smiley face. Super cool episode Dave. One of these days I'll use the eye opens my pie.
I have an LED related episode in mind too, though a very different kind. One semester. One semester is over. I'll stop just lurking and posting you episodes. Thanks for a great show.
Thank you for that comment and Jonathan to it.
I said it worked. Thanks, John, meaning the light came on. As someone who studied operant conditioning back in my university days, I'm rather aware that I might have constructed a means of conditioning my own behavior.
I should work on a food reward dispensers. It's about bad. And every time the light comes on our salivate, you know, the Pavlov dogs, I was thinking.
Anyway, looking forward to hearing about your LED project at some point to smiley face.
Very good. Mike Ray, who we just read the comment on before, twinkly lights and MQTT terrific show Dave. I have never heard of MQTT until I heard this show.
I was looking into alternatives to a XML RPC client service solution for a commercial project I'm working on. And I have done in the past for a company that makes communication gear for the French metro operators.
I know it would interest that the MQTT transforms into send elect standards and is already used by some railway hardware manufacturers.
I'm going to set my alarm clock for the middle of the night now just to post comments so that your little twinkly lights are on when you wander into the dead in the morning. Excellent stuff.
I've really unleashed that thing to you. You wouldn't want to say that.
One thing I did not know about you when you're sure why are you using is that like a message boss type thing which MQTT?
Yeah, it's a pub sub mechanism. So you have publishers and subscribers and you have a message broker in the center.
This is this Mosquito server that I'm using. You wouldn't like that. But it's running on the Pi0, the server, the message broker.
There's a subscriber on the Pi0 which is receiving stuff and then switching lights on and off.
And there's a publisher on the zero as well. But there's also other ones on other systems that switch the different lights on.
So the publish sends a message to the broker which then says anybody who I know to be listening for messages of this particular category.
And here's a message. And then the listener that I hacked from the Pimironi example simply expects commands that say turn pixel number so and so this color.
And so it does. Why not so?
Why not just directly talk to it as well? Well, you could. You could do that. I did say that in the show.
I mean, you could write a listener as a piece of code that's just sitting there all day long waiting for the messages.
But the thing is that I was able to easily implement this on two different machines within an hour or something because I could just install the MQ, the Mosquito software on the two machines.
And it came with a server which I didn't use but the clients as well. So I could use a client on a different machine to send messages to that.
So the possibility of doing as I said in the show, I could have something that's connected to a doorbell or a Pi0 or something simpler perhaps which then sends a Mosquito MQTT message to the thing to flash lights say somebody at the door.
I do like this internet of things so long as it's within my own control. Well, exactly. Yeah. That's what I said in the show.
My neighbor's heavily into internet things stuff. He's got nest the moment and he lights and Amazon echo and all this sort of stuff. But, you know, how does he know he's not being hacked?
He's kind of seen, you know, and all the state is going to to these people's service.
As I said to my boss, he was showing us a video of one of these Amazon echo things working and I was going, yeah, I'm now going to start recording you on when you say send adult content to my mother-in-law.
I'd play it on the Mega 4 outside of his house.
Yes, yes. Well, this is it. It's all great and all until somebody, until somebody hacks it in a way.
Your thing is running on an operating system that's likely to be updated. That's on point in time.
Indeed. And it's in a it's behind a net router as well and et cetera, et cetera.
But cool. Yeah. You can't be replied to Mike.
I replied to up to Mike saying, cheers, Mike. Yes, MQTT is really cool and quite simple.
When I was working, I did look at SOAP and XMLR PC as possible ways of shifting data between systems for account provisioning purposes, but never implemented anything.
MQTT might well have been able to do what we wanted.
I'd be interested. No, it would be interesting if you could tell us more about sort of application you have in mind for it.
It's always it's always trying to find the comment notification light on when I get up. So go right ahead.
Excellent. Cool. Well done. I show like it.
As you know, it's right up my alley because we've had many offline discussions about that.
And that was the last show for this month, Dave.
But not overstepping my mark by going into next month's shows.
And we had some comments outside of the this month and let me just call those up for you now.
The first one was on the show by Klaatu, get push to two repositories at once.
And it was by Dave Morris, who said, have you got that or shall I do?
Oh, yeah, you want me to do. Yeah, I said, I thought I'd never use this.
This was interesting, but I thought I'd never use it. However, I had an instance recently where I'm making a GitHub copy of a repository on a GitLab instance was desirable.
It was straightforward to set up and work flawlessly. Thanks for explaining the process.
Yeah, it's a good idea actually since I've been thinking about it, I've also had plenty of times to use it.
Yeah, it's a cool thing to be able to do. And yeah, I sure.
It's another thing about, you know, you need to understand a bit more about the stuff that Git can do.
And then you suddenly realize that there's a lot more that you could cool stuff that you could be doing than you, than you about before.
So very good.
So the next comment was on Vim plugins are used by BeEasy.
And the comment was a reply to BeEasy to you, where you were saying about the app plugin wasn't in your notes.
And he said, yes, Dave, this is the app plugin that I use, github.com, arcingag.bim, which is supposed to be better, but I haven't tried it.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, yeah. Now that was good. It was nice that we managed to sort of join the loop there.
And then we had, and the next comment was on the show, scrolling up,
Dilly to notes and to do lists with Markdown, and that was by Norris.
And the question was by Matt, I think, was that correct by Matt?
Yes, that's the one. He was puzzled to try read this one.
Yeah, sure. And he, I think there was also not the comment he replied to that just now.
Norris gave him an answer to, yeah, yeah.
So we're actually stringing in the comments out into December's comments.
Well, remember when we get back to, not to do them again.
Of course we will. Yeah, yeah, we're very good at that.
Anyway, Matt says, question about the script. I love your script idea.
Probably be copying lots of it. Thanks.
However, in the, in the last for loop where you cat your files into the new readme file,
I don't understand this bit. And it's a dollar open parenthesis, LS minus R dollar daily path slash two
asterisk MD close parenthesis. So I'm a more specific study there Dave.
I nearly, I nearly, I nearly string into Regents.
I know people have to go all shower now.
Yeah, we've done it. Yeah, yeah, yes, absolutely.
More specifically to the star.
I think he got his, I think he.
So we have to leave him with.
Is this some kind of bash specific notation? Is this a Mac thing?
What's O, T word, W stand for?
Anyway, great episode and very helpful. Cheers, Matt.
Shall we give them the answer or we'll make them wait the whole month into Lexington?
It seems daft to stop when the things right there.
Well, it's your rules, Dave.
If your script is not capable of reflecting the real world actuality of the fact that we record on the Saturday before the last
quarter, what's it got?
It's it's setting a hard and fast line between one another.
The next is what it's doing.
It's not taken into account the day we we record.
I shall read that.
You remember those serial things that used to be on the flash cord months and they were the go over a cliff or something.
And then you know, the car would explode.
And you know, the cliffhanger episodes endings to the daily serialized things.
And then you come back the next week and they would have cut out the scene where the guy jumps out of the car just before it goes over.
I always felt cheated by those things and I don't know why I'm bringing that up now.
My dad used to comment on that. He used to say, yeah, they always do it with something like with one mighty bounty was free.
You know, he was 10 foot under the under 1000 foot under the sea.
And with the within a shark's mouth while well being electrocuted or something.
Yeah, one mighty bounty was free.
Yeah, anyway.
So with one mighty band, we'll do this one.
Shall we?
Yeah, far ahead.
Two asterisk slash N.D. says Norris.
There isn't anything special about that expression I just said.
All the files that I want combined into the readme are named by date and have the N.D. suffix.
So two asterisk slash M.D. matches 2016, high from 12, high from 01.M.D. as well as the other daily files.
The only reason for that expression to be there is in case I have some other files in the director that I don't want included in the readme.
So that's that's pretty fair.
And Sim Bakkan is in the HBO channel.
And if he or she wishes to talk, feel free to put in at any time.
Oh, hello.
I just been listening.
And I love listening to you guys.
Just keep continuing.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
Okay, don't just to interject that business of path name expansion and all that good stuff that was that was in was being discussed in those comments.
I'm doing a bash series rather slowly, but there's there's a whole bunch of episodes about the whole subject of path name expansion.
The next episode is going to be about that very thing of asterisks and question marks and square brackets and all that stuff.
So I'm just writing it at the moment.
So yeah, before too long.
So hopefully that will help to just to answer some of those questions as well.
Cool.
So the next one was a comment by in my bill on his own show.
If we're allowed to discuss that, the real J.Y.E. Tech Kit.
I think we commented on this last month.
This was one of the ones where I broke the unwritten rule Dave where I commented about.
So I'm now going to do it again.
And then obviously I'm going to the next comment.
And I'm having to check all the second dates to see.
They don't break any of your rules.
Yes, the last one.
Apollo 11 guidance computer.
Yes, this is how I'm for that.
Yeah, I'm allowed to do that magnificent.
I've been publicizing this every way I can think of.
I, yeah, again, another one of these shows that I didn't, you know, didn't need to do anything just.
I loved this stuff.
Oh, God, this is brilliant.
It's, it's pretty amazing as we, as we discussed last week.
It's astonishing bit of technology given the time and the, the, the prevailing state of engineering and science.
Yeah, amazing.
And, you know, all due respect, he is putting in at least as much effort in getting that off as was put into putting together in the first place.
So absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
It's, it's great.
So what we do to comments there, Dave, or can we move on?
We have.
We have.
We won't do the ones that, I won't do the one that's sitting here in the waiting to be processed.
Other ones that haven't been sent in yet.
Yeah.
We'll make some up.
So there was, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, did you able to do that community news?
They, on the mailing list, honking McGoo is announcing the new year show himself and Kevin are taking the lead in that.
And I've offered any help, our assistants that we can.
They have done, as you know, the Linux logcast is a continuing effort that they do every month.
So streaming and mumble chats are their middle game.
So I expect no issues whatsoever.
The only thing I did suggest was that we would do it because it's a weekend.
And anyway, for the new year show, it calls nothing just to have the, they server up for the stream up for the entire time.
So if anybody at any particular point, when the planet is in new years day, then we should have a stream available.
And you can come on, just leave your best wishes and truncate silence will take care of the rest.
And honky has graciously offered to edit it, which he did last year as well.
So that is even more allowing me to enjoy New Year's Day here.
Now we did have a question Dave about what we're going to do with the new year show recording of the community news.
So yes, because the next community news will occur on the recording of it will occur on the 31st of December.
So yeah, we need to, we need to agree with with everybody involved.
How we're going to slot that in so we can get it out in the, in the queue in the feed.
That's a, that's a community event on the community event.
So yeah, that's just a, we can cut that out ourselves and then go with that.
Well, we'll talk to honky about that.
And if we need to report it another time, that's fine as well.
Yeah, yeah, it's, it's not, not a massive deal.
But we managed fine last year, so it shouldn't be too much of a problem, hopefully.
So just as a reminder to people, we do have some technical issues going on at the minute.
The FTP server is still down.
We had a little bit of an outage there with the HBRVPS.
But Josh is busy with all the things at the minute in a good sense.
And is moving us off to another server in the upcoming period, which is why the FTP server,
the FTP service is down, and which is why posting anonymously is not possible via the FTP site,
or especially Spaceman, who wants to do that.
So we're looking in at doing some other means, and we'll see how that goes.
We, we need, we need back, but we need backup methods of doing some of these things anyway.
And we need to, need to talk about that.
And I don't know if I'm supposed to say, but Josh is, is traveling in, in December and January,
and it's entirely possible, he will be here in Edinburgh.
So I'm going to make a point of meeting up with him and hang up with him a little while, hopefully.
Cool, fantastic, fantastic stuff to record as you'll.
I wouldn't be me.
No promises ever.
So my internet is switched over, I switched over my internet.
I've now gone down from 250 megabytes down to 100.
But my upload is 110 megabits per second.
Yes, yes.
So you got five and now, yeah, I got fiber.
And yeah, then I had it in the, I had a coming in in the, where the telephone comes in and the meter cabinet.
And then in the rebuilding, I got them to put in a, like, 10 cents, maybe four inch pipe going over.
And I ran, then struck your cabling, 10 rolls, 10 strands of cable in and patched that on the far side and here in the seller onto a patch panel,
which was nice and relaxing.
And my daughter in the, when we were doing the rebuilding, her network cable got caught.
So I had to rewire her network cable through the wall at the back down through the seller, which was pinning the ass.
Because I had to take a big hole out of the wall, two walls in order to do that.
Well, now I just patched it up now and that's working.
And I also patched that into the patch panel there.
Well, I'm very close to having a taking one switch out.
But now as I'm thinking about it, having all these Raspberry Pi's downstairs, I'm going to have to put in another switch.
Anyway, because I ran out of internet, internet network connections.
Yes, yes.
So you've got VPN to these things.
That's like quite a production you got there.
Well, I've got the VPN, I meant VLANs.
No, no, no, I don't believe in VLANs.
Because I mean, we use them more work because you use them more work.
But I think it's fundamentally flawed to run packets over the same network that you're running.
When you can have two physically different separate networks.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can do that.
Yes, yes.
So I've actually promised a 5150 a show ages ago on the little device that I used.
And so I've got an internet, you know, a device, like more than the device that you get from your ISP.
And then I just treat that as my ISP network.
So, you know, block stuff coming off into that device.
So enable the firewall on that.
And then I have some devices running DMZ.
And then on one of the connections, I have a little firewall device, which goes to my own network switch.
And then I operate a network behind that.
So two different subnets.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'll do a show about it.
I have the photos.
I have the speed test, but I have to just, just have not done the show.
It's one of these ones where you start recording it.
And then the battery runs out and you start recording it and something else goes wrong.
So it's...
Yeah, it's becoming a jinxed show.
Or the doorbell rings or the cat rings on something like that.
It comes in from out of town.
Okay.
Okay.
Any other news?
We're going to fast them.
If anyone else is going, please give us a shout.
We need to get that organized, actually.
Very soon.
Yes.
There's some things to be sorted.
So, yep.
That will be good.
Okay.
It'll be, yeah, I'll camp an ants before too long as well.
Yeah, that will be nice.
Yes.
And as I say, join us now and share the software.
You'll be free.
Hackers.
You'll be free.
That was James G. Kirk, this rendition of the free software.
All right.
You saw it for another exciting episode of...
Hacker.
Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
