Episode: 2873
Title: HPR2873: Death Angel - Card game
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2873/hpr2873.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:34:35

---

This is HPR Episode 2873 entitled, Defendable, Card Game, and is part of the series, tabletop
gaming, it is hosted by Tuku Toroto, and is about 17 minutes long, and Karina Cleanflag.
The summary is short description of Defendable Card Game.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
With 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, you are living through the Hackerpuffic radio, and this is Tutura talking about a
card game called Dead Angel.
This is a pretty fun game, or always a pretty difficult game, that is for one to four players.
And it's about space marines that are assaulting or attacking space hulk, huge derelict space
that has been invested by the change dealers, some sort of monsters.
And there's always some specific goal that you don't actually know when you are starting
the game.
You only learn your final goal when you reach to the location where you can complete the goal.
So the game is a turn-based, it's a co-author of this game, all the players are working
on the same side against the game.
Every player has to two or more space marines, depending on the amount of the players.
And all those marines have different abilities, and you don't even get to choose what marines
you are bringing on the mission.
The game starts by you softening some tokens, turning that upside down, you shuffle them
and then every player picks the tokens and from that token they learn which marines
they are allowed to use this time.
And maybe I don't go through the setups that closely, the basic premise is that you
have your marines are you know they are laid on the table in a queue and they have a direction
they are facing, some are facing to the list and some are facing to the right and that
facing is important because the players not again is set up in the way that all the monsters
try to always get on the behalf of you.
And while you can defend against them in that case you cannot attack them.
So the game is about managing your marines where they are and where they are facing and
what they are doing.
Every player has a, every marines are in pairs, there are two marines that are form of
fair and they always do the same thing.
And every player's choose what they are doing, there's three options that they can do.
And you cannot, you cannot repeat the same option during the turn.
So if you, on the previous turn, if you attack you cannot do that anymore.
Which means that you have to manage pretty carefully what you are doing, if all the marines
that are in the play game decide to attack at the same time.
That means that they are going to do a lot of damage but that means also means on the
next turn nobody is going to attack.
Players encourage to do those decisions by themselves.
And the game is built in a way that you are supposed to make your own decisions.
And while it's co-authority it tries to encourage players by everybody to make their own decisions
and not to one player dominates the game and tells everyone what should be done.
So basically every player chooses the action, those actions are carried out.
There's a, they can support other players, they can attack those monsters that have
support around them or they can move around and face their facing.
So moving they can activate things, there's a door that they can close and then there's
some panels that they can operate.
The panels are located, locations specific, they can change a bit.
A bit of what happens in some places you can, for example, use electricity to dispatch
those monsters and that is dangerous to your players or you then use teleport to jump
ahead in the space.
Those are important because it represents your Marines moving forward and closing doors
behind you blocking the access of the monsters but by chasing them.
Well, I already said there's a queue of Marines in the middle, on both sides of the Marines
there's some terrains, those are guards and those terrains determine, determine points
where the monsters are coming after you, Marines.
So they give you a clue where the, where the monsters might be appearing.
On top of that queue there's a two small piles of guards upside down, these are called
radar guards and they, they give the players indication how much of, how much they are
monsters left in this particular spot of the ship, whenever one of those piles go empty
that means that you have cleared enough the area and then the old terrains are removed
and you get a new location with where you put a new terrain, terrain cards and you fill
those radar, radar places and when those location cards are empty those cards that they
meet which location you are, you have reached the end of the ship and here and this is where
you are given the, your task that you have to do.
Sometimes it means that you have to, usually it means that you have to discharge a pile
of monsters and sometimes there's a nest that you have to clean completely, sometimes
there's a huge monster that you have to find again, sometimes there's some, some mechanical
device that you have to operate but there's always at the end of the game there's a, if
you make it, it put the end of the game there's some sort of slanted bubble, those are kind
of neat because usually at that point if you get that far, the game is pretty difficult,
oh I'm very good player either way, you are down to handful of Marines and it's really hard
those few times that we have actually managed to win, the Marines have been very narrow and
we usually had to sacrifice some Marines so that they will just slow down the onslaught of the
enemy so that one could complete the mission.
So, I could talk about how the turn goes, so first you are choosing your actions, this
is every player choose their action and put their card on the table and that card tells
what they are going to do and they can't pay that card on the next turn.
Those cards have numbers that define in which order those are played.
When everybody has chosen their cards, they are played in the number ordering.
These are the spot where the Marines move around, attack the enemies, operate the terrain and
do some special actions.
For example, you have a library and that's a 400 equivalent of a wizard that can
spell that blocks some group of gene stealers from attacking or being attacked too.
This is a big pile of monsters, you can shield them off for a moment so that you can deal
with threat somewhere else.
Or you can some leader can threaten the monsters to scare them away, that means that some
amount of cards are of those monster cards that are in the play are returned into the radar
file.
They are not removed that game, they will be coming back soon enough but they are out of
the form for a moment.
After all these actions have been done, it's the time for those scene stealers,
they are sort of alien looking monsters with forehand instead of attack.
First, they attack the Marines that they are facing and those group groups are
attacked one by one.
Hold the Marines that are being attacked, defend against them one by one.
At that point, the Marines normally cannot harm those monsters anymore, they can just defend.
And if the Marines in the descending nothing happens if they die, then the Marines are removed
and the cards are moved together.
Like if the Marines in the middle is removed from the play, then the bottom of the formation
of the Marines are moved upwards so that there's no gaps in the formation.
No, they hate moves and all the monsters move at the same time.
And this is the next effect that the monsters tend to start piling to pick a
coup.
And the pick at the coup, they hide the defend against them.
After that, I have a finish-finish-finish force here that's a tapahtuma
wire.
It's an action, no, event says, event says is a good translation.
So, here the one player picks up a sort of an event card.
They read it by themselves, they don't show it to other ones.
They have to make the choice by themselves.
They cannot consult any other player.
There's usually something nasty in that heart.
For example, they might be that somebody's weapon is jammed.
They cannot attack anymore.
They could be there.
They are everywhere, event means that every Marine who's not fighting against them,
Gene Stealer gets a new Gene Stealer in front of them.
Sometimes there's a good one.
Sometimes there's a good one.
It's like you could have wounded Marine that has been removed from the game to come back.
They could be a...
They could be a scanner event, meaning that you can remove one card from the radar deck.
That is really cool, because that means one less monster to fight against you.
And so on.
So, they have to make this in the...
This is in by themselves.
After that, they are simplest at the bottom of the card.
They tell how many monsters are going to spawn and where.
They are always going to spawn on these...
These are terrain locations.
And then they...
Then all those monsters will move.
All the monsters that are on the table.
They will move one step to some direction.
And this phase then to start viling them up.
So you're going to get a bigger and bigger groups of monsters that are harder and harder to fight against.
And after that, it's again players choose what they are doing.
They play out those events.
This hopefully this watch some genes feelers and so on.
There's some special things.
There's a...
There's that these support tokens that you can get.
Sometimes there's an event card that says that you can place a support token on one of your...
One of the Marines, it doesn't have to be your Marine.
It can be your co-players Marine.
You can place support tokens on the doors when you are operating them.
And whenever you move forward in the ship, you discard all the support tokens that are on the door.
And you can remove that amount of gene stillers from the play.
That represents your Marines moving forward and closing doors behind of them.
You can place those support tokens on your Marines.
And in the fighting, you can use one support token to remove one of your pros.
This is really, really good for keeping your Marines alive.
That's about the basics of the game.
Like I said, this is really difficult game.
If you played this quite a bit and haven't won that many times.
I like that this is a cooperative game.
So players are playing together against the game.
The quality of the thesis is good in my opinion.
There's a pile of different kinds of cards and some tokens and a die.
I decided to put all my cards into the little plastic sleeves to keep them nice.
But you can leave the cards without the plastic sleeves.
They are a paper cardboard.
Something pretty, pretty flimsy, but still sturdy enough.
I know that there used to be some extensions to the game that would add more player characters and more monsters.
But those were direct orders and trained on demand.
And they are not available anymore, sadly.
I kind of if that I would have gotten those when they were available.
But the basic game is funny enough.
Actually it's for the one to six players.
So yeah, the game can actually be played solo.
But it can be played up to six players.
And take about half an hour to hour depending on how quickly you want to lose.
Well, I have been playing this with our six year old kid.
They love it. They just get excited when they have a lot of monsters and they can fight against them.
But they do need a little bit of help still because there's some reading involved.
They don't read that quickly.
But as soon as you learn how to read, you can start playing this game without any help.
Okay, that's my episode about the dead-end sort of card game.
Catch you later.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
