Episode: 2926
Title: HPR2926: Full Circle Magazine
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2926/hpr2926.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:21:31

---

It's Monday, the 21st of October 2019, and this is HPR Episode 2926 entitled
Full Circle Magazine. It's hosted by Tony Hughes and it's about three minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summary is, just a short show to request support for one
of the Linux community's longest standing magazines. This episode of HPR is brought to you by
An Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15. Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everyone, in HPR line, this is Tony Hughes coming you from StudioB. Would
Brooke Quaker Study Centre in Birmingham, here in the UK. I'm currently staying here for a
week or so to do some voluntary work. The reason for this short episode is to talk about a community
magazine that I've been reading since I started to use Linux back in 2007. Full Circle Magazine
actually produced a pilot issue in April of 2007. An issue one was issued in June 2007.
All the issues are published as free PDF downloads and all the content is under Creative
Commons license. Full Circle Magazine in a rich new start is an on-bund two and official
Ubuntu spins. So it's just Ubuntu and Exubuntu at magazine. But over the years, while still
being officially about Ubuntu or Linux distributions based on Ubuntu, many of the articles are
applicable to those across the Linux community. Over the years, as well as printing one off articles
about, say an individual's journey to using Linux, reviews and letters from readers.
There have been regular series on topics such as Inkscape, Python,
Open Stroke Libra Office, Virtualization with VirtualBox and many more. Sadly,
after over 12 years of producing a regular monthly magazine for the Linux community,
some of the regular article series are coming to an end and due to ill health, at least one regular
writer is not able to contribute at the moment. And this is leaving the magazine short of content
and in danger of possibly coming to an end. As a podcast community, that is used to the idea
of crowd-sourced content, many of whom are also Linux users. Could I ask that some of you
that have read full circle but never contributed, consider sending in some content to the magazine?
Could be an article on how you started using Linux, about some Linux software that you think
the readers may be interested in, or just a letter to Ronnie to say thanks for all these efforts
putting out a magazine every month for the last 12 years. Like many things, we often don't
miss them until they're gone and I would hate to think that full circle magazine is one of those
things that are missing the future. I have put my money where my mouth is and in the coming issues,
you may see me in print talking about podcasting. You could even use any writing you do as a base
of an HPR show and achieve two goals in one go. That's for Ken that. But that's it for now.
Hope to see you in print sometime in full circle magazine and hope to be back here on HPR in the
future. But all the best for now, this is Tony Hughes signing off. Thank you very much.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer
club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode
yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
