Episode: 2842
Title: HPR2842: What's in my Bag an update to hpr2065
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2842/hpr2842.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:49:45

---

This is an HBR episode 2,842 entitled What's in my bag and update to HBR 2,655.
It is hosted by Tony Hume KHA Tony H1212 and is about 4 minutes long and carrying a clean
flag.
The summary is, this is a short update show on what I carried in my geek bag.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
With 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello, I could probably lay the Olam, this is Tony Hume, again coming from Blackpool
in the UK.
During my last episode, which was my 50th of the HBR, I realised that my bag has changed
considerably since recording my episode HBR 2065 about it back in July 2016.
So this is an update on what I currently carry in my geek bag when I turn about.
I have several laptops which are used for different things at different times, so many may or
may not be in the bag, bags depending on what I'm doing.
This is a list.
I've got Lenovo X230i, the Toshiba Z30, a couple of Dell E622Os, a Dell E725O, a Dell E740,
and a Dell E650.
Recently, as you can see, I've moved over to Dell laptops, and the Dell E740 is a great
compromise on portability and usability with its 14-inch 1080p screen, but if I want to
light and long battery life, the Toshiba Z30s have a fantastic little PC with all day battery
life and a great 13.3-inch screen, but all the others have their place in the bag for
demonstrating Linux distros at events or at my look.
So the next thing that makes it into the bag is my Zoom H2 recorder, which goes with
me for recording interviews at events I attend with the intention of producing HPR shows.
I also have some tools.
The first is a set of screwdriver and small driver bits made by Draperia.
This is a handy for laptop tear downs as it has all the necessary bit heads needed to work
on electronics.
I also carry a small set of pliers and a wire cutter in the bag.
Also in the bag is a £10,000mAh battery pack for charging my mobile phone if needed while
I've turned about.
In conjunction with this, I carry several micro USB charging cables and a USB-C cable for
the increasingly number of USB-C devices around these days, along with this in the bag is
a couple of 128GB SSDs aspares for quick swap outs if I don't want to wipe a drive, but
wish to test the new OS, or for those times the only solution to helping someone rescue
an older laptop is to stick an SSD in it.
I also generally carry around my own portable 1TB USB 3 hard drive as I store large numbers
of current Linux ISO files on this for burning to flash drives to create boot disks.
It goes without saying that I also have a few spare flash drives in the bag for just this
year.
I also carry a few SD cards for creating Raspberry Pi images if and when needed.
Other items include a USB Wi-Fi card as a backup of a Wi-Fi malfunction or I'm working on
a machine without its own Wi-Fi card.
So that's about it for what I'm currently carrying in my bag before I go, a bit of
sad news.
Many of you have heard me talk of my latest bargains from the computer auction I've
frequented since 2007, or sadly, no more.
Northern realizations after 20 years of trading have closed their doors for the last time,
so I need to find another source of cheap PC equipment.
As they say, all good things come to an end.
Well that's it for this episode, this is Tony Hughes signing off for Hacker Public Radio,
please be down the road.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons' App Tribution
Share Life 32 live magazines.
