Episode: 2248
Title: HPR2248: 2016-2017 HPR New Year show episode 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2248/hpr2248.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 23:54:11

---

This is HBR Episode 2,248 entitled HBR New Year Show Episode 2.
It is hosted by Mary Astose and is about 241 minutes long and carries an exquisite flag.
The summary is Haka Public Radio New Year's Eve Show Episode 2.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Yeah, hey there. You're a little bit soft, but yeah, we can hear you otherwise.
Yeah, I've been about six minutes trying to set up a web of that to bring that stuff up from the full.
Well welcome here.
Yeah, welcome back in here. What's your name? What's your handle?
I'm Sbaskin.
Say that again?
Sbaskin.
Okay, Sbaskin, yeah.
It's me and DRW, Dan, just talking about stuff with Lennox.
Going back to you, Dan.
Yeah, I used KDE at 10.1 on my Dell 510. I used KDE.
I love KDE because you could tune it to whatever you want it.
I did not like Geno. KDE was it for me. I could tweak it to my heart's content.
I don't say it's too confusing, but it does give you a lot of power to set it up the way you want it.
I think, yeah, that's why I was attracted to it.
Which distro you're talking about?
Does KDE need one?
Which maybe you're talking about?
Yeah, I was just saying that's the distro that I use because I do like KDE.
I'm very happy with it. I think it's a great distro.
Like I mentioned, it has the LTA space from Ubuntu, but then the latest and greatest KDE.
I use the normal user version, not the developer one, and it's been rock solid for me.
I've not had any issues as they come online with the new versions of KDE.
Yeah, well, Dan, answer this question for me.
I use KDE for a lot of times, and then I switched over to Ubuntu.
And then I went to Linux Mint Motte, and I've been using it for a while.
But a couple of weeks ago, I was listening to a podcast, and the guys I think on Mittcast were talking about Neon.
And so I went to the Neon website, and I downloaded Neon User LTS Edition.
Is that the version? Can you put that on a live CD and use that, a live USB key, and use that?
Or is that just a version of KDE that is compatible with all the versions of Linux?
It's not really a live Linux distro.
You just have to use that when you upgrade or update your current version of Linux.
No.
I was actually there in the announcement of Kurt Sozblum this year in Brussels, when Jonathan Riddle actually announced the KDE Neon project.
I mean, the video asking him questions at the end, so that's nice.
But basically, KDE on is a way to keep KDE always up to date, but it's based on Ubuntu or Ubuntu LTS 16104.
There's always going to be long-term support, and there will be people giving it the newest latest KDE from up to in all the time.
And then other distros could actually have KDE Neon as well, but their focus is to have a based on Ubuntu.
Okay, can you?
It's not like to replace KDE in distros as they were solving package, but it's a way to KDE itself to keep on giving people the latest KDE.
So if I, since I have, I got the Neon user LTS edition for 2016 for KDE, I have the ISO.
Yep, that is a whole distro.
That is a distro, so I can put that on, and I can load it, and it'll come up as a Neon distro.
KDE Neon itself is based on Ubuntu, Ubuntu 16104, so in that sense it's a distro, but that actually Neon itself is a KDE project.
So it, the idea is it could potentially go into other distribution as well, because it also has KDE Neon, but that would depend on, they only want to take this onto Ubuntu.
Right now, in that sense, but distros could use Neon as well, other distros, but it's not really there to face the old way of distros, the way it's impacting KDE.
Sebastian, do you mind turning your gain up a little bit? Somebody in IRC has mentioned it.
It's sounding, you sound very soft to us, so.
Yeah, you're a little bit low, which sound sang you for a woman?
For your distro, you go in the sound mixer and turn up the capture device, gain some.
If you're using KDE, you just click on the little speaker icon, and then there'll be a capture device slider that you can use to.
Okay.
Yeah, Sebastian, you sound very low, like in the background. I can hear you and understand you, but if you would sort of pump up the volume.
Yeah.
Yeah, like I said, I got the Neon user.
That's too high, that's too high.
Yeah.
Too much, too much, go back down.
Yeah, I went through the audio wizard in mumble, and it seemed to kind of get me at least where I'm at now, which I assume is at a decent volume.
Yeah, Dan, you sound pretty good. I'm on parable and you sound pretty good.
Yeah, I'm on my laptop with a headset plugged in, so.
But anyway, how about this stuff?
You're over the top.
Yeah, just a little bit lower.
By going back to the kitty, Neon, I think it was a little bit confusing when the announcement first came out, because like he was saying, you know, the goal was to package up KDE to make it easy for other distros to use it and incorporate it.
But then they also went on and created their own distro, you know, stepping up to the plate, since nobody else had started using it yet.
So they do have the full distro, and that is, you do, it is a bootable disk so you can boot up and go into kitty, Neon, and you know, try it out, see if you like it.
And then there's the icon to install it from there if you want to permanently put it in your computer.
But they have versions right now.
They have the developer one, which is kind of the cutting edge.
You get the newest version before it's generally released to the public.
They have the regular user one, which gets updated next after that, and is considered stable.
And then they had the third version, which I think you said you have, which is the LTS, which is going to stay on kitty E 5.8 for.
A while, um, 5.9 is coming out.
I think like in January sometime, so it'll get updated, but the LTS one will stay on 5.8.
Yeah, I don't have that, but I just want to say something about you.
Go down a little bit further.
Yep.
Yeah, then, um, I said on December 12th, when I, after I had listened to the podcast, I went to the Neon website and downloaded the LTS edition.
And then I started reading.
I said, uh, maybe I might not be able to use this.
I got it on my hard drive.
I just haven't installed it or put it on a USB key, but that sounds like what I want.
I remember KDE back in the day, and it, I could tweak it the way I wanted to.
I could put my two bars and everything.
I might not have all the, all, you know, compies and emeral and everything.
But I, when I had KDE on previously in years back, it, it was what I used at first.
And I liked it.
But I got it here. I think I will put on a USB key.
And that will probably be what takes over after Linux Mint 17.2 that I have now.
All I got to do is just put it there on a USB key and run it.
Sounds a good plan.
I hope you like it.
I hope so.
And, you know, like I said, I download every distro that comes out as somebody recommends.
I try it out and, you know, I'm looking at my, on my hard drive right now.
I got all these Linux ISO files and I got all the Linux Mint ones.
I always get the Ubuntu ones.
I got the Ubuntu Mate 1604.
I haven't downloaded the 1610 yet.
And that, that does look like what I want.
And so it's sitting here. It's 1.133 gigabytes.
It's just been sitting here for a couple of weeks.
So I need to put that on a USB.
Okay.
Okay, testing again.
That is great.
Much better.
That is excellent.
Hello, pirate.
Are you and where are you from?
Well, today I'm coming from the MV Arthur Foss, which is docked in Lake Union in Seattle, Washington, United States of America.
I live in a tugboat.
Welcome, Microsoft Country.
Yeah, that's not what I'm here for.
I'm a straight up analytics guy.
That's good.
Yeah, you know, we talk everything here.
We didn't talk about Windows 3.1 to Windows 10.
I'm a Linux guy.
Everybody on here is Linux, you know, but we're not politically incorrect or politically correct.
We don't, we don't, you know, disparage Windows.
I've used a little bit of everything over time.
So I can adapt, but I prefer Linux if I have a choice.
I guess that's about as PC as I can get.
That's good.
That's good.
You know, a lot of times you have to use Windows at work.
And so you got to do what you got to do.
Yep.
You said I don't think we heard from you earlier.
Where are you calling in from?
I'm England.
Okay.
Great.
I'm Ridge A.
I'm calling from Warner Robbins, Georgia, USA.
I'm GRW or Dan.
And it's Dallas, Texas for me.
Y'all.
Hit.
Y'all.
I'm originally from North Carolina.
I'm probably throwing a few y'alls from time to time.
I'm really a Midwestern person.
I moved down here about 14 years ago.
But I always had to throw that in when I'm talking to my friends back up North.
Back in the mid 80s, I used to go down to Dallas.
I was stationed at Altis, Oklahoma, in Lawton, Oklahoma for the Army.
I used to go to Dallas for vacations.
All right.
So, do any of you have any New Year's Eve party plans for today?
Besides hanging out here.
Nope.
I'm going to watch a couple of football games, American football, this afternoon.
But I keep the earpiece in my ear.
I'm using plumble on my Android phone.
And I'll listen, check in and out.
I've been on since 6 a.m., when 50, 150, and Ken Fowler were on earlier today.
They checked out, and somehow I got to be the host to keep up with everybody.
Yeah.
So, we got a couple other guys on now, and so I might check out a little bit.
I'll be fine if you want to, or you can hang out.
That's for me this evening.
I am going to be sort of hosting a New Year's party on the Steamship Virginia 5.
Okay.
That sounds interesting.
What is the Steamship Virginia 5?
It is a passenger ferry built in 1922.
It is a wood-hulled boat.
It is one of two such examples.
It's one of only two such boats left in the United States.
The other one is over on the East Coast, and this is Connecticut.
And it's still steam-powered, still goes out about 50 times a year.
And tonight we're doing a dockside New Year's Eve party.
Does it go out like kind of river or actually ocean?
It goes out on the lakes around Seattle and out in the future towns.
Okay.
Cool.
Is it like still steam-powered?
Yeah.
Is it like what we think of as like the river boats on Mississippi with the big paddle wheel?
It is screw driven.
Okay.
Cool.
It has a six-foot diameter screw.
The steam engine is triple expansion.
It puts out 400 horsepower at 200 RPM.
Oh, yeah.
So you're nicknamed it's going to be appropriate for today then, huh?
Well, the captain doesn't like anything to do with pirates.
Yeah.
He doesn't have to download.
We won't tell anyone.
So they just opened up three new years again.
And a lot of people have just joined on now, and I see.
So yeah, that as well.
Sounds like a fun pirate.
What time you going out?
You going to be in the day or late night tonight?
Well, we're going to do open ship from noon local until probably about five o'clock.
Or so.
Normally we did it five, but I don't know when the caterers are going to show up for the party tonight.
And then going from then until midnight, well, just after midnight.
And by open ship, I mean, we open the ship up for people to come around and look around at it.
And all that because it's a museum.
Well, I'm down here in Middle Georgia.
I have an open invitation to go to Atlanta, Georgia, where they have the peach drop,
which is like the crystal ball in New York every year.
Midnight, the peach pit drops at under granite Atlanta and everybody parties and has a good time.
But I don't think I'm going to make it up there.
I think I'm going to stay home in my office.
I wonder if folks are counting for the leap second that's supposed to be happening.
I saw something about it yesterday.
My RSS said something about the 2016 was going to be a second longer this year.
Yeah, yeah.
I saw something on TV this morning about one week.
So yeah, it's just one more second because of the space.
Apparently it's been happening since the 1970s as well.
And these leap years are when it happens.
Well, I've seen a leap second take down an entire data center.
So it's always interesting.
Yeah, I figured that was just a gimmick that developers and cis admins created to, you know, for job security, but I could be wrong.
No, I could promise you, cis admins don't like leap seconds.
Yes.
Do I need the devices?
I mean, okay, it works.
I welcome viewers with the leap second.
That sounded like as well.
So I guess that's true, then.
What you just said.
Yeah, no, I understand.
Actually, my first job out of college, first project I worked on was the Y2K project.
So I know all about, you know, how dates and times are not as simple as everybody assumes they are and how they really can cause problems.
Yeah, then I remember the Y2K.
It was going to be the end of the world.
Everybody was going to die.
We didn't know what was going to happen.
And then after it's going to happen, everybody said it was a scam.
No, it was a bunch of people working hard to make sure there weren't those major problems.
Yep, I remember.
We kept getting all these windows updates with about the Y2K.
And if you did not update your Windows computer, it was going to crash and burn and catch all fire.
Yep.
It seems to me that Y2K would only affect windows anyway.
I don't see how it would affect you.
How it would affect a unique system because the epoch just keeps on going.
Yeah, interestingly, that's not an issue like you said, but it was back when storage was so expensive.
They would save space by just, you know, doing a couple digits instead of the full 32-bit number.
So, yeah, it is mostly, though, I don't even know if windows was directly affected.
I guess it was, but definitely some of the legacy systems were mainframes and such.
Back in 1999, the windows 98, 95 computers were affected.
And it was a big deal for them.
We did not have a lot of storage.
I remember my Toshiba laptops only had 10 gigabyte hard drives then.
And so, they were pumping out the leap year, leap second, whatever.
Well, Y2K updates.
And every time you went on an RSS feed in your RSS reader, that's all you saw.
Yeah, I remember a lot of people asking, is this affected or that?
Yes, no, I just didn't cover enough windows itself.
Well, the Unix World has their own problem coming up.
And 2038, that 32-bit integer runs over.
I don't think I'm going to be worried about that in 2038.
I'll be 81 years old.
I don't know what I'm going to be on.
Hacker Public Radio Party website in 2038, New Year's Eve, New Year's Day.
Yeah, well, by then, Linux should be on 64-bit, 128-bit, something like that.
So, it should be okay.
And just be some of the Internet of Things devices that are probably going to have issues that were never updated.
And Linux will be taken over the world, right?
Oh, it already has that.
Yeah, pretty much so.
Yeah, the desktop will be here.
We've got a lot of people coming in now.
I have to scroll back and forth on my mumble client on my Android phone because we've got so many people in.
Yeah, feel free, anyone just jump in and introduce yourself and join the conversation here.
Don't wait for us to stop talking.
Yep, and talk about anything you want to talk about.
We've talked about guns.
We've talked about drinking alcohol.
We've talked about medical issues.
We've talked about Linux.
We've talked about Windows.
We've talked about Max.
Just if you got something, say it.
And if you aren't already, feel free to join the IRC as well.
On free node, it's the channel pound augcast planet.
That's OG is in George.
G is in George.
C-A-S-T-P-L-A-N-E-T augcast planet.
You know, right here in a few minutes, I'm going to fire up the big diesel stove on this year boat.
And I almost wonder if y'all not want to get a rundown as to how that happens.
Sure.
That certainly is a process.
Sounds interesting.
Everything on this boat is diesel powered.
The stove, the engine, everything.
Yeah, talk about it.
In fact, let me interject.
The 11 a.m. Eastern time.
If somebody will look in the Etherpad and see when that was New Year's day time.
For whoever started celebrating, we missed the 11 a.m.
I'm not on Etherpad, so I can't tell you what countries or nations were involved.
Well, that would have been chat about the Philippines and Singapore.
Yep, I just see it now.
I just signed the end of the Etherpad.
China, Philippines, and 10 more Beijing, Hong Kong, Manila, Singapore.
Upcoming, much of Indonesia and 8 more, Jakarta, Bangkok, and Norway, but not in.
I think we need a bell to go off when the time goes off.
I don't think we've ever gone on the hour when we're supposed to.
Well, pirate, anybody else?
Tell us how you got into Linux.
Give us some background, just to fill in the white noise that's going on right now.
Ken Fallon will have to edit this for Hacker Public Radio.
We don't want any, you know, in spaces.
So if you got something, tell us.
Tell us how you got involved in computers, how you got involved in Linux.
What kind of podcast you listen to?
Well, I'm going to get dressed right quick so I can go down to the gallery and start cooking on some breakfast.
I'll be right back in a few minutes.
Okay.
I didn't know you were on the ship at this time.
Is it a ship or a boat?
Well, I'm currently on the Tugboat Arthur Foss, which is also a museum boat.
Sounds good.
It was built in 1889.
Are you a naval guy?
I just like boats and I like living on one.
Oh, here I am.
No navy, US Navy background or anything?
Nope.
Nope.
That's what ever turns your boat.
Or whatever floats your boat.
That'll do.
Currently, that would be Lake Washington.
Sorry, Lake Views and there.
Just staying again, I think it's all works.
How do we get into Linux?
We get subjects like I just suggested.
Who wants to go first?
Say again, Sebastian.
How we went into Linux could be a good subject if that's somebody just suggested.
Well, I realize Windows sock.
Say again, I've already given mine so I won't do that iteration anymore.
So anybody else jump in?
Well, yeah, you look like I love the Windows or some of the trouble that young Asian and some of the introduced me to.
Open source and then went to Linux and the family computer and so on.
It's kind of amazing in a way now, though, because I've got.
I've got.
I see I've got three of bunch of devices.
I've got a yellow phone.
I've got a five fox OS phone.
So I'm doing mobile Linux now as well.
I'm not just desktop.
I've got a certain sort of gaming devices.
There's actually many PCs.
I've got remix mini.
I've got so much stuff now.
Maybe this shorter question is what isn't running Linux that you have?
Yeah, that's the way it is now.
There's everything around Linux.
Sebastian, how do you like remix?
I haven't used it a lot of guys talking about it.
I'm thinking about jumping into it.
How do you like it?
Yes.
So we're talking about here last year actually as well on the years a bit.
Yes, the remix ultra tablet is very nice.
I mean, it's anything is a bit big.
It's a bit.
It's like a bit.
It looks a bit like a myself surface pro.
So it's a bit big.
It's not the nicest tablet to go around, but there is a keyboard that you can attach
and take off as well as part of that.
The operating system itself is rather nice.
It's just basically Android customized to be more like a desktop PC.
It's based on the Android X86 project.
And the thing they've got together.
So the JIDE company and the Android X86
supposedly do share some of the code together now.
But it's a very nice for an Android based operating system that is
a much more desktop like it is very good.
Yeah.
I had a Nexus 7 until a bit to death last year.
Can you say that again for what you're running it on?
I'm thinking about getting back into some type of tablet computing
and I need some information.
Well, their tablet is the Remix Ultra Tablet,
which they crowdfunded about two years ago.
I mean, you can buy that probably still.
They've had the Remix Mini's around that time.
Well, it's a small device that they crowdfunded.
It gives them the TV and you've got a Remix AirOS box.
And they also had more recently.
The Remix I8, which I did crowdfund,
which is like a proper TV box.
But because Remix AirOS is open source,
it could actually run in other devices as well, really.
Because I think I saw something before that wasn't from them,
but it would run Remix over OS.
Yeah.
That sounds good.
Just a general question for anybody in the channel.
Anybody still using a lot of the tablet devices?
Android Remix, iOS or anything.
I had a 2013 Nexus 7, and when it finally died,
I never did get back into the tablet computing.
I'm using an Android phone right now with a 5.5 inch screen.
And so I thought I did not need a tablet anymore.
I also have a Chroma West device.
Along with my Linux PCs.
And so should I end old, you know,
in a tablet device running?
I mix or anything.
I'm using Nexus 9 right now.
I use that almost daily basis.
I think like the 7 inch tablets,
I had the 2012 Nexus 7.
Aren't quite as useful now as they used to be.
Like you said, the phones have gotten bigger,
and the screen is big enough.
Then I could like read an e-book or something like that
on my phone, no problem.
But I like the larger tablet that Nexus 9 is.
As a statement, it applies about a 9 inch tablet.
And the larger screen in real estate is nice
if you're watching video or something like that.
So, in that way, it's still useful for me.
And I'm just running this stock Android OS.
I haven't tried.
I don't know if Remix supports it or not.
Yeah, Dan.
I loved my Nexus 7.
I had the 2013 version.
It worked good, but didn't the screen went wonky
and I ordered a screen from Android,
but it didn't work out.
So, I ended up having to send the replacement screen back.
But I loved it.
And the thing about the Nexus 7,
I used it as a cell phone.
I put all the stuff on there,
and I had the Google voice telephone number.
And so, every time anybody rang my Google voice number,
I got the notification on my tablet.
And so, basically, that's what I used it.
I did, you know, I'm not one of those guys.
I wasn't working.
I wasn't going out to the public all the time.
I was just sitting here in my house.
And I was reading and using my Nexus 7.
And I was reading and using my Nexus 7 for everything I did.
But once it died, I went and got one of those big cell phones
with the 5.5-inch screen.
And that's when I decided I didn't need it, but anymore.
I've still got my 2013 sit in here, but I'll be honest.
Since my latest $20 smartphone,
I haven't really had to pick it up all that much,
except for the apps that specifically run between them
and sharing between them.
Unless I need something that absolutely needs a bigger screen.
A $20 smartphone can do what I was using in Nexus 4
and then some, because the $20 smartphone has expandability.
John, what's your $20 smartphone?
I'm talking to you.
I'm plumbled with a blue energy X.
Right now, I paid $110 for it on Amazon 18 months ago.
It does everything what you're saying your $20 smartphone does.
All right, now I'm talking to you on a tribute HD.
$20 at Best Buy on Black Friday, one and a half gigs of RAM,
quad core 1.3 gigahertz processor,
16 gigs of flash,
and I have a 64 gig card,
even though it says it can only use 32, of course.
As long as you have it formatted correctly, in fact,
32, you can use a 64 gig card.
Is that an un-life one, or is it tied to the carrier?
This one is tied to boost mobile,
although there is talk of being able to easily unlock it as soon as it is routable.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, sounds good.
And for 30 bucks a month?
Yeah, it sounds good.
I was talking to Dan earlier.
I'm on T-Mobile,
but my Blue Plus XP is,
it's unlocked,
and that's what I'm looking for.
I've been trying to update.
I'm on Android 5.1 now.
I'm trying to get up Android 6 or 7.
It's not one of those synergy mod phones
that you can update and get the latest and greatest,
but it does what I need,
and I'm not willing to spend $300, $400 for a phone.
You know, as long as they can get my Android apps on there,
put on the lawn here,
and listen to my podcasts and my music, I'm happy.
Conceivably, once this thing is unlocked,
you can do both LTE,
or you can do LTE,
GSM,
UMTS,
and CDMA.
But I ended up buying about eight of them,
four of which are currently in use.
Sounds good.
That's all you can have,
so as long as it works.
And if you have an old sprint phone,
you might also try a Freedom Pop.
It costs 20 bucks to hook up the phone,
as long as it's been on the carrier long enough,
or even if it's been something like Boost Mobile long enough,
and it's a sprint phone it can get on there.
Also, if you have one of those dual SIM phones,
Freedom Pop will give you 200 megs of data a month for free,
assuming you don't go over,
then it starts charging on, say, a second SIM.
Yeah, well, I'm not worried about that.
I've seen Freedom Pop.
I've checked them out.
Like I said, since I'm retired,
I stay at home.
I have a second candy bar phone
that I can use if I have to go out,
and I can carry my regular Android phone.
It doesn't matter if it has a telecom connected to it.
When I'm at home, everything goes through the Wi-Fi,
so I'm not particular when I'm on the street.
That sounds like it's a workable option for me.
Yeah, my partner's carrying the second one of these phones
for extra capabilities just to tether off the first one.
Even off network, that's the fun thing about some of the prepaid phones.
You can get a $10, $20 phone,
use it as a small mini computer without a network,
and push comes to shove, add a network to it.
Yeah, it sounds good.
Tell us about yourself, John Doe.
Locksmith, mobile.
Yeah, both of those are me and there.
The other one that I'm on mobile
is actually a TW $750 Windows tablet,
and that's one gig RAM, unfortunately,
but 16 gigs of flash and 64 gigs of external flash.
That's a fun one from a company
called Micro Center in the U.S.
And I am a locksmith by trade.
I've actually been at the HPR booth
at Linux Fest, Ohio Linux Fest.
We're either this year at the Ohio Linux Fest.
Here by talking about it,
I listened to the guys on the Linux League Tech Show
talking about going to Linux Fest in Ohio,
but I've never made it.
I'm down here in Georgia, USA.
Where are you located?
I'm in Texas right now,
but a few years ago,
I helped Clotu Man the Ohio Linux Fest,
a hacker public radio booth there.
Sounds good.
Clotu took off the New Zealand
and has been hidden ever since.
Yeah, tell me about it.
Well, tell me about this,
your second sign on,
John Doe, the locksmith.
What kind of tablet is that?
That's a little Windows tablet running
on a 1.3 gigahertz quad core atom processor.
Has one gig of DDR3.
It is technically possible to run Linux on that,
but it is not completely stable yet.
You have to install a bunch of extra parts
from Intel, a bunch of extra kernel extensions.
And it's not exactly the easiest.
The Wi-Fi is also not properly compatible yet on Linux.
So, unfortunately,
while I have a project to convert that over,
it's not there yet.
I also have interested in working those,
and we have some 40-50 of those tablets sitting at work right now
doing various mundane tasks.
Is that one of those less than $100?
No name, Windows tablets?
Well, the name on it is actually a name used
for a specific retailer in the US called MicroCenter.
It's a winbook,
but the interesting thing about the tablet itself,
it has a mini HDMI out.
It has a microphone on the headphone slot,
so, you know, a four-ring connector.
It has a full-size USB board,
USB A, and then a USB micro B
that's also used for charging but can be used for OTG.
Well, I'm not prejudiced against Windows
if it works for you.
If you can spend the money and get what you want
and it does what you want, then good for you.
Since I play around with a lot of devices
and I've seen a lot of those type of Windows tablets
and Windows stream devices from XPE
and I've been interested in them and I'll try them out.
You know, I'm not going to do a full-bore online
and open a browser and try to open 20 tabs or anything
but if I have a specific project or specific application
that they can use, then I'll use them.
Honestly, for a basic pen.
Again, you broke up.
Honestly, for basic embedded tasks
and especially for things like watching any streams,
like Netflix or Amazon that Cody cannot do.
Hey, it's better than nothing and it can hook up to the TV directly.
Yeah, it's kind of like something I could use.
Everybody talks about watching Netflix on their cell phone or tablets.
I don't ever do that.
I have a computer and I have a Roku device
and that's how I watch my Netflix.
If I want to watch downloaded videos,
I just plug in HDMI cable to my laptop
which is next to my TV and I have a device
that allows me to switch between the computer HDMI and my computer.
So that's how I watch my video and stuff.
Yeah, recently somebody donated a Cody box
so I've been using that for a bunch of stuff.
Other than that, I've mainly been using that TW 700
especially with the full size USB port.
I can plug in whatever video I need and still have it charging.
How do you like your Cody box?
I've been thinking about getting one.
I saw a lot of them on Amazon before the Christmas break
and Thanksgiving Black Friday.
I was thinking about running Cody.
I've tried it on my current laptop.
I've got a Lenovo laptop
with Linux Mint 17.2 on it, Montey.
It works, but some of the plug-ins like Exodus and everything
I don't get the work the way I want.
I just don't bother with it.
Like I said, if I want to watch something,
I can download a video and plug an HDMI cable
and watch it on the TV or I can use the Roku.
But I've been interested in those types of boxes you see
when you go to Amazon.
You just type in Cody and there's like 5,000 of them.
Well, this one was actually a Pi 3 with Cody installed.
It has Exodus and everything else.
A few extra plug-ins installed, shall we say.
And so far, it's actually been working pretty good.
I've had to reboot it once.
Had a few video problems, had to quickly build a video cable
to output composite video and change a few settings.
But, you know, it's just a matter of getting it all set up
for the TV you got and getting everything installed.
And it's good to go.
If watched numerous videos that probably shouldn't be available
on streaming internet at the moment,
but there's a lot you can find.
Yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Stuff you shouldn't watch or be able to download.
I must say I have part taken in that practice,
but I've listened to a lot of podcasts
where the guys talk about Cody.
I don't know if you listen to the Linux tech show
and a couple of guys on there talk about Cody.
I've been interested in Cody.
And I think that's my next project.
I just have to decide what type of computer
or if I want to get one of those boxes they sell on Amazon
for $20, $30, $40.
Do you think it might be worth it?
Honestly, if you have a pop,
I just pop it on that.
I'm going to get a card.
You should be able to use two gig cards for that
if you're not storing a bunch on it.
Well, say your first 15 seconds, John,
that you were breaking up.
I heard you said it probably worth it
if you don't have too much stuff to store on it.
I've been thinking about going to the pie.
Ever since the pie came out,
the Raspberry Pi came out.
I've been interested.
I've listened to all these different podcasts.
Guys talking about it.
But I just haven't taken the point.
I've got so many other computers here
that I really have to find
or make a justification of getting a pie.
Honestly, when it comes to the pie,
part of the idea is that you can put a lot of computing power
behind whatever embedded tasks you want to do.
So for $35,
you can, you know,
plug the pie.
So you can put your...
Let me start, for example.
Well, in this case...
Hold on.
Hold on, John.
Anybody else is having trouble with this?
Hullers.
Hullers.
Best D card.
An HDMI cable charger.
And you have a streaming box
that comes up in two seconds
and hooks up to whatever TV or monitor you want to put it on.
John, you're having trouble with your audio.
I put a call out there.
Everybody else is online here in the channel.
Everybody else here, John Doe,
correctly?
You keep breaking up, John Doe.
I don't know what happened.
You were sounding good when you first came online right now.
I can't hear you very well.
You keep breaking up every three, four seconds.
Hold on to set.
All right.
You just said, hold on a second.
Whenever you come on, I hear your...
I see your mic goes from black to red
for a second or two,
and then it dies out.
I can hear the first couple of seconds
of what you're saying.
But then you just...
You're just breaking up.
Stream up.
Everybody okay?
It's okay.
We're still here.
Very good.
Now, seven minutes to much of Indonesia.
I'm just going to go have dinner now.
So, talk to you later.
I don't know anything.
Yeah, sorry about that.
Did it go away?
Yes.
I'm going to be taking away my microphone
because I'll be doing recordings later.
All fireworks for my daughter.
Okay, Kim.
I put it on my calendar.
I will be doing a HBR pie chance.
I will give you three in the next weeks coming up.
Axons look forward to...
Anybody else online?
They should start coming online now shortly.
In the next few hours, you'll probably see a few people popping in.
But right now, I've been called for dinner.
I'm still around.
Good dinner.
We've got a few.
I was talking to John DeLock Smith Mobile.
He was having audio troubles.
Anybody online?
Come on.
Come back.
Yeah?
Who was that?
I did not see you.
I'm still here.
Okay, it's the best.
What are you doing on New Year's Day or New Year's Eve?
Not much, but going to the pub in about two hours isn't it here?
Where are you in the UK?
Yeah, going to go to the pub and have a bank available or something.
Where are you located?
England, so it's dark now.
Yeah.
What's in them?
You guys five hour ahead of US Eastern time or six or four?
Say that again?
What's your time?
Five o'clock, huh?
Okay, you're five hours ahead.
I'm trying to get my time straight so I can make sure we make it be corrected now.
And three and a half minutes, we will be announcing Japan, South Korea, Tokyo, Seoul.
We'll be welcoming the New Year.
Anybody still there?
Yes, this is a ridge.
I'm still here.
Getting ready to announce Indonesia, Jakarta, Bangkok, Illinois, and Panampin to the New Year.
It was said that they had the Windows tablet.
That was them.
Yeah, because what I wanted to say is that there's a GP.
I've got a GP XD, GP win.
GP win was exciting because it's like a mini PC.
But it's never designed.
It was never designed to run the next weekend, man.
And that's on there.
But of course you then get the wireless, doesn't work.
And stuff, things like that, which probably similar to your one.
But there is a way to get the wireless working as well.
But it's basically a sort of gaming.
But it's also many PCs.
So it's quite interesting in that sense.
Looks like an intended DS.
There's like the Pyro Delimax one that's coming.
Excuse me, gentlemen.
Welcome into the New Year.
Jakarta, Bangkok, Illinois, Panampin.
According to the etherpad, thank you.
Happy New Year.
Is anybody coming in from those locations?
Say again.
Is anybody coming in from those locations?
I doubt it.
I'm looking at my channel now.
I don't see anybody but us from the US and Ken occasionally jumping in.
He's gone for a while.
And maybe Sebastian.
I had to hop out for a minute.
My partner is recovering his rate of raise right now.
Remember when it comes to recovery?
One or eight at a time.
Yeah.
Did any die?
How many did he have to replace?
His complete array was heirs.
Two pairs of two terabyte drives.
And one pair of one terabyte drives.
So ten terabytes total.
Murated.
So five terabytes total usable space.
And he's unfortunately putting them on to one drive to at least get them off of the old drives and on to a new five terabyte.
Sounds fun.
I haven't gone to NASA yet.
I have a couple of external hard drives connected to my computer.
I have an update one of them to one terabyte or two terabyte.
They're both 750U by hard drives that I have connected.
And I haven't taken the NAS plans yet.
I don't want to deal with the raid.
This was particularly NAS.
This was just the second server sitting in the living room.
Or a second workstation if you will.
That was all right.
I have a bunch of movies and videos and music connected to mine.
It's just back up that I run occasionally when I need it.
So I want to watch something good that I've got loaded.
I can run it off my regular computers.
But otherwise I can turn on the externals and watch it.
Since I'm the only one in the house, I don't need a big old network connection to watch different stuff.
I can just plug in HDMI cable to my computer.
So I sleep and eat in my office.
And it has my bed, my computers, and my TV, and my Roku box, and my cable connection.
Well, when all is said and done, we should be able to access the entire five terabytes on the Cody Linux Raspberry Pi over the Wi-Fi.
And view whatever movies and whatever location according to location, of course.
I don't do it.
Do you sound very good now?
What did you do to fix your audio?
I walked around for a bit.
Okay.
That's them 20 dollar cell phones for you.
I will say that this cell phone has basically done its job so far and I'd be happy to have it for a month for 20 bucks.
You know, I find with my little blue plus energy X plus, it does fine.
If it falls out of my pocket onto the concrete, I'm not crying and trying to send it back to the manufacturer because the screen is broken.
I can just go to Amazon and buy a new phone.
Well, that's why I got eight of these.
If one of them gets broken, I went out of a box.
Because to be perfectly honest, they were only 20 bucks for a couple of days and then they went back up to 60 and 80.
And I can afford 20 now for a few of them rather than 60 and 80 a piece later.
Hey, 60 and 80 aren't bad either.
I had a guy in my kitchen a month ago refurbishing and he left his cell phone on the counter.
I ran a couple of times and I looked at it while he was gone.
And he had a crack down the right down the middle of the screen from the top to the bottom.
He had an apple whatever six, whatever that is.
I guess it was last year's model.
And I asked him about it.
He said, oh, I could take it back to Apple.
It cost me $200 to replace the screen.
I just pulled out my phone.
I said, you need one of these.
All he's doing is talking on the phone.
He's not even using the iOS apps or anything.
There's a trick of that.
Put band-aids on your fingertips, walk into an Apple store and say, yeah, my screen broke.
A lot of the time, let's say, hey, you know, we'll see what we can do for you.
We'll get you another phone.
If you reflect liability, you're a lot done.
Well, I'm lucky where I live.
We don't have Apple store.
The nearest Apple store is in Atlanta.
They have these so-called other side stores that you can buy Apple products where I live.
But if you want to go to an Apple store and talk to Apple genius, you have to go to Atlanta.
That's 120 miles away.
So I don't have to deal with them.
See, I like the Micro Center in Houston, Texas.
They have an in-store Apple store.
They have an in-store Dell branded store.
And then they sell their own stuff outside of those pieces of crap.
And their genius bar, I bought this TW 700, walked up to their bar, signed up, and said, well,
I want to see what we can do about getting it to run Linux on this little tablet of yours, this little $50 tablet.
They handed me a keyboard and gave me some basic instructions on getting into the BIOS.
Did they acknowledge that they knew what Linux was at the Apple store?
No, this wasn't an Apple store.
This was the Micro Center little version of the genius bar.
And I guarantee you they well know what Linux is.
They've actually sold it in store.
Well, at least they know what Linux is.
I'm looking at the Micro Center stores in Atlanta.
I think we got, we got one store.
Power Saray Plaza, Mary-Ella, Georgia.
I haven't been to it.
What's the other big computer electronic store?
They always saw that.
The other typical nationwide of strides.
I've been to fries in Atlanta.
The first time I went there was like five years ago.
I just, my sister told me about it.
She took me up there.
She says, bring cash money.
So it took about a thousand dollars out of the bank.
And I ended up spending about six hours at fries in Atlanta.
I just sat there with my mouth wide open.
And it took me back to my radio shack days when I was younger.
And I just couldn't believe it.
I just had a cart, went down each aisle, and just looked at everything.
I mean, they had so much stuff.
I've heard about Micro Center from other people and podcasts and everything.
It's just like fries.
So I would love to have a fries where I live.
But I would be broke every month.
Now, see, here's what it comes down.
Fries has CB equipment, occasionally, depending on the store.
Micro Center actually has ham radios in store.
And I've been thinking about getting a ham radio.
My dad was a ham radio operator when he was alive.
He was K-4-A-A-K.
For 50 years, he tried to get me into it.
And back then, when he was in it, you had to have the,
you had no moris code and everything.
For me, I never could get over moris code.
And then they switched where you could get a technician's license without moris code.
And I never, I haven't bothered to just get me a license.
I listen to all these podcasts.
Everybody's got a ham license.
My next store neighbor has a ham license.
A couple of towers hanging out back.
But I just haven't gotten into it.
And in fact, my dad has a couple of,
I still have some of his Collins ham gear in one of my storage rooms.
If you could say go out on Amazon, get yourself a Balfang UV5R.
Set it up.
You can program it in Linux.
Get a little setup cable for it.
And listen around and see what you hear.
If you like it cool, if you don't like it, you spent maybe 40 bucks.
Spell that for me.
I got one of his old two meter rigs also that I occasionally fire up and listen to the guys on there.
But his big stuff, I don't have to fire up anymore.
It's, it's too powered.
But I still have his little two meter rig.
But I've heard on other podcasts guys talking about their handy talkies.
Say that what you're talking about, what you just told me.
So I can look at that.
Balfang, this is B-A-O-F-E-N-G.
And the model is the UV5R.
This is a basic software defined radio inside a nice compact little case with a lithium ion battery.
And it's not great, it's not ideal, it's cheap, it's usable.
Yeah, I heard that.
I got to type in some characters for Amazon, I'm going to fire Fox.
I'm going to go check it right now.
I've been thinking about doing it.
I might not get a license, but I do, you know, I'm one of the background kind of people.
I like to listen.
They got one on Amazon for $24.86.
I can have it on Tuesday if I want.
Well, there you go.
I got mine for about 25 bucks, paid 15 bucks for a better antenna.
And I can get from say Houston, Texas home work on different sides of town.
I can receive and transmit to towers 10 miles away with this thing with just a regular $15 antenna.
Yeah, that sounds good.
I need to do that.
I've been wanting to do that since my father was alive.
Since I was, like I said, when I was a kid, he was an operator.
He was into it.
He was in the Mars program, you know, the military amateur radio, whatever program.
He set up towers here in middle of Georgia.
And when he died, I inherited all his radios and stuff.
But I just always said I'd like to do it, but I'd never got into it.
My neighbors into it.
I should.
They have a two meter get together every few weeks.
And I used to go in and listen to him on his two meter rig.
But I haven't done that a few years.
I need to do that.
You know, that's one of the things I need to put my bucket list.
Well, and if nothing else, it's something you'll have in an emergency.
And it is a radio that granted against license class.
But can communicate with standard FRS and GMRS in an emergency.
And frankly, you should only be doing that in an emergency.
Yep.
Yep.
That's it.
You know, it's just one of them things.
You always want to do it.
One of those if I should do it.
Just haven't done it.
Just been too sorry or too lazy to do it.
I need to do that.
Well, this is a radio small enough you can walk around with and listen.
If you do not set the transmit frequency,
set the transmit frequency to zero,
so you don't actually accidentally transmit without a license,
you should be fine.
But be sure to do that.
Yeah, I know all about that, but the license requirement.
So yeah, I think I just, you know what, I just ordered one.
I just added it to my car.
So you will get it here January 3rd.
Thank you.
It's what I do from your friendly neighborhood ham.
You guys know how to call sign?
I put it out in public, but I do not associate with this specific user name.
Okay, that's fine.
And you guys know that, uh,
Ken Falun's always looking for ham related, um,
topics, so, you know, you get, uh,
would you get set up red and, uh,
and you're always established, John.
You know, uh,
it'd be very happy to hear from you
on your progress and what you're doing.
Yeah, 5150, please don't tell Ken
about any more red podcast.
I'm already up in three.
I don't need any more.
I'm already up over six from a few years ago.
So, uh, no promises.
Okay, right.
So it'll be our secret.
Man, are we talking about ham radio on HPR now?
Yeah.
You know, we talk about anything.
Come on.
If you want to talk about ham radio, talk about it.
I got,
I got a nice ham the other day for about 79 cents a pound.
And after Christmas,
I just like sum up,
put it in the oven and it is so good.
Uh, I don't think that's the kind of ham they were talking about,
but I agree with you with the ham that you can eat.
My wall oven in my 1966 house went out in October.
And I had to replace it.
I went online to see if I could get a,
replace Kenmore wall oven and they wanted a thousand dollars.
And so for the last month or so,
they've been refurbishing my kitchen.
I refused to buy a wall oven and got a regular stove with the oven in it,
had to get new cabinets put in and everything else.
And it was all less than a thousand dollars.
So we can go with ham that you eat or ham radio.
Well, as a matter of fact, I'm using a standard little Farberware 6 slice toaster oven for cooking my ham.
I've got it in a nice little $3 pan.
And I've got it sitting in the front room so it doesn't heat up the back
because it gets hot here already.
I will only accept the edible ham if it's 59 cents a pound,
because then it's five by nine.
Well, I used to, like I said,
when I had my oven,
I cooked ham and turkeys and pork roast all the time.
But when my wall oven died,
I was stuck with my microwave and my little toaster oven
and the regular stove top couldn't cook anything.
So for the last month or so,
I've been going and buying TV dinners
and having the butcher's chop up my pork roast and ham and turkeys
into slices where I could cook them in the toaster oven.
But since I got my regular stove now with oven for Christmas,
I cooked a big 10 pound ham,
put in a turkey alongside it,
and that's what we ate for Christmas dinner.
It was fantastic.
Haven't had a good time eating like that in a long time.
You just don't know what it's like when you don't have a stove
that you can cook big food in it.
You do need a crock pot.
I tell you, you take a standard picnic roast,
you pop it in there for about eight hours on high,
you dig the thing out,
and then you put in a bunch of red,
or even russet potatoes for another two hours
until they get real soft.
Don't even need to put any water in,
just have it all cooking in in some grease
and it is absolutely delectable.
Maybe some carrots in with the potatoes,
if you want to get real fancy, add some color.
Got a crock pot. Did that?
I always go to a grocery store.
I go once a month to the grocery store.
I buy $200 worth of food.
I'm the only one eating it.
And so I load up a basket
and get everything I want for the month.
When they come home, I throw it all in a standalone freezer.
I have a crock pot.
I have my turkeys and hams and pork roast cut
to fit my crock pot.
And that's how I had been eating those items.
I know all the recipes for the crock pot
and the slow cooker and everything.
And so that's what I did.
But sometimes you need a big oven for certain things.
I remember when my oven died,
I had a store bought frozen pizza I had put in.
And it said put it in for 20 minutes.
I turned the oven to 400 degrees for 20 minutes.
Came back to my desk, got online.
I was messing around when my timer went off on my phone,
went out to check the food.
It was still frozen solid.
But my Kenmore oven was so old,
they don't even make the parts for it no more.
And so I had to decide whether to get a new wall oven
and spend a thousand dollars or more,
or just buy a regular standard stove for three, four,
or five hundred dollars and have my kitchen converted
to a regular stove.
And that's what I did.
And so for the last three weeks,
I've been cooking everything I can in the oven.
I don't even use the crock pot or the little
toaster oven anymore.
The oven is the way to go for me.
Well, the one comes to the little Kenmore ovens,
which you might consider,
is that they may not exclusively make the Kenmore branded parts
anymore, but a lot of the parts on that oven weren't exactly
hard to come by in a sort of a rebuilder shop
and older radio shack even.
Yeah, well, that was the thing.
I must say, this oven I had was a 1965 Kenmore
from Sears, originally from 1965.
When I bought this house in 1999,
no, not 1999, 2009,
it had that original stove.
The oven died and I had a park replaced
because a house down the street was getting refurbished
and they gave me the oven for free and I had that put in.
But the thing is now in 2016,
those Kenmore parts they don't even make anymore.
And it was the thermostat heater part in the oven
that runs along the top left hand side of the Kenmore oven.
They don't make it anymore.
The guy said he could jury rig some type of device,
but he could not guarantee that it would work.
And so I just said, forget it and had a guy come in
and take out the oven and build me some cabinet.
I bought a new store at Lowe's and that's how I had to go.
So you do what you got to do.
I also had a Kenmore stove top next to it.
They don't even make the heating elements for that anymore.
So that's why I got a new stove.
I tell you, that sounds like a good use for Raspberry Pi right there
and that's a little thermostat element for your oven.
You're going to get me on a Raspberry Pi, aren't you?
Anything to get me on a Raspberry Pi.
I hear guys got five, six, ten of these things in their houses
doing separate things.
I eventually will get a Raspberry Pi,
but I got too many other computers doing the same thing.
Well, I've got a couple of projects that go on using a Raspberry Pi.
So, you know, it's something that I rather enjoy and I enjoy
when other people use what I enjoy as one of those things.
Matter of fact, just recently I had a part of an organization
that I'm part of sent off three Raspberry Pi's to Ethiopia
loaded up with 64 gig cards
with a good subset of Wikipedia, a subset, in fact,
most of the subset of the videos and software for Khan Academy
and a bunch of books, open source stuff from Gutenberg,
open source software, et cetera, all loaded up on a Raspberry Pi
that can serve it off the embedded wireless.
Yeah, that sounds good.
In fact, when you were saying that, you had all the Wikipedia
and stuff on there.
I remember when I got into Linux,
I was still on regular telephone type internet.
Didn't have broadband yet down here in middle Georgia.
And I went on DistroWat and they had one of those
Bluetooth complete sets of all the rest, what do you call them?
All the data, all the programs, the respatories.
Anybody ever do that? It was like 10 disks
and you could load them up. If you could not download all the
the in Bluetooth updates, everybody ever have that?
Repositories.
Thank you. I could not think of my brains screwed up.
I've been drinking since 5150. Got me drinking since seven o'clock.
I've been to Jim Bean, so I couldn't think of it.
Couldn't verbalize it. Thank you very much.
Oh, that's my fault.
Yeah, I got to have somebody to blame since I don't drink
but every two years.
When did that blame 50?
Wait, did you skip New Year last year?
No, I was here last year but like I was telling 5150,
I have a certain medical condition.
I can't drink.
But at Christmas time this year, a New Year's Eve,
I went to the liquor store and got me a bottle of Jim Bean
and said to heck with it, the heck with my doctor and pharmacist
and everybody else, and I've been sipping on Jim Bean for a week now
and smoking cigars.
Well, if you're sipping on one bottle,
that's at least something more to be said about it
for one bottle a week as opposed to one bottle a day.
Like I told 51, I can't lie to my doctor or my pharmacist
when they ask me after I take a blood test,
have you had any alcohol since your last blood test?
And so since I'm a bad liar, I always don't drink.
And so that's why I haven't had anything to drink
in about a year and a half.
Well, I can't say anything and get your choice
if you're going to drink,
but yeah, Bean is the way to go.
Bean is fine.
My preference is Jack,
but I did not want to spend the money for Jack
because I didn't know if I was going to be able to drink all
of what I got that day.
And so, like I said,
I was looking for a ski whiskey
and I wasn't willing to spend $40 on that smoky whiskey
that they had at the liquor store.
And they just happened to see some Jim Bean for $13, $14
and that's what I bought.
Walked out of the store.
I'm surprised it has lasted a week so far.
I might have to go out and get some more today.
Oh, I noticed.
I do not deal with Jack.
You know, it's like sucking on an hickory stump.
I will not drink Jack.
I grabbed the, yeah.
I grabbed a six pack of hard root beer last week
and I think I've still got one bottle left.
Well, that stuff isn't bad at all.
I worry about kids getting into it, you know.
But, oh, I don't think it's a dad's hard root beer.
There's no one out there.
There's just like seven soda.
You know,
or soda like we had when we were kids.
And you cannot tell the difference.
And, you know, it will mess you up.
Well, this is best damn root beer.
Yeah.
And I won't say that's root beer if tried, but it's damn good.
What's the alcohol content of that?
I hadn't heard of a hard root beer.
I remember four or five years ago my brother-in-law went to a bachelor's party
and they had hard lemonade or hard cider or something.
And he thought it was just regular lemonade.
And that's the drunkest I've ever seen a person in my life.
So, I did not know they had a hard root beer.
This one's sitting at 5.5% alcohol by volume.
Damn.
Yeah, they got these things now that just taste like cola.
They had all this stuff when I was a kid.
And this was 50 years ago.
I would have been screwed up straight up hardcore alcoholic.
Now, yes, you guys would have been seeing me on intervention on A&E or something.
Yeah, coffee on the best.
If you're going to drink it, you're going to drink it.
The best we had when I was in college was like, oh, duck.
Well, when I was in college from 75 to 1980,
you could buy beer for $5 a case or $6 a case.
You could go to the base liquor store and they used to sell generic beer
and you can get it for $5 a case.
And that's what we used to do when we had a free weekend.
And like I said, I went to the Citadel in Charleston, South Carolina
and we had a beach house.
And so we used to go on beach house when we had a free weekend.
And they would send me to the base liquor store, Charleston Air Force Base.
Everybody give me $100 and I go buy $100 worth of beer
and we drink that all weekend.
So you're the guy from all those movies or whatever had black and white beer on the cans?
That was it.
Generic beer was a white can and it said beer.
And that's all it said.
Yeah, my dad used to tell me about the KC-97 guys
because they should unbolt the...
they is the fuel tanks.
So when they were coming back from Europe, they, you know,
they would get everybody orders and then they would shove all this stuff
into the fuel tanks and bolt it back up
and then distribute it once they got back to the US.
You know, when you're back with legal drinking age was 18 years old.
You drink anything.
You didn't care what it was.
I remember when I went to the Air Force Academy Prep School, 75.
Everybody gave me their orders because
Cours Beer was the big thing down here in Georgia.
You could not get Cours Beer at that time, 1975,
east of the Rocky Mountains.
And so when I got sent out there
and I came back at Christmas time, everybody had their order.
Reggie, you got to send me back some Cours Beer.
So when I came back from my Christmas furlough,
I had a trunk full of Cours Beer
that I gave out when I got back home.
It was crazy.
And then for some unknown reason, you know,
we all know the reason the US changed the drinking laws to 21.
But back in those days it was 18.
And beer is not like it is now.
You don't have all these regional beers
and everybody can make beer in their basement and everything.
You had Budweiser, you had Slitz, you had Cours.
And Cours was that magical mystery beer
that everybody wanted to drink.
And so that's what everybody wanted.
And so when I got on the airplane that year,
I had my suitcases and I had a trunk load of Cours Beer,
which was crazy.
Well, I mean, yeah, there was a Burt-Rill's movie based around
who's letting through Cours Beer and then you drank this.
And this is the nastiest shit you ever drank.
You know, it was mythology back then, you know.
Because like I said, we're down here in Georgia.
The only time you got Cours,
and we didn't call it Cours, we call it Cares.
They did not sell it.
You couldn't get it out of Colorado or east of the Rockies, you know.
And so that was a big mythology.
Everybody wanted Cours.
And so whenever anybody went west,
you got them some Cours and brought it back.
And that was the time, you know, we didn't have TSA or any...
If you check something into the airport on the airline,
you just checked it in and it went into the luggage compartment.
They didn't open it up and see what was in there and nothing.
And so you could ship anything and they didn't charge you $5, $10, $20,
or whatever they charge now when you got on an airline
and they want to charge you for checked-in baggage.
And you just checked it in and they shipped it.
Well, it was a alumni event.
And you know, not this last one, I guess, the one before.
It was like, you know, they had a tub full beer.
And, you know, the one everybody wanted.
Bullfart Wheat Beer, you know, which is made up here in Kansas City.
It's a pretty good beer.
And then when they ran out of that, they had Bud Light and they had Cours.
And you know, and it was like, oh man, you weren't going to make me drink the Cours.
Are you?
Oh well, okay.
Get in me one.
You know, I found out you were talking about, oh, it's a Cours.
When I used to go and buy that generic beer for all my classmates and the upperclassmen,
I remember we had a season ending party at the Citadel Beach House.
And I had to go out and buy beer.
I think I bought 20 cases of beer for 100 bucks.
We all floated off my roommates car, brought it to the beach house,
and stacked it up.
All the upperclassmen were looking at the beer.
Oh man, you bought this generic stuff.
Man, we don't want this.
Two hours later, nobody cared that it was generic beer.
Everybody was having a good time.
At the end of the party, the upperclassmen were carrying six packs of them by generic beer that I had bought.
And they were happy.
All they wanted was something to drink and get drunk.
I'll be honest, I think part of the reason that we have some of the problems we do without calling the U.S.
are because the drinking age is so high.
We need to get it into people that drinking to excesses of problem while they're still young enough to understand it.
Oh yeah, I think so.
I mean, I'm back when that changed.
And, you know, I saw that in my friends that they just,
you know, I used into it.
And then, you know, my younger friends,
finally dropped into 21.
They just went, I guess, good wish, you know, sorry for people
or things when they've shit.
Yeah, that's one thing.
You know, I read that on the internet all the time.
I always get these things in my RSS reader, you know,
about sub-college has trouble with a fraternity or a party
where these people under 21 have gotten drunk.
Some girl has gotten raped or something.
And I just don't understand how you can be in college
and be on a flat house on campus at that college.
Have a party, people are drinking, and something bad happens.
The colleges know that people are drinking
and they're not 21 or older.
How do they get away with this?
I read something the other day,
and it was one of these rape incidences
where a girl accused these guys of rape.
And the college changed their policy and said
we will not have hard liquor on campus anymore.
Well, if you're not going to have hard liquor,
what is the difference between a guy drinking 10 beers
and getting just his drunk as if he drank a bottle of jack dance?
You know, I just, I don't understand.
I guess I'm too old.
I'm not in that mindset anymore.
Well, I am a member of a national fraternity.
And I, you know, I kind of,
I'm not saying that never happens,
but, you know, I'm sort of,
when somebody says, oh, yeah, that's because we have fraternities.
We have rape that, you know,
you know, because you have assholes, you have rape.
You know, so I'm not,
that happens, I'm not saying this,
I'm not saying this is the difference between a fight
or a fight, I'm not saying this,
but it's time to meet up with a guy who was in that state
burning a fire in his house.
Well, even if you've put on a job of running
that come cause it will not happen.
Because you know,
of some of your troops or the airmen. These guys are 18 and 19 years old. They're putting their
lines, their lives out, you know, online for the country. And legally, they can't drink,
but the squadron commanders, the battalion commanders, they always looked away because they knew
the guys were drinking in the barracks, you know, 18, 9, 20-year-olds. You know, they didn't worry
that the guy wasn't 21 and he was drinking alcohol. They knew that the guy, if he's going out
and he's going to get killed the next day, they knew that the guy didn't be able to drink alcohol,
even though he wasn't 21, you know. That all comes down to the way we are in America right now
with being politically correct. We can say and we do, we all understand. Everybody has good intentions.
But good intentions go by the wayside when you come into the reality.
Well, yeah, I would completely support that. I mean, guys, putting my, you know,
his, but on the line for me, you know, it's ridiculous that
somebody, the government says, go off and die and, but, you know, you can't have a drink. And,
you know, additionally, you, you can't have a handgun until you're 21. That's, uh, but here,
here's them 16 and go, go defend our country. It's ridiculous.
I didn't know that you couldn't have a handgun until you're 21. I'm not a gun person.
Like I said, my dad was in a military for 30 years. I was in for 15 almost,
uh, but I've never been a handgun type of guy. I was one of those type of people.
If I had a gun and decided to drink, somebody was going to die if I got upset. I'm,
I'm just one of them kind of people. So I made a conscious decision never to have a handgun
in my house. My sister is five years younger than me. She loves handguns. She has a Glock
something that she goes and shoots every week at a gun club in Atlanta. But when she comes to see
me, she knows not to bring that handgun in the house because I'll get crazy. You can't outrun a
bullet. If I got a knife or I got a baseball bat, you can run from me. But if I have a gun,
you can't outrun a bullet. When it comes down to the, uh, rape on college campuses,
I think it's less to do with the alcohol and more to do with things like
more to do with things like, uh, them having classes, the tell girls how not to get raped.
But they don't have classes that tell boys not to rape or vice versa for that matter.
I, yeah, you know, Joe, I agree with you, John. Um, but you know, in today's society, you can't
tell a woman not to get into that situation. If I had a daughter and I was sitting
in her to college, I would tell her, look, don't get drunk or don't get put into a situation where
something can happen with a bunch of guys because this is what's going to happen. And right now,
in the US, that's not politically correct. We can't, you know, if something happens and we read
about it every day, we said she shouldn't have been in that situation. But you can't, you can't
say that nowadays. People will shout at you on Twitter and Facebook and all the other social media
sites and say, no, no, no, it's not the girls fault. But I grew up at a time in the 60s and the 70s
where if you did something, you were accountable for what you did. If I went out and got drunk and
ran into somebody and killed them, that was my fault. It didn't matter, you know, if I had been
drinking or not, if you do something and it causes a reaction, then you should be accountable. But
you can't, you can't say that now. And I know there might be somebody listening and they want to
shout me down, they can go ahead and shout me down. But, you know, that's reality.
So it's the woman's fault for getting raped. No, it's not the woman's fault for getting raped.
But you have the, she has the capability for being, you know, for being raped.
No, no, no, no, like I said, you have a, you have a situation where don't, I don't, when I go out,
I always make sure I know my situation, I know my surroundings. If I go out walking around Warner
Robins, Georgia and the USA at 12 midnight, I have to be aware of the fact that somebody might hit
me in a head. I know that for a fact. So I don't put myself in that situation. I'm not saying that a
woman might get raped and be in trouble because she drinks at a fraternity party and a bunch of
crazy guys are drinking and everybody blames it on alcohol. I'm saying is I would talk to my
daughter or my wife or my sister and they said, don't put yourself into that situation. That's all
I'm saying. I don't blame the person who gets raped. The person who gets raped, the, the problem
is the guys that raped her. That's not her problem, but just be aware. Don't put yourself in that
situation. Yeah, if you want to go out, have a good time, but just be aware. Just be aware.
In other words, be aware of risky situations before you get it into home.
That's it. That's it. I don't blame anybody. If somebody does something illegal and they do
something wrong, then they're the problem. They're the problem. They shouldn't have done that,
but you also have to look at the other side and just see why did that situation occur. That's
all. That's all. The victim is never the problem. It's always the perpetrator. That's all.
And again, you know, I'm offended by people who say, you know, all attorneys are out there and
they're just a bunch of organizations for rape or whatever it's, you know, and getting drunk and
and falling all over it. That's not true. Yeah, I know what you're talking about,
150. I went to colleges that did not have fraternities. You were a member of a military company.
Your company was just like a fraternity. You pledged everything to that company from the day you
entered until the day you left, and it was just like a fraternity. Fraternities are good and bad.
It just happens to be the people who are in that fraternity. It makes the decisions they make
and what occurs after those decisions. Sometimes you're going to see, well, Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Alpha,
whatever, is banned from a college because somebody made a bad decision. People make bad decision,
and you have to suffer the consequences. Well, and I have seen stuff from that fraternity sense,
but when I was in college, everything that got published was not national fraternities. It was
made up of local fraternities, you know, that got in the news, but then, you know, it was us,
you know, was everybody in the established national fraternities who took the heat off of it.
Well, if you're in a local fraternity, you got to be certified supposedly by the national
fraternity. And to be certified by the national fraternity, they have to put their
John Hancock down there on the line when that fraternity opens. And so they have a responsibility,
too. And so that's just the way it goes. If something happens at a local fraternity,
who are they looking at? They're going to look at the national fraternity or sorority or whatever.
And you just have to deal with that. That's just, you know, that's just the fact of life. It
might not be right, but that's reality. No, that's what I'm saying, though, is these guys get into
trouble. There, there, there is no such thing as a national fraternity. They were just some,
some people living in the house and made up a great name. Yeah, well, yeah, you can go with that.
Did you see in the news last week where the guys were in the University of Minnesota,
football team were not going to play in the football bowl game because 10 of their football
members had been accused of rape and they decided not to play. The football members were not
brought on charges by the local DA, but the University of Minnesota had had put sanctions on
these 10 players and the football team decided not to play in the bowl game. Then two days later,
the football players changed their minds and they decided to play in the bowl game.
But what they found out was they did not have all the details of what occurred at this party with
these 10 football players. And so they realized that, yeah, we can go and play this football game.
We don't have to go by this. So these 10 football players were not charged of any crime or
anything. We have changed our minds and we're going to play in the football game. And so even though
the football players were not charged with the legal crime, they did not meet up to the moral
conduct rules of the University of Minnesota and they got suspended. And so that's another thing
you have to deal with. A lot of times, a rape crime or sexual assault crime might not be legal
be legally chargeable by the local DA. But you have to look, is it morally wrong? Is something morally
wrong happened? There's a difference between legal and moral. And if something legally happens,
then you have written standards. There's something morally happens that is against all known morals
that we in the United States go by, just out there into the ether, then what are the consequences
of what you've done morally, not legally but morally. And so that's where we are in the United
States. We have to figure out, where's the line go? Is it legal or is it moral? And so we have to make
a decision. And that's our problem right now in the US. We don't have the difference between
legally and morally. That's just my opinion. Well, and these guys playing, you know,
there ain't been some of them who were culpable in this and then the other ones knew about it and
looked the other way. And then the university is saying, no, we aren't playing that. You know, if
you're, if you, if you knew about it, you didn't come forward. We're going to treat you all the same.
Yep. Well, I remember when I was in school, we had an honor code. And our honor code said it
that I will not lie cheap or steel or tolerate those that do. If I saw somebody cheating on an
exam, it was my obligation to turn them in. If I didn't, I was breaking the honor code. And I was
just as comfortable as a guy cheated on exam if I did not turn him in. And so that, you know,
that goes the same way with those football players. If I was a football player and I was out of
party and I saw somebody doing something wrong and I did not turn them in. Am I legally
culpable or am I morally culpable? That's what you have to decide. And sometimes those lines
blur and somebody who doesn't say anything might be put in that category with somebody who did
something wrong. Oh, yeah, I understand that from, you know, military schools. They all have that
same kind of policy. You know, you know, you got to, if you see something out of the order,
you know, you got to say something. And, you know, put your food to rock at a hard place.
Because, you know, you don't want to say something on your friend. But, you know, they screwed
up and did something. Yep. Just to end this, we need to get off this. This is a topic we don't
want to be talking about on Hacker Public Radio. When I was a senior cadet at Citadel, I had my car
when they came back off for summer furlough. For some reason, I left $100 bill as in money,
US currency in my glove compartment. A fifth year cadet asked me to borrow my car one day.
I had not gone down to the car and taken out the money. He borrowed the car, brought the car back
on campus, parked it, gave me the keys back. That night, he had looked into the glove compartment
that's seen $100. He broke out my rear right window. When the campus police caught him and found
him at my car with the broken window, they called me. It went down, they taught, they wanted me to
press charges. I didn't press charges. If I had gone by the honor code, I should have said,
yes, he broke in my car and he should have been kicked out of school. I didn't press charges
because he was a cadet in my company and I did not want to give him any more grief. If you look
at the honor code, I was wrong. I should have pressed charges, but I didn't. And that's something you
have to think about. That's something personally that happened to me. I think about it every day.
Should I have charged that guy? I don't even know what happened to that guy. That was 1979.
That was 36, 37 years ago. I don't even know what happened to that dude. But that's just something
you have to think about. That's what people have to think about. Is it morally wrong or legally wrong?
Yes, it was morally and legally wrong, but I didn't want to cause him any grief. So that was my
decision. And so now this turns to the subject. It is now 1301. And does anybody have the etherpad
open? Hey there, it's DRW Dan. I'm back. Okay. What time is it? Somebody came up. Is it?
Oh, what time is it? I got the etherpad open. I believe it's 1800 UTC. So that means
Bangladesh and six more includes DACA, Almaty, Bishkek, Tempuru, and Astana. And I really
apologized to everyone in those locations if I butchered their names.
Yep, that's what I see. I know where DACA is in Bangladesh. I don't know any of the others.
Well, for those of you all wondering about the diesel stove, I got it started up and I am
currently making a big old pot of diesel powered grids. Grids? Pirate, I thought you were from
Washington. You cooking grids? Oh, hell no. I'm from North Carolina. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. That was
who was that? Who was that from North? Oh, that was I live in Washington. Okay. Okay. North
Carolina, you're a neighbor. You have to see I'm like John. I haven't moved out of my state.
I hold a, you know, where I live to be. I can't lie. I hate where I live. I hate it so much.
Dude, all of us that live in Indiana, I hate our state. Yeah, who is that? You're listed as Mr. Web.
Worthy. Why don't you tell folks who you really are there?
No, they'll like me less. I'm sure once you start talking, that'll take care of itself.
Yeah, Wurley, your voice sounds familiar. Aren't you on the Linux League Tech Show?
I sure am. I'm a grown man that people call Peggy. Hey, well.
There you go. Yeah, I'm talking to you guys every Wednesday.
I'm sorry. It's not gonna be sorry about. I hear them giving you grief about Indiana.
Uh, Indiana deserves to be giving grief about right now.
Hello, my name Peggy. Oh, man, that's a throwback right there.
So I was born in Indiana, but I got out. So am I considered one of the lucky ones?
Yes, probably. Yes. I still have a lot of family over that way though. My Indianapolis and down by
tear hoat. Well, I had to get out North Carolina for probably similar reasons.
I just moved out of the Midwest because I was sick of the winter. So that's why I'm down here in Texas now.
Yeah, I got that boat life going on. Well, Peggy, I've only been to Indiana going through
on the interstate to Chicago. I stopped occasionally at Gary, Indiana. So I don't know where
you are in Indiana, but it did bother me and he seemed like a nice state. I had a classmate from
Indiana who was a congressman. I don't know if he still is a congressman. Steve Boulier.
And Gary, Indiana, one of the nicest places in the world.
The guy I knew lives in Rinsylar, R-E-N-S-S-E-L-A-R, Indiana. Nobody talking?
Well, I just know you guys don't want to go where Peg wall is.
Unless you like meth or heroin. That too. It's good to have choice.
I don't know, Peg wall. It seems like you have a good time whenever I listen to tillts. They put
you down, but you're just a cool melody. I mean, if I didn't know them, if they weren't actually my
friends, then I'd go, wow, you guys are terrible people, but you know, I know them all, and they're my
friends. I mean, your friend Peggy? Well, not you. Ha! Victory!
Well, what happened to you this past tillts five days? I don't think you were online.
Were you? No, I had a terrible migraine. Okay, that's an excuse, I guess.
Peggy, when was the last time all you guys got together?
Geez, I don't know. Let's see, the last time I saw 50 was,
what was the first OCP live? Yeah, it was. I've been trying to drag you to things since.
We should have an OCP live in Seattle. I mean, by which, you know, I've arranged for people
for transportation to, you know, Peggy, to come see us at one thing or another, and no, he's too busy
to go do that. 5150 Indiana is close to just Kansas, then it is the Washington. Oh yeah, very
true. Yes, but there's more steamships in Washington than there are in Kansas. Yeah, because Kansas
had the Missouri River. Yeah, just through part of it. Kansas probably has a lot more sunflowers,
though. We have more tulips. Yeah, we do have a lot of sunflowers. And good barbecue, too.
At least in the Kansas City area that I'm familiar with. I'm not so sure about that one.
Well, that's probably the case in Missouri.
If it's not pulled pork with a vineyard-based sauce, it's not barbecue.
Oh, that's right, North Carolina. Why should it go? Anybody went into the Linux Fest lately?
I know you got them up there in Washington. 51, you got them in Kansas.
Yeah, we do. I haven't been to the Southeast Linux Fest in about three, four years. Anybody else?
Oh, I gave a talk at this past Southeast Linux Fest. What was it on?
Guttery fire control on World War I battleships. Oh, the Naval Artillery. I was an Army artillery guy.
I didn't know this was. This was specifically the computer is used on World War I battleships.
Big mechanical analog computers. I did a hallway track called How to Look Like John's Aller Brother.
Yeah, I'm sorry I missed that. That would be very interesting to me.
Well, I don't know how Linux Fest is, but few folks probably know.
I missed almost everything being in the table track, I guess you would say.
Yeah, but at OLF, the table track is typically more interesting than the talks anyways.
So, I mean, it was a lot of fun. Oh, yeah, it was. You know, that was the perfect place to be.
I haven't been to OLF in a few years. I need to make it back out there.
And yeah, we really need to do, you know, I'll pass plenty of life again because, you know, that's
the right thing. You know what to worry about missing talks or whatever we just hang out.
That's what I hear about you, 51. When you go to OLF, you always miss the talks,
but you always hang out at the parties. Well, this last time, yeah, not a year ago, but,
oh, you know, even the end show, I got a lot of business from a door, you know, saying, hey,
you know, you're supposed to be the big party guy. Why aren't you driven more?
All right, that's scary when Doris says, drink more.
Yeah, I guess I'm getting old. I'll tell you, I think the funniest part about the after party was
was a slash rich. That was, that was pretty fun.
And the offended Gorpon. No, he didn't, he wasn't there at the after party. He had to go home,
remember? Well, that's like that. And we were posting stuff online and in good humor, and he was like,
oh, man, you know, guys have gone too far. It's like, no, no, no, you know, it's all a good fun.
To be honest, I think Rich was actually the one that put that down there. I just took a picture
of it. So I think he was yelling at the wrong people anyways.
I'm more than willing to play Rich.
Because you did the podnut sucks, which Doris thought was hilarious.
And then somebody did the T8, I can't say the abbreviation sucks. And then they got,
well, they, I won't say they. I'll say Joel got offended.
Oh, if I was there, what a life so hard.
I wanted to tell sucks because I had enough tiles for it.
I think Joel offense easily, though. I think Joel offense easily.
Well, I think Joel thought that was the thing anyway.
Hey, everyone, we got one of those unusual time zones now for 1815.
It's New Years in Nepal, Kathmandu, Pokhara, Barrett Nagar, and Durand.
No, I think Joel thought I was getting after him on the tilt sucks.
And I, you know, I came back onto No, No, No. It was just, it was just rich. And I had enough tiles
to do tilt sucks. And, you know, it's nothing to do with, you know, Joel, not participation
in the table and all that kind of stuff.
What was last New Years? What countries were those that came in on New Years?
At 1515, 1815?
Nepal. And then cities included Kathmandu, Pokhara, Barrett Nagar, and Durand.
Yeah, I see it. Why are there all of our countries in cities, like 1530 and 1515? Why aren't they
on the hour? Anybody can answer that?
I would guess they just want to be different from other people, but I don't know.
I'm here in the U.S., where I changed time twice a year, and I don't know why we do that either.
I don't either. I just put it in my calendar and when it comes up, it just comes up.
Well, a nice thing with computers and cell phones, at least they update themselves automatically.
It used to be terrible when you had a dozen clocks around the house. You had to keep updating
with your watches and everything else.
Well, you got to remember back around the Riz on times, you had completely different
Catholic and Protestant calendars, because the Protestants took in leap years into a count
where the Catholics didn't, and you would have stuff that would be three months difference
between the two of them.
Yeah, I can understand the calendar date, but times of dates, you know, when I see something
like Nepal, it says 1815. I just can't comprehend why is it not on the hour like everybody else?
Well, I do think there are places in the U.S., where there's like an isolated county, it's on a 30-minute
deal. And, you know, I can't explain that either.
Yeah, some of those places aren't there, some in Indiana, Arizona, that have those crazy
time zones. Okay, here I was just googling this. This actually kind of makes sense. So
India, which is by Nepal, they have a divider between time zones that kind of splits the
pole, which is really small kind of oddly. So instead of having two different time zones for
a very small geographic area, they decided to do their own. And so the 15-minute offset from that
is just kind of to account for them being a little farther east of India and their standard time
zones. So at least that's what the site says. I can't validate that for sure, but that's what it says.
Everybody wants to be different. Everybody has their own little fiefdoms.
Just as an aside, y'all, these here diesel grits are mighty fine.
Oh, I expect so. I'd like some grits right now.
I think I've already eaten breakfast. It's coming on 125 here in eastern time zones. I think
I don't think I want to eat grits for lunch. Well, if anyone wants them, come out and get them.
I just cooked up a big old pot of them. How much did you cook? Too much for me.
I wasn't paying attention to them dump more of the box in the pot than I'd planned.
I'm a southern guy from birth, but I have grits that are two years old, but I occasionally eat them
with my eggs and bacon or eggs and sausage. But I, like I said, I have a package that I bought two
years ago from the grocery store, and there's no way I can eat all those in a given calendar year.
You guys come out my way because I'll eat grits, I'll eat harmony, whatever.
Sorry, what was that? I said I'll eat grits, I'll eat harmony, whatever.
Harmony made out of corn. Then why don't they call them grits? It is not ground up.
Yeah, you know, harmony is like the intermediary form.
Well, since you're living Kansas, how can you don't eat cream a week?
Yeah, I would if I could get it. I did for a while, but all I can get is the non-flavored version.
If I could get chocolate cream a week, I'd be eating the heck out of it.
Just buy you some chocolate powder and stir it in.
Well, you're probably right there.
Maggie, where the heck did you go?
Eating chicken strips?
Well, I can't criticize that at all.
Well, where did you go, 51? And he was offline for a couple hours there. Where did you do?
Did you go to sleep? Just so.
Well, all I can say is you got me, I have to go out later. I'm going to have to buy another bottle of Jim Beam.
Well, you know, I smile when you do say that.
You know, I'm going to put all this on you. When I have to talk to my doctor and pharmacist
in a couple of weeks, I'm going to say 51, maybe, do it.
I can't drink alcohol tonight. I'll be working on this team ship.
Yeah, tell us about that. You've got a new project then.
Well, I'm working on an HPR for it, but it's the Steam Ship Virginia 5. It's a furry boat built in 1922.
Woodhole. You know, it's still steam powered.
Has it always been located in Washington? It has.
Well, it sounds like a great project if you don't say it on fire or nothing.
Well, when we want steam, we got to have a fire as long as it's in the boiler.
So I reckon at some point we'll see this on YouTube or something?
Yeah, there's videos on YouTube.
So, Rich, hey, are you doing your Darth Vader impression?
What do you mean? I don't understand about the Darth Vader thing.
We had your key open for a while.
Okay, that was just one. That's what I wondered.
Like I said, some of the guys are in the channel now. I'm on my phone.
I have to scroll back and forth to see who's talking.
Using to push the talk at the bottom of the plumber page on the channel.
And if I don't push it right, I don't see myself as lit up as red in the eye,
where I can't see who else is talking.
I have mumbles set up on my computer, but I don't use it.
Because it's a laptop that I have next to the TV on my desk.
And I don't ever open it up.
And so I don't have any microphones or nothing connected to it.
All I have is HDMI and the TV and hard drives connected to it or a Roku box.
That's why I guess I need to get me a Bluetooth headset so I can use it with my phone.
So, is this the point in the podcast where we shake our fist at 2016 in the sky?
What's that supposed to have not been doing that already?
Yeah, it seemed like 2016 has been a kind of crazy ass year.
I don't know. It's been all right for me, but going on social media seemed like the world's going to end.
Oh man, you guys remember the 1600s when they had that thing?
What was it called? Oh yeah, the black plague.
Yeah, I think I remember that. You know, rats,
fleas bite the rats, fleas bite humans.
Humans get the black death and die. 50 million people all over the world are dead.
Man, 2016 just pills in comparison, doesn't it?
Yeah. Yeah, there are already 2016 YouTube videos.
Well, we can make one. I can go out here in my backyard and my shack
and find you a couple of dead rats and we can do a podcast.
I'm guessing one second is this their property time to talk about math.
Talk about what? Lord D.
I don't know, everybody. I know tilts, they were saying they wanted some stuff for HPR,
but I only knew Lord D from listening to the tilts podcast.
I saw a couple of his feeds from Benny good of the Linux Fests in California.
Last year or this year or something?
Yeah, I would call so much their legs fast as more of a one California is more of a
a includes links, but it's more of a pro tech conference.
Yeah. Didn't he have some type of campaign to get some money to get a couple of airline
pickets to go out there this year?
I don't think that was last year and then you know he got his you know he's been doing some
sort of training online and you know did some crowdfunding to support that.
I'll tell you the one thing that keeps getting me every time is his Twitter bot is still up
and running. So if somebody follows his Twitter account it like tweets back at him and I'm just
like every time I see it I'm just like goddamn it.
Well I think he's still running on Facebook and some people been saying we are take that down
and I'm gonna think what's probably the best tribute you could have running is just leave it go.
Yeah, I've seen that. I don't know about you guys. If you guys set up any type of thing for
your stuff for Facebook and Twitter, I don't use Facebook. I could hear if I want to look up
a public company or Twitter. I used to have Twitter account and I used to use news feed and
look at that if I want to see on news sees now I just do a Twitter search on Google but
do any of you guys have something set up where if you do pass away that your relatives can go in
and check your accounts and you know end your accounts for you or you're just one of those types
of people who just whatever will be. I don't know about anybody else but I literally have my
own dead man switch like if I don't check in every so often it emails out the encryption keys
to my server so there's strategically placed people who will get that email and then inside of that
is all my accounts and everything so it's mostly just family members so something happens to me
they have access to everything you can do with it what they want. I'm about like that and I
think there's I don't have mother and father or kids or wife now and so I have a file that I keep
and an envelope that if I do pass away because to my sister it has all my passwords and everything.
I got a master password she can go check on last pass and she can do whatever if I'm gone.
That's how I deal with it. Yeah that was kind of my thoughts I don't have anything set up but
I use the list pass as well and so giving the appropriate person that login information and can get
to all the social media and all those kind of things but it doesn't have like access for personal
servers or digital ocean droplets or anything like that. Yeah I've got nothing set up because
I can't none of the relatives that I have would you know even fathom anything you know it just
being total confusion. Yeah well I had to deal with that a few years back when my mom passed away
and she had google accounts and y'all who accounts and cocks cable accounts and you know
you have to deal with that when somebody passes away and I kept her google account open for a while
she kept getting emails and stuff and even to this day I get stuff forwarded from her old home
address to my address now that you know to say hey miss Anderson do you want this credit card
and you want to come to our store for this and that you know you deal with it it doesn't matter
even if you're alive or dead you're still going to get stuff. I know one of the last things that
I told you Lord D about and it was kind of an ongoing thing that I've kind of taken up
personally because one of the things he was worried about is he knew what was going to take him
and he knew he didn't have that long but he tried to set up a NAS and he would just
fill this NAS full of stuff for his daughter so as she got older she would have this sort of
central repository of stuff of her dad so like she could always remember him in whatever way
and that was a cool idea so I've been playing around with trying to do that for my kid.
That sounds cool. Yeah I remember seeing something about that how he had set up something for
personally I have all that stuff on my hard drives and all my computers and if anybody wants
to go they can see all the pictures that I have in my family and myself and I keep I have a
Google account with all my Gmail but also use Thunderbird and I save all my mail on Thunderbird
and anybody can go in that and see all my Thunderbird mail from 2000 or whenever Gmail started up
when I was 40 hit for my Thunderbird account and you know you can it personally for me I like
to go in and look at my Thunderbird archives and just see how my life progressed from day to day
from years to years ago you know you know nothing outstanding just basic notifications I get
something from the doctor and say oh you got a doctor appointment at the day or hey you got
something from a credit card company today you know you got a appointment for something else
today you know it just it's just sort of like an online diary so does anyone know is someone
going to be continuing on with the links training stuff that Lord he had set up or well he did
recruit several people into it so okay I didn't know that I've been washing it but you know who
knows there's going to be any more output you know we talked about that you know do we want to jump
in and we're in slugcast and it's looks like there's a lot of people besides Lord D involved but
you know are they going to be continuing stuff we don't know yeah I know he had a real passion
for them was really driven to you know get that all set up and going and you know generating the
content hopefully there is someone that feels the same way as he does and can do that yeah that's
the thing he never wanted to say anything I mean he was you know I think he won the great
bravest guys I know because so many people would be just yeah okay this is going to happen
I'm going to light here till it does and you know he never did that and you know I guess the way
distracted him from being inevitable was yeah we're going to go this and do here and make a
difference yeah you know we all have good intentions about what we want to do but when it comes
to reality those good intentions just life goes on we always say yeah I want to do this and that
but you know it just never comes to fruition we just forget and it just lingers on hello everybody
I sound okay hey there yeah you sound fine to me at least all right excellent I'm just testing
this out I was curious if anybody's familiar with the story Buckminster Fuller told when asked
about death no give us some information all right he he was pretty old at the time so he had a
bunch of aged friends and he said one day he wrote a letter to a friend that he hadn't spoken to
in many years he received a phone call back from his wife when she received it saying I'm sorry
he's no longer with us so his response was I begged to differ otherwise I never would have written
him a letter sounds like Lord Dracomboot's going to be with us for a long time yeah as long as
people remember you you don't have to be here physically as long as people can remember I guess
that's what we all have aspirations for yep or do you will have many many people you know
indebted to him and thanking him in the years going forward I think the biggest tribute Lord
Deacon has didn't have a daughter as if his daughter can remember his mom or other relatives
remember that's the biggest tribute you know as long as somebody can remember you're
didn't daddy that's saying that's all we can thrive for well that's a cool thing God
whoever was mentioning earlier about setting up that NAS server with a bunch of you know stuff
for his daughters so that she can discover later on so even if she was you know younger which I
kind of assume she was you know she could learn about him and know him a little bit better that way
well this is his daughter anybody you know like three or four she's five
okay she's well she's at the age where now's the time she can start remembering I don't know
if any you guys were on earlier we were talking about her earliest memories about five and four
and three is about the earliest I have any memory of anything so she should remember her dead
you know she's got it she had a dad at least he has her I haven't here I had a mom and a dad I
got a sister but I'm the last of my clan down here in middle Georgia I don't have any kids I'm
not married anymore so when I go hopefully my sister can remember me but if she dies anytime soon
or after I leave that'll be it for my clan well hopefully wherever you know that
daughter goes she will she will remember that you know one time her dad had this you know
and you know maybe maybe it's not as big as the really concert you know or the conservative
10,000 family members and local friends but sure sure remember dad was a member of this
online community but did care about her and about her dad and you know in a very real way
and you know because the dynamics of who who was your friend who you hang out with is changing
these days. Yep that's all you can add for most of the people like today I've never met any of you
guys a lot of you guys I've listened to on podcasts or seen your post online never will meet you
but you're there in my memory you're there online it's not gonna go away if it's online it's always
there so there's a record and so she'll always have her family will always have a record that's
the only time I ever known of Lord D was every Wednesday he was on tilts when I went online
and listened to the live podcast that's how I know Lord D so that's all you can add for
and I encourage you John if you ever are in a position where you can make it to a list fest
you know there's always be a few lists around me or Joel or you know a door or whoever you know
don't don't off if you're a position where you can join us don't and this is out all the people out
there don't be bashful you know about approaching you know it's like hey you know all we want to do
is hang out with us or so please you know if you're one of these sessions where we can all get
together you know the the greatest thing we can do is meet with folks so don't be don't be shy
doing that yeah some of the coolest people I've met at Linus Fest are people that just walk up
like have no idea who I am don't know that any of the podcasts I do wouldn't know me from anybody
and they just walk up and they're like hey how you doing and we just have awesome conversations so
yeah it's totally don't be shy about talking to anybody well that's that's what I like about this
hacker public radio thing is once a year I can get online and talk to people I've listened to
and read about online because I where I'm at there's nobody into Linux or open source or anything
I'm here in my little cave been here for years and years and at least I get the
interact with some guys I have on my buckets I will one day before I die go to Ohio Linux Fest
or Southeast Linux Fest or that Linux Fest they have up in Washington and I will eventually get
there one day but right now at least I can talk to you guys today you know it's great but you know
like I said if you if you can make it too fast do it we're trying to expand I mean that's
the whole idea of Candice Linux Fest because there was nothing in the central United States
and we're you know we're trying we're trying to serve everybody now
hi it's Bob jumping from Kitchener Waterloo area in Ontario Canada we've actually got a KW Kitchener Waterloo
Linux Fest coming up at the end of January so if anybody else is in the area feel free to go up
and join us sweet I'm not in the area but if I was I would definitely be going yeah I have to check
my Google flight calendar see fuck it fly up there you guys got any close airports
there's actually a little airport regional airport just outside of Kitchener so it's
possible you could fly in there spelled out for me Kitchener I gotta look it up see if I can
fly out of Atlanta there's a link in the member chat allowing I'm just putting something in
the ether pad as well Kitchener is KIT CHEMER let's go on an airport YKF
CS my problem with Dorf East Linux Fest like Joe Hector and everybody said well maybe coming
from the Canada side no Chief is way for me to go it's just like I did last year
is flying to Seattle on a car seems like Kitchener comes up with a lot of the kickboxing
I don't know about kickboxing but it's a pretty hotbed for computer type activity he's got
the University of Waterloo up here so we're dumping out computer scientists all the time
what province this is Ontario in Canada the furthest I've been into the Ontario province is Windsor
yeah I mean I was technically illegally in Canada you know I'm gonna try to push it
yeah that sounds like a story pig wolf if you really want me to tell this story
well where the hell I'll see you to tell it it better in both Canadian ninjas
God I wish oh you passed the statute of limitations now
um sure good enough for us
all right so a couple of years ago my cousin and one of my friends we decided it started first
we're going we have nothing to do let's just drive north at first we're like we'll just go to
Fort Wayne be fun you know we know people there we'll just have us a good old time spend the day
there come back well that person didn't end up answering the phone or the knock on the door
so we're like you know what I've never been to Michigan it's just right there let's go to Michigan
and that turned into you know we've never been to Detroit that'll be an experience
when I now regret because Detroit but anyway um so we're like you know Canada's right there
let's go for it we didn't know we need to passports because the year before that is when they
changed it and when we looked it up it said you only needed like an ID we're like cool so we
get to the American side of the border and they search our car like they just completely trashed
everything like they they forced me to how can I word this in a semi-polite way um to give me an
all-around wedgie that's what I had to do to myself like at first the guys like pull your shorts
all the way up because you know I was wearing some jorts some jean shorts you know rocking the
if the sad white dad look we now I got the gray here to match so we're good to go there
so after all this he's he's like yeah now do it in the back I'm like gray he goes no keep it
up in the front too I'm like kidding me and this dude he's sitting down at a table like he he looks
like uh you know your average rent cop kind of person there I'm like he's just sitting there
arms crossed like you can this dude I don't think the dude has stood and walked in like a decade
at this point like he is he's won with that chair he is fused to it it is biologically part of him
so he's sitting there with his arms crossed on his chest and he goes now stand in your tiptoes
and turn around I'm like really this this is what I got to do the other people I came with didn't
have to do this you're just gonna pick on me okay whatever so I do it go through customs and
the guy he was like he was a Homeland Security which let me tell you they are a cheerful group of
people just so happy about their jobs the guy goes oh you don't have passports huh you go
well you could try going through but we don't make any promises and you're gonna get stuck between
borders so they're like yeah we're willing to risk it because we're dumb why not and he goes oh by
the way Canada sucks and I've had fun plugging my headphones here we go so we get to the Canadian
side and it is literally just a toll booth like on the American side it's dues with AR 15's like
they are not kidding around can Canadian side little toll booth there so the chick she was like oh
how long you guys gonna be in Canada we're like no just a day you know no biggie she goes do you
have passports we're like no she goes you got ID and birth certificates we're like yeah she goes
hey go on like like just did not really care it kind of seemed to me like she was not being paid
enough for that job so we're walking around I'm like you know if anything happens we get arrested
we don't have passports there is no evidence that we're allowed to be here so
so we're walking around and like we we decided to visit the mall and everything like that you know
just whatever and we found out that we could pay any their Canadian or American money that was
pretty cool and when we came back is when we had more trouble not from the Canadian side no they
didn't really care so the the Department of Homeland Security people tried to argue with us that
they didn't let us through you know they didn't just decide we could go and that's when my cousin
says oh no you're right we magicked our way across and then they tried to detain us and finally
they just got tired of us and let us go and that's the end of the story I had problems in Canada one
time I was on my way back to the States and they took me and my ex-boyfriend and this this
fresh search stuff damn Canadian dead or the Americans dead I was Americans it was on the blue
water bridge on the way back every single time I fly in in the US I get my freedom broke
I really feel bad for anyone that has to do that to me because I'm not a pretty man I'm not
shaped good kind of fat kind of ugly kind of look like someone's dad yes you do
that's their choice I just looked up on Google airline flights it'll take from 19 to 32
hours to go from Atlanta to Kitchener on airplane why does it take so long it only takes 15 to 18
hours to drive why is that so long on airplane every flight I look at has two stops and Kitchener is
just outside of Toronto to buy an hourly from Toronto yeah you're talking about Kirchner that's
like right over the water for me they got to fly you you know half this is in your own wrong location
before they turn you around hey you know the blue water bridge that goes from Port here on Michigan to
Port Sarnia Canada well anyhow I'm five miles from that bridge when we're probably about two four
hours away from Kitchener Ontario hey y'all I got to clean up the galley I'll be back in a few
everybody considering coming to Kitchener for the next test it might be faster to fly
to Toronto and drive from Toronto to Kitchener which is only about an hour an hour and 15 minutes or so
yeah I see that now I was looking on Google they had me flying from Atlanta to Seattle to Toronto
but then I clicked a different link and now they got me flying straight to Detroit and then up
to Toronto so that sounds a little bit better let me let me ask you something since I'm not
Canadian here is it okay to not enjoy the trailer park boys I must be an artificial Canadian I've
rather seen the trailer park boys now that seems pretty standard I don't think most of my Canadian
friends know what it is either since simultaneously okay to have enjoyed the red green show
I have seen the red green show and yeah it's so red spots say have you ever heard of anybody that's
got a Hewlett Packard laptop with the beats audio and since it's got beats audio it doesn't play
very well with Lennox in other words you don't have any sound coming out the internal speakers
I'm usually to laptop right now I approve of 6560 sound works fine but I don't think it's beats audio either
yeah mine's MV M6 1 2 2 5 DX what destroyer are you in the moment? Black Lab Lennox LXDE
only issues I've ever had with beats audio were software related and I still had sound it just
wasn't as good as the proprietary I'm just wondering if I should install this thing or activate it
well since Taj has gone does that mean we can talk about it behind us back now?
yeah I guess like are we an Indonesia for the New Year where are we 1700 TTP 1730 1800 where are we?
all right yeah 1900 is Pakistan including Tushkent Islamabad Mahore and Karachi and I think we missed
the 1830 which was India and Sri Lanka which included New Delhi Mumbai Kolkata and Bengaluru
okay I see that I only placed I know as Karachi never been there do you guys think I should activate that?
I can't say I don't use anything with beats audio so I don't know
can I mean it's obviously your decision there it's not our box I'm just wondering if it would help and
not hurt you know if you tried other distros on that we're just a wand oh no I've tried many many
distros but this is the the first one on a long time that I finally got working like almost perfectly
with exception of that sound issue okay like I always say if you got a backup before
well if you look at the bottom on the right hand side there is a button that says reverse so I'm
guessing that I can probably tick that box and hit apply changes and close restart the
computer see if it works if it doesn't work then I can probably take the tick mark out and put
it down at the bottom where it's at right now and then just hit revert I think all it's
going to do is install a proprietary driver so depending on how free you are to be in the free
software you you may not want to do this but it's just installing a driver which should
uninstall quite nice doing you hit the revert button yeah well you know I've been on Linux for
like four and a half years now and I've always heard people say stuff like oh it's not open source
I'm not going to use it and I think oh my gosh it's not like a child you know I'm going to use
whatever makes my computing experience comfortable for me and fun and easy for me I'm hoping that's
the way to do it yeah that's the way it's practical in that regards you know I prefer open
source and open standards and all of that but reality is if there's something I want to do you know
I'll use proprietary things when needed that's the way I am too if I'm not from the Richard
Stalin school of good new Linux so if it works for you then try it that said I'm going to
separate the inconvenience just to ensure that I'm adhering to the free software standards but
like you say anything that I need to do I can make work so I'm happy with my computing experience
I'm pretty sure my girlfriend would just own me if I were to use non-free software
well to me when you say freedom that includes freedom to use whatever you want if that even is
proprietary things I know RMS and them don't agree with that but to me that gives me the greatest
bounded choice which is what I'm looking for at the end of the day well I do believe in that to
the point to the point that if I buy a computer and I get the receipt for and I got the receipt in
my hand I can do whatever the hell I want to do with that computer if I want to take a throw it
out in front of a truck and let it run it over I can do that if I want to alter anything put whatever
if I want to put Linux Windows Mac Android on I can do it you know so I believe that you should
be able to have the freedom that way and once you paid for something even if it's a piece of software
you should be able to alter it to your liking and if you like it enough and you think it's really
awesome you should be able to like give it to one of your friends yep so this is
made into the problems with this particular driver if you don't work with what you want it to do
you can't modify you can't change it which is what could set into the proprietary repository there
so feel free to use it but you won't be able to modify it and change it and make it work the way
that you want it to anyhow I'm going to try this and I'll come back and let you know it works
go for it you've probably got the world's best with experts online here right now awesome
we'll keep our fingers crossed for you what are you using with beats
I sell all my coffee cups with license agreement so you can't portee into them
back now I want to use the head and pancakes is in the head right now
there's another guy who's on the boat with me and his name is pancakes
I was gonna say do you keep waffles like I don't know on the deck what your life is weird to me
uh it's probably weird to you anyway but yeah there's another dude that lives on the boat with me
and his name is Pancakes and he's in the head
why is his name Pancakes
uh well every time he tells a story he tells it slightly differently so I'm not rightly sure
does Pancakes he grits yes he does
if he eats pancakes does that make him accountable
I've seen him eat pancakes so can I get a t-shirt made that she says classic Pancakes
that would be good so if y'all want to look up my house
it's the imbi Arthur Falls and you can go on Wikipedia and look it up
I just dropped the link into etherpad
they're cool thanks for sharing yeah I see it this is a nice size boat
it didn't work
don't they're bad but it's one that you computer so working and addicted
yeah I had to plug the external speakers back in
so no luck on the driver huh do what no luck will install the driver
no I wonder if I should revert it if cloud working I would revert just to get that stuff out of
the computer if it's not going to be doing anything useful for you there might be some useful
information like if you look at the syslog or the message if it's you know loading the driver
if it's detecting the hardware stuff like that might not give you an answer how to fix it but
at least you can see how far it got it may be worth putting the computer with a live distro
an arch or something like that so that you can see whether or not another distro does actually
recognize the hardware and make use of it she said she tried several others before so I don't know
so I'll give her any new information but yeah it might be worth a try well let's put this
way the last five distros I had on this computer I had no sound coming out of the built-in speakers
so I'm thinking it's something that happened from 1604
oh no if you've got a mechanical problem looks connections or just bad hardware
did you just say that it worked under 1604 try that again see if it's your hardware
no no what I was saying is that the last five distros I had the same problem on I did not get any
sound out of the built-in speakers and it's been happening since 1604 came out before 1604
I didn't have that problem try something that you didn't have the problem with before to isolate
whether it's your hardware well I did I tried a Alex L.A. 1404.3 and I had sound
you should still be able to pick up an ISO on live CD from that era or live USB stick and then
boot from that so you don't actually have to wipe up which is out on the computer right now just
to experiment oh by the way I'm looking at accession errors right now and I don't see any errors
or you know negative messages in there it's probably not in accession it would be um parlogs
this log or you can just type in the command dmesg or debatages okay I got that
and I'm not sure what you would need to search on for that maybe snd I forget what the device
names usually start with for audio my gosh it sure is a lot of information oh yeah it's everything
from the kernel um starting up the CPU and on basically so it's it that that file will show you
everything detecting you know USB ports display everything like that the accession file you were
looking at earlier only deals with the graphics subsystem and starting up x windows I would use
an lspci to find the actual chipset of the sound card do a web search for that sound card and
find the right driver oh yeah and then she can also um search for that device name in the log as well
you can also borrow an awesome mixer which is a two-way run in your terminal and
and with that you can put you can adjust the volume on every supported while every working piece
of hardware that's at least detected that's the point I had a laptop that everything came
you did by default I didn't think about that um anything that you can do uh you know by typing
awesome mixer in the terminal that those lines the volume lines and everything I've already done
everything that you could possibly do on there and I've done everything that you could possibly do
on popover control so okay well that eliminates one thing all right everyone I'm gonna step
away for a while um I'll try to be out in later in the afternoon here my time so if not everyone
have a great year and um hopefully 2017 will be a lot better um bye peace out bra see ya
likes uh anyhow it's HDA until PCH
I punched that into the search engine and there's a posting on the arch
solved also no sound internal speaker until PCH
okay bad archer key is just one of the best resources for all of its distributions ever
first stop resource I'm not reading it mind you I'm cleaning my kitchen
sounds like mine Brian were you on the HBR party last year new years
I may have logged in but not with audio okay I was just wondering your voice sounds familiar
a guy I talked to last year this time he was looking for a laptop for a friend that he could
put Linux on had trouble finding a decent distro that worked out of the box that's what I was
just wondering I posted a few HP hours this year I probably listened to all I get them all
automatic download on my phone most recent was my art appreciation I'm not if I listen to that
normally I look and see what the headline is it's just something I like I click it and listen
I'm not a big heart of fishing and auto it's just a note on how to appreciate art on your own
and your own experience of it regardless of what the artist intended sounds good let me I'm
gonna have to check my project let me go back and see I'll check it right now
a note on filtering which ones to listen to also I have found that some of the ones that I
decide not to listen to for a while end up being some of the most interesting that I find
well yeah I find that too that's why I just get it all downloaded I'm looking right now so I'll
be back with you in a minute I pull them all in I do just tend to hold off the series are the ones
that I really got out of the right situation at folks it's been a pleasure but it's time for me
to go over a next door to the steam ship I might could be on later on today I don't know
depends on how many people we get on board for visiting I saw that ship has daily tours or
something of the sort that sounds like fun I'm sorry I saw my skin of the website that you did
tour public tours that sounds sounds like an interesting gig you got happening so
yes I do a public open ship on Arthur but today I'm doing open ship on Virginia 5 which is a
different ship it's a docked next to this one so I live on Arthur false and I most weekends I do
a public tours on Arthur false but this weekend I'm going to be on Virginia 5 so what would you
say your profession would be called oh my day job is I write code well what about the
guiding that's just a tour guide you'd say or a historian
never heard that it's a kind of it's a term for a position at a museum and my house is a museum
ah so historians would kind of fit in there sort of yes so kind of tour guides I kind of
historian I learned something every day anyway I got to get this here stove shut off and
go and get dressed and wander on next door so I reckon I'll see y'all in a little bit
enjoy yourself I wouldn't do it otherwise Brian you had Art Appreciation 2188 HBR right I believe so
I think I'll give it a listen I'll be offline for a few minutes you know somebody on the internet
said that there was some sound issues taken care of in kernel 448 I don't even know where to
get for for a it's not him snaptic you might have to wait till next release is my sound any better
much much better you sound sounds great
okay speaking of filtering out what shows to listen to and turning them off when they're not
interesting most of you probably turned off my cutting a block of beeswax episode when I turned
on my heat gun at the end of that episode there was an offer for anyone who wants to come find me
in Flagstaff Arizona for a handmade pot I've just kind of got this kind of art called
and caustic which is painting with colored beeswax so that might be you know particularly
interest I find that very interesting actually it's a medium that's really neat to work with but
my brush skills are just horrid here's a link to her artwork the pictures you see there are
mostly done with and caustic beeswax on canvas well that effect of that image that comes up in
that link there reminds me a lot of a friend of mine who's a sculptural ceramic artist Christine
golden hello greetings hello must be listening I thought I'd actually come on here and chat for a minute
maybe again where's everybody from America America and more America I think except me and some others
maybe Michigan Indiana Canada England what's that I haven't talked to you in a year now
haven't seen me for a year is that what you said you haven't talked to you in that long
no I didn't really do podcasts I've done these new year a bit but I'm not really a limited
podcast I've done some for all but then we need to tend to listen to any more we can do it it's always
music actually quite a common music and mostly listening to now saying that which is good because
you've been too kinder as a linux person although I still will into commercial music as well
and I speak to you on the last new year one or something so guys I got my own channel but
it's pretty much dead right now because I hadn't got it off the ground yet sounds you sound
fine on this now if that's what you mean no she said she has her own channel but she hasn't
gotten off the ground yet okay right for podcasts for mumble but that this one's the one that I
usually hang out on yeah it's probably the one main networks anyway because it's had a few other
podcasts on there that were something as well anyhow over at OLC we got people from all over the
place there we got people from Australia New Zealand England Africa Vietnam what was that
country in Europe it starts with a B and United States and all over where was that over at OLC
Linux community that I put in the box that's why I hang out the most European countries starting with
B and coming to Belgium that's not it dollars it's Bulgaria in the box so put on my OLC I can't
seem to see on the chat box um yeah like I said the first one is mine Tux by Selenix and that's
pretty much dead because I haven't got it up off the ground yet and the second one is why I
hang out the most I don't see many of the links in the chat box on mumble I mean there's a Canadian
link and then there's some one on the link but if it's on ICO to see anyway but oh you can't see
the mobile channels in the chat box I can see there is a on the side box there are I see a KW Linux
Fest.co link there's a image link from you and pirate Wikipedia link um and Bob with a
Westworm link and nothing that yeah I can't seem to see another link if there's supposed to be one
or if there's I missed it well that's strange you know I do have to say the uh well the Leon
Rustworm link there is probably the nicest uh wickside I've seen I think that's still I haven't
gone on it now that that link did rustworm thing but I'm making isn't that the woman that was on
identity.co in here that's a pop pop the fake thing and then the other rustworm is the sister
Treblea rustworm where the rustworm is on identical they don't believe the Anna is
but I pass on compliments I haven't had been in my sense to say that wicks either but I'll pass
the compliment off in the end or next time I'll see you here. A lot of photographers I know use
wicks and all the websites tend to look oddly like smunch together that's the best way I can
describe it like like they're somehow not taking advantage of the full web page there and it's just
one odd little box there so uh what distros does well what's your name the uh what one we've
got on the show because you use five distros so I was thinking earlier you did anyway I was thinking
which five distros have you used then and saying that what distros is everybody here you use because
I've used quite a few of the years as well. I'm ready for Dora using myself. I started with
the Dora but then I moved away to um well I was and couldn't get on the internet back in 2004
while there's adapter and all that so I ended up on a bunch of 40 years and then I went off to
things like PC left terrace for a bit trying out for Dora again magia um back to a bunch of
who and and now I'm actually thinking well I've got my laptop to reset that's up still I'm going to
to actually I'm going to quad boot it this time so I'm going to put um they're complete reinstalls
I'm going to start over complete the operating system wise I'm going to put Windows 8.1 back on
the upgrade it's Windows 10 I'm going to put um a bunch of 16.10 I guess uh magia 5 of um and I'm
thinking for Dora 25 let's give Dora another go again actually because it's they've got Wayland
by default now it's the kind of interesting stuff that will be worth trying I haven't a last time
I tried to get back to for Dora was I think about this year the day it was quite a few years back
with for Dora 11 and the reason I didn't get back to for Dora then so that I think was about 2009
was because when I tried to install for Dora 11 it basically it was very standard partition
setup but it basically gave me an error message and told me that it was probably a bug and to report it
and I just didn't do that and I gave up on for Dora and um yeah but I do like GNOME with my
fair desktop environment so again that's kind of another reason why for Dora would be good as well
although GNOME is fine in pretty much every other distro that does GNOME as well
so yeah I went the opposite way I started with uh with Slackware because I thought you know I
could use Ubuntu or something like that which at the time was not really polished but I decided
to go with Slackware I was like all right I'm just gonna learn it it's gonna be awesome yada yada
then I say all right I got Slackware going I'm gonna try GNOME 2 now three days later I had a working
install had to wait for the insane amount of compiling to finish there and see then I figured
I moved to after that it might have been for Dora Core or just Red Hat and then I just kind of
went crazy for a while just installing a new distro like every week um and ultimately I think
Archen for Dora or my go-to is now yeah yeah so Slackware um person who told me about Linux from
school if you like thousand and three open sort like no it was like my little suit see what do you
win and um DevC++ and then I could go to a computer I could play around with a year later but he
always he said he used Slackware he would never ever tell me what which distributed
distribution to go for so I had to really like sort of figure out for myself so I ended up
actually picking between Debian and for Dora at 17 years old as well and for some reason I completely
missed Mandrake which apparently was really popular at that time but somehow I still missed Mandrake
that was not in my choices and I ended up going for um Dora quite simply because it said that
everything was free on the website basically and I think maybe somebody said that Debian was
more for servers I don't remember quite I don't know I don't have to later on I don't
about software for read them and all right all that um but yeah so I so somehow I missed Mandrake
which is kind of interesting because apparently that was like you know the most popular distro before
a bunch or something but yeah I still missed it but I did do the growing down distro watch in 2009
trying to switch away in virtual machines virtual box trying out different distributions um
wanting to switch away from a bunch because I wasn't happy with um certain changes that had
happened in a globe and so on and then Mandrake if it wouldn't install and it did eventually
and all this but so I've done that as well they're going but all those in virtual machines have
done it going on the whole distro watch list trying out semi-distributions in a few days so I've
done something similar there as well it's funny that you it's funny that you talk about um
not being happy with can I am with Ubuntu so I'm going for a completely different distro because
for me it was a case of I wasn't very happy with can I am too on Ubuntu because it was too heavy
so I started trying out different desktops and different flavors of Ubuntu and settled on
Ubuntu in the end with xfce and I've never looked back I'm still using it right now
no I think it was I think it was more I mean that there were little changes that
patching and the removing features like auto shut down I'm not a lot younger at this time you know
so um it's like oh did you move my auto shut down through a minute feature and put this
do you really want to shut down feature in that I didn't like and and uh and things like that
and it wasn't too bad and you could customize and you could take it out but then when 10.4 came out
that was that kind of really got me because it wasn't just canoeing those little features there's
a whole branding change I didn't even like the color scheme they're putting and good bearing
mind that I'm quite a lot younger at this time so these little things when you add it all up
together it kind of made me feel a bit annoyed but then also I knew somebody on IOC who's
suddenly told me about upstream so I did by I'd used in it's a few years by then but I didn't
know about upstream so like when I first tried out I noticed that all the distributions were very
similar like they got gnome they got kd they got by never really understood why but then suddenly
somebody told me or not on the in 2009 he's like oh um there's this thing called upstream and
yeah and that's basically say conical basically changing upstream and there's that
it glom should really be like this sort of thing and then so it was all kind of putting
everything together and then that's when I sort of thought well I'm going to see what other
distributions are out there again I'm gonna you have a look around again because I'm not completely
happy with about here and now also sort of see why as well and it was sort of putting everything
together what do you mean by you see why then but on the community side they were they were always
good on on about you and and I've kind of gone back to a bunny now but that's more because I
I'm interested in the devices the tablet and the phone same I'm interested in the ula phone as
well and anything like that well you somebody asked me a question I think what was that I asked
um why uh you said something about a bun to that wasn't a good choice or something
well this I wanted a very good default sassup I wanted a default sassup that I liked I didn't
really want to customize I didn't mind customizing one or two things here and there but there was
just way too much in 10.04 that I had to suddenly customize out as customizing take that that out
and pilot how it was because and so that was to do with it as well as the main reason as well
I wanted a good default sassup I didn't you know I didn't want to do all this customizing and
taking out feet little features I didn't really matter anyway and it wasn't but they did at that
time well yeah suppose that's why I ended up with the subunter because the default for that is
it's almost perfect for me I I changed the panels a little bit but otherwise it's all fine I mean
I tried out lubuntu with LXDA and I tried Kubuntu and KDE has never been for me unfortunately
but yeah it's that's what makes the Linux so brilliant though isn't it that you have a base
one two and and some people a lot of people like Unity some people hate it but you can take that
base and you can put anything on top of it there's a bunch of grime and which is really popular
there's a bunch of budgie now you know there's basically just anything you want and that that's
the beauty of Linux isn't it? Oh yeah there's a choice just to do it in spaces I personally
really like QT-8 when they were when Jono Bacon used to do his video thing and he used to show
the one who typed running on the Nexus and all that you know all those few years back now
I always looked at that and I always thought yes that looks interesting I want to get I
want to have a device like that so of course when the BQ phone came out last year and the MX all
of well I got I bought both for those when the tablet came out this year I bought one of them
but I do actually like QT-8 or as a on the tablet and on the phone on the desktop it works a bit
differently you have to find it so it's a bit different so there's a lot of people aren't so keen
there but you can you can see where things are going with the tablet and the phone because it's
like a preview of what is to come but that's how we describe it because a desktop is going to go
like that as well and the work now it's going to take over two years or so but it's it's going to be
called Buntiew Personal when everything converges together like that as well well that's the dream
so are you a happy customer then of these devices the Ubuntu devices that you bought?
I am I'm generally happy that I'm realistic as well I know the limitations I know what why it's
like that I'm but as a daily drive I do use an Ubuntu tablet now most of the time and instead of
the computer as well I'm with a bluetooth keyboard k lobby kit k4 80 usually and the reason I can do
that is because actually most of the time all I'm doing is is quite basic things like going on websites
check an email and listening to music you know very basic stuff most of the time
so a tablet is fine in that sense one occasion I want to do a virtual machine or something like
that then okay so I'm gonna leave my computer but otherwise a tablet is is fine 99% of the time
I'm not doing there's a gaming when you think like that either so again actually I've got a
different device for gaming anyway so I've got different devices for or slightly for different things
and do you have much experience of Android then oh yeah well I've got enough experience of Android
I've also got I mean I've got the old Samsung Galaxy S3 mini I've got a remix device
of actually based on Android so you can save I've got some experience with that as well
I think but I never really liked Android much anyway when I used it it's not so much because of
the OS itself but rather the like the side effect of how it is so popular because the second
you're going to Google Play and then it was just the very first time I use Android and I'm
going to Google Play is you put a few apps on and straight away you've got address you've got
that address balance everywhere plus also the security the way security is done with apps what
control they have apparently it's improved a lot now in more recent versions but it would let
it will let apps have control of nearly everything which I didn't like as well
when I said Android I should have been more specific signage and mod with no Google apps and just
F-Droid I have heard of that one but I think well I mean do the only way to run that one is
you know you're next as full or something like that you're going to flash yourself and pull it
on yourself I think really have the phone that I think we have a phone or tablet where I would
do that with currently so I've always sort of think oh I'm buying next as full cheap off
somewhere now surely and then if I really want to I could flash it with sitting saying in model
something else or or KD plasma mobile wherever it's called even and all that you know
there's various different phone operating systems but unless the commercial hardware is there
you have to flash it yourself you may need to have your device to do that
and so that's kind of a slight downfall there I mean it's not living it's that difficult to
flash anything we have to redo my yellow phone when I that's a good one I bought a yellow phone
about two years ago now three years ago may be even and so you've got Salafish OS 1.0 point
whether the point version was and apparently it's all very old what's shipped on the phone
so everybody nice see you told me right you need to upgrade your
you need to upgrade to Salafish OS version the one that shipped is really old don't use that
and I was like well you know I never even I've never played this before and I've had this before
I will use the ship version I will play around with that first so I basically know everybody
nice see you told me to upgrade and so I install those Android apps because it's got very nice
Android app compatibility program worked very well most of them and then one day I thought well
I've got all these Android apps on here but I need to really try to make a native apps move for
this platform so the second I did that I basically break the phone it became black it became unusable
and the reason for this is because the president cute and in the operating system was so old
that the apps were made for something later and I went to IOC and they were like oh well we told
you're quite great and I was like yeah but and then because the software is so old of the OS
there's no BTFS network either because the version is so old that was shipped but that yet has
BTFS by the snapshots it has Wayland it has it's quite interesting that as well the other phone can
really do a lot more than the a bunch of devices can as well but but the very interesting platforms
I would say and so with Firefox LS probably really well that's pretty much had it now so
well I've tried pretty much all of the Linux based operating systems for phones you know the
mobile Linux OS is and I would say that Tizen is very good or Tizen I think it might be pronounced
them which isn't really very popular in the west and Sailfish OS seems to be the best I borrowed
a yellow phone from my friend Martin and that was pretty good I would say that's probably the best
alternative to Android not including Signage and Mod of course well Signage and Mod is now dead but
that's another story that's being forked as we speak but I would say of Ubuntu Sailfish Tizen
it's it's pretty clear which is the best and and that is Sailfish because it's generally
more solid as a platform and it's got that advantage of being able to install most Android apps
I think I probably agree with that really I mean I haven't obviously haven't used Signage Mod
properly myself as we were as I was just saying but I do know about it it's basically Android with
more geeky technical changes or sort of thing if you get what I mean well the main thing is
it's got no Google stuff in there it's got it hasn't got Google Play services so you've got
no Play Store you've got none of the Google apps basically like Gmail and Maps and all that kind
of stuff yeah yeah and then there's also Remix OS which is Android based it's more customised
be like the desktop it's based on the Android X86 project as well so that's the share code
between them now I believe but that's very good you say that's a good Android alternative however
that's so much like Android anyway that hardly counts as one in that sense yeah well that was
around before the X86 before they hooked up with the X86 people they released a tablet and also
a little kind of desktop computer that was called the Remix Mini which I've got and that is
as an ISO right but it's it's basically just the Android open source project with some other
stuff stuck on top of it really including a desktop yeah I've got the two Remix Mini
they haven't really done anything with them they're like my maddened pies but I do have the Remix
Ultra tablet as well which is very nice it's just a bit big to carry around that's the only
downfall with that one the hardware because it's like Microsoft Surface Pro copy sort of thing
however wise but then your frame system is very good yeah you know I tried to install that
remix the words on my older laptop for some reason I could not get it to install properly
did it run live okay I don't know the first time I did it it seemed like it was fine
but then I installed you know two more distals on into the future and then I tried installing it again
the second time right it didn't install properly yeah I've had problems installing that and
Android x86 alongside other distros and having problems with grub picking it up and stuff like that
whereas if you give it the whole disc then it's generally it behaves itself a lot better
I don't think it's really intended to go on a standard PC as such although it could
also I was reading that Raspberry Pi Raspberry Pi Foundation has got like a
I've got pop a name but yeah like Raspbian but now for the PC um what's that called I've lost
its name uh how do they call it a pixel yeah pixel that's it yeah so there's pixel for the
computer now as well and apparently again with that one you need to give it the whole disc or
you might use the operating system or data or something I haven't tried so I wouldn't really know
I've tried it and it's it's not a case of giving it the whole disc because the official one
is only a live image at the moment you can only run it from a DVD or from a USB stick
um there are people who have found ways to install it which is not all together surprising even
that it's just based on Debian um but the the official image is just supposed to be run live
although it does have a persistent partition that you can save your configuration and files to
and uh I've tried that installing apps and um updates and all that kind of stuff and the persistence
seems to work pretty well I've found with uh a sound image in back on that topic for a second
which yeah they I heard that they were calling it something like lineage or whatever
it was going away but I have three devices that are all handing down
each is all devices and the only thing that allows them to run well is the customer
having an access device is far from a car customer
there's a bit of echo happening I suspect because uh is it reg A you are not on push to talk
so if you could try and sort that out that would be good and then we can hopefully not get the echo
there um thank you I was doing something else and didn't know this sorry about that
yeah no problem yeah um as you're saying there about soundage and mod it is absolutely ideal
for reviving old hardware I mean it's it's basically like the Linux story all over again
how Linux it is great you know desktop Linux cano session Linux it's great for reviving old
hardware particularly a lighter weight desktop like LXTE and again I find soundage and mod to be
lighter weight than full blown Android especially if it's uh from a manufacturer like with
touchwiz from Samsung the the skin that they put on it that just seems very bloated to me
and so it is an ideal way of um reviving old hardware but unfortunately
soundage and mod has died recently um officially it was supposed to die tonight but it actually
died um a few days ago in terms of the the mirrors and stuff like that but it has been forked
into linear JoS which um we're hoping I'm hoping it's going to be a success but as yet we don't
have any builds or I checked earlier today there weren't any builds for it but hopefully in the next
few days hopefully before work starts again although maybe not um we should get some builds of it
and we can try it out but apparently it's going to be um pretty much a straight fork just to kind
of find and replace fork just to get rid of the branding for now and then hopefully all the devices
that were supported will be but it's going to take a lot of resources to make that happen and
I'll certainly be donating if uh if that's an option why is it uh died just the funding the money
to keep servers running all that is that reason or oh no this uh it's quite a complex story um so
Steve Condick who is signage and that was his kind of online uh handle he started signage and
mod in the first place in the XDA forums and that grew to be the most popular custom ROM and it
was based on the Android open source project um and he added some customizations and soon got a lot
of people contributing as well and built up a team basically and then uh I think a couple of years
ago he um and a friend of his started a company signage and ink and their um goal I suppose was to
hook up with manufacturers of phones to provide signage and mod or something similar signage and OS
which wasn't fully open source but um had the google apps and stuff integrated into it
two manufacturers to put on phones uh the first one was the one plus one I think uh which is a
find that I've actually got um and one plus the manufacturer of that fell out with them
uh the company signage and over some rights issues in India I think and then things didn't really
work out for them they didn't manage to get enough manufacturers putting this OS on their
devices and they weren't able to compete with Google and mainstream Android and so
in the end the company uh it hasn't gone bust you know had they haven't filed chapter 11 as they say
in America just yet but they have seriously downsized they um laid off a good portion of their
worker their workforce uh apparently most of the people who were working on the source one signage
and mod and then um Steve Condick the founder fell out with the other guy he started it with
the whose name I've forgotten right now and was essentially forced out um and things have turned
very ugly and now signage and mod is no more and signage and the company is going to try and um
pivot as I say to a modular OS components so taking some of the bits of signage and mod and
trying to add that into stock Android to kind of have some value add for manufacturers
meanwhile uh signage and himself Steve Condick has decided to continue um with effectively
signage and mod but he he can't call it that because of um he he basically signed away his rights
to all the branding and all that kind of stuff and so that's why it's being renamed Lineage OS
and so it's pretty much an old fashioned fork really and so they're putting in place the
infrastructure right now for the build servers and it's a surprising amount of infrastructure required
to build and distribute uh and of course develop it in the first place uh a custom ROM like that
because of the fact that it's armed devices it needs to be a separate ROM for every device
and sometimes even slightly different versions of devices can have a different ROM or need a
different ROM because of different drivers and stuff it's not like an OSLinux where you you know
x86 GNU OSLinux where you'll just make a generic image that will work on almost all laptops for
example so it's it's a very tricky um thing to do and I'm really really hoping that it works out
because if soundage and mod dies and Lineage OS doesn't do well and it doesn't have the momentum
to take off then I honestly don't know what I'm going to do there are other custom ROMs available
but I really really like soundage and mod there's a reason why it's the most popular because in my
opinion it's the best I tend to run and say energy and derivatives myself because I don't use the
Google services or the cell networks or any of that well there's no need to use a derivative
of soundage mod if you want to do that if you don't want to use Google services you just flash
the ROM as is and for licensing reasons it can't have the Google stuff so there's no
proprietary stuff apart from the drivers which are well always the radio stuff is proprietary but are
you talking about flash and ROM that doesn't even have any proprietary radio stuff so you don't
you can't connect to the cell network and that's actually the goal but I was actually
referring to just smaller components like browsers and file browsers and stuff uh candy roms
just doesn't have any of that so I throw that joy down it and I get what I need
yeah that is a great way to do it if you want to avoid the party stuff I mean I must admit that I
the first thing I do is um flash the Google apps uh but I flash the minimal ones so it's just
the Google Play Store because I've come to depend on certain Google apps and as much as I'd like
to get away from that stuff I'm too pragmatic I'm afraid all right my girlfriend just walked
through the door I gotta go visit for a bit you guys enjoy I'll try to check in later see you
yeah so who's still here then I'm not it's Bob jump on still here uh won't be around much longer
though I've gotta start getting ready for a new year's party tonight yeah same I've got to uh
go fairly soon but I thought I just start had uh at 20 minutes I thought I'd jump on and see
what was happening does the party act I could be going to but I'm not sure if I'm gonna go on
that I've got a phone so probably turn plumber on and make just listen in every once in a
while and maybe broadcast live from the party you never know if that's gonna be interesting or not
anyway I think I'm gonna go away now too and then make some vegan rental balls for the crowd
that I'm hanging out with tonight cool and I'll let me hear any promises that should probably be an
HBR episode how to make vegan rental balls I like lentils you should make meatballs but
as hanging out with a crowd of mostly vegetarians and it was um a dark environment we're watching
a video and one of the vegetarians picked up one of the meat balls and said oh look chocolate
truffles get into it was rather horribly disgusted to find out that they weren't as vegetarian as
she thought they were so I acquired a bag of lentils at some point and just substituted the lentils
for the meat they taste great and now the vegetarians are happy too so I'm off and happy new year
everyone and I might pop any in a bit later on happy new year yeah I'd better be off as well
I may come back later possibly depending on how things go this evening um but if not happy new
year everyone and yeah maybe speak to you again at some point happy new year testing uh do I
sound okay I lost the power of the computer how do I laptop hibernation you sound great do I
sound okay now as well yep you sound great I'm happy to do well I was answering my question about
strange and modern and that was it he's going yes then what's what's your name um the one
you just put to me because I see that online names are different I think from we're not always but
sometimes who me yeah yeah simbacan simbacan oh that is actually your name then just a bit different
from the usual names yeah it's my tribal name oh right okay is that well it's just last night
on that's all like three of us a minute ago I don't know it looks like there's a bunch of us in here
but some people got this self-muted or deafened yeah so what this phrase is used then
well right now I'm on black lab Linux LXTE black lab uh what's what what's that based on and
what is that one if it's kind of sort of familiar but maybe not it's based on Debian Ubuntu based
on Ubuntu yep Debian Ubuntu 1604 well you say Debian Ubuntu that kind of confuses it because
because even that's different but it's based on Debian and yeah yeah I know me and
see if it's one around about this a few times but I explained that Debian and Ubuntu is still different
yeah why use the Ubuntu based or Debian basis for anyway what's what's so good about
black lab bro well the reason why I tend to choose like a Debian Ubuntu based one is because
there's usually a lot more packages out there for them well that's true and not true
depending on when we look at it actually I think most of the packages in general are going to be
available for you know in an RPM for the Dora and Arch Linux and gen 2 and it's not where and
all the rest of it but but yeah and some districts can be a bit easier to install certain packages
than I do yeah I think my brain is getting tired I forgot what HDMI is with what it means
I'm not sure actually but yes it's for the connecting devices to a TV and
I just come across something that says that HDMI tends to steal audio or steal sound from
POS audio you might do I don't know I had to play around with Hitching IK but I didn't have to
play around with you but I was playing around with Hitching IK balls and Microsoft wireless
display adapter as well back in November because I wanted to do I wanted to do a Ubuntu
convergence properly or or how you see in these videos and things like that so that's one thing
how your bluetooth keyboard connected in your mail so you maybe USB instead of IoTG but
she able to have the display showing on the projector or on the screen from your tablet or on TV
so she's doing an event as well so I thought oh I can get that working properly I just know
I'll put the netstock as well so if you had the next stock maybe maybe if you follow some of the
news yeah I think that is my sound issue if it's not that it would either be because Linux
evidently doesn't like my beats audio or something else luckily well luckily sound mostly works now
in general except for Gausset and the computers still but it's not as bad as it once was in that
sense I remember having to do Kilo Pulse audio back in the Ubuntu in 2008 better times
I did that more than once actually it was no it was in it was 8.04 yeah that was long-term
support as well they put Pulse audio in and remember to keep them doing Kilo Pulse audio
remember that I'm not sure I've got another little device for many PC kind of thing but
there I don't have working sounds and I sickle my heads in or microphone headset yeah
there the wireless went working but that's because it's but like a window is right
something like it really but you can get in it's on it but but that was a special thing anyway
but luckily the worst problem we have now, well not luckily but the only thing gen we have to deal
with now is you're fine I think otherwise didn't extend the works well enough for most hardware
today I guess for PCs cool don't maybe maybe that's uh Fisalweb I'll find that I guess
I'm trying to make up my mind if I want to go to that party or not
wrist party oh there's one about uh all approximately about a mile away from here
and uh I have no idea what they're gonna have nine ten nine times out of ten they're probably
gonna wind up having pizza or something like that uh but anyhow the buses in town they run free
from like six o'clock p.m. all the way until I guess New Year's Eve is over like some time early
in the morning yeah it's gonna get to a pub with my brother possibly but I'm not sure if that's
happening now that's any near anyway if so now hello Gordon maybe you're a Gordon I think you are
or you're another Gordon let's find out I guess Fisalweb or under Gordon yeah that's me can you
hear me okay yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you sound okay right wasn't I'm I've lost my head
my head setting my mic so I'm working on the built-in mic and head set of the of my think pad
and it's been a while so that's why I sent a bit off at the moment but yeah it's me yeah maybe he's
likely there were but generally you can be here to say that should be fine enough I think
and that other Gordon that's in the lounge that's me from my android phone I was trying to
figure out a way to do this without a headset I make and so I'll probably better
or probably shut down though yeah that's why I did last year I would for my members I
ended up using my internal mic of the laptop and then I found the headset we're going to seem
left at that with with the microphone and I wish I'm using now but when did you last to
forecast them do you still do a clearance and all that as well or not well that's been a while I've
gone out and just give me a second you're still very very quiet this is I've just installed mumble
on here so I need to set the volume up so that I can get more comfortable here sure as carry on
and I'll be I'll be a bit too few minutes hopefully yeah yeah yeah it's fine hey Gordon are you from
Norway you know this is the point that I would show off my manual language skills but no I'm not
from Norway nor I'm Scotland oh Scotland okay I thought Scotland first but I thought I'd
better say Norway because he sounds he sounds a little bit more like a Viking well he these
Canadians you get always get things wrong no I'm actually worse I'm a fucking American
and that that therein was my joke the fact that Americans Canadians tend to be very fiercely patriotic
and that was my joke oh I'm not patriotic these people that live here in the United States that are
patriotic I think they're freaking nuts well they I'm not going to cause a lot of question I
am really not you know KDE is wonderful I just thought I'd say that for years I thought KDE
was just way off but last last year I've got KDE everywhere and the only problem is a struggle to
train faint things like the volume at times like this I haven't really used KDE 5 properly yet but
that's because I've been using my bunty tablet mostly this year since getting that one and
then my laptop these are some resetting and I'm breathing that soon actually but there's
something cool Kate if you do if you didn't KDE is really good though have you heard of KDE neon
I have yes and I've been tempted with that it was just I don't know what it was that put me back on
to try and KDE again my first Linux experience was KDE 3. Whatever it was back in 2007 and then I
went and tire learnt in home side and then this year I've went all in on KDE I love KDE now
the whole plasma thing I absolutely love KDE that's been my my go to for the whole year
and it's totally thrown me it's like I never thought I'd be in this position but I love KDE either
I well I maybe plasma 5 has improved but yeah if you want to let it KDE then neon is one way to
to always have it but I think I think I'll still be on the well actually no no you know what
okay I still like loom for egg noom shell yeah that's fine that's good but I'm actually now quite
a fan of well you saw my tablet I am I'm the he's trying to desktop properly where it doesn't work
as well apparently but I actually quite like you in T8 that's where you get on your bun and your
rice as well so but on the computer you have a choice my first love was XFCE today my number one
love is LXDE and I could probably handle something like I don't know my tear enlightenment
oh yeah make me all my tear is is my sort of second favorite still because
and because it's you know it's claimed to like it's basically name two living on I really like
the name for two four years as well after that um I don't know there's no there isn't me if you
never would like XFCE enough something about it LXDE not really but this budgie I mean I haven't
tried that area there's something called budgie now from solar oh so what it's called
that's another interface there's a bun to 17.04 have a budgie there isn't officially as well
and I saw sort of screenshot on the uh oh um do a bun new website the other day for budgie as well
so I'll be trying out budgie as well soon I think as well it looks okay for basic interface
yeah for some reason I don't know what it was but when I came to the whole GTK side it was XFCE
that I was I would bounce back and forth between XFCE and open box um well crunch buying really
um I was just like I love the XFCE then it just got a bit I don't know it kind of wore off on me a
little bit um and then I've sort of got back in there there's something interesting yeah yeah budgie
is that the Ubuntu version that you're linking to there or another one well it's not a uh it's
not a new Ubuntu canon but there's so close in with Ubuntu that it might as well be yeah I should
look and you'll link really but yeah budgie is apparently a new one that is supposed to be really good
right I believe that I've got volume that I can listen to so that other uh me that sang
Android phone soon be the gone well I know uh um Ubuntu phone or you know
phone or something like that visual weapon because I thought no I'm not not gonna do that no I'm
I'm on a good mood tonight now I've been to a phone I don't know it just never quite appeared to me
I can't kind of the Android thing and hey Android works and it's I don't know I need that much
from my phone Android works for me you know that works yeah I mean it works but it's also a bit
boring in a way because it's everywhere isn't it I'm like playing that from Sweden in the summer
and you land back at Sansa Airport and and the first thing I heard basically was pretty much
every single phone giving off from that plane and most of my as oldies Android noises
giving off and that that's a bit boring in that sense technically no because technically what you've
got almost everywhere is Samsung Android um not specifically Android that I would I would
create I would correct you on that and see that the vanilla Android is quite rare because not
many people go for the Nexus device which I have I've got an Nexus 6p yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
you have a point there with it's mostly Samsung and Android's um and we had Joe on earlier who's
now disappeared and we nearly got on just tired of Tizen's discussion but I'd also brought a
directly from ENJOY eBay for quite cheap as well I bought the Tizen's had one for him just to
you know so see what Tizen was like on the phone and that and it's too much like
the voice-off radio things because that's getting quite annoying for me a second right that's fine
I forgot all about that tech the speech thing um this is a brand new install obviously I haven't
brought across my my certificate and stuff from before hence the the name is different um but yeah
but it's trying to read read the stuff out and then speech yeah I've now disabled that so it's good
so I don't know what's been discussed I've been out there looking for a long time and this is
the first time I've been online chatting to anyone that I used to chat to for a long long time at
least a year and a half maybe it's been a while why did you stop podcasting then I just had stuff
going on the last time I was I was on here at lots of free time and and then fortunately I got a job
and that job meant I was doing all sorts of shift work and all sorts of training and stuff like that
so all my time was putting it that and then again I dropped away after that where I just got
more and more exhausted and all my energy had to go and uh to walk um and then that's just that's
the first time I've been back on basically well yeah I was well fair enough you got busy with other
things um but yeah I haven't really done any of this for about a year as well I didn't really
podcast anywhere I mean I didn't listen to them so much they moved the I've listened to music
quite a comedy music actually yeah so I mean that was where Trevor's sort of fell fell down was
Kevin had some stuff that he had going on and they told me about it they told me a bit of that
confidence I'm not going to explain that uh we're here to sort of take a step back and then just
shortly after that that was um that was when I had to take a step back as well and then basically
between the two of us where we just couldn't find the right kind of time to to keep going and then
at that point we just decided but it was me to argue with just to say need look let it go um just let
it let it end there um and so that that's what happened there it was all good all good but um
it ended when it ended and I had to end yeah well like they can't go and clap at these
podcasts either really maybe this one can really lines as they're looks and so on but this is
different because it's a big community network thing anyway say I was wondering do you think I can
uninstall that package without any problems the GVF first dash back again I don't know did you talk
to somebody else about that area I don't getcha I don't know did you talk to somebody else about
that area no I haven't talked to anybody else about it but I there is uh I don't know
there's something in that program that causes my CPU to really race wish program the GVFS dash
back ends DV I'm not sure that is but the GVFS sounds familiar GVGVFS is a way that I have connected
to an NFS or and that's um the vice on Ubuntu before um I don't recognize beyond that so
possibly I'm just guessing I mean I'm I'm half cut here bearing mind I'm not that decade but
having said that my guess would be that it's trying to connect to some network storage somewhere
and that network storage isn't responding and there's some sort of loop that is getting caught
and it's causing your CPU to go here I don't know I'm just guessing uh I think you're pretty damn
close to being right on do you see what I just put in the box the GVFS dash SMB browse well that's
what's inside of GVFS dash back ends and that is what's causing my CPU to really race a lot and it's
not only me that's had the problem several people all over the internet's have the same problem
plus it's also contacting an ip address for what I have no idea yeah well hey that was just
I guess as I say I've used the GVFS thing before I've never heard of the back ends thing but my entire
use for it was to connect to my NAS so which is um out of the box sort of box standard NAS SMB
NFS whatever so that's what I thought I guess well from what a long term acquaintance said to me
that the only way you can get rid of the GVFS dash SMB dash browse is to uninstall the GVFS dash
back ends I love it there as a result I guess that's in the Linux world um this this is what I forgot
all about I've I've so forgot about that sort of idea let answer to everything in the Linux world
as arch what what no it's not it's uh gintoo or slackware and oh and uh it's official that um
a banner is now way better than arch yeah official I don't the risk of start naming arguments
I really don't want to be arguing at all with anyone I'm I'm in a good mood I want everyone
being a good mood especially in New Year however having said that what was what what did what
did Ubuntu do to the network thing that caused that to fail so so badly and in 1604 and has that
been has that been fixed because it was working for so long and then 1604 just suddenly the the
network thing to stop working you had to restart it to what what was that all about which network thing
where you resumed from suspend uh on 1604 and then it just didn't have the um it couldn't get
on on your Wi-Fi again you had to for me you had to restart uh restart the machine and the
world workarounds where you could put a script in and then they would restart the the network stack
and whatever but other than that you restart the entire computer after after every so often
suspend um and resume and and because you couldn't get the network back you couldn't get the Wi-Fi
back and that seems that seems to be a fundamental thing that that should never have been broken
it's a bizarre that that was broken not only that but it was bizarre that was broken on a long
term support version of Ubuntu which is even more mind-blowing what was all about?
I'm not sure about that one but there was the big um that was an AMD catalyst driver's issue or
something and if you had 16.04 you would upgrade and then you wouldn't have your graphics card
driver and that was a big problem for certain people there was a guy I know who went back to 15.10
and for that very reason and carried on running it for a while after it went end of life as well
um but yeah sometimes things happen with the LTS as well we were talking about
briefly earlier about pulse audio in 8.0 full as well and the kilo pulse audio that was LTS
as well when it put pulse audio into non-times port for the first time
yeah there's a dude man in the mumble comments is talking about ZFS or ZFS whatever part of the
well I'll say that landing you're on um I actually tried um PCBSD for the first time this year
and installed it and I just couldn't get it there was a few things I couldn't get it worked on it
and I think I just didn't have the time didn't have the patience to sort of push with it but yeah
that was the primary reason for me trying BSD and PCBSD was two things one is I love text
nap and Alan is up huge advocate of ZFS and then ZFS itself thought you know what I've got to
try this thing and I did and I just didn't have the patience to try to figure out the few things
that I want I just wanted to be easy I'm not one of these people that likes messing with the
things that I just I just want to make it easy so I can have a wipe that I didn't get enough time
went back to uh open source I think um that in the moment I'm one man on the thing power that's
meant um whatever as the latest meant KDE I don't know what I was 17 18 points something
yes that said they're fast they put that into 16.04 for I believe as well as an option and then
the whole debate was how it shouldn't have been in in there in the first place for legal reasons
does my audio works at all anyone hear me I can hear you very low but I can hear you
oh I'm trying to increase that yeah I was going to say I just a bit headbutted the screen
of my monitor when I saw your lips lighting up but I could barely hear you and my instinct was to
sort of throw my head close at the screen and I almost headbutted them on or maybe that's the
booze I don't know I blame that you're volume any better any better a little bit yeah
give us a minute I'll find another way to increase the volume I've got a really crappy microphone
yeah you and me both I was going to say speaking of volume that's not really a
a link for anything I'm going to be right back I'll need to get some more some more clear
liquid but we'll call it water from a bottle shall we mix with mix with water I'll call it water
and and and like orange juice I'll be back in a minute yeah I'll be back in a minute or so as well
okay yeah yeah so well yeah I'll be back in a minute I'll see somebody else join the channel so
anyhow that's that's something that you guys might be entrusting in how's that now any better
little better good morning good morning good afternoon there's 50 51 50 been around recently
well I have returned oh another way update since I've not seen people for a long time I can see
who's in here and the mumble room I'm I've not joined at IRC so I don't know who's in there who
remembers me but essentially another way update for me is the fact that I am now I've decided to learn
six different languages I started doing that a month ago which is if anyone wants to do that
little an app on Android called dual-lingo which is phenomenal it's so good it's a free app free
account and and I I got I installed it for Spanish to learn Spanish and I thought this is so
good I'll just tag on French because I've got my high school memories of French albeit like three
decades ago and I thought you know why not just for the fun of it I'll tag on German and I'll tell
you in as well and then three or four days in I thought you know what I should probably be adding
Portuguese and Dutch on as well so yeah that's a month of learning like six languages and this is
a phenomenally good program so if you're interested in learning the foreign language check it out
dual-lingo it is brilliant good them can you hear me okay yes I can yes a bit more full but yes
I can hear you okay I only wanted to reply I I tried the free bsd a few years ago as well
inspired similarly to you I think because I went ZFS and I spent a lot of time converting over to
and I I lasted our six months really learned how to use ZFS and in the end I had to switch back
to arch Linux because so many applications weren't available but recently I've even ditched
to ZFS for most of my stuff and gone with so much simpler and maybe your intuition about the
complication of it and everything but just for a small for a small home server or NAS there's
really much better solutions I think and I've as I put in the comments I've recently started using
snap rate and merger FS which is a much more useful I believe than the ZFS having to you know have
big sets of duplicate data and and disks and more have you it's much better if anyone's interested
in how that works or looking to I'd really recommend it yeah for me I tried it was PCBSD and I thought
my my introduction would be on on the slide part actually and then I'll figure it's as a desktop
or as an alternate with a workstation basically and PCBSD was just different enough that I could not
wrap my head around about it it was just it was about four five months ago I don't remember
where my issues were but I didn't get enough time I probably could have much of your
budget but but I didn't get enough time and eventually I got so frustrated that I thought
you know I'll I'll just go back to Linux in the meantime I was in the same boat I really was
and it was free it was PCBSD I tried and inspired by by the guy from snap the podcast you know
and it sounded lovely but it was too oversold I thought and it didn't come close to to what I
was used to in Linux I think it's about what you're used to my my world went from up until 2006
maybe I was used to Windows and it took me a time to adapt to Linux and then since sort of 2007
it my world has been Linux so coming from that I prepared to sort of adapt again to something that's
sort of close to Linux and there's a lot of overlaps and I think it was possibly it was just I was
not in the right kind of headspace to embrace it I tried it I probably didn't get enough time
fight I'm pretty sure I didn't get enough time and I probably could have the first of year
and and the BSD would have been an absolute fight and but I think it was maybe it's just the fact
that my perception as BSD isn't really a desktop operating system it's more for sort of heavy
heavy duty stuff like CPU intensive stuff rather than desktop stuff and the only thing I really
deal with is desktop stuff so maybe it's just not maybe it just wasn't like fit for me and it's
perfectly good it's just not quite the right fit for me yeah definitely I mean I'm not going to
criticize BSD but or PC BSD but it's just for my experience it's not a desktop ready it's too far
behind Linux unfortunately and the the application support and the the updatedness is just not there
you know but and I'm just going to look at this this language thing you suggested because
I've been learning another language as well check language and I was using blur blur I don't
know if you've heard of that but how does this one you just commented how does it work what's so
special about it right so I I've been on and off I have wanted to learn Spanish I have for a long
time I have every 12 I've had the arch of I'm going to do something I'm really inspired and then
I try to do a few weeks of time I've got some different method and then it gets a bit hard
going to get that up but it gets a bit and it just doesn't quite work but I've always been
joining Spanish I don't know why I have no connection with Spain or South America I just for some
reason I've all been joining Spanish and I was looking as an xsxp icon and I was looking for you know
what if there's an app that works me when Spanish and I'll be that works for me I'm up for that so
I went into the play store looking for something to teach me Spanish I found dual lingo and dual
lingo is an app that has lots of different languages you've gone but I don't mind that you want
there's a lot of them and Spanish is one of them initially what is basically comes into kind of a
thermal game where you've got the basics and then panels and then animals and household and places
and things like that where it's categorized different things and sometimes it gives you in case
of a Spanish it gives you the a very short Spanish phrase Spanish sentence and then you need to
type in the English equivalent to that or it will give you the English phrase and you type in
the Spanish equivalent to that or you it's like the cavity that makes that kind of thing it's very simple
yeah sorry I'm just noticing the comments there the trouble sorry I'm trying to improve there
oh yeah and you've got things like it gives you the the sentence or the photograph and identify
the boy or the ice cream or the door or something like that it's it's the animal questions
little bags of tape questions and you can click on the the one that the sentence at the top
and to see part of the sentence he has a cat I don't know if he or she or they or me
and you can click on it click on that and see what we've got a cat that's fine and you can
pay that and then you can actually you guys they're pulled up and you've got daily targets and daily
indulge of you've got to do excellent day and that gives you the experience points and I'm now
on my 30th day straight over six languages I'm on level 10 of old languages and so I only started
this on month ago and it is amazing you create a free account on www.google.com and say that and
that saves your progress basically and you can join up with friends and have them get like like
a classroom environment where you can push your achievements to other people to show how well
you're doing and you can have like friends and I've done the thing and for me I bounce between
six different languages and over 2,200 experience points and all six for 4,400 on
and it works out things like you're weaker it keeps track of things like the things that you
quite often get wrong the weakest ones and then you create some plans around your weakest ones
and keep quickly pushing you on that to where you're doing that and it is honestly it's 31 days
probably 32 now actually of the trouble with but it's amazing how I've spent that is basically that
been pretty much all of my nights at 6 p.m. but I think for the last month it's been into
dual angle just keep and burn it again and again and again and out of that time
just switching back and forth between the languages and hitting the target and I'm way beyond the
daily target limit and I'm just keep going and going and going and it's half an hour later I'm
sort of checking it again and going for another couple of lessons and it's amazing it's absolutely
amazing how off dual angle I see it and off dual angle
Gordon there's a different for you and unfortunately during though it doesn't support the language
that I want to learn which is the check language which I have brother using blah blah I put a link
in the thing an interesting difference it is gamifier a little bit but it basically presents
you with different text via the web like the it finds texts in the language you're trying to
learn whether it's sports news and so that there's different categories and then it presents you
with the text starting off a very basic stuff and then it shows you the words that you haven't
learned yet in red if you hover your mouse over it gives you an immediate translation of the word
and once you've thought that you know the word before you haven't checked the translation
then you pick it and the the red or the color disappears and as you start to learn more words
it throws more words at you give you a word count at the top but the thing that was interesting
for me is it supports languages that a lot of these other places don't support but also that it
kind of gets you reading things immediately which are interesting to you and you can
search for your own subjects or you can upload texts like your own books or your own articles
and it will do the same thing where it will based on the words you have said you already know
it will clear all the red marks from those and any words you don't know it has some highlighted
in red and if you hover over it or click on it it tells you it gives you an immediate translation
and then you start just through repetition knowing what all these words mean and I found that
really useful I don't know what you think about that yeah that immediate translation thing that's
similar to Geolingo in terms of it's like something reads the book and it's like is that
he is a sheet that they want to click on it so we are right in case we read the book right and
you can get in most of the sentence you're only sort of clarifying one part of it Geolingo was
like that but yeah I mean what I've got to the point in one month I have over six different
languages I've got where I can recognize basic and small sentences from six different languages
and the hardest thing I've found is the order of the words because you're not just translating the
words it's like the Geol's black cap isn't any question it's the Geol's black cap but in
quite fine for example on our flinter whatever it's the the cat black girl so you've got to translate
the words and then flip the words around to get to the right point so it makes sense which is
that's that's the point here and it just blows me all out it's like that's a fade in Dutch
and because I've got to flip it around all sorts of different ways and it's just it's like not
that's where the brain starts to get up here and it's fried okay so who's in anyway I have to say
team of people let me take a break here happy new year for Moscow Russia and Karate back then
around in cartoon happy new year happy new year everyone happy new year happy new year happy new year
year folks from here figured I'd check in and see how you guys are doing oh probably
long time no speak yeah I've been kind of running in different circles lately so I figured I'd
come back and celebrate new years with you guys and I owe Ken like 12 shows join the crowd well
in three Peggy hey hey hey oh you recognize the name over here uh mr. Gordon I see you I see this
up I see you I'm good man how you been I'm good life I've been trying to spend a year dead for my
and now it's a lot of times like anyone you're breaking out something terrible there yeah the
server seems to be using salt more than opus and I don't know if that's part of the problem or not
or part of the problem could be the fact that I have had a hunt alone from my old head for
my mate but I cannot I cannot find them so I am stuck on the belt and mate from my thing but that's
something I can do in my sense and then I'm happy to be clear on something network to me that's
why I'm concerned yeah it seems like everybody else is showing up mostly on choppy
but it shows that something I can do to mitigate that's from my side you're using the built-in
microphone and you think pad I could always try using headphones backwards if I can find headphones
I'll be using them forwards you could also try down sampling your own output bandwidth maybe it's
trying to push too much for your pipe you're in the middle of half a cup so I'm up you can be
something I can understand so am I looking at the settings and and mumble then audio settings
and mumble and choosing a different setting and you could try I mean what's the worst that could
happen well yeah that's not good yeah but then the world could start in a minute I can't do this
unlikely but you never know you mean you've got to take any account every time you talk to somebody
try going into settings and are you on plumble or mumble or what
must not get the answer love you I'm on port okay I'm on mumble and this is the same but
in plumble I normally disable the was cut um podic that seems to help for me I don't know
the Giro you might see if there is a disabled opus podic and try that
you know Gordon as a wise man once said tree beard something something something
in twives and his wife is working
in your mumble settings the first thing is audio input uh what does your audio per packet I think
it's uh one of the sliders halfway down what values that should it say it's a big tech new
years who likes variable valve timing I didn't catch any of that
VTEC is in variable valve timing it's variable can there's a difference
right and it's only one or two settings I think if you want variable valve timing you're going
to have to go to uh I think porcelain has those patterns or maybe I'm wrong here now my dodge has
involved things you talk as part as a dresser talk dodge uh do the cans control the valves is that how
that works I think they slide the I think they slide the erotate the cam within the uh year I'm
not sure exactly how they do it online the VTEC will drop at a certain rpm range it'll switch
cans from a more aggressive to a less aggressive one tank I need you to do me a huge favor and
talk me out of buying a TLR why would you want one why wouldn't I because it's a TLR it's a
twin lens reflex it's a old-school camera you'd be better better off looking in Craigslist for
old dummy informat SLR man well what I originally wanted to do was uh like try to find
in affordable and air quotes there large format camera and do 10 types this is thing is a
affordable large format man yeah that's why I said air quotes you could always do a sat
on like Amazon or you may have started for air quotes and see what comes up I think you would
just get a bunch of plane tickets Gordon well there's there's always that if a TLR we'd be here
quotes and one thing where the trump trump is a trump trump the near as you've shown tons of
puns of different people speaking different dialects to the same language probably through
English yeah Peggy I just recently saw a Bronica for sale I think it was a Bronica for sale medium
format for I think they were two hundred bucks for it just the body room did it come with a lens
because uh Tim uh didn't get got a pricey I think I had a 75 millimeter that whatever the normal
lens would be nice I was I was looking on keh.com and some of the medium format lenses
I can't justify spending two thousand dollars on something like that yeah I thought it was bad
in the 35 millimeter world and I'll let the sum of that shit and I was like um yeah no
if you really want to have a heart attack price a a digital hassle blood they're like 56 thousand
dollars yeah I've got a I've got a bnh catalog sit on my desk I keep one of the bathroom
have you ever been to uh the bnh store in New York City? No but I want to so bad it's freaking cool
I'm getting an 8 trouble not one thing to be honest the bnh catalog is actually a smoker
I've been here for a year now the bnh is the best in hedges where you get lost eggs and
and it's either small so that all that damage during your life is to spend on hundreds of
different points will get you a sweet shot and there's bnh the different thing
you're completely unintelligible there all right sorry I'll try to send it and it won't just the accent
wow that's a little blue I could have said it to you Americans as well
don't speak English
bollocks
right testicles testicles one two who does that say
sometimes consistently shitty and other times you're consistently shitty and like you said
unintelligible so gotta work on that yeah waiting I was gonna say after hearing that you're on
your thinkpad internal mic it really sounds like the mic is choking it's not network
that's a possibility yeah I know the internal mic is it's pretty horrendous yeah anyway that was
why I was trying to find the mic before I even came on here I will have a little work just
giving it I'm been in mind I'm half cut so I will disappear for a few minutes and I will try
to find the headset and make it and hopefully with a bit of work I'll be back with something
decent um yeah decent so I wonder if it's the
no I think it's like it's like the audio codec or something like that is choking a cpu
that's what it sounds like to me or the sampling yeah actually sounds sound not too bad
that last time we could spoof yeah might want to check the gain on the on the internal mic if
it's tweaked too high that sometimes it caused some wacky covering yeah there's some clipping
it's hard to tell it sounds like it's are you running litig your windows
give question there's a start button here I don't know what they make of that who said a dirty word
kick them kick them all I've got all the dirty words you need Samba who's that
I'm not like a cut of a jib right so I've managed to figure it out where to knock the microphone back
a little bit outside it's cleaner it's a little bit of a warble but I'm not hearing the the
chippy like high pitched wine in it anymore so that's good right so I've nudged it back a little bit
this is KDE is wonderful absolutely wonderful but however the downside of that is there's controls
for absolutely everything you could possibly imagine you have to go try and find it so I've
never found the way to knock the microphone back a little bit and that is that is that good
I'm a good guy well kind of more intelligible keep it short it seems like it gets worse as you go on
it might be like a buffer thing what is that popping that popping would suggest that it is like a
game thing and then like he's getting a wind air oh I certainly full of wind we can agree upon that
you know that's told me he was passed oh yeah he's still looking out
yeah for a while I thought it was something more on my computer that's why we started
oh no that's hot come on it'll show you around on Windows
those audio issues it sounds like it's running classic macOS
well if you're a you're restarting the fix issues it sounds like a Windows thing
or the drivers really suck and you have to use the BIOS to reenactualize your hardware
that's possibility okay you can stop talking dirty to me now
you if I picture it didn't happen Simba picture it didn't happen
you know when I hear Simba my my eyes suddenly dropped to the S and like what
all right okay that's also okay got you so I'll get used to it believe I'll get used to it
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy
it really is hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon
computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on
today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up
episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
