Episode: 2408
Title: HPR2408: My Current Favourite Podcasts
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2408/hpr2408.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:25:03

---

This is HBR episode 2488 titled, My Current Favourite Podcasts and is part of the series podcast
recommendations.
It is hosted by Shane Shenan and is about 4 minutes long and Karina Cleanflag.
The summary is six of my favourite podcasts and October 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi there Hacker Public Radio Audience.
This is Shane Shenan and I live not too far from Niagara Falls, Ontario.
I listen to a lot of podcasts.
I subscribe to several dozen.
But right now here in October of 2017, these are six of my favourites.
I'm going to tell you the title of the podcast and its category and in a sentence of two
or three I'm going to tell you what the podcast is about.
So here we go.
Three guys, three questions.
I definitely categorize this as humorous.
Three guys take turns asking a question and each answer the question in turn to end up
with three silly questions and nine ridiculous answers.
Okay, this next one is Strange and you'll be able to tell that it's strange because of
the two categories that I'm giving it.
It's in the category of Christianity but also in the category of sci-fi.
Can you guess what it is?
It's called a Klingon word from the word and the host reads a Bible verse in Klingon.
Then in English.
I listen to this one when I need a bit of spiritual encouragement but when I don't feel like
going to the traditional Christian resources when I want something a bit stranger.
So it's definitely strange but also inspiring.
Cool tools is a good technology podcast.
The two host's always have on a guest from some tech field or from the maker community.
And the guest tells them about three or four or five of their favorite tools and these
tools could be anything from a hand tool like a pocket knife or a screwdriver.
But it could be something like a website or a book that they use and enjoy.
Could be anything.
If you're on the lookout for new tools that could help your work, check out cool tools.
Next is a history podcast of sorts called futility closet.
The two hosts talk about little known stories in the past.
So if you have a pretty good understanding of large chunks of history, listen to this
podcast and you'll definitely hear about things that you haven't heard about before.
Next we have a tabletop gaming podcast called Ken and Robin talk about stuff.
Two RPG designers, two role playing game designers, talk to each other about the gaming industry.
And they also talk about how they could use current events to set the scene for their
games.
So if you want ideas for running your next tabletop session, definitely listen to Ken and
Robin talk about stuff.
And here's the last one in the category of humor.
It's called the Good Stuff Morning Show from the Good Stuff Network.
It's called the Good Stuff Morning Show, but it's not every morning.
It's only about once a week and sometimes even recorded nights.
But it's two brothers and just a ridiculous show.
If you're stuck in a bad mood, listen to the Good Stuff Morning Show and it'll pop you
right up a bit.
So there we go.
Everything from humor to Christianity and technology, history, gaming and more humor.
So thanks a lot for taking time to listen and keep on keeping on.
Remember a show if you can?
And I'll talk to you all later.
Goodbye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
