Episode: 2343
Title: HPR2343: Healthcare in the Netherlands
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2343/hpr2343.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:30:39

---

This is HPR episode 2,343 entitled Health Care in the Netherlands.
It is posted by Ken Fallon and in about 18 minutes long, and Karim and exquisite flag.
The summary is,
Ken reads the Wikipedia article on Health Care in the Netherlands.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, this is Ken Fallon and you are listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show is entitled Health Care in the Netherlands and is a narration of the Wikipedia article
on the same topic. It is a response to who goes show HPR2325 insurance how it works.
Health Care in the Netherlands from Wikipedia, the free insider video.
Just a note, this is as of the end of July 2017.
Health Care in the Netherlands can be divided in several ways.
Three echelons in somatic and health care and in cure short term and care long term.
Home doctors, House Arte, comparable to general practitioners,
form the largest part of the first echelon.
Being referenced by a member of the first echelon is mandatory for access to the second and third echelon.
The health care system is quite effective in comparison to other restoring countries,
but it is not the most cost effective.
Costs are said to be high because of overuse of inpatient care, in institutionalized
psychiatric care and elderly care.
Primary care, a network of 160 primary care centers has been established with open surgeries 24
hours a day, seven days a week. Hospitals. Hospitals in the Netherlands are mostly private
run only for profit as are the insurance companies. Most insurance packages allow patients to choose
where they want to be treated. To help patients to choose, the government gathers
zorksicht and discloses keysbader, informasi, information about provider performance.
Pay physicians dissatisfied with their insurers can choose another one at least once a year.
International comparisons. In 2015, the Netherlands maintains its number one position at the top of
the annual euro health consumer index, which compares health systems in Europe, scoring 116
of a maximum 1000 points. The Netherlands has been in the top three in every report they published
since 2005. On 48 indicators such as perishing rights, information, accessibility,
prevention, and outcome, the Netherlands secured a top position among the 37 European countries
for the fifth year in a row. The Netherlands was also ranked first in the study comparing health
care systems in the United States, Australia, Canada, Germany, and New Zealand.
Ever since a major health reform care system in 2006, the Dutch system received more points
in the index each year. According to the health consumer powerhouse, the Netherlands has a
quote, a chaos system, unquote, meaning patients have a great degree of freedom from where they buy
their health insurance, to where they get their health health care services. But the difference
between the Netherlands and other countries is that that chaos is managed. Health care decisions
are being made in dialogue with the patients and health care professionals. A comparison of
customer experiences over time yielded mixed results in 2009 and a 2010 review indicated it was
too early to tell whether the reforms had led to gains in efficiency and quality. However, in
November 2007, a leading peer review journal of health policy taught and research published
into the results of a survey of adult health care experiences in the Netherlands, Germany,
and five English-speaking countries. The survey towards higher performance health systems
revealed that the Dutch public stood out from for its positive views. Of the Dutch adults surveyed,
59% said that they were very confident of receiving high quality and safe health care compared to 35%
of American adults surveyed. Based on public statistics, patient polls and independent research
the Netherlands arguably has the best care system of 32 European countries. In 2009,
Health Consumer Powerhouse researcher Dr. Arna Björch-Berchen commented,
as the Netherlands is expanding its lead among the best performing countries, the Euro Health
Consumer Index indicates that the Dutch might have found a successful approach. It combines competition
for funding and provision within a regulated framework. There are information tools to support
active choice among customers. The Netherlands has started work on patient empowerment early
and which now clearly pays off in many areas. And politicians and bureaucrats are comparatively
far removed from operative decisions on delivery of the Dutch health care service. Waiting times.
Waiting lists in the Netherlands increased since the 1980s due to global budgets imposed in
the hospital sectors, although waits remained low compared to other countries. Several changes
contributed to waiting times reduction. One was the replacement in 2001 of fixed hospital budgets
with the introduction of probably capped activity-based payment for hospitals, as well as removal of
government limit on the number of hospital specialists eligible for payment by link
social health insurance funds covering two-thirds of the population, which had lentened weights.
These two measures had limited hospital care supply. Means waits for all inpatient cases fell
from 8.6 weeks to 5.5 weeks in 2003 and from 6.4 weeks to 5.1 weeks for outpatient cases.
In 2005, as part of health care reforms, per case payment systems for hospital care was introduced.
Over time, the percentage of cases where hospitals and insurers would negotiate the volume and price
of each type of case increased. Health insurers also monitored waiting times, which hospitals
must publish and assisted patients with finding the shortest weights sometimes abroad. Specialists
fixed lump sum payments were replaced with a payment per patient case, which increased their
activity greatly. Means waits for most surgery, or five weeks or less, by 2001 and references
such as the Cessali-Bowitz and Morgan 2003 PP-104-187-189-195. In 2010, 70% of Dutch respondents to
the Commonwealth Fund 2010 Health Policy Survey in 11 countries said they waited less than four weeks
to see a specialist. A moderate 16% said they waited two months or more, and a moderate 59% said
they waited less than one month for elective surgery. Only 5% waited four months or more,
similar to American respondents. Finance health insurance in the Netherlands is mandatory.
Health care in the Netherlands is covered by two statutory forms of insurance. Zorg-Versegring-Wetz
Z-W-W-W often called basic insurance covers most medical care. Wetz-Langdeerende-Zorg-W-L-Z covers
long-term nursing and care, formerly known as the Alcheméne-Wetz-Bezorche-Seq-Bezorche-Seq-Te-Kosta-A-V-A-B-Z-A-W-B-Z.
While Dutch residents are automatically insured by the government for WL-Z, everyone has to take
out their own basic health care insurance basis for Z-W-L-Z-L-Z. Except those under 18 who are
automatically covered under their parents premium. If you don't take out insurance, you risk a fine.
Insurers have to offer you a universal package for everyone over the age of 18,
regardless of age or state of health. It is illegal to refuse an application or impose special
conditions. In contrast to many European systems, the Dutch government is responsible for accessibility
and quality of their health system in the Netherlands, but it is not in charge of its management.
Healthcare in the Netherlands is financed by a dual system that came into effect in January 2016,
excuse me, 2006, January 2006. Long-term treatments, especially those that involve
semi-dependent hospitalisation and also disability costs such as wheelchairs are covered by a state
controlled mandatory insurance laid down by the WEDT long-during the Zorg, general law and long-term
healthcare, which first came into effect in 1968 under the name Alcheméne WEDT bezorgde zicht
de koste, Awe bezet, AWBZ. In 2009, this insurance covered 27% of all healthcare expenses. For a regular
short-term medical treatment, there is a system of obligatory health insurance with private
health insurance companies. These insurance companies are obliged to provide a package with a
defined set of treatment. These insurance covers 40% of all healthcare expenses. The other sources
of healthcare payments are taxes 14% out of pocket payments 9% additional optional health insurance
packages 4% and a range of other sources 4%. Affordability is guaranteed through a system of
income-related allowances and individual and employer-paid income-related premiums. A key feature of
the Dutch system is that premiums may not be related to health status or age. Risk variants
between private health insurance companies due to difference risks presented by individual
policy holders are compensated through equal to risk equalization and a common risk pool.
Funding for all short-term healthcare is 50% from employers 45% from insured persons and 5%
by the insurer by the government. Children under 18 are covered for free. Those and low incomes
receive compensation to help them pay their insurance. Premiums paid by the insured are 100
euros per month about 127 US dollars in August of 2010 or of 2012 150 euros or 196 US dollars
with variations of about 5% between the various competing insurers and deduction per year of
385 euros approximately 401 US dollars in 2016 2017 history from 1941 to 2006 there were
separate public and private systems for short-term healthcare. The public insurance was implemented
by non-profit help funds and finance through premiums taken out of the wages together with income
tech. Everyone earning less than a certain threshold qualified for public insurance. However,
anyone with income over that threshold was obliged to have private insurance instead. A new health
care system based on risk equalization through an equalization pool was introduced in 2006.
A compulsory insurance package is available to all citizens at an affordable cost without the
need for the insured to be assessed for risk by the insurance company. Indeed health insurers are
now willing to take high-risk individuals because they receive compensation for the higher risk.
In 2008, a 2008 article in the journal Health Affairs suggested that the Dutch Health System
which combines mandatory universal coverage with competing private health plans would serve
as a model for the US. However, an assessment of the 2006 Duluth Dutch Health Insurance reforms
published in Duke University's Journal of Health Politics Policy and Law in 2008 raised concerns.
The analysis found that the market-based competition in healthcare may not have the advantages over
the publicly-based single-player models that were originally in visit in the reforms.
The first quote, the first lesson for the United States is that the new post 2006 Dutch Health
Insurance model may not control costs. Today's customer premiums are increasing and insurance
companies report large losses on basic policies. Second, regulated competition is unlikely to make
voter assistance happy. Public satisfaction is not high and perceived quality is down. Third,
consumers may not behave as economic models predict remaining responsive to provides incentives.
If regulation competition with individually mandated performs poorly in
auspicious circumstances such as the Netherlands, how will this model fair in the United States
where access, quality and cost challenges are even greater? Might the assumption of economic
theory not apply in the health sector? Insurance. The Netherlands has a dual level system,
all primary and curative care i.e. from the doctor service in hospitals clinics is financed
from private mandatory insurance. Long-term care for the elderly, the dying, the long-term
medically ill, etc. is covered by social insurance funded from earmarked taxation under the
provisions of the Alchemyne-Weth Bezor, the Torsik de Costa, which comes into effect in 1968.
Private insurance companies must offer core universal insurance pact for the universal
primary curative care, which includes the cost of all prescription medicines. They must do this
at a fixed price for all. The same premium is paid whether young or old, healthier sick. It is
illegal in the Netherlands for insurers to refuse an application for health insurance or to impose
conditions. For example, exclusions deductibles, co-payments are refused to fund doctor-ordered
treatment. The system is 50% financed from payroll taxes paid by employers to the fund controlled
by the health regulator. The government contributes an additional 5% to the fund. The remaining
45% is collected as premiums paid by the insured directly to the insurance company.
Some employers negotiate bulk deals with health insurers and some even pay employees premiums
as an employee benefit. All insurance companies receive additional funding from the regulators
fund. The regulator has a site of the claims made by policyholders and therefore can reduce to
beat the funds it holds on the basis of relative claims made by the policyholders. Thus,
insurances with high payouts receive more from regulators than those with low payouts.
Thus, insurance companies have no incentive to deter high cost individuals from taking insurance
and are compensated if they have to pay out more than the threshold. This threshold is set above
the expected cost. Insurance companies with each other on price for the 45%, insurance companies
compete with each other on price for the 45% direct premium part of the funding and should try
to negotiate deals with hospitals to keep costs low and quality high. The competition regulator
is charged with checking for abuse of dominant market position and the creation of cartels that
act against the consumer interest. An insurance regulator ensures that all basic policies
have identical coverage rules so that no one is medically disadvantaged by his or her
choice of insurer. Insurance companies can offer additional services at extra cost over and
above the use universal system laid down by the regulator, for example for dental care.
Their monthly premium for health care paid by individuals is about 100 euros per month.
People on low incomes can get assistance from the government if they cannot afford these payments.
Children under 18 are ensured by the system at no additional cost to them or their families
because the insurance companies receive the costs from the regulator fund.
Upting out specific minority groups in society most notionably are branches of the
Orchardox Calvinism and Ibrahim Jelikel Christian groups refuse to have insurance for religious
reasons. To take care of religious principles, objections, the Dutch system provides special
opt-out clause. The amount of money the health care for health care that will be paid by the
employer in payroll taxes is in these cases not used for redistribution by the government but instead
after request to the tax authorities credited to a private health care savings account.
The individual control from this account by paying medical bills however if the amount is
depleted one has to find the money elsewhere. If the person dies and the account still contains a
the sum, the sum is included in and heard. If a person with private health savings account
changes his or her mind and wants to get insurance, the tax authorities releases the remaining
sum in the health account to the common risk pool. The set of rules around the opt-out clauses
have been designed in such a way that people who do not want to be insured can opt out but
not engage in a free ride on the system. However, ultimately health care providers are obliged to
provide acute health care irrespective of insurance or financial status. They end.
You've been listening to Hecopublic Radio at HecopublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. HecopublicRadio was founded by
the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
