Episode: 2715
Title: HPR2715: About ONAP
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2715/hpr2715.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 08:02:46

---

This is HPR Episode 2,715 entitled, about on-up, and in part on the series, networking.
It is hosted by J.W. U.P. and is about 10 minutes long, and Karima next visit flag.
The summary is the Linux Foundation on-up project all about it.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Good day.
My name is J.W. U.P.
and I had the opportunity to attend the ONS Europe Open Source Networking Summit in Amsterdam via Ken Fallon,
talking to the Linux Foundation, and so I got to have press credentials, and I got to go into this event,
and it's normally a 1200-Euro event that can't arrange for me to go for free.
As a result, I got some ideas, and I talked to a lot of people, most of whom did not want to be recorded,
but I allowed me to write in my notebook what they had to say, and I got a lot of business cards,
and some of them may want to come and do a podcast.
For instance, Jerome did the OpenMainframe podcast, I met him at the UK and Sheffield at the Altcamp,
and told him to do it, so maybe some of those guys will come.
So the first thing I did was I went to the keynotes, and they were really, really interesting,
and all of the press guys were there, and I found out that most of the press guys were a lot like me and Ken.
So there wasn't any one person who was a correspondent for the Linux Journal there,
but the rest of those guys were freelancers that took pictures and wrote freelance articles,
and sometimes wrote a book for O'Reilly, I sat in the press room a lot and talked to them,
and overall it was a very nice event, and so the first thing that I wanted to talk to you all about
that I saw is a thing called ONAP, and I want you to know that this thing was mostly for people
that do telco and stuff on the edge, and it was very business-y, and so the first thing that I wanted
to talk about is what is ONAP, and what does it mean for you, and so the first thing is,
is what is ONAP, and it stands for the Open Network Automation Platform, ONAP,
is an initiative by a combination of the EEOCMP.
Okay, so this EEO or ECOMP stands for Enhanced Control, Orchestration and Management Policy,
and OpenO, which is Open Orchestration Projects, into the ONAP, to bring the capabilities for
designing, creating, orchestrating, and handling the full lifecycle management of virtual network
functions and software-defined networks and services that all of these things entail.
So, in essence, ONAP is the platform above the infrastructure layer that automates a network,
so ONAP allows the end users to connect products and services through the infrastructure and allows
deployments of VNFs and scaling the network in a fully automated manner. The higher level
architecture of ONAP contains different software subsystems that are part of the design time
environment, as well as execution time environment, to execute the design platforms.
The project is under the governance of the Linux Foundation, and founded by AT&T China Mobile,
and both AT&T and China Mobile did several presentations at this fifth.
This is brought together by many other key players in the industry like Vodafone,
who did a presentation, Orange, who also did a presentation. Bill Canada, who was not there,
Ericsson, who was there, Reliance, JIO wasn't there, Nokia was there, had a booth there,
and these key players are now defining the next generation of network orchestration.
And so, now we'll cover what is the fuss about ONAP?
So, again, what's all the fuss about ONAP? As ONAP enables VNFs and other network functions and
services to be interoperable in automated policy driven real-time environment, this provides everyone
as ONAP is fully open sourced, the code is free for everyone to consume, and it allows the ability
to fully create design and play automated network services, and the ramification of this
are huge. As Chris, Rice, Senior, VP, Domain, 2-0 architecture puts it, we're certainly going
to get help from the rest of the ecosystem and vendors, but this is something that's really
going to have an effect on the way we build networks going forward. And this is a fundamental
shift in the way we build networks, and we're building them in a software-defined way only,
which really sucks if you're a hardware vendor.
And it's ONAP is planned to bring DevOps best practices to agile development
methods in the telecom world. So, I listened to it there at the conference, and I thought it was
a lot like Red Hat Open Shift, that's what they were talking about. And this will make use of
today's cloud technologies and network virtualization capabilities, and we'll lower the bar
for entry for more and more players. And it's really important that more and more players come,
because they said that with this, especially in San Francisco, the guy said that people are going
to expect 20 milliseconds time from the edge, so they're going to have the processing power there
at the edge, and it's going to push back on this ONAP to make it there. And this really, because
it's open-source, it reduces the operational cost significantly. You have much more control
on the network and services that are available, and it's a win-win situation for both the service
providers and the end customers as a network will be able to work in a much more efficient manner
that's consistently connected to the world we live in. Customers will benefit from new services
and improved experience, and I mean, they had guys on computers that were from China mobile that
were building services right there, so when they thought of something, they were building something
new for their port. And it's a little history. The ONAP project was officially launched in February
of 2017, and since over 1,000 people have already joined the ONAP project, expanding the scope of
to over 30 projects, including working March and Open-O, which was a thing ECOMP within the unified
project, and on the 5th of April 2017, the Open Network Automation Platform Code and documentation
were officially released to the global community with the intent of increasing further collaboration
around ONAP. And so that's mostly how it started, and of course, the Linux Foundation has a
a real page on there, and so it has a thing there, and so it says that their definition of the
Linux thing is the ONAP provides a comprehensive platform for real-time policy-driven
orchestration and automation of the physical and virtual network functions that will enable software
network, IT and cloud providers and developers to rapidly automate new services and support
complete lifecycle management. By unifying a member resources, ONAP is accelerating the development
of a private ecosystem around a globally shared architecture and implementation for network
automation with open standards of focus faster than anyone product could do on its own.
And there's a white paper, and I'll have the link for that in the show notes,
and they're really serious about it, and of course, there's a wiki page, and so how did it
really come about? So the ONAP was announced, again, as a merger of the Open Eco-MP and Open
Orchestrator OpenO projects. The goal of the project is to develop a widely used platform for
orchestrating and automating physical and virtual network elements with a full lifecycle management.
And they talk about Bell, Bell, dang, and it's the overview, and the overview. So that's what
it is, and so I'm telling you that all of the companies, all of the telecoms there at this
conference where Kent sent me. They were really interested in this. This is what they talked about,
and so this will be a series, and the next part of the series will be what is edge
you in F. So that'll be the next thing I'm going to talk about. All right, enjoy your day,
and if you have any questions, please get back to me at JWP5 at hotmail.com. Have a great day.
You've been listening to HECKA Public Radio at HECKA Public Radio dot org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a
podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. HECKA Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
