Episode: 2355
Title: HPR2355: Wii and WiiU Software Modding
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2355/hpr2355.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:37:39

---

This is HPR episode 2,355 entitled We and WeU software modding.
It is hosted by Opera Zero R and is about 12 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, I go over my current We and WeU setup.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
This is another episode of Hacker Public Radio with Rob McCurdy.
I apologize for the audio I'm sitting here in the Atlanta traffic so I figured I'd record
an episode and provide a little bit of value to you guys today.
I'm going to be talking about something called the Nintendo Wii and the Nintendo Wii U.
If you're old like me, those are two console systems which are prematurely retired or done.
With that said, I recently got a 4 Father's Day presence.
I got a Wii U and I was going to get it all set up just like I had set up my Wii for soft modding it.
Now, the TVC background soft modding is a way for basically for you to play backed up games from some kind of storage to vice be it a microSD card or external hard drive or maybe a big giant SD card.
The first one I did, the first one I did was the regular Wii which incidentally is a great story and it's great to see a video if you watch it.
If you're into that type of stuff and hacking in general and code execution and seeing exploits to sexy stuff, it's a really great video to see or a really great thing to watch.
The original exploit that I used was for the Wii which you just need an SD card for the one now it's like a mail bomb, basically a message bomb exploit.
But the original one that we had was for the Zelda game and you actually downloaded a special saved game with all the files you need for home brew and all that stuff to get the ticket after you get code execution for it to execute the home brew channel.
So you've got that and you have this special save game and then you blow it up your your Zelda and you copy over that special save game and then you load that save game inside of Zelda and you just walk backwards.
And when you walk backwards for whatever reason somehow it triggers this overflow this exploit and then it gives you code execution and boom you have home brew on your system and from there I mean that part of it was just I don't know it was it was very real for me because there's one thing to run an exploit on a system in windows and to run a tool and maybe see a buffer overflow or something like that but to see it that real and that from an actual console.
That's kind of really a really interesting thing to see and I got a lot of joy out of just watching that piece of it but after that it was all really downhill you know setting it all up.
I didn't break any ways in that process I'm in breaking devices which means you kind of screw up the device to where you had to either set up a jtag or a serial port to possibly get to it or you're completely done and you had to find a device.
So I haven't break any ways in that regard I've demoted three or four of them at this point.
So there's a lot of information about how to do that use a special SD card and you buy like a $50 hard drive and you're done.
So with that one we had that one set up what I wanted to talk about is my Wii U I also soft modded the like three or four Nintendo DS's which is fairly easy to do.
Actually he's using the Wii and all that stuff they don't have a lot of firmware versions like the Wii does software.
So I got this Wii U and the first thing you do when you buy a new device and you want to exploit it you don't update it you don't play it on the internet you don't do anything like that.
So that was the first thing I did is I opened up the box and I figured out what version of firmware was running and then I looked online and started doing some research.
And what I quickly found out is that the way the exploit works or the way the Wii U is set up I'm not sure if like somehow the boot stuff is digitally signed almost like Apple does.
So you're not able to actually access to read right to the boot sector or certain parts of the boot. I don't really understand why once you get code execution you can't really get that feet cement in the ground type of thing.
So what I'm talking about is with the Wii U once you got root you didn't have to re exploit it but from what it seems like with the Wii U every time you you you turn the system on you have to basically exploit it again.
So there's two methods there's one that's through the browser which is you uses I don't know like the Apple Apple browser webkit or something like that and it uses the exploit for the we use browser to get code execution.
Which is a little weird you can host your own exploit code on your own server but most people just aim it at the internet server for that and has the news and all that stuff but it's a little weird executing code from directly from the internet every time your computer starts up.
So you can host that content internally and then there's also a Wiiware or a what they call virtual console game you can purchase that's like six bucks or something and then you can get code execution via that method.
And then all this is explained in like I think it's called Wii U dot guide is the website and it's it's fairly straightforward I donated to those guys and I donated to the other group that was doing some of the form stuff.
So anyways it's fairly simple to set up you go to the guys just follow the directions be very careful about following the directions and don't do things in the wrong order.
And you know you have errors and you go back but my experience with that one was pretty good I do have a couple of hiccups there I think just now in February they have the ability to actually load the load line games that are non image based it's like the actual files.
You can actually load load guide line games directly from a fat 32 partition hard drive so what the mocha guy did or guys did is that they set it up to somewhere when you boot that is essentially swaps the SD card in the hard drive so when you want to or basically swaps the SD card out with the mounted hard drive so when you boot.
When it goes to load up anything off the SD card it's actually pulling stuff off the hard drive from what I understand is how it works so up until February that the ability didn't work I think what people were doing was they were getting the images and they were ripping the images to.
They are systems and loading them and installing them directly on the Wii U hard drive which is a special file system called like WSPSFS or something I think it's the same file system that the Wii U uses and also like the DS and all that stuff so anyways I think the old had way to do it was to have your images ripped manually and I think they're signed or whatever so that's why you can't just.
Drop an image you have to rip it yourself or something I did try that method with with all my games and I realized it was going to be daunting to have to do that with everything so what I've realized there was the load line games that you can load directly from the load line app that made things a little bit easier to pack up so if you wanted to pack up that advice you didn't just have to.
DD and there's issues around DD especially if you're trying to do a one-to-one copy of a disc and then you put it in a different device if you put a swap the device out the hard drive out with a different hard drive depending on the file system it might not it's probably not going to pick it up without some shenanigans so I needed the ability to easily back up my hard drive so with that fat 32 system I can back up those games and back up on my configs and back up on my apps and everything so.
That feature from what I understand is pretty recent February I would have figured they would have had it all figured out but I think there wasn't as many people playing with the Wii U stuff there was a silly so.
All in all is a good experience once you get that type of setup good and going you can you can actually have I think supposedly their load line the load times are the same but I would imagine just because the disc is spinning around.
You would get better load times that's what I always assumed but from what I understand the load times are supposedly the same if so when I have had some issues with some games glitching out when they're trying to do like high speed you basically high speed rendering so I may be the case that it's actually slower through the hard drive but I haven't done any investigation and what you have to buy for the hard drives
to do the fat 32 setup is you need basically a y cable to get additional power for whatever reason I guess it gives you doesn't give you the full five volts or maybe it gives you five volts but not enough amps to power the device so you end up with like five volts but not enough amps maybe half an amp or an amp or something like that to push the hard drives so you get this y cable and a special hard drive.
I'll try to Google that put the device with the notes when I submit this but it's a y cable and then the guys got a list of you know requested or suggested hard drive types to put in there.
You can also buy a converter for the Wii U or the Wii that converts to HDMI so everything is all HDMI now and I have a for like six bucks you can have you can order two extension cables for these sensor bars because you actually get an extra sensor bar so you'll have two sensor bars and two for the Wii and the Wii U.
So I ended up with having two sensor bars and then an extension cable was like about like a seven foot or ten foot extension cable and then I run that to the receiver and then everything comes out of the receiver.
There's also a I'll do an accompanying video about my setup that I have already posted but my setup is on a switch on a power strip that's actually mastered master slave power switch so you set up the receiver as the master and then when you turn the receiver off the intelligent power strip turns everything else off so this does a lot of good things for you.
It creates it prevents that vampire power from happening and then also if you need to reset the Wii U you don't have to get up to reset it you just turn off the receiver and turn it back on so I'm pretty lazy in that regard once it freezes up there's nothing you can do you got to do that power that power switch.
Anyways about to head it been to the our wonderful transit system Marta here to try to make it to the office on time but that's my experience with the soft modding Wii U, the S and the Wii as far as breaking I don't think there's a whole lot of danger in that space as long as you kind of follow the directions and make sure that you're not doing something in the wrong order or skip a step.
Anyways if you have some time or like me headed to the office and have some time to record a video or audio that will help somebody please do it and submit something.
Thank you bye.
You've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, free dot org license.
