Episode: 2532
Title: HPR2532: Podcrawl Glasgow 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2532/hpr2532.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:56:50

---

This in HBR episode 2,532 entitled Podcroll Glasgow 2018, it is hosted by LMM and is about 26 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summer is the touch sum guys introduce and invite the HBR community to join them at Podcroll Glasgow in July 2018.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello and welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio. My name is Dave the Lovebug and I'm joined today by two stalwarts of the Linux and Creative Commons music.
Podcasting thing. So we've got we've got Kevin. Hi Kevin. Hello and we've got Andrew as well.
Hello. Right so you've introduced us when are these podcasting stalwarts coming along as well? I didn't know those were kids.
Anyway we're we're here today in our capacity as host of Tuxjam but also what I'm going to do is I'm going to hand the floor over to Kevin in a second.
He's going to tell you all about an upcoming event that is going to be happening in July that A we want to tell you about B we'd love you to come along to if you if you are able to do so.
So Kevin what is this event? Well this event is Podcroll. It's Podcroll Glasgow and this is the fifth edition of the Podcroll.
Now back when the humble beginnings when we started there was a grand total four of us. Well actually four is not actually even through. There was three of us and half one turned up late on.
Half a one which has. Well remember we had a visit from I'm not cloutness as four members because remember we had a visit from Marxist vegan and but he only turned up for the last kind of hour or so.
That's true but all of them turned up as a crucial. All of us did turn up.
So I would say attendance though attendance I would say is was three and a half for that one.
Yes so humble beginnings in Glasgow and no surprise we've really stayed in Glasgow so essentially we have one thing we've kept consistent is the meeting place it has been in the state bar and it's.
It started at six o'clock it's been the official time of starting however in the last few years as it's kind of grown and people have generally wanted things like to meet up earlier and have food etc.
Then yes we have actually started to meet that little bit earlier and actually we seem to be making a thing of it now for the last couple of years that we are actually getting some food beforehand which is probably advisable given that it is somewhere that beer is consumed at quite a good rate.
It is worth pointing out that myself and my lovely wife Caroline we joined the popcorn in Glasgow last year for the first time and I think it's fair to say that I made a mistake.
Is that is that a fair summary?
No not at all it was a really good time and pod crawl so there was no mistakes made.
I wasn't suggesting that going to popcorn was a mistake what I'm suggesting as a mistake is the strategic consumption of food at some points during the course of the day.
Which I didn't partake in and led to let's say a little spate of unwellness on my part.
Indeed it was either that or perhaps that you were a big chasey.
Yeah let's go without that works.
The latter works. That was rather funny.
So we'd better actually talk a suppose a wee bit more about who it's for who it's aimed at.
Well basically pod crawl is aimed for anybody who has any interest in basically open source linux, techy geekiness and also for anybody that's into independent music so whether that's just listening to it or you're maybe a member in a band or you're maybe involved in the production of a podcast
and it's basically anything if you have an interest in anything free open source music creative commons then you know we'd love to see that.
But it's not just limited to those people.
I would also say you'd extend that to people like beer or whiskey or cigars or Scotland or Glasgow or other people.
So basically we're not really very exclusive as we're trying to see.
We're not fancy.
Yeah I think we do insist that our guests are human.
I think that's more the pubs insist that there were some pubs except dogs.
But yeah but I don't think we've ever had any known human attendees.
Oh no we did we had a dog last year I forgot a bit that.
We did yes.
In fact it was a guide dog.
It was.
And I was really surprised because the person who had the guide dog seemed to be behaving like a person with full sight.
It turns out there was no blind people there but there was a guide dog there.
No that was her father's guide dog he was away.
She had she promised to look after the guide dog so unfortunately she was kind of stuck with it for pod crawl.
That was very nice dog.
Oh it was very friendly although maybe one thing I would actually say.
I mean we're saying we're not fussy.
There is one group of people who we would be fussy over and that is just down to the nature.
And this is maybe aimed at the area of PN listeners.
Down to the nature of pubs in Glasgow.
They're not really child friendly after any time after seven o'clock.
So I would not recommend if you had a family to take the children along because most places action Glasgow will not cater for children after seven PM.
And given we're not mean to six then that may be a problem.
And that is actually the reason why myself and my good lady are not bringing the children with us.
We did try.
I suppose at this point I should point out that we'd be talking specifically about pod crawl Glasgow.
But actually there have been other pod crawls around the country around the UK.
And the fact that it's some of them in the states as well for a few years.
And we went to a pod crawl down in London about five years ago.
And although the beer establishments in London, I'm just suppose in England in general are a lot more forgiving about having children sort of into the early evening.
It's not easy to traipse a family of three children through bars in London much beyond six in the evening because they start getting tired and they start wanting food.
And yeah, it does get a little bit a little bit layer at times.
Yeah, and they don't like you people giving birth to children in their pubs as well.
I've noticed all feeding them alcohol.
That's very short-sighted.
Yeah, indeed well.
Yeah, something to do with the law of being thrown upon.
But Tim, so one thing that we might try and do this year, which I think we did attempt to do in a previous year,
but it didn't work at all is record some audio at the pod crawl itself.
And maybe even try and broadcast somehow so that people who can't attend, maybe thousands of miles across the world,
can virtually join in the fun, even if we can't pass them or buy them a drink.
But you had some ideas about how we might achieve that.
They've given all the ambient noise of a noisy Scottish pub in a Saturday evening.
Yeah, so we did try in the English pod crawls to do live broadcasts and recordings and even Skype calls.
And yeah, there are technical and logistical issues with trying to do recordings in loud, layery environments.
But having said that, just to remind people that as we are representing Tuck Jam and Tuck Jam is a member of the other side podcast network,
we do have a shout-out server at our disposal.
So there's no reason why we couldn't attempt to do a live stream from wherever we are.
In terms of the technicality of trying to record in a noisy environment,
yeah, there are things you can do to make the listening experience better.
But it does mean that you need to be shoving microphones in people's faces.
I think the only thing we can do is try it and see if it works.
We've got the equipment, we've got the tentacle and the wherewithal.
So yeah, let's give it a go.
If it works, it works. If it doesn't, then more drinking time.
Yes, indeed. Maybe one of the places to try that actually later on,
if it doesn't work and have any noisy pub atmosphere, it might be a bit later on when we retire to the cigar lounge.
Because it may probably be a bit quieter.
Definitely. And it will be noisy enough to get some of the ambient atmosphere.
Or we could go to that that we went to last year, the terrible one.
Yeah, which hardly had anyone there.
So it had no atmosphere whatsoever. It was to be quiet.
And we actually scared off the ones that were there.
Yes, that's right.
Is that the place I'm thinking of?
It's the one that you don't remember, do you?
Now, I do remember, I actually remember more about it than I want to say.
So I'm sure you're right, but before I go on.
Just resting your eyes.
Resting my eyes and my arms and my entire body.
Yes, fertilising the...
I'll leave the rest.
I can't leave the rest to the listeners and my adjudition,
because I think they're going to get the wrong impression if I just say that.
Oh, no. No, not that kind of fertilising.
No, no, no, no.
I was just...
We were sat in an area where there happened to be a very handy window box type thing planter
that had just weeds in it and there was no nice flowers.
And it was the perfect thing for Dave to, uh,
eject contents of a stomach into an emergency.
You might want it at this point, Dave, I'm sorry.
But I believe it's what is commonly known as a tactical chunder.
I don't think there's much tactical about that.
Well, you know what, you think it could have...
I mean, it does prove he was compassionate.
It could have been over me, you know,
but knowing very thoughtfully put it in the one place in the environment
where nobody would ever, ever notice it and have to clean it up or anything.
It's very thoughtful now, I think that I can...
Yeah, lessons learned, I think.
Oh, yes, good quality.
Right, yes, so that's one thing, actually, we will...
You may be thinking how we're going to find you,
because Glasgow pubs can be a bit crowded.
Well, we're all commonly waiting our pod crawl t-shirts.
So I think there's about six of these in circulation
and given the company who made them,
and that's now closed just in the last two weeks,
that'll probably be them for good.
So it's disappointing.
Or is it Toys or Us or Matlin?
Yes, no, the place...
The place actually in question was GDK signs and store it away.
But I didn't walk past the place the other day,
and I know it was all closed up and locked,
so I was like, oh, that's disappointing.
No, that's a human, there's a lot of companies going.
But that's a local business, that's a...
That's a local business, yeah.
Well, to be honest, I don't know how they're moving or what.
They might just be moving premises,
but their current premises is locked up.
Okay, okay.
So we're going to make some attempt to try and record broadcast,
and we'll see how that goes.
But if actually this being HPR,
please let us know if you've got any advice on this or indeed
to do another HPR show with advice on any successful recording
you've done an annoyed environment.
In fact, I know there must be some people out there that have done that,
because there's been interviews that have been that forced them,
which I know was quite busy.
So, yeah, so we'd welcome any comments,
or indeed, Shows showing us giving us advice in this matter.
Yes, indeed, and please remember, you know,
with three guys, we don't get subtleties,
so actually name the show recording at PodCraw or something like that,
just to make a name for size so you know what it is.
Yeah, that sounds like a plan.
Just out of interest, Kevin,
because you know, I've never done this before.
How would people be able to, you know,
on the day keep tabs on where we actually are?
Well, the easiest way is, first of all,
if they want to show up at the State Bar at six o'clock,
and I'd better actually give our data and stuff as well.
So the data is going to be,
well, the day is going to be Saturday,
and the date is the 28th of July.
We seem to have settled on the last Saturday in July.
And like I said, we've tried to keep the starting place consistent
so that at least ever they will.
However, we're not staying in the same place all night.
We'll be posting through various social media.
So we'll do Twitter,
a canoe, social, jazz,
but with a hashtag PodCraw Glasgow.
And that'll give you an update over where we are.
But please, we're all on mobile phones on us.
If you are planning to come along,
and maybe you've just seen us there,
maybe we don't like the place
or whatever it's stuck, it's too busy.
Then what we can do is,
if you post to us and send us a message,
then we'll say, OK, we'll wait for you.
Because the last thing we want to do is go to a pub,
and then for you to say,
oh, no, sorry, we moved on to the next place.
Yeah, it wouldn't be good for them.
Yeah, we did broadcast our location
on various types of social media last time.
So we can do that again.
So it doesn't matter if you come along
late, you will find us somewhere,
and you'll be able to,
you know, we was not a secret.
It's not like a treasure hunt,
or anything like that.
No, not at all.
And the other thing that was quite good last year was,
we had probably a biggest group yet.
I think there was been nine in total.
But the good thing was the diversity.
It wasn't purely people who were, you know,
like the three of us are clearly branded Linux Geeks,
are we?
But there were people there who were far more
into, let's just say,
normal teams stuff.
Yeah, I don't want to see that.
But, you know,
don't scare the most of our listeners off.
It's not that abnormal.
No, but it was people who actually weren't that techy,
which to be honest,
I actually think that you're good lady.
Dave actually appreciated that for a while.
Yeah, definitely.
So yeah, so like I said,
we really would love to see you.
Please come along.
It will be, we hope it will be a good night.
The one thing I will say is that cigars
will be provided,
so you don't even need to take that.
And I'm even that nicer guy.
I'll provide the lighters.
But I do want to back.
Yeah.
And I actually have what inquiry
from someone who does,
I don't know if he does or is going to start
doing a podcast,
music podcast in Glasgow.
So, you know,
so if you're, you know,
from a music background,
as you're obviously welcome as well.
Oh, yes indeed.
Most definitely.
So, and, you know,
the other good thing is,
if you're a member in a band,
especially just starting up,
please come along.
Because I mean, you've got,
you've got the potential there
for about three or four podcasts
to be hit there.
So, you know, we will try and promote just well,
just for making the effort to turning up.
Yeah, definitely.
From a music perspective.
Then, yeah, there's a great opportunity
for a bit of cross promotion.
Yes indeed.
So, yeah, now you've got me looking forward to it.
Hey, I've got a holiday coming up before that.
You know, I don't want to wish that a week.
But, yeah, I must admit,
it's something that on my calendar,
I always look forward to and look ahead to.
So, it's something that I would highly recommend
to come along.
Because we've never,
even the night we had only the kind of four of us,
it was still a great night.
I don't think I've ever kind of left pod cross thinking,
no, that was terrible or that was bowling or anything.
We've always had a good night.
Indeed, yeah.
No, I would agree.
It's actually, you know,
numbers to start with are very,
we're pretty low,
but we have been trending upwards.
And, you know, when you might even meet me,
you know, we have got checked people
when we've been out of the night.
You know, it's a social place,
these pubs.
So, yeah, so it's always been a good,
it's always been a good,
well, it's been a good laugh.
I like to think that maybe this is like five years.
Maybe this is versions 0.5 of the pod crawl.
We're still in beta.
Maybe we'll get to version 1.0 in another five years.
Yeah, that's very true.
But in saying that,
I wouldn't say it needs that much tweaking,
to be honest,
because I think the forum has seemed to have worked for,
for whatever reason,
it has been,
it has worked.
But one thing I might actually say is,
it's been pod crawl starts at six o'clock.
There's one thing I would say is,
if you're coming in to Glasgow earlier,
I'm always in Glasgow much earlier.
I'm in the city centre much, much earlier than that.
So, if you want to meet up,
I mean,
the paper you made up with us last year much earlier,
and we actually went and got something to eat.
I'd howlheartedly,
you know, like to do that again,
but maybe even get even more of a group.
So, if anybody wants to join us,
they are more than welcome.
We certainly intend to try and get there early again.
This year, really depends on what the traffic is like coming up to Scotland.
Yeah, so, if you may be thinking,
this is something you like the idea of,
but you think it a whole,
if I get to Glasgow,
I'll be there one in the afternoon.
That's fine.
Just, if you organise it with us,
just come meet us.
I mean, you can,
the best way is probably just,
you will contact all three of us,
if you do an email to tuxjamatotherside.network.
So, that's probably the best way of contacting us.
However, if you want to contact us individually,
I'm at KV49 on Twitter.
I am also on daisbra.microdata.co.uk.
I'm at KV there,
and I'm at kvoncommunity.highlandaro.com.
And you can find me on the Fediverse,
as McNalloo on mastodon.mv.uk
or as McNalloo on Twitter,
if you prefer that.
And I'm on Twitter as the lovebug.
I'm also on the GNU social
on a server called s.wefamily.b.
My username there is the lovebug also.
Yeah, so,
before we actually sign off,
is there anything else I want to add?
We can always give a bit of extra editing work.
We've mentioned about podcasting
and promotion of music on podcasts.
I'm wondering, Ashley Andrew,
do you know of any podcasts
that features maybe three guys,
two from Scotland and one from England,
talking about creative commons and Linux at all?
Oh, I know this one.
Does it have to be one that's any good though?
It's down to your individual conscience, I suppose.
Yeah, there is one.
And what's it called?
Tixjim, something like that.
I think that might be Tuxjamas.
I think we're harder that way.
Yes, yes, I have.
Yes, I have heard of that.
All right.
Where can people find that one?
Well, I somewhere in the internet one would think
maybe if you take it into a sort of change.
That might be where one way to find it.
Well, the other thing is you could actually go directly.
That is Tuxjam.OtherSide.Network.
Awesome.
And Kevin, you obviously seem quite knowledgeable
about these things.
So concentrating on the music side.
If somebody wanted a short form music only podcast
that say, I'd know, 10, 12 minutes long
and just features a couple of bits of music,
centered around a particular artist,
where do people go for that?
Well, now you're struggling.
I think Jamm is involved again.
So Robinsons, Jamm, the side.Network, was it?
No, I think it might actually be CCJamm.OtherSide.Network.
Yes.
And actually, that is a bit like kind of a musical version
of HPR.
So, you know, we're always looking for people
to kind of send in their own versions.
So, yeah, please head on along today.
Because what are we with behind in the minute?
And Dave, I'm wondering if you could help me out with,
you know, I would be really good if there was a husband
and wife podcast that had a great live show
that went up every seat.
I don't know, top of my head.
Freddie from somewhere in South Yorkshire in England.
Do you know anything like that?
Actually, yes, I do.
I have heard of this quite small award-winning music podcast
that, as you say, actually records every Friday
in the evening and streams live to the internet.
And I believe it's called the Buttcrack.
No.
I'm not listening to that.
At the Bugcast, that's it, the Bugcast.
And I believe the website for that is the Bugcast.org.
But what if people say there's this looks good?
But I really want someone I can chat us well online.
What would you have any, do you have any option there?
Oh, yeah.
I say we, sorry, they have a live chat room
where people listening to the show can interact
with the husband and wife team you mentioned earlier Andrew
during the show.
And they even sometimes mention the names of all the people
who are in the chat room listening at the time.
It's really good, actually.
You should listen to it.
Oh, that sounds amazing.
Where do we go to chat live there?
Well, I think it's the Bugcast.org slash live.
And it's also worth pointing out that they have just celebrated
10 years of podcasting.
Oh, happy birthday to them.
Indeed.
When I see them, I shall tell them.
Yes, please pass on to the regards to the lucky,
the talented couple.
That's in place of 10 years.
Yeah, indeed.
Right then.
So thanks for listening.
And if you've still taken this far,
then just remind her that it's the last Saturday in July.
So we hope to see you there.
Now, so a big thank you to my friend Kenny
from the band Toridan,
who have so kindly let us
let us use this really appropriate track,
which seems to have become a kind of
bit of unofficial anthem for
Podcogl has gone those last,
this last couple of years.
And the title track is drinking away.
And in saying that,
I hope actually come and you come along
and we do share a couple of pines
and maybe one or two moths as well.
So until then, I sure,
it's a good night from me.
And a good night from myself.
And it's a good night from them.
So we spend a game with you.
Join me, my old friend.
Boating drums,
and then all good and the same that way.
Well, I was killed on the day.
I didn't run.
No, I don't want to shun them.
We are close to the 11th.
How are you doing?
Boating.
That's my honor.
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
I'm telling you,
to hear me sing.
Boating.
We stood a game with you.
Join me, my old friend.
Boating drums,
and then all good and the same that way.
We can up early.
We are stuck in depression.
Dying in a circle.
Oh, go back in the session.
This is for you.
You can feel the pain, suffrage.
My pillow doubles over me.
It's the same.
Shall we?
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well.
We can hear you sing.
Oh, well, well.
We stood a game with you.
Join me, my old friend.
Boating drums,
and then all good and the same that way.
I'll follow the machine.
I'll hold the floor.
I know it in the morning.
Oh, it's going to be so.
I'll make a great face.
I'll avoid the old chugging.
I'll back to the bar.
I'll be put on.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well, well.
I'll be put on.
Oh, well, well, well.
Oh, well, well.
Oh, well, well.
We can hear you sing.
Oh, well, well, well.
We stood a game with you.
Join me, my old friend.
Boating drums,
and then all good and the same that way.
I don't know where I'm going.
I was stirring ok.
That it was flowing.
I was smoking.
I had my trash or soaked.
Hello Won't You?
Cuz I've been checked out
Can a way
oh well well
oh well
well well
the neighbors
we can a way
oh well well
we can a way
we can hear me see
ooh its time to go over
Oh
up the old
no more �s they ask
sensory
i think it will be
oh well
we can a way
home within the
All the way, all the way!
Catch your Help in courts, makes life!
You've been listening to heckaPublicRadio at heckaPublicRadio.org
We are a community podcast network that releases shows
every weekday, Monday through Friday,
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed
by a HVR listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a live 3.0 license.
