Episode: 2327
Title: HPR2327: A Texan's view on Why only a Native Born person can be President
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2327/hpr2327.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:20:54

---

This in HPR episode 2,327 entitled Atexan's new on-wire only a native born person can be
president.
It is posted by AWP and in about 7 minutes long and can in an explicit flag.
The summary is a quick talk about why America is special.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Bet your web hosting that's honest and fair at An honesthost.com.
Good day, this is JWP.
I was listening to the monthly podcast review with Dave Morris, who is a British guy and
can fall and lose an Irish guy.
Talk about the American rule that says that you've got to be a native born person that
you present in the United States.
Well, there are some exceptions.
If you're born in a military hospital, I believe like John McCain was born in a military
hospital, so he still got to run for presidency.
The thing is, the founding fathers wanted, didn't want a British stand-in or a Kenyan stand-in
or a French stand-in for president.
They wanted a real American who was born on U.S. soil to be president, and it was done
back then because of the fear factor of, you know, we're going to get a British guy in,
he's going to try to be keen or something's going to happen like that, and so that's
why they did it, and it's incredibly hard to change the U.S. Constitution.
It hasn't been done very much.
They couldn't even do it for a change to say that a man is equal to a woman, so they couldn't
even do the equal rights amendment in the Constitution in my lifetime.
So I was born in 64, and we've had very, very few constitutional changes.
Instead, we let the courts do everything, and this thing about where you were born
is a really, a factor really in U.S. politics until Barack Obama came, and everybody thought
that he was born in Malaysia, or Indonesia, or someplace, and that he wasn't native-born,
but he was secretly in Muslim, and all of these other things that people were worried
about, it became an issue.
So much so that Ted Cruz, who was born in Toronto or someplace in Canada, was, I had to
announce his Canadian birth in order to run for president of the United States.
So there's a birth exception to all of this.
So Ted was physically born in Canada, and he was still allowed to run for president, just
like John McCain was born in a U.S. Army hospital somewhere in the world, and he was allowed
to run for president.
There's a, only became an issue really in America when people became afraid of Barack Obama.
And so that's what it is, and it's really, really hard to change any of that.
The electoral college, or to change anything, even to say simple things like, a man is equal
to a woman, it's incredibly hard to change a U.S. Constitution, because you either have
to have a state, a convention of the states, where each state sends representatives, and
the trouble with this is that it can be, once you have a constitutional convention, anything
could be changed.
Everything is on the table.
These guys, that you can send, that you can send to this convention, can change anything
in the Constitution.
And if it's ratified by majority of the states at the convention, then the Constitution
has been changed.
And so we haven't had one of those in 100 years, 120 years, something like that.
It's been a really long time since one of those saying constitutional convention happened.
The other way that we do it is, is that you have a set number of years, I think it's
three, three, five, or seven years to change it, right?
And so like with the Eagle Rights Amendment, we couldn't do it because we had to have a 75%
or something majority of states that vote on it within the time period, and then it has
to come back.
And we couldn't get the southern states to agree that a man was equal to a woman, because
that's not what the Bible says.
And so they voted no, or a lot of them didn't even put it on the ballot, and so it languished.
And so we'd have to go back to the 60s, or maybe the 50s, where we actually had a change
to the Constitution that didn't happen in the courts, that the Supreme Court, or a
Pellet Court, or a U.S. District Court didn't change the court presidents.
All right, I hope this answers your question about why a non-native person can't be president
even if he's a U.S. citizen.
It's just that when the founding fathers wrote the Constitution, they wanted an original
American, and the... in the... in the... in the Vex.
All right, and you have a good day.
Thank you.
A community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a life, 3.0 license.
