Episode: 2642
Title: HPR2642: My swedish and german Podcasts Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2642/hpr2642.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:56:53

---

This is HPR Episode 2642 entitled, My Swedish and German Podcast Part 2 and in part of the series, Podcast Recommendations.
It is posted by Focke and is about 5 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, I talk about 6 more podcasts in Swedish and German.
This time no radio network involved.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi, this is Focke again.
Nobody did protest so I'm back with my Swedish and German podcasts.
As I scroll through the list of my Swedish subscriptions,
I discover I nearly only have shows left from the public radio network I mentioned earlier.
Most of the independent podcasts I was listening to are gone or in some kind of long-hiver nation.
Oh, I just did got tired of them.
I think I should at least give you those still active and interesting to me
that are not connected to today's radio.
The first one is here at Sunt, really true.
It's not at all frequently updated, but it's worth the subscription.
You get to hear about all kinds of conspiracy theories,
what could or factually was to, and how most of them don't stand the reality check.
The next is Brüsselbübland.
Two female Swedish journalists are talking about the life in Brüssel's
in the bubble circulating European politics.
You get to hear about developments often underreported in their own newspapers,
sought out the rumors that are spreading in the Swedish and Belgian media,
and those in other parts of the EU in languages the two can understand reading or listening to.
And you get a look from the center of the union on political developments in the member countries.
It's nearly a pity you couldn't have this in English.
On the third one, I nearly am unsure if I can take it up here,
because it's some kind of advertising for books of a certain publishing house.
But I will do it anyway because of the quality of the shows
and the direction of the house. The name is Fritank Podcast,
free thought podcast. And mostly you get to hear authors
the house is publishing, or let's stand for something familiar to the foundation of the publishers.
Not all of the shows are in Swedish, some are in English too,
because of the guest's mother tongue. That way you can hear interesting known persons
such as Jane Goodall, Douglas Hofstetter and Daniel Dennett mixed up with
similar exciting persons from Scandinavia.
And now to the German podcasts. If you know something about the Hacker culture in Germany,
you probably know the CCC, Chaos Computer Club. I would say it's the mother and father
of all Hacker clubs in Europe. For quite some time it had some kind of
cooperation with the youth channel Fritz of the Public Radio Network RBB
on having a show once a month earlier, three hours now only two.
The cooperation is not so tight any longer and now only every second show is produced by the
radio station and the others are produced by the CCC in Berlin itself
with live stream and podcast. The shows always have a topic, moderator and a panel of people
from the CCC or befriended groups talking about it. Even when you think you already know all
about the subject of the day, you can count on that you learn something new.
Another German talking show interesting for computer notes is Radio Tux,
or Radio Tux, which is produced one month and has pre-produced contributions glued by moderation
and creative comments music. As you can guess by the name it's all about Gnullinux
and related software and hardware. Sometimes it can get a little bit of a
selfish-wares fanboydom because of the love of one of the main contributors,
but let's just as interesting because I know of no one other still burning for this nearly forgotten
project. One last podcast for all interested in computers and alike is Heise Show. Heise is Germany's
leading publishing house for technology magazines. Most known is CT and the webpage Heise Online.
In Heise Show are journalists from all media of the house talking once a week on a current topic.
It may be some issue in German or European politics concerning technology and net policy,
a new version of some widely used software, developments in some niche of the technical world,
or just some impression from an exhibition or conference as CBIT or CAROS Communication Congress.
You could see them live online too and communicate by some channels with them while they are
recording in the show, but I never did it by now. That's all I had for you this time.
I have a long list of podcasts left, but will not promise to come to you soon.
We will see when it happens. Goodbye!
You've been listening to Hecopublic Radio at HecopublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is, Hecopublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have
comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
