Episode: 2846
Title: HPR2846: HPR Community News for June 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2846/hpr2846.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 11:57:31

---

This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support Universal Access to All Knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Phalan and you're listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio Community News for June 2019. The show where we talk about the shows in
the previous month and all the stuff that's been going on behind the scenes here at HPR Towers.
And joining me this evening is Hi, it's Dave Morris and the other two quitters have decided
not to join us probably, probably because it is 31 degrees, I don't know what that will
be in far night. 31 degrees subtlety is here at the minute and Yerun is probably sitting
outside having a beer and it's even worse than Paris at the minute so they're in France.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, he'd think it'd be fairly cool where he is. There you go.
Excellent. Anyway, for those of you joining for the first time at HPR is a community podcast
network, whereas the shows are contributed by listeners exactly like you. And if you think
that means exactly like you, I mean, yes, you should be contributing shows. And this
show was put on so that we could, we as community members could give some positive feedback
on the shows. And so shall we do that, Dave? But before we do, can you introduce the new
course? Yes, yes, we have one. And you host this month, which is pretty good. I'm very,
very happy. Shannon Wright is a new host. We'll be hearing from him shortly.
Excellent. So first of all, let's go through the shows. Then we will go through the mailing
list discussions, anything that's on LWN's calendar and any other business that there
is. So the first show last month turned out to be the community new show. And there was
no comments. There was nobody. And then we never, we've said nothing. That's because
you work there. You're always the one with all the controversial stuff. Yeah, I was,
I was sitting here, epping and blinding away. And you know, you could hear me. So obviously
we met no impact whatsoever. Dave's not on, right? Next show. So unscripted ramblings
from my garage about my first CTF event. So this was Christopher Hubs, who is a security
expert, describing all the cool stuff that he was going to bring to this event, which unfortunately
they can go on. He says himself in the comments event cancellation. Sadly, this event was
cancelled before the show aired. There was seriously flooding in the area. Luckily, everybody
was safe. That's good to hear. But wow, have you seen some of the kid that was in this?
Yeah, yeah, it's quite impressive what what it was going to consist of. The whole thing.
Yeah, bit bit bit nerve wracking really remind me never, ever, ever to take any equipment
from Christopher. So yeah, yeah, it's one of those things where you, if you go in there
yourself, you make sure everything you have is well protected. We don't bring it basically.
Yeah, like they, some usb dongles that you think, hey, this is just a neat enough to usb adapter.
And it's a key logger, usb key logger. It was very, very scary stuff all around.
Hold on one second, and I'll need to do something about the ventilation here. From kid silence,
we'll do it's time. Okay, four hours later, we're back. Yes, you went off to get some
glass here ice from Switzerland and brought it back. Okay, so where were you on to the comments
on that episode? There was, there was one comment from Christopher himself, he said event cancellation.
I think you read this, didn't you? The series flooding in the area, etc. And then I'll do Toto
as well, who said, sorry to hear about cancellation. Sorry to hear, they've been got cancelled,
it sounded really exciting. When you in the beginning were talking about capture the flag, I was
under the impression that it would be the kids game where you're trying to steal flag from the
imposing team. Only after you started talking about lockpicks and hacking, it dawned to me,
what kind of capture the flag you were talking about here. Super interesting episode, I hope you
can eventually make one, but an actual event, different one than cancelled, of course.
And Dave, the shopping is just right. Can you give it two minutes? Yeah, sure. Thanks.
And he's back, three hours later. They're not shopping. So much for Horsen through the episodes today.
Yes, so unscripted rambling, pretty cool. Pretty it didn't go ahead, but it was very interesting
to see what he had. Yeah, it would have been interesting to hear the gory details next time, hopefully.
So the following day we had writing a web game in Haskell Science Part D.
This was, yeah, I was, okay, it was technical about Haskell, but it was also an interesting
approach to how you would write a game, his calculating research and all that.
I thought that was a, took me a while to figure out what he was doing, but it kind of
isn't intriguing angle on gameplay, I guess. Yeah, yeah, I have only a very, very concept of what
this game is going to be like once it's finished, but it's gradually, I think, getting clearer,
but yeah, it's going to be quite something, I think. He definitely has a plan, and he's bringing in
a lot more stuff to making a game than I would have imagined necessary. Oh, he's not messing about.
For sure. This is a real game, this. So there was no comments on that one. Then the following day,
we had the discussion about the first use, fair use clips on HPR using text-to-speech,
and Joel D said fair use. Ken makes a point when he says, while the host may be correct,
if they are not, then it is me. Oh, actually, do you want to read this, because then I'll read my own
reply. Yeah, okay. So Ken makes a keep on when he says while the host may be correct, if they're not,
then it's me and not the host that will be held responsible for posting it. I don't want that
responsibility. My two questions are one. What exactly is the nature of the two remaining clips,
whose inclusion is problematic, and two, what would being held responsible mean in practical
terms? On the first point, how long are the clips and what are they of? Music broadcast footage
to the clips, comprise the entire original work, or do they amount to a minor quotation?
In the US, fair use is an actual legal limitation, creators writes under copyright law.
The US also has the DMCA, which effectively allows providers to host anything, and if a copyright
holder has a problem with their stuff being included somewhere, they can file a takedown notice,
and the provider handles it by simply removing the content in question. But this is not the case
in other countries, particularly the EU. There has been a lot of, shall we say, new development in
this area recently. If the answer to one is, the two clips are actually entire Beatles songs,
then isn't really a legal defense, no matter what jurisdiction we're talking about.
But even if the answer to one is, they are 15-second excerpts, we're now a long lecture given
of the public university. The answer to two is, we don't can't know, so we're acting out of
abundance of caution, then I can respect that. Then I replied, we don't know. In two answer one,
we don't know the nature of it, nor should we. This is HPR and Anyhost, composed whatever
they wish without checking with us. If they don't tell us it contains copyrighted material,
we would never know. And number two, I don't want to know, but I know, I don't want to find out,
which is the ramifications. I'd also like to say, there's me not in the comments, there's me just
talking about loud, is that the DMCA would not apply here because we knowingly posted copyrighted
material, that was the problem. So if somebody posts copyrighted material and somebody finds out,
somebody has a problem with it, and somebody posts a DMCA, notice, we'll just take it down,
because there's a mechanism in place to do that. And if somebody has a problem with that,
then we're more than likely going to have powerful allies, which will be in their interest,
not to have a priesthood set in this area, so we could rely on help from, I don't know,
Google, Facebook and those type of people, because they would be in their interest to support this.
In this case, the commenter, the poster told us they were putting copyrighted material in there.
So therefore, we ignore their option, but to say, here are rules, do not include it.
That's basically what it comes down to.
Yeah, it's a horrible situation, really.
I mean, it's okay, because they hosted never a problem with it, and they just linked to it,
otherwise. And I think other people may or may not have put copyrighted material in,
and if we get DMC takedowns on those shows, then we will take those shows down, I guess.
Yeah. Yeah, because it was done in innocence.
Yeah, because we're not editing the shows in any way. We're not listening to them beforehand,
except to check for spam. And you know, didn't know anything about it. It's a free open platform,
just like people put stuff on Facebook, people put stuff on YouTube, and they say,
don't put copyrighted material up. And when they find out, when people make them aware
that this copyrighted material, they take it down. Yeah, so this wasn't about that.
It wasn't about the DMCA. It was about the fact that we are knowingly posting copyrighted material
on the website, which is not, and then the question is, is it covered by fair use? And then fair use
depending on the jurisdiction is a recent concept. So yeah, and basically, our policy says, no,
you're supposed to have, here, I'll read the policy alone. Never include content for example,
and it's only an example music. Every part of your show between the end of the intro and the
beginning of the outro is your show, it's your responsibility. You put whatever you end there.
We're not going to listen to it, but this is what we're telling you to do. Never include content.
So it might be speech. It might be cover art. It might be a copied video. It might be, well,
I mean, we're a podcast. So it's audio. In your show that you do not have permission to redistribute,
try to avoid using any content you need to show that is not redistributed under creative commons
attribution 3.0, important license. If you're redistributing under another creative commons license
or by arrange permission, please make note of that restriction when we upload your show.
We can then signal that so that others who redistribute HPR content can filter that show out.
So that is it. And then underneath that, we say we do not affect moderator sensor
any shows under network. We trust you to do that aside from checking snippets for audio quality
and spam. We have a policy that we don't listen to the shows before they're aired.
This is a longstanding tradition horizon from the fact that HPR is a community of peers who
believe that any host has as much right to submit shows as any others. And that just so happens
to help us because under the things of the DMCA, if you're not aware of the content has been posted
on your platform, without then you won't be held responsible for it. And there's a lot of
good business reasons not for people not to do that. The end.
Okay, so next one, the new year's Eve show in the middle of summer.
Honky had a gel to go back with in time. Yeah, it's interesting to hear the topics of discussion
at that particular period of time. Yeah, yeah. I must say I really like this. I've been enjoying all
of these. And I will freely admit that I have been a little bit more in the in previous years,
but not this one. This year is really, really interesting at all. Yeah, it's quite cool.
Even Brexit got a mention. Yeah, yeah. Cool stuff. So, Honky says, Plumble is better than
that thought. Who would have thought that Plumble would give my voice in such a good quality,
not to forget over 4G in a train going as 180 kilometers per hour if I remember right.
Next thing I should record the show live on my next 6 over Plumble on the train instead of my
living room with a fan right above my head to smiley face. And the next comment was he was
simply pointing out that there's a mistake in the in the notes that there's a missing percent sign.
There was an example of how to use the date command. And I answered that having fixed the
error. So, I'm not saying any more about that. Okay, cool.
The next show was an interview with Robbie Ferguson where Yannick puts together a professional
interview. And oh, this was a nice, this was a nice one. Not only was it done well, but it also
was an interesting topic using Nakhio Centre Prize monitoring on the Raspberry Pi among other
boards. Pretty cool. Yeah, yeah, I enjoyed listening to this one. I was really, really, I didn't know
there was such a thing. I think there was some issue with the notes originally and I queried them
from Yannick and had to dig around a little bit at that point to see exactly what this was. And
yeah, it was, and in doing so, I thought, wow, this is really cool. I'm looking forward to this show
and it didn't disappoint. It was really nicely done. And easy had a comment. Just what I was looking
for. I have tried Nakhio's Pi and came to the same conclusion as Robbie. This looks like it would
be a great alternative. I will definitely be contributing and recommending this offer. Thanks
to Robbie for the great project and Yannick for the fantastic episode. So right there, Dave,
of interest to hackers? Absolutely, absolutely. I just got a new Pi and I was just thinking
that. Are you going to tell me that you got a Pi 4 by 4?
I mean, you should say that. I did, I did. Yeah, yeah. I went looking, they came out,
you told me that I hadn't even noticed. I was looking so I couldn't go like, I'm thinking
you'd start ordering you. There was nothing, there was none there. So I clicked the link that said,
note if I'm you in there, arrive. And I got a message within half an hour. So I was able to
place that order. So it's only a sort of a return to. You will now. I'm sure I'm talking about
and you will. You will record a show. Yes, yes, I'll have to. I will have to. Yeah.
Anyway, I'm particularly looking forward to how it speedwise, how is the UI, is it usable,
surfing, how's YouTube work, that sort of stuff? Yeah, yeah, I will. It's going to be a
server in my house. I'm going to play around with it along the way. Yeah, try out all the default
apps, you know, the general unboxing that type of thing. Oh, awesome. Cool. How I got started with
Linux by Shannon Wright. I can't, I can't help but feel that we know Shannon from somewhere before.
Have we, have you been on the New Year's show before perhaps? But anyway, either way,
see some comments in perhaps. Yeah. Anyway, this is an excellent introduction. How we got into
Linux, basically running servers, tried it out at home, et cetera, et cetera. So good show. I'm
very nice, very nice introduction. You know, five minutes, boom, you're on there. How difficult
is it? The rest of you guys who had not sent in the show and been listened to to HPR. Hi, I'm
Shannon Wright. This is how we got into Linux. Have a nice day. Bye. Nice quick episode. And in my build
sales, welcome, welcome aboard man, part of the crew now, smiley face. There you go. Couldn't be
simpler. Yeah, yeah. Oh, good stuff. And you rune chats with Yop Biaskar. How would you
pronounce that? Yeah, the guy in, in Europe, in Europe, the starry. Yop Biaskar is a Dutch one.
Fine. Yeah. Yeah. There's a, there's a sort of, in the end of the, of his the second name I
heard. Yeah, you completely disagree with these multicultural type names, you know, for people.
So, you should be, you should be numeric. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Integers. Yeah. Plus one. No, this is interesting. It should actually be filed under the
entities, but also under mental health, the fear of failure and that sort of thing. So
yeah, the event looked fantastic. I was looking at the website. There was some excellent talks there.
I was, I went looking at another one and also looked at the details of this one. And,
yeah, very, very good excellent stuff. And it's, it's such an amazingly common thing, this,
this imposter syndrome business. It's, it's extraordinarily common. And so yeah, it's an excellent
subject. Ahuka says, great show. I really enjoy this interview. Imposter syndrome is something I
think we all deal with at some time or other. And he has had a good things to say on the subject.
Please keep interviewing interesting people like this. There you go, Yopin. And Christopher
M. Hobbs on Wasting Shows, Dave. Wasting Shows. Have you seen that? 200 shows there. Yeah.
Hey, every single one of these would have been in a show by itself, but fine, at least you could
have split it up into my debt, favorite desktop applications and tune in tomorrow for my
favorite Android applications. However, all that aside, it was, yeah, a quite nice little
selection of stuff here. And you can see, you can see actually a lot about the type of application
that scratches his particular itch. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's an interesting insight, isn't it?
And some of the descriptions I have to, oh, must check that one out and did, and
yes, some good, good pointers there. I checked out his alternative to the, as a firewall on
Android. And I'm actually thinking of giving that a go on some of the kids' phones,
so we'll see how, how it does there. So, yeah, that gets the, um, has been useful to hackers,
badge. Certainly. If such a thing existed. And then we had the second part of the new year show,
covering suggestions as a crappy keyboards on 0.64 laptops, serenity, Babylon 5,
a hard channel, mintcasts, mintcasts was getting heavy plugging throughout, as was,
as was, was a barbecue ISP that he has, tasty bacon, smoky bacon, ISP. I think it's a bit overdone
though, it's like, like, splaturing the show up, like, blazing hog, that's not blazing the hog
guys. Yeah, we're not sponsoring the show, but that happens, you know, when you come on and you're
talking to different people, but the eavesdroppers are the same. Yeah, no, it says fine, it's one,
it's, it's interesting. It's not still not solved 5150's problems, it's seen. No, we're not
moving forward a wee bit. Yeah. And Janik did another interview with Wendy Hill this time,
who's a open source, if photographer, who is a photographer, who uses open source software
in her job, and her stuff is pretty cool, actually. It's worth browsing her site.
Yes, I just had a quick look at, but I've found she was talking about dark table, and I thought
I'd like to go and have a look at that to tweak photos and that's something in it. Nice, very
cool actually. I really mustn't learn more about it, but yeah, good hint. A few shows about that
would be absolutely excellent. I was also interested in their rapid photo download or thing,
because I've written a script, because there's one thing that I do not mess with is my photos.
I file all my photos from everything based on year, month, date with a year,
then a month folder, and then a year, month, date, name, and they're all in there.
So, yeah, this is the same thing. We've been having family evenings of late looking at photos,
because my son and his girlfriend and my daughter and her friend went to Japan for three weeks,
and they all had cameras of their spots. So trying to a coordinate all the SD cards and everything,
and make sure they were had the right dates and times, and they didn't, and get them all
managed together so you can see here's my picture of when we went to Fuji, and he is my bedroom,
Fuji, etc. Is there enormous problems? There is a, but there's a tool, there's a tool called
and there's a command-like tool that I had exactly the same thing with
christening or something, or wedding that of all my brothers, and we all had different photos,
and they got the SD cards from each of them. And if you put them into a different directory,
and you point at three different, you know, each directory you point at the same photo,
and you say this photo was taken at the same time in all three, it'll go in and redirect the
correct metadata for that photo in all the directories and apply the same offset to all
the photos in each individual directly. It's absolutely superb. Yes, yes, I think that's very
good. I think it's the eXF tool. We'll do it. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, okay. My son was using the windows
laptop and the door available. Well, you could copy them all return to your laptop.
There it is. Yes, yes, we have this technology. He's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds.
Yeah, they would, they would take in multiple 64 gig SD cards with them.
Yeah, by the way, you're a retired pensioner with a good pension from the university, dude.
Do you ever want to provide external distress drive? Come on.
Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes, we get it.
Yeah, I played that one too much now, I think. No, but we, we, we, um, we're working on it.
But, um, yeah, it's just an interesting problem. Yes, it's quite amusing to, to, to,
why is your picture in the wrong day? And is it the wrong, we're there at this time?
All sorts of arguments like that. Well, so long as they're all consistently wrong,
then, uh, you can adjust it quite easily. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's, it's not a big problem,
but it is a, it's in irritation. Indeed. Parallax in live, in live desktops in Android.
Didn't even know this was the thing that you could do, but it actually sounded pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah, I, I, I was sort of floundering a little bit because I'm not much of a,
of an Android user. So, uh, but yes, there's, there's, there's a fair bit to learn there.
I think this, um, this struck me as like that, um, Disney effect where, you know, in the
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs were there, where the background moves slower than the foreground,
and then, you know, the trees move slower, and then the, the deer walks across so that you have
the feeling of, of dimensions. So, yeah, trying to figure out how that would be practically useful.
Anyway, do you want to do the, yes, Norris says, I like this kind of episode. I like
episodes where the host wanders through a few short topics. It reminds me of the old Dave Yates,
Lotland Linux links podcast. Yes, I agree. Yes, someone could do more of those, could do with hearing
it back from Dave again. Yeah. Why Haskell? Good question. To do tries to answer these questions
about why you would want to use Haskell. And he is using Haskell for, uh, 30 years. So, the
question was, I've been writing software for 30 years, but I find the syntax of Haskell,
anything, but in Tuesday stick, in fact, intuitive, uh, show, but I'd like to produce,
no, why Haskell? Yeah. And then, uh, Turo Dotto continues on to describe it.
One of the interesting things, and I saw this on computer file, was where they used Haskell,
can deal with infinite arrays, or infinite, um, uh, lists, and that type of things. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. The concept is an interesting one, isn't it? Though, uh, yeah, the point, the point
that you can declare such a thing, or you can offer such a thing to it, but if you ever say,
right, go and get me that list, or go through it, enumerate it, add one to every element, then
you're going to regret it. But the concept is there. Yeah. No, but they were, they were,
they were able to make use of that by the fact that Haskell wouldn't ever problem. We will start
and start producing the numbers for you, and turn through it, even though it's an infinite list,
whereas other programming languages fail because it's an infinite, fail-first because it's an
infinite list. Yes. Yes. It is a different philosophy, isn't it? Yeah. Very intriguing.
Okay. Oh, sorry, cool. Hello, I'm just going to say that I was very pleased that, uh, that
Tutoto has, um, uh, done that episode because it's, it's, it's an important element of what he's
doing in regard to Haskell, um, because it is a very, very strange language if you've come to, to,
from sort of older world, which I have, and I imagine Beezer has as well. Yeah.
30 years of experience of it. And, uh, so it really needs a lot of introduction and, uh,
quite a lot of selling, I think, because I think we, it's a lot that we could learn from this.
Um, but, uh, yeah. So there was an excellent start, I thought.
Cool. So the following day we had is an example episode of the DistraHopperer's Guide,
which, uh, can be done under HBO policies. We don't syndicate shows, but we, you can submit a
new show, uh, to us, providers, creative commons, license, et cetera, et cetera. There was a lot of
discussion about this, um, first of all, it was from Mike Ray saying accessibility. Another Linux
distro reviewing podcast in which the word accessibility was authored exactly zero times.
Two distros reviewed Linux Mint, devian edition, um, solos. If that's how you spell it,
the podcast was 39 minutes approximately in length. So assuming each distro had equal share of
time, then how much impact would it have been to spend 30 seconds for each, uh, talking about
accessibility? I want to know two things. Anyways, one is the installer accessible,
which means kind of blind person like me, not visually impaired blind, install it without
society help. Is there a hacky, which starts orca screen reader or speak up if there's a text
based installer? If I choose speech for install assuming number one is two, uh, then when I reboot,
will it come up speaking? Note that I will not accept any Linux distro, which I cannot install
alone. None of you would entertain any distro for which you had to run to a blind person for help
installing. Uh, please spend some time adding accessibility to your headlines. Otherwise,
the podcast is worse than useless to me and people like me. So tell us how you really feel, Mike.
Well, yes, yes. It's, uh, having heard, uh, Mike commenting on this, these sorts of things,
and, uh, and giving blowdits and criticisms where they do, I think, I think obviously this,
this touch to nerve, but I think he's, he has a point. He has a point, not as a criticism of the
the guy who's doing the thing, but just the whole process of, um, making sure that distros do
consider these things in some way, you know? Yes. Yep. Anyway, um, that's me. Bob says, reply to Mike.
I also listen to the podcast and not once did they mention the distro support for non-latin
characters. Given the amount of people outside the English-speaking world, surely they could
take in some time to check Chinese support Arabic, Russian, and Greek, etc. They made no bones
about the fact they're reviewing the distros from their point of view only. Moss mentions using
some proprietary office suite, though I'm sure the majority of it should be our listeners are not
using. But are these gentlemen even the best people to include accessibility in their reviews?
I don't think either of them have a need of or have any experience using accessibility tools.
Would we even be able to trust their assessment given that their inability to use them could
simply be down to not knowing which key to use to enable support? Would they even know how to check
that the speak synthesizer is legible when sped up? I would suggest that, I would suggest it would
be better done by someone who will not accept any Linux distro, which I cannot install alone.
So why don't you contact the labs and ask them if they would be interested in having you join the
show to view a distro entirely from an accessibility point of view? If they're not, I'm sure there
would be an audience here on HBO that would love to hear it. And microplied accessibility and
non-English character sets. I don't think stuff about non-English character sets is very relevant
here since internalization is part of the standard Linux base available in all distros. Perhaps
whether language can be selected at install time is relevant, but since Tony I think mentioned
that UK is Ukraine and that GB or was in the middle of podcasts, these installers are both
likely to include localization. I can't commit to joining anybody on a podcast, but would offer
a goodly amount of guidance as to what we mean in blind people need to know. Of course,
Vi is just one access aspect of accessibility. Consider also people with limited or impartial
fine motor control, missing hands, etc. The very least I would like to know one thing immediately
with every distro. Can the install be done alone? In other words, with no help from
lifeslave, the answer is no, not interested. Windows 10 can be installed by me thanks to
narrator now being an excellent screen reader, but then accessibility on Windows leaves Linux
just, leaves Linux dead, just one of the ways in which Windows iOS, MacOS are all superior.
Yes, yes, hearing that red makes it even more punchy. So Tony Hughes says,
response to mic and bomb, mic, you make a very valid point and we will bear accessibility issues
in mind for future episodes. Unfortunately, not in time for this month as we had recorded on
the Wednesday before HPR aired our first episode. I have not had much experience in installing
voice-guided installer. Installing using a voice-guided installer is worth looking for any
new reviews in the future. Anyway, Bob says, most modern distributions have very good support
for other languages and in episode three when talking about PC, so as I mentioned the fact that
the community forums have an international section which has a number of the most common languages
covered. Lower didn't mention the number of languages supported at install. Again, with a few
seconds it would take to mention this at the install stage of the review. Is this kind of feedback
that's valuable? There's a new podcast just silly in our infancy and learning what the community
would find useful in this kind of show. Thanks again for the feedback, Tony Hughes. Bob says,
you want me to do? No, I don't. I was in serious high-tony. I wasn't serious about trying all
the languages. I was trying to highlight to mic that it is impossible to cover every aspect of
a distro and all you can cover is your own area of expertise. Yeah, thanks a lot. So mic says
accessibility. I understand that not every aspect of Linux distro review can be covered,
but accessibility is pretty fundamental and all the time podcasts and developers ignore it.
We'll never get any better. As I suggested, the podcast I heard was 39 minutes long and reviewed
two distros. So that's approximately the 19 minutes for each. 30 seconds out of those 90 minutes
just answer my single question. I can install it alone or is there an SSH server running when any
live DVD or CD is booted? Then I would be able to either immediately dismiss the distro or give it
more attention. Some distros are fundamentally bad. For example, regular Linux uses the i3
window manager, which is a dead loss for accessibility. Some distros are a disgrace, like the
interview can give a belief developer of Mint, a couple of years ago, and the dev declared,
we're not interested in accessibility. We just take 30 seconds or so to answer, what's that?
A11Y fund? I don't know. I think it's a short time for accessibility.
Oh, okay. It's very annoying when so many distros are debbying or gone to derivatives,
but I've stripped out the speech from the installer. Wow. Oh, that's not good. No, absolutely.
Tony says, in response to Mike and Bob, thanks for both of your feedback. Bob, I figured you didn't
expect a full rundown of all the languages, but a few quick seconds to mention
language other than the English are listed or not useful in review. Likewise, Mike, I appreciate
your needs and a quick note to say if the distro is friendly to those with site impairment,
would assist many in the community. Actually revisiting the last episode and PC Linux OS,
I was not able to work out how to enable voice assisted install on this OS, and likewise,
on a couple of others I tried in the VM. So mentioning this as the start of the review wouldn't take
long, and that's the comments for that show. However, that actually does highlight a point
far be it for me too. It would actually be good to hear Mike's reviewing some Linux distros.
We take this distro, we put it in silence. Yeah. Yeah. It's worse than maybe it has been in the past,
isn't it? I don't know. We've said this subject has been looked at to some extent in the past on
HDR. I thought there was a trend towards improving this sort of area, but it seems not,
which is very disappointing. Well, I think it's a good idea if Mike gets in touch with the guys
and gives them the basic information necessary to do these checks, and that's something that they
can check with the distros, and then if it doesn't work, then it's these podcasts are re-released,
reviewing these distros, and this is a negative of the distro, and it's being fed back to the
distro maintainers, who obviously will take notice of it. Yeah. Yeah, good point. I'm file bugs,
guys. File bugs. Okay, the following day, let's horse through these, because it's now ablasing
28.8 degrees inside. It's cooling down here. I'm sorry to tell you. This is
bucketing down with rain. It's fine. It's fine. I'm going to grab a beer after this and go out to
the pool to the inflatable pool, just in case some of the things I'm rich enough to actually have a pool.
Anywho, New Year's show, Steam, Power Show, Good Old Games, Humble Bumble, Gods of War, The Witcher,
Gods of Tunisia, The Mintcast, again, Free Advertising, Free Dars, Compact Flash,
RRTL, STR, Secrets, Taxing, Alcohol, Old Speckle, Hand Beer, Motorcycles, Harley-Davidson's,
and Electric Cars. That was a nice show as all, just to all the small ones. Yeah, yeah,
enjoyed this and that. I wasn't sure where the Thistle Web was going to join the
interview. Yeah, it was good to hear him. I met him a year or so back, and I thought he was
sort of stopping doing that sort of thing, podcasting stuff. Yeah, good to hear him.
Yes, it's like sepsips of soap appearing. Is it in this one that he appears?
Does he go in back? Sorry, no spoilers, no spoilers. I don't know, I don't know, yeah, yeah.
I also met him at the last dog camp. We sat in chat for a long time, actually. He's quite
interesting to talk to, if he doesn't get too much on one subject, we can all do this. I can do
this as well, the sort of criticism, but we had quite an interesting chat.
So the following day, how I got into Linux, and then some by CM Hobbs, this was a very strange
not typical that I had servers or whatever. This is somebody who actually more or less
run Linux or running you an experience from day one from the first computer. It's like pretty cool.
Yeah, we're an interesting set of experiences, and if that Christopher Hobbs has had,
you know, the going off to Brazil for a year. Yeah, I mean, that leads way through
using Linux and contacting home, and so for that, that was a fascinating story. I really enjoyed that.
Yeah, sure about that, please. Yeah, actually, if you've done a year somewhere else,
and have gone back to your own society, show about observations, not necessarily positive or negative,
but just differences on not only the cultures, technology of the country you visited, and
what that contributed when you come back to your own country, and how your point of view of your
own country changed with those experiences that will be interesting. Of interest to hackers,
I believe, Dave, is the terminology. Oh, I would say so. Well, this hacker for sure, I'd be interested.
And Tony updated his geek bag. For a start, I would say to Tony, you're going to break
your back, dude, with all this kit in there. But I think bag is probably boot of car to be honest.
I'm envisaging a sort of suitcase and wheels. One of those is the cartoons, you know,
where they got the Rucksack, and then they walk across the screen, and the entire Rucksack continues on and on and on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, something like that. Wow, and stuff. It pains me to hear that his
source of laptops has gone under. We should really have a moment's silence for that.
Yeah, yeah, no, no, it says scream, isn't it? It's the sort of auction places, and not as common as the
used to it. Yeah, you know, what are you going to do? And I first moved to Edinburgh. There were
lots of auction places in the centre of town. You could buy all manner of furniture, you know,
it's a fascinating place, and quite cheap too, you know, if you're better going to do the auction,
and then they all vanished. A few of them have gone to the outskirts, but incredibly hard to find that.
So, you know, it was all sort of house clearances and stuff like that. That was, yeah.
So, the next one was interesting because it's too rototo from Scandinavia.
Oh, no, he's finished, I think. I think he's when he first joined, he was talking about,
what he was doing, I think he's a, he works at university in Finland, I think. It was the
impression I got anyway. So, nothing good ever came out of universities in Finland.
It's plenty of Haskell as well. So, see, running a Linux computer.
So, yes, the game sounds quite cool. I'm not a tremendous board game fan, but that sounds like
something I would have played as a kid and had a lot of fun with. It's finding the kui noir, yeah.
I'll be looking forward to Tlattu's review shortly.
Ha ha. The following day we had Mr. copyright enforcer himself, John Culp,
playing with his Sony TC2222. I had never had so much enjoyment wasting time with somebody else
doing something completely and totally pointless just to see if it could be done.
Absolutely enjoyable this whole hacking session.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. What a fun thing to do. I regret that I never did anything quite as cool
as that when I was into tape recorders and things. But he's got two of these. He's too
room to reel machines now, so you can do that sort of thing. So, he basically sped up the music
four times so that he could slow it down using tape recorders to see what the fidelity will be
like sped down to the right size on his tape recorders. It's well worth listening and he doesn't
use any non copyright. He uses music where the copyright has been released to the public. So
no problems here, no DMC air takedowns for John.
No, no, it's a wonderful resource that was he who raised our awareness to this. I think he
was mentioning this on social media or something saying if you want to contribute towards this, then
yeah, exactly. I think I threw a few shackles that way. Yeah, that certainly did, certainly did.
And it's nice to listen. It's fantastic. And if you're wanting to include some music in your show
as samples of, of whatever, that is the pool that you pick from because, you know,
we're not going to have any grief. Then you know, there's no, there's going to be no problems.
Following day was the new year show episode four. And Dave, I have to admit, because these are so
long I had to listen to them earlier than I normally would. So I'm way ahead on my HGR listening.
I, yeah, I was a bit scared. I reached today. I was trying to make sure I've listened to all the
shows before the recording day. And I hadn't, I hadn't gotten to this one yet. But I listened to
this this morning while I was, you know, doing chores around the house. Wow, it's so entertaining.
I really, really find, I find these wonderful. And I, and the way that when Joe, Joe Wrestlingon,
who is a common, who joins every year, I think, well, had spent quite a number of years now.
And he had some really interesting things. The discussions there were fascinating.
Yeah, he was able to encourage people to talk, which was, which was great.
Yes, yes. He's a full-time podcaster now, apparently.
Yes, it's quite a skillful interview, Joe. I think his, his abilities in that, that regard
to probably be developed with his podcasting and stuff. And it would definitely suit the
juniper broadcasting type core value, you know, poke the stick, poke the stick.
Gently. Gently, obviously. Okay, so that was the shows, that was. And there was one previous
comment on our bash scripts local. And this is a clacky show. And as of your comment, you can give
it. I will do that. And yes, so this was, this is like a talking about this subject of local variables
and things. And I said, I would have commented on the community news show, but I couldn't
make it to to my order of being messed up. I really appreciated this episode because it made me
realize I was a bit unclear about the issues. First language I learned was allegol 60 around 1970
and later use Pascal a lot. The allegol course was, as a biology undergraduate, where they were
trying to make us appreciate how we could use computers in our subject. And this was way before
informatics. So we were mainly writing statistical stuff and learning how to plot results.
Anyway, these languages exposed me to lexical scoping, as you mentioned. And I guess I haven't
really reflected on the nuances of dynamic scoping since then. So thanks for the eye opener.
Cool. Very good. The novels, I was it was there anything in the mailing list? Let's go have a look.
Not just the community news. Sometimes there are great big fights and sometimes there's nothing.
Yeah, it's just the way I've slowed a busy box of chocolates. So go on. Yeah, go on.
I'm just going to say we've got any other business, which is the advanced RSS thing, which is really
you. You brought it up. Do you want to? Yeah, we can do the calendar and later, I guess,
Sissy. You know, you get annoyed with me if I jump over stuff, Dave.
Okay. Yeah, we have the option with the RSS feeds to download stuff normally when you
subscribe to the feed is every day you get a new episode. But there's a field on the
RSS feed that allows you to bypass that and download episodes in the future. One thing that we
noticed was that since we moved to internet archive, I don't know, six months or more ago.
So we were planning it in late 2017. So we ran around around about then early 2018.
Okay, but since then there's a bug that basically that doesn't make you're going to get a
404 because we post them today. And on the source.com site, the HPR website before we post them
to internet archive. So the question is, if nobody has been complaining about this or nobody
noticed, is anybody using this functionality or is this functionality that people don't use?
Or do you just, if you want your episodes in the future, do you just go to the website and play
them from there? So basically, do you want us to maintain this go max thing or not is the question?
Should we repair it? I guess. Yeah, well, it's not so much about
repairing it's say, because we do a redirect for incoming shows and it would be non-trivial to fix,
I think. Or we could say, okay, well, we're going to post to, when the show gets posted to
internet archive, then we put it on to the HPR website. But that involves coordination, I think.
Yeah, yeah, because at the moment, I just do a batch every Friday or Saturday. And so it doesn't
intrude too much on my schedules and stuff. If it was every time a show got uploaded, it would be
a little bit more complicated. I'm sure we could batch it similarly. It would personally refer
not to, but if it was strongly required. Could we do the media and then follow up with the
with an update after the messenger or how would that work? Well, that's a, that's the question. Do
do people want this? Yeah, let's see in the RSS feed, because it just make the RSS feed a lot easier
anyway, if it isn't. You can still get them from the website, but you know, we're not doing
complicated things. And not in the RSS? Yeah, exactly. So we keep the RSS pretty basic so that
we don't have any, we don't have any weird options in the RSS feed, you just go in, you get the
shows and that's it. And you can filter them yourself based on the flags that we have in there.
And we don't put anything new in, which will help things if we're going to move to a static
such, as we are moving to a static site, this has been one of the questions that we've had open.
How do we support all these multiple combinations? Because you could have somebody limiting it to
30 and somebody limiting it to 12. And you know, that means that we need to have a dynamic engine
there when we could just put in the RSS feed that's just static. Just, here it is.
Yeah, yeah. Okay, okay. So anyway, yeah, I, yeah, I scrolled my page down a bit too far,
so I've got the events calendar. But since we're on this one, sure,
sure, I just mentioned the tags and summaries thing. We had a contribution from Tony Hughes.
Thank you very much, Tony. And we added six tags and summaries to, to shows in the past month.
Nice. So thank you, Tony, that's most appreciated.
Coolio. So, community stuff, LWN.net, they have a calendar over there and the Grishley allow
us to pluck out some stuff. So we'll have a quick browse. And we'd like, we've been doing this for the
last three months, I think. So I want to know if people find that interesting or not. So,
Libra graphics meeting is happening next Sunday. Texas Linux Fest is happening tomorrow,
in actual fact, so too late for this. Actually, Sunday, oh, the Libra graphics will have
already gone by the time you're on here. Samba XP is in Germany. Hong Kong open source,
south is on on the 14th.
Cubes can cloud native can and opens our summons in Shanghai. China is on the 24th.
Academy of Spaniard, Spaniard is on the 28th. We have text base, Europe, I think Zen Summit.
ATC 19, no idea what that is. It's you use Nix annual tech conference.
In Renton, WA, USA, Washington, I'm assuming. Europe Python, since we have a lot of Python stuff,
uh, OZCAN, a Riley on Portland, Floss UK, OSS, uh, in Japan. Automotive of Linux, so much in Japan.
DevConf is on in Brazil. August, uh, let me see. Fluck.
LCD, Hossup, Gwadek, that's the GNOME users developer conference that's in Greece on the 23rd,
Friday, 23rd, and the call for paper's deadline. GNU, Gile, and GNU days pervert,
Strasbourg in France, KVM forums, the ONN in France, open Sousa, Asia, in Bali, Indonesia,
or an S Open Networking Silverware, which will be Antwerp in Belgium,
Lisa 19, which will be Portland, Oregon, and there are Libra Office,
Conference in Spain, Open Postgres in Florida, and Postgres Conf in Johannesburg, South Africa.
Is that it, Dave? I think so, yeah, yeah, there's a lot of information there. I see they do have
all camp in October, which is, which is quite cool. Thank you. I put that there myself.
So it's pretty cool. In Safari, as it's actually 28.5 degrees, 29 degrees outside. So my intention
now is to go have a cool beer while lying in the bath. Well, table type thing. Too much information.
There you go. Yes, yes. No, I simply thought it's so cool, cool and wet here. So
anyway. So good. That's fine. We're done. Any other news, Dave?
I don't think so. I don't think so. So looking forward to your
a pie review. And join us tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio. Join us
to us.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club. And it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
