Episode: 2735
Title: HPR2735: Soffritto
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2735/hpr2735.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 15:58:42

---

This is HBR episode 2007-135 entitled, Sofrito, and in part on the series, Cooking.
It is hosted by Tony HUNAK80H1212 and in about two minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is a short episode on a common cookery technique.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi, this is Tony Hughes in Blackpool in the UK, an ablated, happy new year at all in HBR land.
Kenneds are recently made a call for more shows as the queue's getting a little light at the moment,
so I was pondering on what to offer about.
You may know from a couple of my previous shows that as well as being into tech in Linux,
I'm also a keen cook and try to prepare as much of the food we eat at home from scratch as possible.
One of the keys to a good dish is a base of sweated vegetables such as onion, celery, carrot and garlic,
which when cooked in olive oil is called Sofrito in Italian cookery.
In other parts of the Mediterranean and Latin America where European settled,
this base two dishes may include other vegetables such as peppers, tomatoes, mushrooms,
and it has all the names such as miro poir.
But the idea is the same to give a base flavor to soups, sources, risottoes and stew-type dishes.
Although it's not called the same thing, this is also replicated in Asian cookery,
where spices and other aromatics, which include such as ginger, lemongrass, chilies,
cumin and coriander seeds, are the base for many dishes over there.
While it's not obligatory to start a dish in this way,
if you use a base of flavors like this when cooking, you'll find that your finished dish
has a more complex and deep flavor at the end, so if you don't do it at the moment, give it a try.
A simple starter is to make a tomato sauce for pasta,
using a base of finely chopped onion, celery, carrot and garlic.
Soften all of the vegetables in a pan with some olive oil.
Then after these have softened, add a tin of tomatoes or a jar of pissata, which is just sub-tomatoes.
Reduce for 10 or 15 minutes until all the flavors combine and the sauce slits,
and use as a sauce over pasta with grated cheese.
So, that's a great dish to start with if you're not a confident cook.
So, that's the end of this episode for HPR.
I'll try and record something else in the near future, and I'll see you all down the road again.
Bye for now.
You've been listening to HecopublicRadio at HecopublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
HecopublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicom Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
