Episode: 2925
Title: HPR2925: LinuxLugCast's Memorial for FiftyOneFifty 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2925/hpr2925.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:29:00

---

It's the 18th of October 2019, and this is HPR episode 2925 entitled
Linux Logcast Memorial to 5150. It's a syndicated show from the Linux
Logcast team, and was recorded in and around the 27th of the 9th, 2019.
It's about 126 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, we are here tonight to share our memories of our friend,
Donald Greer, aka 5150. When Hangi announced that 5150 had passed,
we agreed that we would carry the Linux Logcast show here on HPR,
so I'm not going to sit back, relax, and enjoy the show, but please join us
in taking some time out to remember a good friend, Donald Greer,
or as he was better known here, 5150.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
He's going to have to cut another promo.
Yeah, I was actually going to ask that you'd stop using that original promo.
I don't know if Dan played it last week or not. I can't remember.
I hope not. At this point, it's just depressing because...
Yeah, and I listened to the clip on your guys' website of how they found it and all that,
and I'm like, I just hope that's not the way I go.
Well, he's out there by himself. I mean, if I had to guess,
I would say it was probably the friend of his that lives on his property who found him.
Yeah, well, I'm thinking it's, well, not without knowing any more information,
I'm thinking with him knowing what I know. It's one of two things.
Either a heart attack or maybe he ran out of oxygen in the middle of the night or something.
Because I know he was on oxygen. He brought it with him when he was the self-woven 2018,
which last time I didn't know with him.
All right, since we're already heading in that direction, do we want to just start this thing up?
Sounds good to me. Yep, I'm good with it.
All right, so I'm going to kind of forego the regular reading of the intro and just kind of go,
welcome to the next broadcast. With us tonight is Gorkhan.
Yeah, no.
Joe. Hello.
Minix.
I'm here.
And at minor.
Hello and welcome friends and interested visitors.
So tonight we're not going to do a regular show. Tonight we're going to, um,
we, those don't know, we lost a friend of ours, 5150, real name, Donald,
Donald Greer, about two weeks ago, right before the Thursday before our last show.
So tonight we're here to kind of, I don't know if we're going to pay tribute,
just we're going to talk about 5150. That's what we're going to do tonight.
That's probably, you might talk about other things. And I know we've before the show started,
we were talking about other things, but the bulk of what we're doing tonight is talking about 5150,
remembering the times we spent with him, um, maybe saying some words at the end of this.
There has been some things written in, um, to the show about 5150 by, uh,
I have an audio recording by Father Finch. Those who have listened to the show in the past,
who know Father Finch is, he was, uh, he was a regular contributor, uh, back about a year or two ago.
Ken Fallon wrote something in, um, we have some other stuff. And at the, actually, at the very end,
there was, um, there was an episode of HPR that 5150 did where it's, um, the speech she gave
at the first Kansas Linux Fest. And I want to take off the HPR part of that. And then I want to
add that at the very end because it, that whole entire episode is just him talking about how he got
into pot Linux and then how he got into podcasting. So I figured if anybody who doesn't know 5150,
if they just hear that, um, they will get at least a little bit more of a sense of who he was.
Um, all right, I've kind of said my beginning piece. Does anybody want to say anything?
Yeah, well, I'll just, uh, mention that I probably known him the least amount of time is the
rest of you guys, but just in that short amount of time and getting the meet him in person to, uh,
I feel, you know, pretty blessed that he was a part of my life for, for, you know, a short amount
of time at least. And I get to visit with him and, and he was a good friend and they actually
used probably everything you could ask in a friend. He's very genuine person. Now we were talking
about earlier in the show how he liked to listen, not to, uh, not just to reply to what you were saying,
but he was curious and wanted to understand people and, and, uh, he always had a way of talking
to people to make them comfortable and open up and, uh, you know, that's qualities that I think
or should be reviewed very highly and what you look for in a friend. And I just feel lucky that I
knew him even if it was for a short time. Yeah. Well, he's the reason that, uh, Minix and myself and Ed
and him all met up at, uh, Texas Linux Fest. He set up the coordination amongst us and got us all
together in the same spot at the same time. And yeah, I, I, I only got to meet him the ones for a few
days in person, but I feel like I've known him for a while longer because, you know, I have been on
the show with him and it's, it's been a blast the whole time. Yeah, I agree. Um, and I have really,
uh, two most recent memories of him, uh, for my job, one of the things I do is I, uh, I, well,
I used to do, uh, I don't know how much I'll do it anymore, but, um, I would travel one of the things
I always do when I travel was I would get a feel of the local area and find a good place to eat.
And that's one of the things that me and, uh, video always would talk about is, um, not just, uh,
restaurants, but cooking as well. So, um, we never came out that I'll have Linux Fest. I made
sure that he would, uh, that we would, uh, meet up. We don't, uh, we didn't always go together
because not sometimes it was just a group of people that would go, but we'd go to the North
market or we go somewhere else. And the last time he was at a high Linux Fest that I remember
was a few years ago, uh, and I kind of remember who went with us. Um, I can't remember who the other
guy was of me, Fitty, and one of the other guys we piled into my Chevy Traverse and I took him over
to, uh, in Columbus, Ohio, a place called the Schmidt's Sausage House. And we just sat and, and
fortunate for us, it was lunchtime so they had, they have a lunchtime buffet and we sat eight and
had a good, good old time. And for me, knowing what he went through with his father and all that,
it just made me happy to be able to, uh, take him someplace and, uh, make him happy because,
he was just that kind of guy that you wanted to do anything you could to make, make the guy happy.
And he would always listen to you. And even if, if our beliefs were the same, like for example,
I'm a Christian, he knows it. He always respected that. He never, uh, he may not have been
in Christian himself, but he respected my beliefs. And that's the one thing I really appreciated
about him. So, um, that eating that, uh, Schmidt's with him was just a wonderful time. And then
two years ago, it was just me and him, uh, and we were at Southeast Linux Fest and, um,
didn't know the area all that well. So we found the cheap Chinese buffet. We did the same thing
there. And it was just a wonderful time and, uh, he also helped me, um, load the car when I got
there. And it was just a wonderful time, um, um, just, uh, socializing with him and talking
about various things. And, uh, he always liked to listen to you. And like I said, it was just
always so respectful and just just an overall great guy. Yeah, I don't think I've been on the show
for, um, even a year yet. But, um, I do remember that, uh, what first got me to come over and start
hanging out on this show and trying to help out was, uh, I was on the Linux link tech show and
I had asked a question about, I believe it was SSDs and swap. And, uh, nobody there really had
the answer at the time because I just asked it out of the blue and very next show that, uh,
Linux Logcast did was on that topic. So, uh, and I realized he did that to help me out and give
me an answer. So I, I came over and started talking with, uh, honky and him and net minor.
Yeah, if it wasn't for him, I wouldn't have gotten on this show. Or, and I wouldn't have met
you guys either. Oh, I guess he had a way of bringing people together, whether in touch or not.
Yeah, I think I'd be the only guy in the room who hasn't met him in person.
I don't know. He missed a good time. I didn't meet him in person.
Oh, that's right. I'm sorry. Yeah, with me and Joey talking earlier, he's basically the same
online as he is in person. So if you, if you knew him online and talk to him then
he doesn't put on any errors or anything like that. He's real genuine. So, that's how he is too
in person. Well, I remember I've been on what three podcasts more or less with him.
Dev random kernel panic and now this one and one of the highest orders of my life.
No, I remember when I met him in person. I was, uh, standing around checking in at, uh,
Texas Linux Fest. And, and this guy walks up and he's wearing a shirt that has all these
different podcasts listed on it. And, and I walk up to him and I say, hey, I'm on like three of
those podcasts. And he's like, oh, hey, Joe.
No, I don't know how many you guys remember, uh, Lord D, um, who was probably one of the first
guys that I know, um, those heavy Linux podcasting then also passed, um, fortunately,
the two or could be not be different. I mean, Lord D had, you know, he had his way and, um,
just like, um, but as different as they were, they were very much the same. And they both
love open source. They both love tinkering around with computers and talking about them. And
it was just fantastic. Uh, and when you get a show when they were both fun, uh, it was just
an incredible experience. Yeah, we actually, yeah, I can't think of a better. I'll go ahead.
I was just going to say we actually had Lord D on the show, um, a little while before he passed
because he was working. Lord D was working on a project for teaching people how to, uh,
uh, get started with Linux. So he was doing kind of a, uh, a whole series of how to, you know,
get Linux started up in a VM and, uh, some of the basic commands and stuff. So we had, we had
him on the show, um, probably, I don't know, he didn't get very far in that. So it was a little
while it was probably about a year right before Lord D passed. We had him on the show.
Yeah, I was just going to say I can't really think of two to better ambassadors for open source
than both those guys. Probably done. Do you know if anybody picked up that project?
No, I don't think so. I'm trying to jot my mind and I forgot what that was.
It was basically just a series of videos. That's kind of hard to think of what else to say.
Well, I even kind of like wrote some word that one. I'd like physically write them, but I, you know,
put some words together, but it just, I don't know if it feels weird saying it, you know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah. Or kind of brought up a good point about him, you know, no matter who he was talking to
or how different his views were from your own. He always found a way to, uh, kind of see both
sides of things and, uh, we were talking earlier, especially in the hacking open source community.
There's some pretty, uh, stubborn, strong-minded people that don't really,
uh, admit to, you know, other people having different views than theirs and maybe being just as valid.
And there's a lot of stuff that, I mean, 50 didn't agree on, but he was always, you know,
willing to listen to my side of things, you know, regarding tech or whatever and, and uh, he always,
you know, just listened because he wanted to understand you and he never had an agenda of like
trying to prove that he was right or anything like that. He's very friendly person and very outgoing
and, and, uh, I really admire the ability to, to just connect with people and, and get them to open
up and understand what they're saying or going through and things like that. Uh, yeah, he,
he was this individual in that way. Yeah, I never knew 50's beliefs. Could anybody fill me in on
that? Uh, well, we, me and 50 got into a few times. I mean, not aggressively or anything,
but about, uh, because, uh, regarding tech and, uh, intellectual property and things like that and,
uh, I'm almost, uh, an artist in a way when it comes to IP and stuff like that and, you know,
and we would have discussions about, uh, is, you know, is IP valid and should it exist and things
like that? Pretty vigorous discussion, but it was always, he always was able to say that,
uh, you know, I understand where you're coming from and instead of saying you're wrong or, you
know, or if we were to talk about politics or anything like that, you know, he was fairly conservative
and, I'm, I'm fairly libertarian and sometimes when we clash on that a little bit and, and just,
you know, that, just your everyday thing, but, you know, in today's environment, it seems like
that's, since the separate people were, what 50 it was like, he was willing to understand, you,
you know, even though you thought differently from him, that, that would almost bring you closer
together kind of an opposite to track kind of thing and, and so he made an effort to understand
your viewpoint and see where you're coming from instead of just shutting people out. So, uh, you
know, just, just as he brought, brought me and Joe and Ed together and things like, you know,
he got me to come on the show and meet you guys. I, I feel like he did that with everybody. So,
yeah, he, there's not a lot of people that not only can do that, but would, would go out of their
way to make that effort to, to get people with different viewpoints, you know, uh, to, to, you
know, sit down and listen and agree with each other and, and talk and just have discussions. Like,
intelligent discussions about shouting and calling people names. So, yeah, I, I really admire
for that. Well, I do, he's definitely helped keep me going. Uh, and he was certainly more open
mind as in, uh, some of the professionals, advisors that I've been dealing with for the last
dozen years or so. Yeah, he, he, he is a very, he was a very open-minded person when it came to,
this is curious, you know, he wanted to know things. He had a thirst for knowledge. So, at
least that's what I saw when I, when I talked to him online or in person, you know, always wanted
to know things, find out new things, new ways to do things. But yeah, he was like the perfect,
because of that perfect ambassador for, for Linux podcasting, open source in general, in my opinion.
And creative too. We were talking, uh, last show with, uh, his friend Randy Hall about, um,
he was talking about the, um, the, the herses that he bought. And I remember him coming on the show
and talking about how he wanted to set up some like, Singapore computer to make it, uh, do the,
like a, uh, like the acto, acto one siren type of a deal. And all the, uh, the cool modifications
he wanted to do, he wanted to get the, uh, put a rear, a backup camera on it and hook up the, uh,
that almost like Android style, um, rear view mirror and just all the cool things he wanted to do.
He's definitely a unique individual. I don't see too many people driving a
hearse around much less having two of them. Yeah, he was proud of that hearse.
I never even had a picture with the first charist. Was that? I only knew about the latest
hearse. I didn't realize he had two. Well, you don't remember, uh, him talking about, uh,
trying to add the, uh, the siren to it. And, uh, like I said, the siren, the backup camera, um,
the, uh, well, okay, he, he just bought one right before he passed. He actually bought another
hearse. Okay. So, so I knew about the first one, but I didn't know about the second one.
Right. It was, it was like really recently. Yep. Yep. I, I remember, I found it, uh,
it's like, whenever you see those old sources now, I'll think about him because I saw one, um,
on a Facebook other day, it's only done up with a big, uh, like, uh, skeleton wear to hood or
something popping out the top of it. And that knife's joking with him. I said,
man, now you can do that with, uh, your hearse. He's like, he's like, which one I got to now. I'm like,
oh, yeah. Now, did you ever see his pictures from HurseCon? I did. Those were some crazy
hurses they had there. Man, I missed those. That would have been cool. I ate that, that, that,
that there was a great picture of him, Ed, and Joe in, in front of the back of his hearse,
it takes his length fast that I still get that I kept. It came out great. Yeah. I think I got that
somewhere and that's something I'm really going to miss is just, you talk about every single conference
he went to. It was a, it was, you knew, basically, most of the show was going to be, uh, his experience
at that conference that not much else was going to be talking about because he will tell you about
every single talk that he went to. He would tell you about his travel there. He'll talk about his
travel back. He'll talk about all the places that he went to eat. And then he usually has just,
like, 50 pictures of everything between his, his, the view from his hotel room. I don't
remember seeing a whole lot of the conference itself, but it's always been like his view of the
hotel room, um, like places he would, the experience, the experience, exactly. And like, you almost
felt like you were there because you have, of everything that you got to see. Yeah. There was a
lot less talk about it itself than the staykey bot or how much the hotel costs. Yeah. It was
almost like a cook store. Yeah. One of my, uh, one of my favorite parts about doing this podcast
isn't just the fact that, um, I think it, it is one of the few things that keeps me, because I don't
do IT professionally. So this is one of the few things that keeps me still working, doing IT stuff
is bringing up content for the show, trying to find new cool things. But other than that,
besides the whole, um, IT part of it, it's the sitting around and talking with you guys. And
especially with 50 when it came to, I mean, any litany of things between, you know, booze, TV,
movies, guns, general electronics, um, single board computers, anything. I mean, we'd, we'd,
it used to be, the show used to be, we would start it like right at nine o'clock or like nine
15 and then we would do all the talking afterwards. But it turned out that, you know, most of us were,
got too tired, wanted to keep talking, but got too tired. So we kind of switched it around. So
that most of that talking, we almost did a tilt style where most of the, uh, the non, uh, Linux
talking was before the show. So we can get it in before we actually start the show. But of course,
that usually wound up where the podcast started running up until about like midnight. Yeah.
Well, well, if he was here right now, I'm sure him and I would be discussing, uh, Titans Episode
2 season two. Yeah, show talk and movie talk was very prominent. I'm so. And I'd still be trying
to convince everybody that they need to watch kill joys. Hey, that's on my watch list. I watch it
too. Is there a good way to get it? Watch the sci-fi channel, I suppose. Um, I'm not sure if it's
on Netflix or not. It's not. No, I don't know where it's streaming. I probably pay for it
through Amazon. Probably. I have a prime account. So I doubt it's free. Honky, honky, did you start the
show at 50 or did he come on later? So the show actually started, uh, five years ago, um, it was
originally me, a guy named Chatter K. Wisher and 5150. Um, so originally it was me, Kevin and
Chatter and a guy named Art V61 with, um, and, um, oh shoot, I forget the Bruce Patterson. We were all
part of a, um, a reboot of a podcast called Linux basics. And, um, it just didn't work out
all that well. And then, uh, a little while afterwards, we wanted it to, we still wanted to try
something. Some of us were involved with the reboot one to, um, to do some sort of a podcast that
was close to that sort of idea. So we, uh, put a call out and I think Linux basics forums. I believe
that's where we posted it. It's been a while. It's been five years actually. Um, and saying that we
wanted to get a podcast going. That was kind of like Linux basics, but it was more like a lug. And,
Kay, wisher, which is Kevin Wisher, uh, Chatter and myself were always, we were always, uh,
and IRC all the time. And then 50 was basically the only person who responded to our call out. And
so he joined the, uh, he joined the cast and back in what our first episode was, well, February,
around February 8th, we got the website set up, um, thanks to, um, Tony Beemus from the Sunday
Morning Linux review. He, uh, set us up with hosting. He got us, um, he suggested on, you know, um,
how to get everything going between, uh, putting all the audio into archive.org and, um,
trying to remember what the WordPress plugin is, podpress. That sounds right. Yeah.
There's a, there's a WordPress plugin. If I actually go to this site, I can probably pull it up,
but there's a WordPress plugin that, uh, works for setting up RSS feeds and stuff like that.
He, he helped us out with all that. He actually got us, um, he was our original, um, he was
our original hosting. Um, he got us set up with a mailing list and the email and everything,
like, Tony Beemus just helped us out big time. And you, another guy who was, I mean, 50 would,
when, uh, he did, um, he did the Sunday Morning Linux review when it was live at Panglicon with them,
but um, yeah. So he got us all set up. We started up our first episode came out in February 22nd,
2014. Uh, it was the five of us. And Chadder put out the, um, he came up with the, uh, the,
the promo that you hear in one of the listens that tells here's that promo, which we, we, those
don't know, we've tried, uh, we've debated, well, we've, we've decided a long time ago that we
needed a new promo, but, um, none of us have got around to actually recording one. I was hoping
to try to get 50 to record one because now I'm just going to throw this out, but, uh,
does the name honky magoo put a little something that, uh, feel like it would put some people off?
Probably. Just a male. See, and I've, I've asked people in the past, but most of them, like,
know me by this point, so they're not really put off by the name. Graded, I don't think there's
anything, I don't know, gracially involved with the name. Even if so, it's not like anyone really
cares, but the name honky. At least, at least I don't think so. I don't think you want to get offended,
but I think people kind of, I feel like people would kind of feel off by saying the name honky,
debated just going by fill, but, um, I feel like that, so me being honky magoo would, I felt like
that just saying honky magoo in the, in the promo would have, like, put people off, so I was trying
to give 50 to record something and it didn't, unfortunately didn't happen. But, uh, where was my
rambling? Oh, yeah, so chatter to that original promo. I, we, I, I really like this, uh, his promo.
I really wish. I, so after about a little while after we did, it was fairly early on. I don't
want to, I don't want to say it was after the first episode, but it was a couple of us, maybe
was a couple episodes afterwards. Chatter just basically dropped off the face of the earth.
So I don't know whether something happened, sorry, excuse me, to him or I don't know if he,
if I don't know if something happened where he felt slighted or something and he just, um,
decided to cut all ties and stuff. I don't know, but Chatter just basically dropped off the face
of the earth. Um, later on, Kevin Weissher decided that, um, he just didn't want to do any more.
Kevin, even when we did, um, the, the lyrics basics reboot, he wanted to be more of the back end
guy. So he was actually the guy who did, um, most of the editing and uploading of the show and
stuff like that. And I think he wanted more of that responsibility, as opposed to kind of the
on-air talent type of a thing, but he didn't, he decided he just didn't want to do it anymore.
So it was just down to me in 50. And it's really depressing now that it's basically just,
it's, it's down to me being the, uh, the original one. Um, I told you I kind of wrote some stuff
down. One of the things that wrote down was just talking about how kind of lonely it felt when,
I got that message from Randy Hall about, uh, about 50 passing, uh, just because, you know,
it was, it was the four of us at first doing this. And then it was the three of us and then the
two of us. And then it was just me in 50, you know, anytime when it came to the show or something,
you could always, always rely that the fifth will be there or, you know, we would talk about who
would be there, who wouldn't be there and stuff like that. And, and, and it just, it felt,
it felt kind of lonely when I first heard, when I first heard, uh, about him passing.
That's interesting. I didn't know the history of the show until now. He just described it.
No, I must have come in somewhere on the side from, you know, chasing dev random and kernel
pattern, which part faded. No, when you were on, um, good lord. So, uh, back, you came on,
actually quite a long time ago, probably about what, 2016, maybe early, I'm just saying I didn't
get in on the, you know, you're talking five years ago. Yeah. I was, I was a couple of years late.
Yeah. But when you were there, we had, um, what, uh, Taj, Fuybe, um, Father Vensh, those guys were
all regular. So, uh, Taj was actually, he came in pretty early. So when we set the, uh, like one of
our first episodes, we had a couple, we had several people, uh, come on our first episode.
But Taj was there. Uh, I think our, one of our first episodes and then he hung around for quite
some time. Taj is doing, um, show of Pokemon. Is that right? They ran them or? No, you ran them.
You ran them. That's right. Yeah. I don't know whatever happened to pick while, um, uh,
I know he hasn't been on our show for a while, but I had to ask him if he heard, um, and he did.
He did hear about him. Um, as I just remembered him, let's see, I remember probably the, the, the,
the prequel to, uh, not prequel, but, you know, the predecessor to, uh, Colonel Panics, which was
Linux Cranks, which was over on, started on talk shoe. I'm trying to remember if he was ever on, uh,
on that one. This is all before Joe even heard of any of this for stuff probably.
Yeah, probably. Well, I know 50 was on, uh, Linux Cranks. He started up on KPO and then, uh,
and then he came on about episode two of DevRandom. I think it was because I actually started
real listening to DevRandom. And I forgot how funny DevRandom was.
Yeah. Did I ever listen to, uh, Linux Cranks? I'm not sure. I think there might be some, uh,
Linux Cranks on archive.org. Definitely is. There definitely is. I found them found a
good chunk of them. Yeah, that's why when I wrote, uh, what I read, uh, two weeks ago now, um,
I was trying to think if he had ever been on there. I don't think he was. But, um, I know I was,
at one point, Chad Womburg was, um, I mean, well, definitely, 330. And, uh, that's just so many
people you're going to know over the years. And it's just these, these two, you know,
with losing Lord D in the city. It just makes me think about all the people that used to do Linux
podcasts. I don't like chess griffin and, uh, um, I'm trying to remember how many other ones
that were out there. Well, Lord, just from, uh, DevRandom, we're talking about, uh, Crayon,
ATR, uh, Düsselweb, uh, Asmuth. Asmuth? Asmuth was never on DevRandom, but he was, he was on KPO
because they joked in the first couple of episodes that because of the swearing, uh, Asmuth wouldn't
come on. Yeah, I didn't start podcasting until, uh, 2016. And my first show was Tiltz.
I forget, why did you come on? I know you were a guest first. It usually happens with any of
our people there hosting. No, I just, uh, randomly appeared one day. Um, I was new to the Dallas
area I was living in Arlington with some friends at the time. And I had absolutely nobody to talk
tech with. And, um, I had seen this server posted on the Linux logcast website. And so I started
logging in and just seeing when, uh, things were happening on there. And it just so happened,
I got on there on a Wednesday night at the right time and stuck around. Now, see, I remember how
Rich got on there originally. And that was when, uh, he was on there talking about a Bitcoin at the time.
That's when he started. Yep. I remember that. Is I remember some of that, I think.
I remember that too. I'm because he lost a bunch of Bitcoin when he did. And that, uh, Mt. Dox went down.
I think Cryptopia is still down, isn't it? I don't know, but I think I had it added up. And when
Bitcoin was at its peak, uh, the amount that Rich lost would have made him multi-multi-millionaire
many times over. Yep. At least it would have been enough to fix his plane.
Looks like Gorka and jumped away for a second. Yeah, we lost him. There he is again.
Yeah, I'd accidentally drag myself up the audio test.
Stupid laptop. We would say every time I see some, uh, something in the news about, uh, a plane
landing on a highway. I like to think about his, uh, is him.
Did he land his plane on a highway once or something? Yep.
Yeah, he crashed. He was actually on the news. Now, how many podcasts has 50 been on? Can
anybody answer that? Too many? Well, it looks like cast, obviously. Uh, HPR, Devranum,
Colonel Panic, um, Tilt. Tilt. Um, Linux basics. I want to say he was on. He guessed it on.
I want to say pod brewers. There was a couple in that area where I think he was on like one or two
shows. Like I said, Linux basics, because Linux basics, I think, was readily open, kind of like
this show where people can come on. Um, pod brewers is where they talked about, uh, home brewing.
And that was with, uh, there's two different weeks. I want to say one was with fire brown.
And, uh, door or door was one week by bomb was the other one. I don't remember.
It's been a while. Didn't he say that he had a couple of those, um, HPR audiobook reviews left
that hadn't been posted yet? No, uh, Pokey has a couple of them that haven't been posted yet.
As far as I know, they're in his freezer. Oh, bad hard drive. Yep. That sucks. Hopefully
you can recover them. Uh, I think like one or two has been slowly recovered. I think it's,
yeah, I'm not sure what the state of that is. Uh, it'd be nice to hear them. Speaking of HPR's,
my two favorite HPR's probably of all time, which is the example I use to anybody who is ever
thinking about recording an HPR and is worried about a their content or b their audio quality,
is the episode where 5150 is giving a book review from the bottom of a well. And the other one
is a recording of 5150 and tankinator snoring for three hours.
Who posted that? He posted in the chat, the episode number.
They know what? Hold on a second. I got, um, I have a link to his, um, HPR, like all the HPR's
that he did. Okay. Please put that in the show notes. Oh, yeah. Uh, I actually, if I'll post the
the show note thing I've been kind of, uh, working on, uh, in the, in the chat as well. Actually,
that's got that in there. I'll just put that in there. Wait. Yeah. I set up, uh, 134. I saw that
it hadn't been done yet. We haven't done 133 yet. Technically. Uh, I, I know, but you guys, you
had already posted some stuff in there. And I thought that was for the unnumbered show there. So
yeah, if you want to move it, move it. And yes, I did crack open a cold one. Yeah, me too.
Uh, I went with the not your father's root beer. Ah, hopefully the wife's not mad at you.
Hey, I got a, uh, I've been, I've been trying to stick with some of the, uh, local breweries
because like here on the cape, just in this general area, there is like several local breweries.
And this one is pretty well close to the cape. It's called the Mayflower, uh, brewing company,
which is where it's a plimuth. Yeah. Yeah. I can't implement mass, which is probably about like
maybe 45 minutes away from where I live. It's the Mayflower IPA. It's fantastic. I think I got a
need left inside. I have some homemade meat in a box where there's a bunch of the bottles in
there. But the last time I touched one was, again, episode 102. And that was not a good situation.
Sounds like it's time for a revisit. I mean, we've had a pretty good show so far. I have no complaints.
So I feel bad for your friend who I talked to for several hours afterwards.
Okay. And episode 102. Yeah. Who did you talk to? Uh,
friend of yours who came on to the show. I don't remember what Paul probably. All I know is I
couldn't publish that the show would hit a point where I couldn't publish it on a normal stream
because it was no longer safe for work. The only way I could publish it was on HPR. Yeah,
Paul doesn't hold back on the swearing either. So neither did I that night. So I put a link in the
show notes to in the chat to the show notes that I use. I'm at list at the very top was the more
prominent shows that he was a regular for. So HPR there's a link to the HPR website itself. And then
to the right hand side is to his what they call the correspondence page, which has all the shows
that he did. Uh-huh. Now, did he actually have anything to actually do with the Kansas Linux
Fest putting it together and stuff? I can't remember. No, I think he was just an attendee.
Okay, quite. Yeah. Well, other people, apparently there's a Kansas Linux users group or something
like that by the by the college. So there was some people in that area who all of a sudden started
one and he offered to help with things. And I don't think he want to do anything besides just
trying to promote hell out of it. Oh, I'm sorry. And which he did. And then he gave a talk at the
the first one. I don't think he gave a talk in any other ones, but he gave a talk at the first one
where like I said, how to get on a, a, a, a open source podcast. I don't know, but that's
that's the one that like I said, I'm going to put at the very end of this episode because
it's it basically he talks about how he got into Linux, how he got into podcasting and stuff.
And also at the very beginning of it, if in very 5150 fashion, he does a beer review
at the beginning of the podcast and then he goes into his, his pre-written speech.
For medical reasons, the only thing I can drink here is Coca-Cola straight, not on the rocks.
Well, it's cold, but I don't dilute it with rocks. The name of his talk was how to get yourself
on an open source podcast. Just show up. Basically, yes. Especially this show, just show up,
start talking. Does anybody know what 50's beer of choice run? A cold one. Right. Liquid.
So if you go through his, going back to the, the HBR, he has, he did a reoccurring show called
5150 Shades of Beer. Let's see if I can see how many of it up to. This one is called
is 005 River City Brewing Company Revisited. Might have been the last one. So 05, he did at least
5 episodes where he reviewed beer. Plus, like I said, at the beginning of that episode, he reviewed
some beer. I think someone might be from the local brewery, but he also visited some of the,
when he was in Kansas, he visited some of the local breweries there. But yeah, he would try
just about anything. And just like with food, I remember when I ate with him at
with South East Linux Fest, it was just, just no name Chinese buffet. That's, that's real
real close to the, to the past. And it's one of those Chinese buffets that have sushi on the barn.
And he even tried that. And I'm like, I'm not that brave, dude. Random sushi bar.
Mm-hmm. Lunches, she's sitting on ice for, who knows how long? Yeah. And then like the day before,
when I got in, one of the things that I like, that I, that uh, it's like my favorite lunch meat,
if they, if they had it at all, I'll get it. It's one called Lebanon Blowny from Palmire,
Pennsylvania, uh, made by a company, uh, by the name of Salters. And uh, pretty much the only ones
that make it. And I grabbed a pound, uh, my, my local Kroger heads. They actually have two varieties
of it. Regular and sweet. And my Kroger always has the regular at the deli. So I grabbed a pound of
that. And that's kind of what that was munching on as I was driving down. And, and uh, we were sitting
at a top and I said, hey, you want to try a piece? And of course he's carved it right up.
He'll try anything. He'll do anything. Did he say lemon, baloney?
Lebanon, LED, and no, and just like the country. Oh, okay. But it was, I think it was named after
the city that it was first started in, which was, uh, Lebanon, Pennsylvania. Do you get it in slices?
They're just like a big one. Um, I, yeah, usually slice it up like sandwich. The best I can describe
it is if you like salami, you'd probably like this, but this smoked. So they had these, uh,
big wood smoke houses. And, um, they'll hang, hang them in, you know, it looks just like baloney logs
hanging there in the smokehouse and they'll smoke it. I don't know how long you smoke before, but, um,
if you've ever watched the show, um, um, dirty jobs, uh, they did an episode there. So you're
gonna actually kind of get a good idea of what, what it looks like by the, uh, by watching that
episode and, uh, they, uh, it's all made out of beef. It's not pork or anything like that. So,
so it's, uh, I'm sure it's not healthy at all, but it's first egg taste good. Yeah, it sounds
good. Smoke baloney. I've never had that. That's gonna say smoke baloney. That sounds dangerous.
Yeah, I like to do it. Um, some people will take it and like, uh, put mustard, you know, it's very
similar also to like a summer sausage, uh, but maybe not as rich as a summer sausage. Um,
I like a little put like a mustard on it. Um, cream cheese is, uh, a lot of people take cream
cheese and spread it on it and roll it up. That's also interesting. There you go. Now the sweet
variety has a little bit of a sweetness to it. It's a little bit, um, a little bit of a different
flavor. Uh, and not actually, if, if it's between the two, I'd rather have the sweet, to be honest.
The regular is really good, but the sweet one, it's just, it's just different enough that, uh,
I like it a lot better. So, and, uh, I was able to share that with him and that, you know, like I
said, there's not anything that he was afraid to try. And I, and I bet if he was still alive and
had the, had the funds, he probably would have been an area of 51 this weekend. No, though,
that was kind of dumb what was going on at area 51. I mean, I could see the party the night before.
But actually trying to raid the place. Yeah. Wait, did people actually show up for that? Yeah. Oh, yeah.
I thought it would just face it blue over and over. It's a big ass party.
That's too funny. I'm seeing some pictures on Facebook where it shows like a massive crowd,
like about like really large crowd, like one that came over maybe like from a, uh,
Burning Man or something. But, but let's raid a heavily armed military base.
Yeah. With nothing but a bunch of idiots. In the middle of fucking deserts.
I learned a lot of, it probably entertains some board troops. I'm gonna say I learned a lot of
great words from, uh, the, uh, the memes from that too. Like I learned about Naruto running,
what a Karen is. You didn't know about Naruto running? I've seen this show. I've never heard
anybody refer to, uh, refer to things as a Naruto running. Sorry. Yeah. I, I must be too sheltered
for, for such sophisticated stuff. Basically, it's just running with your arms behind you.
I don't remember what some of the, uh, the, the good stuff I learned from the, uh, area 51 attack
plans. Everybody dies? Well, yeah. And then the troops go home and sleep like a dead. The troops
go home and watch Supernanny. That sounds like, sounds like this project was invented by the Palestinian
Suicide Squad. Are you sure Monty Python wasn't producing that protest? I mean, it makes that sketch
about the fellow being executed by being chased over a cliff by a bunch of naked girls and football
helmets seem reasonable. Yeah. I love Monty Python. Always look on the backside of
life. Well, I always liked his, how not to be seen. Gorkhan, did you say 50? He was on oxygen?
Last time you saw him? Yep. He, uh, that's because one of, I actually think it's kind of,
so it might sound a little funny. That's kind of, I think, one of the reasons why he bought the first
horses because he's singing about the next time he came out South East Linux Fest. Instead of
flying, he was singing about, um, driving and he was contemplating how to, um, I don't know if
he was going to sleep in the back of it. We didn't put a pass them, but we can see a plenty of
room back there. Yeah, you can at least lay down in it. Makes me wonder if the family's,
what it's made for. So it makes me wonder if the family's going to use one of his horses
taken cemetery. Well, he was cremated. Yeah. They still use the horse. I don't say he can still do that.
Just put him in the passenger seat. There you go.
After getting the hers, he, uh, I think he bought a shirt that said last responders on it.
I thought that was fantastic. Yeah, that was hilarious. Perfect. Perfect. Yeah, he always had
it warped since the humor that I could appreciate, even though with my, uh, more pedestrian beliefs.
And if you're, um, dug through a little bit of his Facebook page, you'll see one of the, uh,
I don't know if it's one of his brothers that posted it. Well, it had to have been because it was
a t-shirt instead of the Donald Greer fan club. Yeah, evidently, it was, um, something his
fraternity did while he was in it still. Yeah, I read that, uh, Eulogy, that one of his fraternity
brothers posted about him, basically saving the fraternity from bankruptcy. They were so far in
debt. It was really interesting. Did y'all have a chance to read that? Yeah. I did.
The other things I noticed too was some of his pictures from, from his time in the frat.
And he's always a big guy, but he was never really big fat guy until much later.
It wasn't even really big. He just had a pop belly. Yep. I'm trying to remember if he came with us
when we went, um, there was the, years of South Sea Select Fest was at, um, in Spartanburg.
And I know we made a pilgrimage to a place called the Carolina Barbecue. And I think he went with
us on that one. Then we also went to the beacon right then down there. I know you went there,
at least one of those. Oh, yeah. Yeah. We'd always look up barbecue and, uh, usually it's some,
like, uh, I remember, I do remember he came with us when we went to, uh, like, first day of
that, when most of us got there, we were all hungry when we got there. And so we went across,
across the street from the hotel where, when, uh, South was at, at, uh, Spartanburg was a
little Asian, uh, restaurant else had sushi there. And I pretty sure he went with his
only one on that trip. But the wild part is, and I'm trying to dig it out. I was trying to
dig around and find some of the pictures. I can't find any of the pictures. I know I took some
pictures there. I'll always do. So I went on to his Facebook page and I started scrolling around
on it. And one of the things I found was, uh, last Christmas, when he did the, uh, the
groupness, he has the pick, the cardboard cut out of group that he put, uh, lights all over and
hung some, uh, some decorations on. And then in the background, you can see one of the, uh, the phones.
And I forgot about how he, he liked those old, uh, I think they were called princess phones,
the old-style, uh, rotary phones. Oh, really? Yeah. So he wanted to get something, uh,
set up where he can, um, I think he bond up, uh, networking him or getting him set up so that
they would, uh, all go to, I think it all went back to a Google voice account on his network.
I know he was working on that a while back. With Astros, I think, right?
Yeah, I think so. But he has like the old rotary, uh, I think, uh, I think they called it a
princess phone. We had a whole conversation about, uh, shows one to, uh, the phones of him time
seeing the background just reminded me of that. Oh, there's one. I need to see if I can get
this pulled up over on, uh, my Linux laptop. I was flicking through his pages that I did tag
him on. There's a picture of us at, um, Southeast Linux Fest. And I think there's, uh, Tom Lawrence
is in the picture. Uh, Ken, Kevin O'Brien, Tracy Holtz is in that too, is gosh, that's back in 2015,
Chase. It's weird. I know, so I never, I'll talk about this before, but my Facebook is,
I basically just went on Facebook and started following like family members just because I was
upset the fact that my wife knew more about what was going on with my family than I did just from
Facebook. But so I never, I never like, uh, attended him on Facebook or anything, but I know he, um,
it wasn't until the fire that he decided to actually join Facebook. And one of the big reasons
were, uh, some of like his old friend buddies actually, like, they reached out to him after the
fire. And so his way of keeping in touch with them was through Facebook. I'm gonna upload it to
my Google photos account that way. I can give you a link to KCR on Facebook. Yeah, I remember when
the fire happened, he was really upset. I was upset because he was so upset about it. He's really
tragic. Well, it was, it was, he was cooking something and then went up all of sleep, wasn't it?
It was cooking some fried chicken or something like that. His dad was still alive at that time too,
if I remember right? Yes. Um, his dad had to go to, so the between, so initially I think
when it happened, he stayed at his, um, friend's house, the guy who lives on his property.
And then he got a place in town. And all during this time, I think just from smoke inhalation or
something, his dad was in like, uh, like a rehab type area. And then his dad, I wonder whether his
dad came with him. Uh, yeah, dad came with him back to the place that was in town. And then, um,
him and his dad were talking over plans about building the house, but I don't think his father made
it to, uh, the home's completion before he passed. And from the one picture I saw of him and
at hers, I think he actually moved into it. Looks like a fairly suburb in kind of neighborhood too,
it looked like. Well, yeah, when he was, right after the fire, he was back in town, but then he was
uh, back on the original property. And the property is big enough that they, um, I'm out of
house. I don't know how far away the house, the, uh, new house was from the old house, but he had
to set up the new house. Like, um, what did they call it? Burma where it's like partially in the
ground, but it's, uh, and then it was, it was facing me like a, I think it was a man-made pond they
had in the property. Burm. Yeah, it was like, yeah, partially in the hill or something man-made hill.
Yeah, that put that in the mumble chat. That picture I took at, um, Ohio Linux Fest in 2015.
That's, I know, door was there and, um, he had managed to get a suite there. I think I was outside
and wasn't, wasn't connected to, uh, um, his room, but he wasn't managed to talk to the
powers of being got a suite and that's where we were hanging out. I wanted to say I've seen that
picture before. Yeah, it was on Facebook, yeah. The guy on the right with the glasses, I know, um,
the one that, that's far, far right, that's, uh, Tracy Holtz. I mean, is that Kevin O'Brien? Yes.
Who were the other two after that? He did bring that picture back up on a second.
Ha, ha, ha. There it is. Okay, got the, the one on the far left is Tracy, then Kevin with the one
with the beard, uh, in the middle on the left hand side table. No guilt. Yeah, I don't know if
you had discount on that day or not. Um, but then to the right of dawn is Tom Lawrence, and I don't
remember the other two guys. That's the thing is there's so many people I've run into over the years
and I, I know people by face, I've seen them before, met them before, but couldn't tell you their names.
The guy on the right is Tom Lawrence. Yeah, the one wearing the Android shirt. Yeah.
Yeah, it's Tom Lawrence. It looks like, uh, 30 pounds heavier, too.
It's Tom, the one that was no longer on the show. That would be Matt. Oh, okay, because he's in jail.
Right. It's Tom is the guy who showed up after Matt. What, what did he end up in jail for?
Grisectual imposition of a minor. Yeah. He's also Matt, uh, also went in, uh, went Mongo.
So, uh, we, we, we were still doing beat, uh, um, um, uh, Mongolian barbecue then, and that day they had a, uh,
special on this Sunday. It had probably about 13 or 14 scoops of ice cream.
And he ordered that and was starting to eat it. I don't know if you ate the whole thing or not, but the dude's
diabetic. I'm like, really? I don't get that. Who is that? Who's eating the ice cream? Matt
Anders, former SMLR person. And where was this room? That was at the, I think it was at the jury.
Well, that's a real, yes, room in Columbus. Yeah. Yeah. Actually had the pleasure of meeting, uh, Tracy Holt's
door, um, Rich, um, Jonathan Nadeau, uh, at the one of the last of the, uh, North Eastland Express.
Yeah, I never got to go to that. Yeah. I really wish the, uh, the,
they were still doing it. Well, I'm going, I'm going to go down to a high electronics
fest. I don't know. I don't like living in the same town as the fest. It seems like it's
convenient, but when your family depends on you and wants you to be around, uh, on the weekends,
uh, it doesn't always work out for you to get it for your schedule. I sometimes play kind of like,
like going on a southeastern express the best. I understand what you're saying. Plus,
I will say this southeastern express is probably one of the few that's going to not put up with a
lot of the social justice see kind of things. What? Well, Jeremy, um, if you want to listen to his,
um, kind of his theory and how to put it together on Linux Fest, then probably the best place to go is,
the show, um, asked no, they interviewed him, not this year, but year before,
and he basically gave his talk he did as, as the final keynote in 2018. One of the things that he
does is when you submit for papers, uh, he doesn't even ask, uh, what sex you are in the papers,
and he chooses it basically on merit only. Well, yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, and a lot of these
festivals want to know all the different things about you. Like, and there was one one year where
Ohio Linux Fest was, they had like a whole, um, track, uh, specific for, for women, uh, but
there's nothing wrong with that, you know, but, um, there's been rumors that, that, that, there's
where talks that probably should have been accepted, that weren't accepted because the person
talked doing the top wasn't necessarily a woman or a man or, or something like that. So,
I think that's a tough situation, though, because I mean, you look at it as that at most these
fest and like most of podcasts and stuff like that, and they're predominantly dominated by guys.
So they're trying, if, if they're trying to, you know, um, get more women involved with things,
if they accept a, a talk that might not be as good as a talk that a guy gave because they want
to get other women involved, I'm kind of okay with that because they're trying, they're,
they're trying to expand, you know, get, like I said, get more, more, more people involved,
more women involved with something that they, they might not feel comfortable getting involved
with because there's probably, uh, promote and that one beer did pretty good, uh, predominantly men,
you know, so I'm, I'm kind of okay with that. Well, you know, I'd rather, I want to see
the top. Yeah, I don't care who's giving it, whether it's a man or a woman,
I wouldn't mind seeing more women involved, of course, but I'm looking at more of a fundamental
level and convinced them to go into the, into a tech, um, at, you know, basically at the starting
point, you know, like, uh, in school and stuff like that, you know, um, I don't, you know,
really, I'm not a fan of like, uh, Jeremy would call it genitalia based, uh, discussions,
you know, or, or, or picking a top based on genitalia. I, I, I, I understand wanting to get more
women involved. That's great. That's a good idea. But, but, you know, listen, that is a worthy, uh,
talk. You can listen to it. Um, you need to download it on the, from Asnoah, uh, or, um,
it's also on YouTube. So, but it was a really good discussion and it talks about all the pitfalls
of going into that. Like one of the, one of my favorite parts of that was there was a situation
at the fast. And I think, I think 51, 50 was at that one, uh, but where, um, they had this, uh, party
and, uh, um, a guy supposedly slipped a business card down the blouse of a female attendee. And,
apparently the guy who did it, uh, wasn't the person whose name was on the card. So, he almost
kicked out the wrong person, almost got the wrong person fired from his company because it was the
actual vendor that, um, card that was actually there at the fast. Yeah, I remember that story.
So, and also talks about, you know, whether you have a, uh, code of conduct and stuff like that
and what kind of code of conduct is and, and why, uh, itself is one of the few that doesn't have
it. Basically, their code of conduct is, don't be about head. I like that code of conduct.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, uh, you know, uh, in his discussion, he talks about, he actually talked to
lawyers when, when, when he's talking about that because he's thinking about it, you know, because
he thought, you know, all the other effects of doing it. And the lawyer came back, came back,
says, why are you trying to, uh, basically be the own law at the fast, you know,
basically write law for your fast. Like, you're, that's not something you should be doing
or something. I'm not probably not saying it right. Go listen to that show. It's a good one.
Is that, is that no, is there a part of the Georgia broadcasting?
Yes, no, he's been independent for a while. Yeah, kind of dropped off my feet. But, uh, no, um,
I think Noah was kind of asked to leave the network after the merger with, um,
Linux Academy. Was there a reason for that? Um, they said it was because he did that, uh,
seven days of shows, one right after the other. But, um, I don't know if that was the actual
reasoning or not. What do you came, first came on to the, um, uh, no, Blake, I'm the name of the
show, whatever the, the main Linux show was with basically him and Chris Linux action show.
That's it. It's been a while since I've listened to anything from jubber broadcasting. When
he first came on, the Linux action show, he did a lot of talking about like, uh, stuff he was
doing for like home automation and all the stuff he was talking about seemed really cool.
And the stuff that Chris does sounds really stupid. I don't like Chris that much. Yeah.
To think I used to have a problem with, uh, with Brian Lunduke and, uh, not a problem with Chris
and now it's pretty much the opposite. Well, so here's my thing. I liked Brian Lunduke up into
the point where, um, what was the show he did? Man, see, again, it's had a late at night or just
that one beer. Um, he did a show with a couple of other, it was like, uh, three other people.
I have that bad voltage, bad voltage. Yeah, it's still in production. Yeah. So we're around
the time he was doing bad voltage, uh, was the time when the guy from, um, think penguin,
think penguin was going around asking people to, um, you know, write in to the, with the FCC,
because the FCC was going on a thing where people can't, um, you know, uh, you know, uh, uh,
root their, their routers and, uh, change the firmware and the routers and stuff like that to try
to make that illegal. And, um, they're like, hey, this is no good with it. So we should all write
the FCC, just let them know, hey, that's not any good because, you know, it's our device. We should
be able to do what we want with it and whatnot. But, um, so they had the guy from think penguin who
is on there talking about it, uh, on there talking about it. And then afterwards, he just basically,
like, tore the guy apart and was talking, was basically like, who cares? No one wants to do,
no one wants to, uh, root their routers or anything or, well, nobody cares about any of that.
Anyway, it's just, he was a complete dick to the dude afterwards. That just, yeah, it just
completely turned me off. It's, it goes back to kind of what you're saying. You know, it's,
it's kind of a rule I live by, I live by, like, even if you don't necessarily agree with a guy,
don't be a dick. Yeah. I mean, everyone can be a dick from time to time. Even 50 was a dick sometimes,
but not very often with them. Right. But, you know, it's especially when you're on a podcast,
and especially a very popular one, just, you know, just don't, like, if you don't agree, just
see, you don't agree and walk away, you know, and this I didn't know. I went to Brian Lundig's website,
and he's the marketing director for tourism. Is he? Yeah. I know he was part of, uh, he wouldn't, uh,
the guy who talked about, after what the heck the name before was, but, uh, open the Zeus.
Yeah, he was either like an ambassador or something. Yeah. Yeah, I haven't watched, uh,
I used to watch a lot of Jupiter broadcasting, but I haven't lately. Yeah, me either.
I love their security podcast, but I guess the, uh, I wasn't the Canadian guy moved on.
I'm more excited about the Pinebrook Pro than I am about anything curious that has to be honest.
Well, Pinebrook has what they have, uh, the Pinebrook Pro, they have a tablet coming out,
and then they have the phone, which is the phone is supposed to be what, $150? Good question.
And then I just saw something on Twitter where they're going to put, they're going to have a,
uh, a watch, a wearable for it. A Pine, uh, Pine watch. Okay, I can care less about that to be honest,
but yeah. Pine time. Pine time, that's it. Are you kidding me? I want something that to replace my
pebble. Let's see rock chip. How cool would that be to have a Lennox phone in a Lennox watch?
Right. See a lot of people don't remember some of the stuff that I went through when I,
yes, I've been a Lennox guy off it on, you know, I still running that, you know, um,
next to me is a surface book pro running windows. That's, I'll tell you this. This is a 50 related
thing. He was the first person I told about that. Just because I don't really want to be judged
by it because I do it, do it because I use Adobe Creative Cloud to do a video edits because I'm
tired of the, the suckiness that is Lennox video editing. Once you get much, be above, uh, basics,
the Lennox video editors fail for me. They, you know, they just, there's more that I want to do,
uh, instead of, uh, trying to figure out how to make it work from wonder.
Well, I, I, I, for the most part, agree with you. Uh, so, see, I'm a pragmatist when it comes to
that. I love to use Lennox, and I did, for, for two to three years, I did use Lennox only
for editing videos. But, um, after, uh, not getting one sleep, uh, for two years and around,
I said, that's it. I gotta fix this. Well, uh, like I said, say, um, there are, uh, video editors
that are easier to use on Lennox and then, but they, they, they're not as robust as the ones you'll
find on windows and then there'll be things like, uh, what is a cat in life that probably
has the ability to do all the things that you can do on some of the, uh, more robust video editors.
But to the best of knowledge, it's a giant pain to get there.
Yep. Yep. I try, in fact, I tend to add something to Lennox fest, uh, this year,
I attended a talk on cat in life, and I did, uh, try messing with it a little bit, and it is
getting better, but still, you know, I mean, the biggest, I think the biggest thing, um,
that Dobie's tools has going for is the fact that it can leverage the graphics card, um,
if you have one, uh, and amazingly enough, I don't have a discrete graphics card in my main editing
rig anymore, which is my service pro, service pro. I do have one, uh, uh, identity card in my
Lenovo that I still have. So, um, even, uh, um, on the Intel cards, you can kind of leverage
the card for doing renders, and the renders took two or three times as long on Katie,
Katie in line, as it did, uh, on Creative Cloud. So on, uh, premier specifically, and time is
money, especially when I'm trying to produce a, a video Saturday night for church on Sunday morning.
I've used open shot, and I've enjoyed using open shot. Uh, that's good, but it's, it's, um,
stability is something to be desired though. Yeah. Yeah, it's one of those things where you have
to save constantly because of the good chance at my crash soon. Uh-huh. Yep.
Quite a few times I, it crashed and I lost an hour's worth of video editing, even though I saved it.
Pretty simple to use though. It's got a nice interface. Oh yeah. Yeah. Especially the, uh,
the latest version of it, um, because they made a big change not too long, uh,
interface wise. And, uh, it's, it's very nice. You think you figure out the stability.
I don't think I've used it. I don't think I've used it like six or seven years actually.
So back when we were doing the, uh, the Linux basics reboot, I, uh, did a video for, um,
that's kind of a quick basics of, uh, how do you use QEMU to emulate a, uh, a desktop, a little
different than virtualization of a desktop. And, um, I did all the editing and all the, uh,
and stuff and, um, an open shot. Yeah. It was, it was on like an old laptop.
There was like a dual core and this thing was just, it would just crash constantly. It was basically,
like, making it into things, save automatically, making it into things, save automatically,
making that it safe. Mm-hmm. Okay. Never know when a winner was going to crash on you.
But it was, it was very easy to use. And see the layer, uh, who we got to have a degree in, uh,
something in order to use it. Uh, which one? Sinalara. Don't think I've seen that one.
What about Reaper? I'm, uh, Reaper Audio Production. Yeah. Somebody was mentioning it on one of the
podcasts I listened to. Don't ask me which one. There's too many. I hadn't heard about that one.
Interesting. If you're looking for digital audio workstation and don't need it to this, then, uh,
I wouldn't go with that. I would go, um, uh, shoot, um, forget the one, the one with the jacks.
Um, you know, what is the name of that? I used to use it to actually record podcasts with it.
What for audio? Yeah. The best one that I know of is Audacity.
And that, that's a nice, basic one. There's another one that's, uh, more, uh, along the lines of Reaper.
Our door. And that's it. Our door. I remember using the door door. Is that still around?
Yep. It is. It is. And I think they've gotten tacked a little bit more stable nowadays.
What is the Adobe, uh, audio production software?
Audition. Yeah. I remember using cool edit Pro before a dovey bottom. And when they did,
I switched to our door now. So that was a long time ago. Yep. See what, uh, when, at the time,
when I was using our door, what I would basically do is I would have another app on, um,
actually, I've had multiple monitors set up with that. But basically, I have an app queued up with
like my theme song and stuff. And I would do the intro. Then as soon as I got the point in the intro
that I wanted to start the song, um, I would hit the button and would start the song. And basically,
I would record everything in one shot. So I wouldn't have to edit much. That's back when I did the
Life and Ohio podcast, which I'd known I could do. Yeah. Why don't you still do that? I used to watch.
Um, I'll do like, um, I've done most of the stuff I do for Life and Ohio, um, that I would have done
on the podcast. I'll do on YouTube now. Um, it's just, you know, when, when something stops being
fun for me, I'll stop doing it. And they're just gonna stop being fun for me doing that.
Oh, okay. I thought you were talking about you could do in the Life and Ohio YouTube.
Oh, no. I still do that. But I just don't do it at a regular and then the regular
interval at all. Basically, whenever I do it, I do it. No schedule at all. I don't even know if I
could ever keep a schedule, to be honest. Was 50 still working for the schools recently? I don't
know. See, that's one thing a lot of people didn't know. He did. See, I know recently, I'm not sure if
he was doing the, um, the cattle at all, but I know he, um, and I'm forgetting where the name,
what the name of it is when, uh, he lets other people work his, the fields for the wheat,
but he's, I think, crop sharing, crop sharing. So he, yeah, he was crop sharing the, uh, his,
his wheat harvest. So he wasn't doing the harvest anymore. Um, he talked about the cattle like
they were around, but I'm not sure. I'm pretty sure. Actually, you know what, he probably was still
doing the cattle. I think he was just raising them and then selling them. I don't know what he
did. He never really went into too much detail about that, but I think he was still doing, um,
working for the school. I know he would always talk about, I guess, computers that had been
deserviced by the school. He had picked up, uh, messed around with them. The user was different
servers and stuff like that. Yeah. Apparently it stacks and stacks of laptops that I got lost on
a fire. I would have liked to have seen his place. I know he was quite the collector, especially
technology. There's a photo out there that he took where he has a, what was it? Somebody did a
painting of 330 and it's hanging up in his bathrooms. Is that right? Who painted that? I don't know.
If G plus was still around, I'd probably be able to find the videos on a video that, uh, picture.
Yeah, I'd like to see that. That's where I first started talking to him on G plus. I miss G plus.
Maybe he's okay, but it's not as good. Yeah, I agree with that. There's one thing, and I need
to talk about it next week, uh, on our show there, Joe, but, uh, have you guys heard of the Commander
X-16? Nope, not at all. What is it? Ah, essentially, it's a re-imagination of what would you
during the time of eight-bit computers? What would your dream eight-bit computer look like?
And that's essentially where the Commander X-16 will be. 65-02 base device. It's got more modern
graphics. Go through up the VGA, and it's being done in partnership. Well, initially he was doing
some of the programming for it, but the guy who does e-bit guy is kind of the guy who started this
project. Who is the commander? Is that the name of the company or what? That's the name of the computer.
They're trying to get close to Commodore without getting sued. Exactly.
No, okay. An interesting feature is that they may either use a 65-02 or the 65-216 or whatever it is.
The 16 megabyte 65-02. Yeah, the one that was in the Apple 2GS.
However, they're planning on using bankswitched memory instead of, if they go with these,
the big address-based machine, they're not going to use its address-based.
Yeah, he was trying to do the layout to make it simple for people to program on it, both in
basic as well as a 65-02 assembly. I thought they had an actual website. The only thing I'm
planning for Facebook group, but Fitty would have got a kick out of this thing.
The interesting thing is someone would think that you could take the big address-based machine
and by using appropriate library calls, make it fake bankswitching.
Anyway, the one thing they already have right now is they have a GitHub page for it,
and you can download the emulator. They also have early stage PCBs.
Yep. The graphics chip is actually, I think it's the FPGA-based graphics chip called Gura.
Yeah, their original sound chip wouldn't work at the higher clock speeds if they want to run it.
They're running at eight gigahertz instead of the one or two.
Yeah, and that's the other thing too. They were trying to, when they made the board,
they were trying to basically make this board such that it would be using available parts.
So since the sitchip no longer available, they couldn't just put that on there,
but there is an expansion board that lets you put stuff on the bus.
So, technically, you can probably put a sitchip right on there,
which if you didn't know, the sitchip was the sound chip for the Commodore 64.
Yeah, and once you can put one on, you can get adapters that will put two.
Yep. I've been following the 8-bit guy stuff,
although I must admit with the lowest machine that I'm actually keeping in any kind of service as a P1.
I might do it with that pinion.
Freedos, it's now a shelves project because of other things, but Freedos is a 16-bit,
but a DOS, but it understands fat32 and can have long file name support and stuff.
Basically, it's DOS blown out about as far as you can go without going 32-bit, pure 32-bit.
What other projects you got working on?
He said you were working on some other stuff.
Yeah, well, I got the new Windows Lash VM laptop.
I've got a single core AMD 64 server project that is also shelved at the moment.
This is going to be strictly a hack to see how for remote management,
again, that might be replaced with a Raspberry Pi that would have more performance.
All gentlemen, I'm going to go ahead and get on out of here for myself.
Nice talking with you guys, and 50 wherever you're in a better place.
Thanks for coming on, Joel.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, welcome anytime, and I hope you come back soon, and I hope you come back for happier days.
Indeed.
That was nice of him to come on.
Yep.
I thought the other guys were going to show up too.
Yeah, and surprise they didn't.
Yeah, they were all talking about it.
I'm looking forward to go through in 50s, HPR, his old show, this and this and so on.
Yeah, I heard he had some good ones.
Especially the snoring one.
Did he post that or did somebody else post it?
He posted it. If it's under his page then, he posted it.
What's the story behind that?
It was, so the channel that were a lot of people between the HPR, KPO,
Dev random, and a couple of podcasts all hang out with is the RSE channel,
Outcast Planet.
So one year, a bunch of people in Outcast Planet decided that they're going to have a,
it's not even really considered an unconference.
It's basically, it's the hallway track on steroids.
It's basically just everybody from Outcast Planet, people who can, from Outcast Planet,
all get together and meet somewhere and so they called it OCP Live, Outcast Planet Live.
And in 2014, they all met up in Pennsylvania and they all hung out.
I think they rented a cabin or something.
There's actually the, so the one with him sleeping is,
where is it?
So let's see, we have OCP Live 2015, the cooking show.
Oh yeah, and then OCP Live 2014, the nightlife of Ellsburg, Pennsylvania.
That's actually the one where it's three hours of him and tank and they're snoring.
So I think they rented out a, like a cabin or something and they all basically just stayed
at the cabin and see if that the cooking show gives any details, at least some of the other people
there. Let's see, Brom and Bricktastic, which I think is Brom's girlfriend or something.
50, I don't know, it actually has a bunch of pictures from there too, but I know they did,
they did, so the OCP Live 2014, I want to say they did one other one too.
Hey Danny.
Yeah.
Are you still running that transformer?
The Asus?
Yeah, I haven't played with it in a long time, I've been playing with some other stuff.
I'm getting ready to move here in a few weeks so I haven't had too much time.
I still have it, it's still charged, ready to go.
Cool.
Where are you moving?
Pulled up far to North Dallas from Richardson and just getting a different place.
A little bit smaller, one bedroom, instead of two, moving location.
They're going up on the rent where I'm at now and I was like, yeah, I was hoping to have a
duplex by now. I've been looking for a, by a duplex, but I want to buy both halves of it
so that I can rent out half and live in the other half and nobody wants to sell both sides.
They neither want to sell one side or the other so it's been hard.
I got that Rock Pro 64 up and running with Libre Elect that's working good.
Oh, I got a new alarm system in but it runs Android or some version of Android.
I'm not sure what, but it's just, it's from China and it came with two motion detectors and two
little sensors for your doors and windows and you can get up to your Wi-Fi router and send you a
push notification if it goes off. Just got that in the other day. I haven't, I haven't messed with
it but I'll put that in the new apartment. Cool.
In the new TV you get that. That's, I got one of those OLED TVs, the LG makes.
What size? Let's say 65 inch. It's like thinner than my phone and crazy.
Yeah, they have got a little crazy. Does it taper? Is it thicker at the bottom?
It has like a small box on the very bottom that sticks out a little bit that's for
your connections, you know, so because you can't plug. It's thinner than in my can HDMI
cable so you have to have something there for your connections. But other than that, the whole
thing is is the same thinness all the way around. Awesome. Yeah, I didn't want them at that.
I went to that Nebraska furniture market for the first time. I've never been there.
That place is huge, man. Have you been there? No, I haven't been there. Yeah, you should check
it out. It's a neat place. I've got everything but far and away those OLED, I think Sony uses an
LG panel for their OLED TV and then of course the LG TV. But I compare those to like everything
that OLED display is just kind of in a class of its own. I think they make
commit computer monitors too. It'd be neat to have a monitor like that. But it's just the
contrast and how black and the blacks make it look like TV's actually off, you know, there's no
because my old TV had a backlight and it's in the black count gray almost. It's pretty amazing.
No, I've had basically nothing for projects for a little while now. I haven't even bust out the
soldering iron except for one small project like two weeks ago. Yeah, I picked my little
key fob alarm with the soldering iron the other day but other than that I haven't been too much.
I've been doing some spring cleaning. There's a town project that's
or part of some work's going to be done around my house to give me a all-weather waterline
before winter. You know how weather what? Water supply? So town water as opposed to a pump or well?
No, town water and a solid town waterline opposed to one that was looking like something out of
the Beverly Hillbillies. Got it. Also, ever since they cut off that line, my cellar has been a lot
drier. Was it a background or what? No, the waterline, the leaking waterline was below ground.
When they discovered that it was town water leaking up in the middle of my driveway
and that lower water was going out of the pipe and through the meter, the town decided to cut the
waterline and now I have to have a private contractor hook up, hook it back up. Oh, so they paid
to cut it off because there was water going everywhere that they weren't getting paid for but you
have to pay to get a hook back up. Yeah, they put it in the waterline but if it fails after that,
it's on your dime and then they bill you for the if you have sewage, they'll bill you for every
gallon that goes through the pipe whether it goes down the sewer or not. There was supposed to be a
replacement, some work on the end of my property that would include this operation but that project
has been delayed. It's been slipping one year per year. So if I get an all-weather waterline,
I don't care if the rest of the project is completed in the next decade or four years because
I don't mind not having to pay sewer bills. Hunky, have you been missing with anything lately? Yeah,
so I mean recently the the new version of enlightenment came out and that being one of my favorite
desktop environments. I wanted to try something that I had heard about on Tiltz quite a long time ago
that's called Bedrock Lakes which is where it'll use like you can run Debian but also use Pac-Man
so you can pull things from the arch repository and run them on your on Debian so I tried that out
but apparently it apparently it works out pretty well for things like smaller packages like if you
wanted to run like a version of VLC from arch on a Debian system then that would probably work
out well but desktop environments apparently don't. So I tried that out and completely
borke the system and just went back to basically a Zubun 2 with a PPA for enlightenment.
Other than that, not much. I'm actually going to just for for the sake of the experimental sake
I'm going to try Bedrock again and then just do use something small like like a VLC or something
like that. Try to grab some application just a singular application as opposed to something
large like a desktop environment just to play with it and see how well it actually work and
how far or how long you can actually use this system like that without putting them in just to
package dependency hell and things for things but yeah that's pretty much what I've been up to.
I ran into some problems on most of my machines because of their aging nature. I've been running
XFCE but I occasionally have to run a QT app and I found that trying to get some of the QT
settings on a non QT desktop can be a real pain. Oh yeah like what? Well like the package that I'm
going to be running a QT desktop for is going to be the editor notepad QQ which is a worker like
for the notepad plus plus on windows but when I first compiled it the menu headings were microscopic
and trying to fix that was a pain. So you compiled it from source? I compiled it from source because
the snap package would not recognize some files that are off that were not on my home directory or
something. Other things would recognize it but this snap package just wouldn't. I got it running
but the menu headings file etc were very tiny on my 1080p plus screen 1920 1200. So I
so I've fiddled around trying to get some of the QT tuning utilities to work but they just didn't
want to. I couldn't set things up or I couldn't export the right variables or what have you.
Now what operating system you're running? Just run two or zip one two? Okay yeah I think the GTK
it just didn't have the right tools to they haven't packaged the right tools to allow
QT applications to be tuned on a GTK desktop. I'm not sure that's the problem I picked you there's
just like some library somewhere that's that because any time I've run a QT application that I've
downloaded off of their repositories I've never had a problem anything like where I can't see
anything or it doesn't you know it looks completely off but that's why I'm wondering whether
whether because you compiled it from source that there is something missing like some.
Well I kept I have downloaded the QT plugins and whatnot so I've I've basically been throwing
stuff at the wall and trying to get it to see what sticks and I finally got something
that is tolerable but I especially on the new machine I may go for a more QT based
environment KDE or LXQT or both. I'll be honest I probably an LXQT
from my understanding LXQT still runs pretty late. Well I've been told that if you can get
the plasma desktop it's it's a lot lighter than KDE traditionally is and from my understanding
LXQT in QT form not the hybrid that 1804 runs is basically KDE light I mean it is all QT based
stuff they're very much shifting away from the LXDE GTK remnants. Did you guys ever see that
um the QT or not QT plasma mobile demo they had on YouTube? No I haven't seen it. It was good
yeah I mean it's just the demo it's pretty basic but I don't know what it's on it was on
they're running plasma mobile making calls and taking pictures and stuff like that but it was
pretty slip. All right guys I hate to say it but it's starting to get a little late for me.
I do have the recording it has all the early stuff that was going on when you were driving
honking a little bit before that just let me know tomorrow how you want me to get it to you.
All right all right thanks guys I'll talk to you later. I've got the recording too if something
goes wrong with yours so let me know. Okay thanks yeah I think we should probably just at this
point just call it a night. Yeah I'm about to head home getting off work. Thanks for doing this
though I really like to hear the old stories how the podcast got started with shift B and all of
your guys the way you remembered them. That was cool I'm glad you did it. Yeah it definitely didn't
feel right to just keep moving on without doing something like this that's for sure but I
I definitely enjoyed sharing stories and stuff. I wish there were more people came on to be able
to share more stories but I definitely enjoyed it. Yeah it was great but he's gone and
a rest in peace and I'll always remember it got a great guy and I'm glad that he
that he motivated me to jump on here and and meet you guys too Joe too so that's been good.
Yep all right that matter honky off if you guys later have a good weekend. All right have a good
night sir. An email sent in my can fallen. I was in the macroom pottering away when he
speak notified me at 5,150 and passed away. I went back to the computer and read the announcement
in the IRC logs and confirmed the news. Some new night I never met, never seen in my life and didn't
even know his real name was gone and I was in the macroom crying my eyes out. Crying for the loss
of a friend. When can he become a friend? People have been socializing since they're born on
humans, be it at the campfire, the forge, pub, hairdresser, sports club, church or wherever.
For us it was my Linux podcasting, you are now because you share a common interest.
If you were into Linux podcasting then you could not help but get to know 50,50.
And I turned up everywhere if not on the podcast themselves he was commenting on them.
I have 619 messages from him about HPR alone. He submitted his first show back in 2010 and
has been a regular since then. At some point after that I knew that he was on my
specialist, on people who I could rely upon to feel the queue if needed. And I sat there
crying I realized that he could also sneak onto my list on friends. I'm not always being
a fan of the new year show but now I'm glad for it. While I may never get to share a near
with him anymore or take him upon his promise to let me fire off some rounds on his farm,
I did at least get to shoot the breeze with him for many a happy hour.
But my old friend you will be missed.
I just wanted to share a few thoughts, following the passing of our friend, 51.50.
50 was an affable guy, quick to wade deep into a conversation.
Always bringing gusto wherever he went. I was fortunate to know 50 a little bit.
I remember the first time that he and I interacted, I believe it was on an HPR
New Year's Eve podcast. That was fun. Then soon I started seeing him around
the different places. And then when I started participating in the Linux lug cast,
50 and I would frequently stay on after the cast was done.
And we get to know each other a little bit better.
50 was a great guy. He was fun. He always had something interesting to talk about.
It didn't seem like there was a dull moment in his life.
And he would be greatly missed.
I remember specifically one time,
50 and I were up late, sharing beers. And it was a grass is always greener on the other side,
kind of conversation, where the consummate patch letter was talking to the married father.
And it helped shape some of my points of view on life.
We're all better for having known 50, whether we better than person or not.
I'm going to miss his voice out there.
From a listener who wished to remain anonymous. A ramble for 50, 150, King of Ramblers.
I am writing a ramble for a man I knew only as 50, 150. I never knew his real name,
nor do I know if he knew mine. In many things, names do not matter, people, actions,
and feeling do. We podcasted together off and on over several years. I don't recall
exactly how many it doesn't matter now, since they are all that we'll ever be.
We grew to be good friends. I never met him in person, online life is like that.
I only know my life would be much poorer, if I could not own him.
Hearing he died, shattered me. This ramble is my triad putting most of the pieces back in place.
Of course, nothing can replace the largest piece, the man himself.
My heart and prayers go out to those friends and family dealing with his loss.
His death is a harsh, unchangeable fact. I shall focus on his life,
and things better remembered than the world we all will hit one day.
Fifty-one a man, if life, joy, and passions. That is how I shall write on him.
I've had a far too short time, to learn about him, and from him,
it will also warm my heart, where he lied yet, and has for a long time.
I learned this fact, only after I could no longer talk with him.
I found him easy to talk with, and listen to.
He was also vaccinated with a vitrolyneedle, as my relatives might say.
He could ramble on for our enjoyably.
He virtually always made sense, even when in his cups.
He shared himself, his hobbies, experience, and his travels with us on our podcasts.
While he went to Linux events, he never limited himself to just Linux topics.
He reported an only Linux feature of events.
This rate for choosing family trips to him.
He included accommodations, restaurants, and pubs in the area.
I don't travel, or drive, so these second-hand visit were a delight.
His research and Linux activities made up much on his contribution to our podcasts.
He life also flowed in, to entertain, and inform us.
He lived in the country, farming, cows, trouble getting internet service were included.
My parents can off farms, so he even kept my ties to that life alive.
Firearms, cars, especially his beloved first-where shared interest tale from his tech support work,
for businesses, and schools and items meet.
Farmers are natural pack rats, so gathering all sorts of discarded computer gear was actual.
Unfortunately he lost most of it in the fire, which destroyed his house.
Losing his house, and even his dear father, never seemed to light his spirit or life.
In the long run, it would be natural to keep such private matters from more distant friends,
and I was, nor did his long illness color decide on him.
I saw it not in his way, sometimes, and I recall, but never in his spirit.
I wish I had been closer to offer myself more to the man I miss dearly.
I must just try to use his independent example, in my own life.
And one could do much worse.
His quiet touch helped heal me in ways I am only now realizing.
I started the day in tears, still aching from losing a rare, true friend.
Then I recalled a son from Toby Keith, called,
Crean, for me, Wayman's son, written about he lost on his close friend, Wayman to his tale.
Toby found about his friends passing on Friday.
On Sunday Toby was driven to write the memorials on.
In it he sensed his tears are not for his lost friend,
who is out in heaven, but for Toby himself, and all those family and friends, Wayman left behind.
I believe 50 is in heaven, with his dad, and those who have gone before.
He will see things from the good seeds.
He can enjoy all the holidays, and never feel the cold.
I was driven to write like Toby, to handle my own shock and brief.
We cry and mourn, those left behind in the mortal world, for our loss and pain.
Our dear one is beyond pain, perhaps for the first time in years.
He can earn his time in grace.
He has pain as we pay now, for life beyond brief, with those who have gone ahead.
I hope my words and memories may help, that once he left behind,
pain in the mortal thing, it need not be medley or poisonous.
Fifty's life in a great enample of this, and many other things.
I hope we can go forward, with an enample helping heal our loss on him.
God bless you, 50, and though you touch it in turn.
Howdy folks, this is 5150 for Hacker Public Radio.
What you are about to hear is a presentation titled,
How to Get Yourself on an Open Source Podcast,
that I first delivered at Kansas Linux Fast on 22 March 2015.
Since it was not recorded, I was told SD card on the camera was full.
There has been interest expressed by my follow-up podcasters.
I thought it might be worth re-recording.
I'm afraid Mike Tupont was not satisfied with any of the video from KLF 2015.
This may be the only talk from that event that you get to hear.
However, show notes from the other talks are extensive and can be found at
Lanier.com slash 2015 slash KLF15 slash schedule.
All I can tell you is three out of the four audience members that showed up
seem to enjoy my presentation.
I shall deliver the rest of this podcast as if you general,
general listeners were my live audience, but before I do that,
I have to tell you I did record this the other night and I was kind of in my boozy mode
and I'm not sure I gave the best presentation.
I may well wake up in the morning and listen to this and decide it's not good enough either,
but if you're hearing this, I guess I decided it was good enough to put out on HPR.
Before I go ahead, I've decided with the amount of beers stacking up
in my refrigerator.
I'm going to do even my serious podcast as a beer review in the spirit of source cast
the long and limited and gone source cast.
So tonight I want to bring you a culto which I could not resist because on the
label you have a skull right out of the day of the dead
and it is described as blue agave infused
with beer blended and aged on tequila's barrel stable steves.
Staves a 6.0 alcohol by volume.
So it's kind of got it's very very watery.
It's kind of got a melonish flavor to me.
It takes several steps out of the bottle before it becomes sweet with the agave.
Of course, agave is the plant that tequila is derived from.
However, if you're familiar with Spanish food, there are some agave-based sweeteners.
And I had some agave syrup and tried it and at length I discovered that
while I coordinated every time I tried the agave and anything that the next day I had
a very unsettled stomach so I'm drinking this beer kind of sparingly.
But I said it would be it's very watery so it would be very thirst quenching
on a hot day and if you get about halfway down through the
beer it's got sort of a sweet flavor.
I'm not sure how else to describe it.
I'm not a big fan.
I wouldn't buy this again.
But that's why I'm here to instruct you folks on what you might or may not like.
Another beer I tried this week was from Red's Apple Ale.
It's her mango version and like the earlier strawberry version.
They're not fooling anybody.
It's it's made of apples.
Come on.
You can taste that.
But there is a sweetness and a tartness that have been added afterwards.
I'm not sure if that's actually from mango juice or if it's from artificial sweeteners.
I had this candy a couple years ago was kind of like gummy bears and various fruit flavors
and I looked at the label and on ingredients essentially everything was artificial
and it was just how they balanced out corn syrup versus
citric acid in each various flavor.
So I guess any kind of fruit can be simulated by chemicals.
But as far as the beer goes I mean if you if you like the Red's Ale I think you'll
really like the mango version.
It goes down smooth and good and it's tasty and it's sweet.
You know I can't really complain.
It just all seems a little artificial.
Okay now comes on for a couple that just recently appeared
from the Kona Brewing Company from Hawaii.
And the first one is the big wave golden ale.
I'm not a particular fan of that either.
It's you know you can tell it's an ale that's about all it's doesn't really stand out from
for the same price.
I could recommend several dozen beers that I prefer.
So you know I can't really recommend the Kona Brewing Company's big wave.
Now on the other hand it's not great but it's not bad.
Kona Brewing Company's the Longboard Island Logger.
And it's a little sweet you know let's have a lot of flavor.
It's a little sweet, a little bready and what I would say
if you wanted a liquid version of the sweet King's Rolls from Hawaii this would be it.
So if you're on to do that then grab Longboard from the Kona Brewing Company Island Logger.
Okay well that dispenses with nearly a six pack of beers for this broadcast.
So let us get into the meat of what I wanted to talk about.
And as I said the rest of this podcast will be presented as if you are my audience
at Candice Linux Fest 2015 because the SD card on the camera that was provided was full.
And I'm obviously an idiot because I had HPR's
Zoom H1 in my pocket and why I did not take it out started up and start recording on the desk
in front of me. I do not know that just only occurred to me this week.
So I'm afraid you'll have to bear with the recycled rendition that I'm doing here for my desktop.
So let's start off. Howdy folks my name is Don Greer.
I'm an IT consultant and farmer from South Central Kansas.
I am also a podcaster. You may recognize my voice from such podcasts as Hacker Public Radio,
the Colonel Panicogcast, or the Linux Logcast where I use the handle 5150.
When fellow Hacker Public Radio host Mike Tupont told me KLF would be a reality I struggled to
find a topic that I knew well enough to talk about. It was almost ingest that I said I could
talk about how to get yourself on an open source podcast. Actually since that was as far as
my proposal went I was shocked and honored to find myself on the same roster with so many other
speakers with impressive credentials and technical topics. This afternoon I hope not only to
chronicle my personal history with Linux and open source related podcasts but to show you why
I believe podcasting can be as an important part of giving back to the community as contributing
code or documentation or even cash. Linux podcast buying the community by providing education
both as basic as lunch reality or as specific as the new world order.
Podcasts announced new innovations and tell us of free and open source software adoption
as well as opposition by corporations and governments. Podcasts hailed community
advanced like this one and provide a little humor at the end of a long day.
Some of you may wonder why I'm using old school technology to organize my notes at a high tech
conference. At this point at 5150 holds up several stapled sheets of paper and large print and
ways them around. The plain and simple truth is that I can't read my phone or tablet with my classes
on. I'm already using bifocals. It just seems that every time I get new classes to the lower
lenses work for about two weeks and then I have to take them off to see the phone again.
Because this last time I figured I'd outsmart the system and just order single focus lenses
and I was congratulating myself on my thriftiness when I put my new glasses on,
sat down to computer and realized I couldn't read the keyboard.
Before I talk about myself as a podcaster, I think I should tell you my history of Linux.
My first experience with Linux was a box set of mandrake 7.2 around 2002.
I always maintain at least a second running system in the house in case the primary machine
costs up a hair ball so I'd be able to access the internet and figure out what's wrong.
I'd always been a geek to alternative OSs and I wanted a tertiary machine on my network that
wouldn't be affected by the propagation of Windows viruses.
Now I installed the mandrake easily enough but there wasn't much flash to Linux apps in those days.
I recall it was not impressed by whichever browser ship with mandrake.
I don't recall why I knew about installing additional applications from repositories
but in any case at that time I was still on dial up.
The pinion wand I installed mandrake on had both the modem and the Ethernet card.
The installer always asked which one I used to read the internet and would only set up one of the two devices.
This annoyed me as I planned to use some Linux boxes a gateway to see if that would save a few CPU
cycles from the P4 I was using as a Windows gaming machine back then.
I really wouldn't have known where to go on the internet for help and I expect help would not
have been as force coming 13 years ago.
My next experience with Linux came around 2007.
The school I consult before had several Windows 98 machines not compatible with the software
they wanted to run. Even though the machines were pinion 4s, we determined the cost of XP plus
memory upgrades could be better applied to new machines. As a result I was able to bring several
of the machines home. Over time I boosted their memory with used sticks for me bay and even the odd
faster processor. As a newb I installed feisty phone off system out in the machine shed and
spent a lot of that winter hacking on that box when I should have been overhauling tractors.
Just as I was developing into NDIS wrappers, Gutsi came along and brought support for my
Gigabyte wireless card. Which combined with the double fork ice-threading power box
gave me reasonable certainty that the box out in the shed was saved from lightning stores.
About 6 months later I rescued a refugee from a major meteorological event and set it up in my
house running mint. For the first time I didn't have to leave the house to get my Linux on.
Just before I set up that first Linux box we finally got broadband out to the farm and I discovered
podcasts. I figured there must be Linux podcasts go along with the general tech and computing
podcasts. I followed as well as a fondly remembered sci-fi weekly review show that started out as a
sunny afternoon show in which tall radio which was canceled twice and then re-emerged as a
semi-weekly podcast only to disappear forever a couple months after I started listening in.
But not before I downloaded all the episodes that I'd missed.
And my initial search for Linux-related content all I came up with were
four drunk Scots discussing minutia of Ruby on Rails.
While I really like to format I lacked the commitment to become a Ruby programmer just so I could
understand the show. A few days after that I came across the techie geek. Russ winner mixed tutorials
with reviews of new applications and upcoming events. Better yet he introduced me to a world of
other Linux podcasts. Through the techie geek I learned of the irreverent banter of the Linux outlaws
to sedubed serious studiousness of what was then called the bad apples. The contained chaos of
the Linux cranks. The classroom like atmosphere of the Linux basement during Chad's droopled
tutorial period tech hints and movie reviews delivered at the speed of 75 miles per hour by Dave
Yates of lot of Linux links. The auditory dissonance of the Linux link tech show and the constant
daily variety of hacker public radio. In 2010 I made my first contribution to hacker public
radio. The great thing about HPR is there's no there's no vetting process. We only asked your
audio to be intelligible not polished not even good. We just have to be able to understand you
and let the topic be of interest to geeks. If you consider yourself a geek any topic that
interests you is welcome. There's no maximum or minimum runtime just to get the show uploaded
all in time. While topics 10 concern open source this is daughter requirement. I believe by
second HPR concerned how to migrate Windows wireless connection profiles between systems.
I'd spent a few hours figuring out one day for a customer and I thought I should consolidate
what I'd learned in one place. HPR provides a podcasting platform at no cost to the podcaster.
It serves as both a venue for broadcasters without the resources to host their own site
or without the time to commit to a regular schedule. It can also serve as an incubator for
hosts trying to find their own audience. It's never been easier to become a podcaster with HPR.
I would start with the email introduction as a courtesy to adbin at hackerpublicradio.org.
Next record your audio. When you have a file ready to upload select an open slot in the
calendar page and follow the instructions. Be prepared to paste in your show notes.
I also credit HPR for getting me my first invite to participate in my first podcast with multiple
hosts. Once a month hackerpublicradio records a community news podcast recorded on the first
Saturday afternoon after the end of the previous months. Exact times and server details will be
published in the newsletter. All HPR hosts and indeed listeners are invited to participate.
It is just asked that you have listened to most of the past month's shows so you can participate
in the discussion. Like many multi-host audio podcasts HPR uses a mumble to record shows
including the annual New Year's Eve show which has dozens of participants.
There's a mumble tutorial on LinuxLudcast.com to help you get started.
A few months after recording my first hackerpublicradio podcast I started to take part in the community news.
I did it because I wanted to take a greater part in HPR not because I considered it in an edition.
But it is a good way to show other people as you can politely and intelligently participate in
a group discussion. Actually I still have a tendency to wander off in the tangents
and unintentionally dominate the topic. Something I always struggle with.
Another way to join in a roundtable discussion in HPR is to participate in the hacker public
radio book club. Once a month we take an audio book that is freely available on the internet
and share our opinions. Recording schedules and the next book to be reviewed are available in
HPR newsletter. I believe taking part in one or more community news with Patrick Daley,
also known as Pokey, influenced him to invite me into the cast of Dev Random.
The semi-weekly Dev Random recorded on the Saturday's Colonel Panic didn't.
We sometimes accidentally talked about tech and open source.
But we always saved the most disturbing things we'd see on the internet in the previous two
weeks for discussion on the show. The things that honestly could not be discussed on other podcasts.
Despite rumors to the contrary, Dev Random is not dead, only resting, and shall one day rise again
to shock and discuss new generations of listeners. Sometimes you just have to be in the right
place at the right time. I won't insult the Colonel Panic odd cast by calling a sister
show to Dev Random. It just happens to be recorded on opposite Saturday's and had some of
the same cast members in common. Anyway, I've been participating in the KPO forum for a while,
suggesting topics from false stories I'd come across in social media during the week.
I was idling in hash odd cast planet on free node. One day when Peter Cross asked for people from
the channel to jump into the show and a day when only a couple of the regular cast members had shown
up. Since Dev Random used the same mumble server, I used my existing credentials to take Peter
up on his offer. And for better or worse, I've been a KPO cast member ever since.
While we're on the topic, having a presence on free node IRC is a great way to get your name or
handle known in a podcasting world. Many podcasts have their own channel set up so that listeners might
participate during live streaming podcasts, saying something helpful or more likely smart
allergy during the podcast might get you mentioned on the show and make your name familiar to the
show's audience. I've seen several individuals move from regular forum or chat participants
to the hosts of their own show or contributor stage PR. From my own experience,
after spending several weeks as silent participants in pod brewers listening to the stream and
commenting in the chat, read the war from myself were invited to bring our own beers and join the cast.
While many podcasts still have their own IRC channels, other than providing a conduit
between the hosts, they are most active during live broadcasts. Between shows, many of the
podcasters I listen to gravitate to hang your around in free nodes hash augcast planet channel.
Since podcasters typically have a client open during week and leisure hours, you'll usually find
them hanging around. In fact at KPO we use hash augcast planet as our primary communications channel
during live streaming. I still recall the day Monster B in Peter 64 asked me about the origin of my
handle given it's similarity of their colleague 330. I'd heard both these gentlemen on podcasters I
followed and frankly that evening I felt like I was talking to rock stars.
Now I'm a podcaster in my own right with my own presence on hash augcast planet.
I try to make a point to say hello when I see an unfamiliar handle in the channel.
I expect spam bots to consider me the nicest guy in IRC.
As it happens IRC was also responsible for my involvement in the Linux logcast.
LLC was conceived after reimagining and final demise of Sieve and Gothen's project Linux Basics.
Kevin Wischer, chatter and hunky-migoo wanted to do a show along the same lines while incorporating
the spirit of the unrecorded online log that always preceded Linux Basics on the mumble server.
I was brought along by the simple expediency of never having closed the hash Linux Basics channel
in my chat client. We've been going for a little more than a year and have attracted a following
but frankly we have not found a listener participation we were looking for.
This was meant to be a true online log for people who couldn't travel to a local Linux user group.
So far it's usually been the same four or five guys talking about what Linux projects
have exceeded which have failed and what we're going to try next. I've learned a lot in the past
year and I expect the listeners have as well but we're always hoping to get more live participation.
Rural areas like the Midwest are our target audience. The details of the mumble connection are
posted at linuxlubcast.com and we always monitor the freeno.org IRC channel hash Linux
logcast while recording and the feedback link as well as the stream is posted on the website.
Thank you for your time and attention this afternoon especially considering the caliber of talks
running in the other two channels. I can be contacted at 5150 at linuxbasement.com.
Are there any questions?
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
