Episode: 2585
Title: HPR2585: Check to see if a Remote Control is working
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2585/hpr2585.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:09:03

---

This in HPR episode 2,585 entitled, check to see if a remote control is working.
It is posted by Ken Fallon and is about 2 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is yet another amazing life hack from Ken.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi everybody, this is Ken with a little very short show.
On how to check if your remote control is working or not.
Just remote controls work on RF or radio frequency nowadays, but they will still have infrared
to turn the TV on and do the volume up and down.
And if you want to check to see if your remote control, if the batteries are flat or whatever,
if it's not working properly, obviously we can't see infrared, but if you hold up your
camera to it, so mobile phone camera or a ordinary camera, well it has to be a digital
camera obviously for this torque because the sensors in the digital camera will pick
up infrared and convert it into like a lilac or a blue.
So if you do that and you press the on button or the volume buttons on your remote control,
you should see the pulses of infrared that's been admitted.
And you can use that to determine whether you need to change the batteries or not or if
your remote control has fallen or broken or something.
So that's always a good step.
I didn't think that was worth a show to be honest, except today in work, I showed that
trick to somebody and they went around and told everybody and it seemed quite a lot of
people didn't know that trick.
So there you go and we're always short of shows, especially during the summer here.
So if you've got other tips and tricks, please feel free to pass them on.
Thank you.
And tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
To find out how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated, today's show
is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a live 3.0 license.
