Episode: 2871
Title: HPR2871: HPR Community News for July 2019
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2871/hpr2871.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:35:50

---

This is HBR episode 2008-171 entitled HBR Community News for UI 2019 and is part of the series
HBR Community News, it is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 63 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment posted
in UI 2019. This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com. Get 15% discount on all
shared hosting with the offer code HBR15 that's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair
at AnanasThost.com.
Hello everybody my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio. This is the Community News for July 2019. Join me tonight. I'm Janik Jifrensjei from
to then. I'll let you go first because you know I'm just pulling out that way. Sorry. I don't know
I think we may hesitate in a few weeks but this is Dave Morris. And also on the chat we have KDG
who has muses. We was on here before. Hello. Hi. Hello. So this is HBR. HBR's Community podcast
This is where the shows are submitted by people like you and if you're thinking of
gosh well would be a great time to submit you some shows. That would be round about now because we're
kind of getting low on shows. And this is the Community News show where members of the community
discuss the shows that have been on the last month. Stuff that's been on the mailing list and
other bits and bubs that I've been happening in the HBR EcoSphere. First thing we do traditionally
is Dave introduces the new hosts. Well we do have a new host this month. It's one for and he is
called might be Mike. Very welcome to the network. Yeah welcome to the family. Excellent. So the first
show to discuss was last month's Community News where we obviously didn't have any controversy
whatsoever because nobody could be bothered to comment. I didn't. Are the people who did
wanted to comment where on holidays or something. So we're going to we're going to step that up and
try and get a lot more controversy in this show. So let's do that by starting talking about
the following show which was ear buds by operator. And I must say I was disappointed at the lack of
links in this to some of the stuff he was discussing because I couldn't quite catch it on
the podcast and had to go back and look some of the stuff up because it's very interesting how
they custom ear buds and custom sounds set up. A few links would have been cool operator. Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely. To be honest, it normally sends in those essays on this stuff.
So I think nobody commented on that either but that could be down to people being on vacation and
having no mobile plans. Let's just assume that's what was this month. Yeah, this really was
make it. I was in France. So no data. Does your normal data work in France?
It's right. Does the Switzerland data plan EU roaming of work in the
or does not apply to the or not to play? No, that does not apply. I have like one megabyte or
something like that in my Swiss. It's just a plan but nope. No luck with the 3G. I shall cry on the inside.
The following number, the following number could certainly, which is a random number.
Indeed it is and it's about high-scal, ladies and gentlemen, it's too retoto and his continuing series
on high-scal just when you think you're getting the hang of this language. Actually, this one was
in the one that this was fine. I got this one. The next one is the one that blew my head.
Yeah, my conclusion. Go ahead. Go ahead. I just concluded that random numbers in
Haskell are weird. That was the notes I left myself. So yeah, but it's always is really
unexplained. I just didn't have the notes in front of me. So I didn't. I was struggling listening
to this. I have to say. I can't really go ahead or work. I concluded long ago that I scaled
weird, not just random numbers, but still it's interesting and very well explained as usual.
Yeah, but I do. I've stopped fooling myself. Maybe I can get through a Dave Morris episode without
looking at the show notes at the time, but no, but this I have no choice but to go to the show notes
and read them many times. Exactly. Well, you know, this is putting me in a very uncomfortable place
computer wise because it just makes me realize that there's a whole range of computers out there
in the whole tech sector that I'm not getting. I'm not able to get my head around this yet.
And that's a good thing because it's opens you up to challenges and stuff. Yeah.
Yeah, you're right actually. When I started doing IT, then if you knew what you're doing in IT,
then you would sort of godlike almost because so few people understood it. And gradually,
those sorts of by the IT people used to wear white coats and all that sort of stuff. Long, long,
long gone. It's changed a lot. Well, yeah. So the following day was number five of the seventh annual
Hacker Public Radio and you're show covering things like hack in the box over the wire,
under the wire, GNOME boxes, talking about headsets, KEDY plasma, Kansas Linux press,
Freenas, Gemini. And it goes on and on very good links. Thank you, honk, and we go
unbelievable. The amount of work that was necessary to put that to show together, basically,
on the show notes mostly. Yeah, very impressive, very impressive. Then the following day,
we had a hookah with privacy and security series. And he has another few coming in there as well.
And this one was on the NIST cybersecurity framework. I mean, always tend to get a little bit nervous
when the word cybersecurity gets mentioned. But in this case, it was just because it came from a
government, but very good tips I found all right, very practical as well. Yeah, lots of things that
when you think about it is just, you know, common sense, but it's always good to have
those things in the same place, same document, and very interesting to listen to, and very practical
to put in place. Yeah, I enjoyed this one. It, as you say, it's very, it's got a lot of common
sense to it, surprisingly, really, because it used to be a sort of dark eye, exactly, to a large
extent. And it's quite nice to hear some basic down-to-earth advice like this. It's very useful
for hookah to do this. And also, the fact that it's supported by, you know, an American
US government-funded national institute of standards and technology that adds a way to it. You know,
the older things that we've been saving for years, you can now go, well, you know, here's a document
that says it, so now it's not just me that's saying that it's the national institute of standard
and technology in the US who are saying these things as well. So we really need to do it. It kind of
shifts the burden. So the following day we had, Mr. Eurone Baton. Well, if he's going to
pronounce it English wise, I think we can, I can pronounce it in, I don't know, whatever.
It sounded like French. It was supposed to be here. Well, if you say it's French, then fine.
Baton. I was going for South African, but okay.
Okay. Wow, this, this guy just blows my mind. Yeah, brilliant show. I left a comment,
because nobody else is, cars parked over the putt. Eurone, what do you do when cars are parked
over the fire hydrant, Ken? I've been wanted to know this for ages. And I also wanted to know,
because I live in the Netherlands, obviously, and this is about the Netherlands. So his comment was,
there are red boards on which tells you what the numbers are. So we've been wondering with the
kids for years what those numbers were, but we thought they were related to the fire hydrants,
but now we know exactly what it is. But oftentimes people, you know, they're on the pavement,
that people park their cars on top. So I would love to know what happens when somebody
parks the car on top, and there's a fire. Blow the car with a rod. Oh, I know that. Oh,
God, yes. So no, no, that would be terrible, I'll have this. Was anyone used to there?
Yes. So I'm going to read Kevin's. Yes, I'll do it. Okay. Kevin O'Brien says, I love the show.
I guess you never know when someone is going to do something unexpected yet. Awesome. I love this show.
Yeah. Yeah. Geron, Geron always comes up with good shows. Yeah. God, really sucks. He's making
it hard for the rest of us. Like, yeah, yeah. That's, I guess that's why I'm not making any more show
for HBO. Exactly. You're going to be very much. Never going to be as good as that. So
I'm going to have to go back to doing knots and my earbud things and hacking iron and boards again
to lower the standard a little bit. Did you get the impression that your room was saying,
oh, well, I saw some of the stories and I could tell you about them later. Did he commit to
tomorrow, do you think? Yes. I felt that that was a series myself. Anyone else? Should be. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I thought so. Geron, you owe us a show. New York part 16. Time to take it out the
backyard and put it down. Dear, dear. Yeah. This is a good show. Yes. I'll start with
Tudu Toto's comment. Thanks. Thank you for the series and the wrap up episode. It's been a
pleasure to follow the series and learn about rock. I don't use off myself, but it's always good
to know that there are plenty of tools to choose from when there's a specific need. Yes. Yeah.
Tudu Toto. Yep. So, Hipster said, thank you. Thank you for the series. You guys,
it was great. I learned more than I wanted to. I tried hard to not learn, but you might be
not just about, oh, it's about programming, information theory, data structures, history,
bash, etc. That, that, that, that. And Norris says HPR Epic. This series will stand out as one of
the highlights of HPR. Thank you. Be easy. And Dave Morris couldn't agree more. Boulibos for both of you.
Yes. Yes. Slap and press the whole to talk. It's not working, but it's not tough.
Congrats. I'm embarrassed at this point, but I said many thanks for the kind words. Thank you
to Tudu Toto, Hipster and Norris for your comments. We had a lot of fun putting the series together.
I certainly found it more about Ork than I knew before, and I think the same sentiment was expressed
by my collaborator. Be easy. There's nothing quite like telling others about the thing to make you
understand it better, a smiley face. So now, the only three things we need to do. One is post the
show notes together as a book. Book number one. Yeah. Yeah. And planned. It's planned, but nothing's
been done, but no plan is. And the second one is for somebody to use the audio tracks of these
episodes and then do a screen typing thing and make a video of it so that we can put on YouTube
and Facebook and stuff. Just saying no pressure, guys. Anyone who wants to volunteer. Can you
mention that? Doing it. Oh, I think there's the audio is there. All you need to do is follow
along. Yeah, I can volunteer to stitch the audio together, but it's not the transcription. Of course,
it's going to be a lot of work. So you're not already doing it? Nope. I know. Volunteers are needed
for this sort of thing. I think to be a lifetime achievement. I see all the portraits do it, but
maybe they use a different recording up. We could, yeah, but we can put them on YouTube. That's
that's fine. It's just a transcoding thing, but taking something like the Oc series or
said series or indeed some of the other ones that have been done in the past. And then
as the person is talking, type the commands out on the screen and show you the output. So the
the vocal, the voice actor has done the work. The script has been written. Now we just need an
animator to come along and edit the stuff together. So if you are, for example, a bit shy or
bit nervous about having your voice on HPR, then this will be a way to contribute back to the
community. They're also people who do this, but I don't know whether they do it after the event.
I'm certainly not volunteering myself. I guarantee you that's a lot more. So many
was to take that on. That would be great, but it'll be a lot more work than you think.
The following day, we had feeding the beast by Falky. And this was
Banquid and Swedish payments about basically online payments. I think it's Banquidi.
Banquidi, of course, is what you're fine. Thanks.
Your thoughts?
It sounded a little bit like what's happening in Switzerland to where we have
more and more ways to use alternate payment method. I'm talking about the payment, not the identity
part, but it was interesting to have a point of view on what's happening in another country.
I think that's the kind of thing that we're going to have to face in the future.
More and more. How can I say that?
I was going to say unreal, but not only virtual ways of spending money.
It seemed, I mean, if here in the Netherlands, I don't think I've paid
Kerry Cash for the last two, three years. The only time I would ever need to use Cash now is
if somebody's leaving, but now there's even, you get a URL to
those websites service that they'd say, you know, they're transferred this into my bank account,
and you go to there and you automatically transfer from your bank account. So Cash is becoming less
than less of a thing. Both there are implications, and I really enjoyed that this episode was there
because it got me thinking again about these implications.
I'm uncomfortable about the fact that it needs a phone, because phones are very, very vulnerable to
or manner of tax. Why would you be using that as the device to do it? I mean, I think is it
dumb phones that are used in Africa? Of course, this is big thing in Africa, isn't it?
Or many countries in Africa are using phones for sort of micro payments and that type of thing.
That's fantastic, but I don't see, I don't think they're very smart phones, and I don't know why
we would be carrying, you know, a thousand pounds worth of phone just to pay 50p at the
the news agency or something, you know, it doesn't seem right to me. Or necessary when I can
carry a card. Exactly. Well, technically, your payment. Technically, what you need is a private key,
that's it. Yeah, so you could be just a USB key or something, you know,
yes, yes, expensive than the phone. Well, I just bought myself a burner phone as they call them
and knock here, knock here 105, because the bank keep on nagging me about how they've made things
more secure and when I pay the money, they have to send me a SMS message and then I have to type that
number in. So I was not going to give them my mobile number because then I know I'm going to get
spammed all the time on it. So, you know, is that sort of stuff that bothers me? Maybe I'm a
cruncher to you all, so and so, but to just bothers me this stuff. So you're bank in your land,
like to stand people. Like to do what, sorry? You're bank in your land, like to stand people.
They spam you with their SMS messages, Dave. Oh, no, yeah, yeah. Well, I get lots of unsolicited
phone calls anyway, because my number, not so much from my mobile, but my landline number has leaked.
So I get sort of multiple daily calls from people in wherever India, quite a lot of the time telling me
that, you know, I had an accident on my phone. It's got viruses on it. My computer's got viruses on it.
All that sort of stuff. And how did that get out? That got out through me being, not being aware of
the consequences of sharing a phone number. And, you know, but I don't, I don't think we're bank
is a big evil phone number, not in my country, not sure if it's how I've done it to your country.
But they do well. I've seen it in Ireland and other places where they will start sending you
special offer on this and special offer on that. So yeah. And the banks are just a small
element of huge multinational companies. And they will send you, they will pass your details
on to others in that company, because I'm constantly, when I deal with the bank having to tick
or remove ticks from boxes that say, you know, I'd like to hear more interesting stuff from other
members of the group, you know. So I think that if you put out their mailing list, it's like being
on a mailing list, yeah, yeah. And they pass it around. Thankfully, the GDPR is helping us with
that particular one. Yeah, we're creeping mailing list. I'm misunderstanding your mailing list.
I thought this was like RS feeds. No, our mailing list is the old school mailing list
and the SS feeds for the shows. Oh, but I didn't understand that and I got a fault. I added myself
a month's time list. Okay. So anyway, back to the show, the next show was telling myself something
in the morning by Jezre, programming one-on-one. And it's even up on GitLab. And I like Jezre's show.
Yeah. And I like the idea too. I mean, I myself forgot a lot of small things. I tell myself
okay, I've got to do that. I've got to, you know, get this paper ready. And then I always remember
those things just like maybe three minutes after I could have done that. Like, I have something to
take to take to the office. And I, you know, start the car, leave the house and then I forgot this
I forgot this paper or this and there. Well, I'm not going to turn around. It's too much. So
I'll pick it up tomorrow and then the next day, the same thing happens. Yep.
Uh, to talk to us says bagpipes for the way in hilarious and informative episode at the same time.
Thank you for recording it. Yeah. Dave makes it. Yeah. Dave makes it. Rested pipes. I'm guessing
that some wasn't written for the backpack. Jezre says pipes up. Thank you to to that bit of bad
piping is a melody I learned after NY Bill asked me for some audio to represent time passing.
It's a very few notes, but I always mess it up. Smiley face. It should be noted that note songs
were ever written for bagpipes. Songs are compositions that are to be sang by a voice not played
on an instrument. Smiley face. We'll have a few tunes. Thank you. So the following day, we had the
new year's Eve show, Bart six makers, Apple talk, Linux and the mobile, more 3D printing, etc.
No comments on that one either. And then we had a more mint mobile security round by
Operation. And you can also use call forwarding for calls to Google voice number mint does not
seem to stay connected all the time. This I think was kind of probably very US centric because
I didn't quite guess the functionality that was on offer here. Although I do get the after a while,
I realized it was like a SIM card service or like a cheap teleco service. Yeah, I didn't get the
the whole picture. So yeah, but I did show here. I went to look at what you do to join,
didn't tell you what it is. Well, not in any way that I could understand. Yeah, but yeah,
I did figure that it was a mobile voice operator and that they were trying to
use trying to switch cards and stuff. So it became obvious at the end. But don't forget, folks,
read the internationalization section when you're doing the upload thing, don't assume that everybody
knows what you're talking about because there are different countries out there, many different
listeners from all across the planet. And creating counter play collectible tokens for a bit corn
game. Dave and I, this was the first show by might be Mike. And I almost said, David, I struggled with
this one. We thought it was for sure, for sure, span. Oh, yes. Yeah. It was, well, until then,
the episode was it like three days later or something like that or no, no, no, no, no, no, that.
But yeah, if it was an ahead for the game or what was that? But yeah, strange, but interesting.
Yeah, although the concept of a Bitcoin and these sort of blockchain things have been explained
to me many times, I still do not entirely clear why. I'm still asking the question why. And
so I came away from this one. Why would you want to do this? I probably, it's more of an
indication of my lack of knowledge than anything else. Yeah, well, I asked myself the same question.
Why would you use a blockchain for that? At first, I didn't even understand what it was about,
but then as the show progressed, I understood it was a collectible card game, basically. And then
the use of the blockchain makes sense if you want to track every transaction so you know that
hi-add this token, which is basically a card and there are some common cards and some rare cards.
And if I sell you a card and you need to have a proof that I had it and then now you have it and
it's still in the game, it's still there. The blockchain allows to trace the change of
honor of this token. So yeah, in the end, it can't make sense, but yeah, it was not really clear
in the beginning. But still, I think I understood it in the end.
Yeah, we've asked him for more shows and there are more shows coming in, so that is also excellent.
I personally would like to answer the question, the blockchain. Yes, I understand what it is and
what it does, but I'm kind of more on the opinion that again, it's a solution waiting for a problem.
And yeah, yeah, I can agree. There was in my mind, there was no need for the blockchain.
And now there's the blockchain and everyone is trying to figure out how to use it. And
you know, crypto, crypto money is one use of it. Yes, but as with many things, there was no need
in the beginning, so they created some needs. But you know, that's also fine.
Yeah, I'm happy with it existing, but whether it's going to solve the Brexit crisis, I'm not
sure. Somehow, I think no, no, no, no, I have to know if anything will solve the Brexit crisis.
Any who vehicle designer for a space game, now this is one that I did particularly enjoy,
due to the fact that even though I'm not following the Haskell thing, I did, I find it's fascinating how
he's built in the game, full stop, like all the stuff that you just take for granted with the stats
and stuff, how they're coming together. And the pictures are pretty cool. Yes,
true attention, obviously, because it's Haskell. Of course, who else? Yes, I think it's very
cool as well. And I'm sorry, I just just looked at the picture and it's sort of been truncated on my
screen for some reason, really. It was originally like that. But anyway, yeah, the potential of it is
it's very, very cool. But whether I would ever play it, I think I would be, well, let's see.
But yeah, I admire his skill in building it. So the following day, we had HBR, I think it's the
last one, isn't it? And there were two comments, both of which do you want to read?
Okay, I'm going to read the first one by Do Do Do Me. I disagree with just about all the
opinions expressed in this episode. Wow. Chock me up for the opposite on just about all the views
expressed in this episode, just in case someone puts together a debate. Good to hear the discussion,
but I'm sure do disagree with so much of what I was saying. Here's to your right to say it.
And Do Do Do Me followed up with saying first hour, that is, the last comment was referring to
the first hour of the episode. Okay, I would like to comment on this if on me. As HBR volunteer,
I would like to say there are, we are very, very binary here on this network. There are two types
of people. There are people who have submitted the show and there are people who have not yet
submitted the show. Now, I would like to say from my point of view, I could not agree with Do Do Me
more, the thinly veiled, whatever that was in the first episode was very, very difficult to
stomach. So, yes. Thank you very much. And that has been said. Yes.
Probably, and I hope, but actually I don't care because I think it's ridiculous. The argument that
was put forward that a doctor would need to know that information. Well, you're not going to be
a super doctor if you can't tell if somebody has already gone through that level of surgery.
I have personal opinions on this and I may even record a show on it. And I'm trying to line up
as you, you are a sister. Sorry, go on, what? You are as a show now. Yes. Well, I've been,
there are a few people who have gone through this in my life. And oddly enough, a few who are
going through it themselves. And I'm thinking as a parent, how would you deal with that? If,
okay, you've got this, you've got this, you're writing a bash script, right? Dave. And you get
variable. And that variable is your brain, the, the, you know, your sexuality and your brain
thinks it's X. And you forget to assign that variable to sub function, which is, you know,
genitals. And they come out as Y. You know, why should we fucking punish somebody for that?
You know, just dudes. And your burden is the addition or subtraction of a single letter when
you're addressing these people. You know, if, if that's uncomfortable for you, then use they,
then you are high. Just, you know, skip over. Sorry, but okay. Fine. And I'm trying to put a show
together. I'm trying to convince some people to come on and talk to us about that whole process.
But as you can imagine, it's, it's difficult for somebody.
Yeah, absolutely. Anyone else wants to, to annoy people with their opinions?
I'm afraid I have no opinion on this one. My notes say, where the hell was I when this show was
playing in my ears? I think I must have fallen asleep at that point or something, because I'm
going to have to go back and listen to this to formulate an opinion. I was in the shed and I was
very, very frustrated, simply because I've seen how upsetting. All right, pictures are seen, right?
You have this lady I worked with. And there's a queue for the men's toilet and the, the guy,
one of the, our colleagues comes over and goes, hey, there's no women around here. And they're
nips into the women's toilet. And she's standing right there in front of them. And you know, just how
fucking rude that was. And that's just, you know, that's just rude. It's just rude. Anywho,
there we go. I may have to go back and edit out all of this because, you know, we don't want
Ken Fallon's opinions to prevent people from feeling like they can submit a show. So these are
my personal opinions. And as Dodo Domi posits a debate will be absolutely excellent thing to have.
I don't think I could do that because I, I tend to be a slow thinker. And therefore,
wouldn't be quick enough to respond to this. But yeah, okay.
Yeah, I, I, me too on the slow thinking, I would need some, some time to, to, to think,
to think, think carefully through this one. I have kids who have quite strong opinions on,
on these subjects. So we have some family get together. So we, we, we, we thrash out some of these
points. So that will be, that would be helpful to this old geezer.
encryption and quantum computing. How will quantum computing affect the security of encryption?
Oh, yeah, this, this one was actually interesting. Oh, by the way, HPR is all about these
sorts of discussions. Don't be afraid to talk about political discussions. Don't be afraid to give
us your opinions on here, but do not expect everybody to agree with you. Okay, that's that said.
Ahuka, by the way, this was the show. Sorry, my comments was about the previous show. This,
this was about Ahuka's quantum privacy and security episode where he discusses quantum computing
and what's likely effects it will have on breaking encryption algorithms and what work is
currently ongoing to make it possible to safely have security and encryption in a quantum computing
world. Yes, I found that really quite quite an interesting view point on it. I have not really
followed up where this is going and it was good for him to, so he just set off on that journey
and I could follow along. So yeah, thank you. It was actually quite cool because the last I had
left it myself was, oh, you know, we're all going to be screwed to quantum computing comes along,
but he already mentioned that they're working on some algorithms and ways to approach it
that would make it difficult for quantum computing to break. As you might expect, I suppose,
but it does look a bit scary as you see this thing coming over the horizon. So the next day,
but before we go on, I just want to end up with a comment about the HPR
episode things, the new year shows, a special shout out to Hunky and all the guys who are responsible
for putting that together, but especially for him for editing those shows at the show notes
and posting them. It was a massive amount of work and they're a cute awesome for doing that.
Thank you very much. Oh, I completely echo that. Yeah, I did offer to help out with the notes if
the help was needed, but he didn't call for any help. So he took it all on himself.
So the following day, we had HPR 2h61, safety risers by operator, another one.
And it took me a while to figure out what safety risers were again.
But yeah, very cool. That's a that's a subject of debate in my house because
the business of shaving has with many capitalist ventures has turned into complete
complete insanity that you now have to buy a razor that has 47 blades on it and can work upside
down and in a in a forced 10-gale and all that sort of stuff. And you pay vast amounts. I
noticed in the supermarket that all of these things are under lock and key. You know, you have to
pretty much ask somebody, I really like to buy a razor, please. Whereas it was about the same level
of expenses as a ballpoint pen when I was a kid. It's insane, but there just seem to be a move
away from that to the more old-fashioned style of double edged, so-called safety raises,
safety in the context. Again, a big disposable ones. Disposable, yeah. We just got a single blade
which you put into a razor, having unscrewed it and dropped it in and so forth. And
and and it's it lasts you a fair time. It does the job perfectly. It's a lot, lot, lot cheaper.
And you know, it's just less, less junk, ending up in landfills, a consequence. So
but it'll probably change. It'll probably get very expensive and all that sort of stuff.
But my son's very much into these sorts of razors, so we've had long discussions about
about this. So pretty good. I enjoyed listening to this.
Yes, as did I. I had the same sort of journey myself going, why am I spending so much on this,
when I could just grow beard and buy a beard trimmer, which I did. So fashion statements aside,
my beard is there purely for economic reasons. Yes, yes, I did that when I was younger.
Oh, yeah, yeah. Art versus commerce in storytelling lost in Bronx examines stories
as both art and products. And this also was the last in the episode in the series.
And I was very, very sad. It's yeah, it's been been telling this, it's been a fixture,
hasn't it? For quite a while. I've thoroughly enjoyed it because I love storytelling.
And yeah, it was a brilliant series from my point of view. I strongly suspect
lost in Bronx was on a road trip somewhere across America and just recorded them one after the
other. And you know, took it on first, you know, first edit and just piped them all into us.
But a great really appreciated LMB loved his work. If you don't contribute on Patreon to him,
you should definitely do that if you're into his stuff and why he wouldn't do be.
So Visa had simplified application architecture for improved security. A thought experiment
in whether reducing runtime dependencies can improve security and how to do it. This was
interesting actually. Thoughts? Well, yes. Visa sends to be to come from a similar background
to mine. He's mentioned factory MS, which is why I would not do that. And also wrote in Coral 66,
and I did those as well. And talking about how you just wrote the whole thing pretty much.
Absolutely. There were a number of libraries which you had to link in and stuff in my time.
But yeah, you could write things that was totally standalone if you wished.
But then shared libraries and DLLs and things came along. And I remember the innovation of
shared libraries which were being shared simultaneously by any number of bits of software that were
running on a shared machine, multi-user machine. And how we thought that was wonderful because
memory was very short in those days. And this was a tremendous innovation and so on.
And that's the way things are. And his point was that the pressures that made that happen
no longer exist because memory can be vast. And this one was no limit to it. So
in doing this, can you not leave all sorts of attack surfaces open?
So which seems like an argument. I can't comment on whether that's the case.
You would expect that it might well be.
Yeah, but I get his point. But the benefits of shared library is also that there are more people
using of more eyes on the code. So you get the you also get those benefits from having a shared
library as well. Admittedly, you know, if you just want to do one thing and you pull in a whole
library for that, that's your attack surfaces greater.
Interesting discussion though. Yeah, yeah. No, it's some interesting points. I'm sure there were times
when you could select a compile time whether you wanted to be a static binary that you produced
or whether you wanted to make it shared on that. And if it was static, then you potentially take
it somewhere else where those libraries didn't exist. And he was talking about that as well,
yeah. So I don't think that's the case anymore. You can't easily generate static stuff.
You go and put it into a into a snap or something similar.
You have flat text, then up the image. Yeah.
Okay, cool. The following day, we had one weird trick to add dash dash help option to your
ox scripts by tattoo who was determined not to let the ox series die. I was really surprised
to see this. But what Clato has done now twice is to go and look a little bit behind the
source stuff that we were doing. And which was, you know, we tried to go into Fairt degree
a bit, but it ended up being fairly superficial in some research. We didn't borrow down into the
complexities because we didn't feel the audience would want it. But it's pointed out some,
well, Clato has pointed out some really interesting and useful
aspects that complemented the series, I think. And this business of can you write a script
where you put hyphen, hyphen help, which you then deal with is a pain. Because to me,
that shows the deficiencies of orc as a as a standalone language, the fact that the orc
interpreter thinks it's for it rather than for the script. And, you know, there should be a way
in which you can say, look, or look, this is none of this is for you. It's all for the script.
Leave it alone. And you can't, which is very frustrating.
Fascinating though. But it was actually kind of cool. Yeah, yeah, yeah. There are tricks around.
I remember digging into this sort of thing years ago. There are tricks where you can have the same
script, which in one context is interpreted by your shell. And then you feed it, you feed the whole
thing to the language you want, which may be orc whatever. And it's ignored by the orc,
whatever it is. And so it serves the two purposes. And the first in the shell,
the thing that it interprets is the thing that says, submit me to orc. And and pass these arguments
to it directly without the interpreter messing about with them. It's similar to Clato's second
example, but but all in one tiny package. But if you do that, then you end up in the having
painted yourself into a corner, I think, because it's very shell-specific. And it's really
un-maintainable. And defeats the purpose of what you're trying to do in the first place.
Yes. Yes.
But cool. Long-made Clato, continue to just feed the shells. Maybe you will start getting
feeling guilty and continue to send us in some shells. Anywho, moving on.
The YouTube channels, I really like Yerun Batten, the Steve Colbert Show, Curious Mark,
virtual adver, Apollo guidance computer, Mochex, and Death Where's Bunny Slippers.
Three shows that you could listen to there or watch on YouTube. And if you have people listening,
some channels that they want to share, please do so. It is a great way of learning about stuff
that you might not have come across, because the way the YouTube works is it's recommendations
of what you already, the sort of tunnel you currently get down to. Yeah, exactly.
Get somebody else's high view of these things can be really, really break you out of these sorts
of things. And also tells you a lot about the person. What does it does? Yeah, it's quite revealing.
So might be Mike, might not be. Also did an introduction to Bitcoin for Techies, which was
concise short-sweet and to the point if I miss this on myself.
Yeah, I really liked it. He has a really good way of explaining stuff. And I really did
follow along with this. So I've marked that down with something to go and look at again,
listen to again, if I need to get into the depths of Bitcoin. Very few shows, very few comments
this month. Yeah, actually. Is there an issue with the common system perhaps?
Well, we would have heard about it. Probably just a summer months and people will come on
when they get back. Then almost done. Mr X automatic tuning with the Kenwood TS940S,
which was basically following up from his HHPR 2668 show, which he was doing a review. And then
he had the opportunity to add in some automatic tuning on, basically use the functions that he
hadn't put in before because he was requested to in the comments of that show, which was actually
quite nice to hear. Yeah, yeah, it's always good to have a bit of a demonstration of the thing,
yeah, you're talking about or a picture or whatever or whatever else. Especially when a
audio only put in a something example, put in an example in there. So the last show of this month,
2868 custom data with persistence to a total explains how to serialize custom data with persistence
in. Guess what programming language? Yes, folks, it's Haskell. Where's the surprise?
So that was it. What shows this month, actually? Yeah, it's a bit, we're a bit shorter shows,
actually, I'm starting to get a smidge and worried. We always have a summer low bottom.
So if you have a few shows there in the pipeline, you might throw them all away. No need to plug
up the queue immediately, but you know, stick to the recommendations there on the upload page.
So if there's a free slot in the next two weeks, please use those. Other than that, you can fill out
some slots in future weeks and months. It's always nice to have. So there were some other
strange comments, strange comments. No, they weren't strange comments. They were just other comments.
Operator responded to a comment on Node.js part one. And you wanted to say I still want to work on
this, but this is what I have so far. And he put in a link to the scripts that he was working on.
And he wants to convert his bash scripts, which he points to to popeteer.
Do you do the other one, please? It's fair enough. The other one goes way, way back to episode 438,
which was a Dave Yates episode. And Bryper says, hello, I noticed you've recommended Fosgeek.
I'd like to listen myself, but I've been unable to find a copy of the files. Did anyone have a copy?
On an old hard disk I can have. Thank you. Anyone out there with Fosgeek?
I tried to look on the way back machine. I didn't spend a lot of time on that. And I got distracted
afterwards, so I haven't really followed completely through. But I couldn't find anything
that seemed to be useful on the way back machine. So I also check text files.com, which is always a good
or text files.org is it? Jason Scott's one. And couldn't find it over there either, but so anyone
listening Fosgeeks, if you've got a copy of it, will be awesome to not have that lost to
perpetuity. And that there Dave is the end of our comments for this month, but that there is also
the whole point of HPR and the longevity of the thing. Apparently now Dave, podcasting is popular
again. Have you noticed? I have, yeah, yeah, I see. I heard the radio, radio, full,
extra prattling on about this podcast and that podcast and stuff. And they tend to be pointing
towards podcast providers, which is often the BBC, but other people who don't offer RSS feeds and
all this sort of stuff. So the big boys are coming in to get to start milking it, I feel.
Yeah, I had, there was a comment on the internal blogging work about people, people recommending
good podcasts. So I recommended HPR and then I put down, yeah, we've been doing this for the last
14 years. So there's quite a selection. 14 years. Not so hip and trendy as you think, folks.
Are you sure we do the mailing list discussions done, perhaps? I don't think it'll take very long,
because there's community users coming up. If I had only known. So yeah, I think mine was the only
contribution to the mailing list. Oh yeah, I'm expect from walking his doggy second. That needs to
go into. That needs to be recorded. Yeah. Yes, of course. So LWN.nes community calendar for August.
Anything coming up? Let me see. F or OScon, Flock, Picon, Africa, LDC, Brazil, Flock,
COS, Cup 2019, what's that? Conference and open source coders uses the promoters in type P in
type one. LSS is Linux security summit in San Diego, US. Tracing summit, San Diego in US,
open source summit, North America, San Diego. I get the feeling that perhaps they've all organized
these in together as one big conference. FOS 4G in Bucharest. No idea what that is. Guadec,
a GNOME user and developer conference in Greece. Well, mostly over to September 2019,
see if there's anything coming up there. Euro side pie is in Brazil. Open source firmware
conference is in California, US. Pie Colorado is pie conference in Colorado. Academy 2019 zone
on the first week of September. And kernel summit maintainers, GNU tools, Cloud Foundry, so much
DPDK, disk, user space in France, ASG, all systems go in Berlin, central pins of any open source
conference. And that's about it from there. And deadline for call for papers Ohio Linux Fest is
on the 70th of August. Picon South Africa, I presume. Yep, is on the end of the month as is
OS camp 4 month LAS in Nuremberg in Germany. Any other business? Well, the Ohio Ohio Linux
Fest conference call for papers or call for presentations. You just mentioned and the deadline has
been moved forward to August the 17th. So there's an item about that which I won't read out because
it's quite long. The other next one was we had a problem with show 285.5 which could have been
entirely my fault. Trunk it. So I put a bit of waffle here, which is fairly short, but just to say
that we upload all shows to archive.org. And shows downloaded via the feeds, the HVRS
feeds actually come from that copy. So they're also on the HVRS site. So what happened was on
Friday the 12th of July, this show was uploaded to archive.org and it's found to be truncated.
So people when they got on the feed got a truncated version. So we spotted it and fixed it and
it was then the RSS feed was tweaked so that everybody would re-download it and this all happened
thereafter for me the next day on the Saturday. So the problem was solved and it's a rare event. So
just thought it was worth noting that these things do happen and you know in the world of
in the system run by volunteers then it's hard to respond fast, but I think we did down well actually.
The issue if anyone's interested was we take because we don't know what format the other
files would come in and we'll accept any format. We use FFMPEG to convert it to a
role, pulse which modulates it file which is by definition quite large. So if you send in a
flag file that's going to be more or less similar in size. Well it's actually going to be quite a lot
larger. So that's why we always want the best copy that we can possibly guess and then from there
we convert it into flag, web and all the other formats. Because in New Year's shows tend to be
quite large and three or four hours long and I was actually posting a lot of shows at the time
but the disk space ran out on my laptop and the script doesn't, doesn't know that the file is
created so it sees that the file has been created and then it moves on. So that worked okay for
the it was just on the border so it was okay for to create the one for the website but not okay
for to do the one for the internet archive so the one for the website was created correctly and
the one for internet archive didn't have enough space so you got the intro, you got the description,
the intro and the outro bot is zero byte central file. So to fix that I have I haven't modified
the script in any way yet because that's coming with something else but to fix that I am now also
checking the files that were sent into our archive.org. So prior to this I've only been checking the
files on the website but now I check the physical media as well for
I know you also check to make sure that the durations are more or less within a few seconds of
each other on all different platforms. So hopefully this particular problem won't occur again.
So finally everything was just me saying that I submitted some more tags and summaries to the
thing. I don't usually say that it was me what done it and so make make believe that there's
elves that are doing these things in secret but I thought I'd just say it was me what done it so
there you go. Let's do it. Let's submit the last I still have. If you're preparing on this list of
days report underscore missing underscore tags.phb can you submit some things so that we all won't be
embarrassed. I second out. Cracky that's an impressive page Dave. Yeah, vulnerability.
147 1491 and 2204. Wow. Coke. You were saying? No I was saying it I was
wrongly thinking that new shows didn't have tags but it's it's mostly all chose I think. Yeah
tags are not mandatory. Toch tape. Yeah. That's true. Yep. That certainly made
made life a lot easier at my end of thing. Oh yeah but even even I mean even if it's not mandatory
it's it's it's literally 10 seconds so there's there there's no excuse for not tagging your show
while now it's already so. Yeah also you know what you know better what your show's about.
Other things that are coming up oh yeah one thing that I did do was I changed they
met a subtle change to the intro speeches so that every 10 episodes you get an
anniversary announcement so if you do 10 episodes you get an anniversary announcement and every
every variation thereof so you'll start hearing that if you listen carefully. I need to
I need to publish many more shows I want to get 10. And we're coming up close to ag camp people
so we should yeah stickers and merch and all that sort of stuff and the UK HBR booth case
wherever that is just it all. Oh I know where it is and Tim Timmy is coming to all camp and he
is holding it at the moment and he's he said to me on master and I suppose you want the table
and I said oh it's funny you should say that and so he's bringing it anyway.
So do you have a table there? Well I asked for a table and I was told yes we can organize
so we don't not quite sure what we're doing about tables at the moment but you're on the list
but it might be a good idea if we ask again just to make sure it doesn't fall off the
yeah the agenda if you want to he want to ask and go go right ahead might be better if
I mean can we get to ask how we get to work out an HBR episode?
episodes episodes my friend I'm coming there to chill and nobody can force me to record shows
I'm whole plan is to go and chill actually my whole plan is to go there and recruit people to
record shows that is essentially my clever and good plan I don't know if I it worked last year
I don't know if it's going to work after this show but okay cool um yeah stickers I need to
organize stickers in the like I guess yeah anyone got uh and two shirts yeah anyone got an
ideas for uh where we can get stickers like cheap lots of them no okay not you guys but
general HBR community feel free to throw us a line on the mailing list or comment in this episode
so is that it are we done is it over I think yeah I think we've done yep yeah I think that's
everything so the question is we'll can edit out the show or not tune it by which time I have to
edit this more this cannot lazy bastard or not okay tune in tomorrow for another exciting
episode of hacker public radio we should do it all together
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever
thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
