Episode: 2501
Title: HPR2501: HPR Community News for February 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2501/hpr2501.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:14:55

---

This is HBR episode 2,501 entitled HBR Community News for February 2018 and is part of the series HBR Community News.
It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 48 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comment posted in February 2018.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another
episode of Hacker Public Radio Community News for February 2018.
Joining me tonight is Hi everybody, hi Ken, it's Dave Morris.
So this is a monthly look at what's been going on in the last month here on HBR.
It's presented by HBR volunteers this month, it's pretty much Dave and myself.
We scheduled this for the first Saturday.
What's the logic there, Dave again?
It's the Saturday for the first Monday of the month.
I had to think about that, how could possibly be similar.
Oh, what?
Can you welcome our new host please?
Now you've got me because I didn't mind it.
No, it's all right, I didn't mind it.
I thought I'd got everything lined up.
So, a new host this month are RSR.
His name is Hard to Read until you hear him say it.
Yes.
And Empardo.
I think I've got that right.
And welcome to both of you, as you may or may not know, HBR is a community podcast network.
And that means we accept, in fact, we thrive on, in fact, we require people in the community
to contribute tools. That's how this works.
If everybody sits down on their hands, then nothing will get done.
So, please always have a few shows ready to rock and send it in.
Do not be in any way embarrassed about the topic or about your quality of your show,
or whether you think people will find it interesting or not,
that all turns out to be completely immaterial at the end of the day.
So, what we do for the first part of this show is we go through the shows that have been presented in the last month.
Sorry, I've had a really, really tough week, and I'm suffering a little bit from a cold.
And so, if I'm a bit more jittery, did the normal, that's the reason.
Anyway, it was a show by JWP, and it was about an integral workstation,
which I listened to when it was going on my way home.
And about how he got us back together again.
And the amazing effort he went to, to be able to do this,
that he was able to twig that he needed to disconnect power in order to be able to power up the process.
It was an amazing journey, not something I'd ever do myself, but an amazing journey.
He's a man not easily don't, is the message that comes across.
Plus, once somebody has access to some very strange and wonderful system.
So, some of the intergraph people haven't spotted this show yet, because there's no comments.
So, we'll go on to the next one, which was also as no comments,
but that's possibly because it's the first of a three-parter.
What's in my podcatcher?
Something we probably all should do.
And, okay, this is from Mahooka.
And, yeah, some interesting shows here, I found.
Yes, yes.
I particularly like the whole process of people talking about the feeds that they're listening to,
because you get a deeper insight into what they're all about.
So, personal recommendations are cool.
Yeah, it's actually great to know what to expect as well.
I think we'll discuss that on one of your shows this month and then we have the community news.
Obviously, we didn't say anything too controversial there, Dave, because nobody commented.
I thought that out of the common system has broken in the last two minutes,
which I couldn't very well have happened.
No, no, no.
It's Roxony.
Roxony.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Okay, moving on.
I see A, sorry, LCA, LinuxConfAU.
With Katie Madlachlan.
A very, very, very cool show there.
By...
Clinton Roy.
Yeah, obviously.
Yes.
And, sorry, it was distracted there by the corrected audio available.
And there is one comment on that.
No idea.
No, I can't seem to read it.
Can you read it there?
There must definitely be something wrong.
Yeah, no, we'll have to skip that and move on to the next show.
Which was useful functions back for episode four, two, four, eight, three.
A range of batch functions for listing, for parsing lists of numbers and ranges.
As always, Dave, needed to be in a mental, mental right place to be listening to that one,
but your full show notes really do help.
I thought I've given up trying to do them in my head.
I follow along with the show notes.
Yeah.
I don't think I ever expected people to try to understand them without seeing the notes,
is why I'm constantly referring to the notes.
Yeah.
It's not that I'm following, you know, I will take up my phone.
I'll read through the notes and then I'll just listen to the rest of the show and then maybe refer to the notes twice or three times.
So it's not that bad.
No, no, but it's hard to talk about a script and what it does and stuff like that.
Actually, having, having notes and keep referring to them, that sort of thing.
So it's, you know, online blah.
It's got such and such.
You need to, you need to see them or listen to them or whatever, whatever you're doing.
So anyway.
So the following day, we had a breezy look into the big idea means in storytelling.
And this was what's turning out to be a little bit of a series, I guess, from Norston Bunk's about the whole concept of stories and basically his thoughts on stories and character development and stuff.
And what do you think of this one before I express my opinions?
Well, it's, it's, I'm enjoying these if they are a series, but I'm enjoying the concept of looking at the guts of stories and storytelling and so forth.
And it's, it's good to see behind scenes in this sort of way.
I find it interesting from that point of view.
I found it because I think I spoke once at last month or something about going back to reread Asimov stuff.
Yes.
And this, incidentally, I just bought a book from my son and the second-hand book story about that.
I, at the time, I was fascinated by, by the stories and then going back and rereading them now, I feel like they're lacking and that some of the other stories, one of the best stories that I've read or listened to actually was from the escape pod series, which I'm actually going to submit it.
They do all their stuff on the creator comments.
I will submit this as one of the episodes.
They're absolutely brilliant show and there is a big idea in that.
But it's in the background and it perfectly describes how I think Asimov or the story, storytellers in the 50s relied very much on the big, big idea.
It was a, it was a great insight into that.
I feel the little bit less guilty about not liking the, not enjoying the Asimov stories as much as I had before.
Yeah.
Points of view changes as you go through life, I guess.
It's the way I reason it anyway.
My late father was a very keen reader, but he got bored with reading novels.
He went entirely towards factual things as he got older and I feel myself doing the same.
I'm not sure if it's something to do with getting older or more cynical or something.
I don't know what it is, but it's heard of people where that does tend to happen.
Yeah, I found myself not reading as much because I don't want to get caught up in the story as much.
I don't have the emotional reserves necessary to be able to deal with it.
I'm a sucker for a teap shot and then I feel, I feel like I've got conned into feeling emotion for a character
that didn't deserve it just because of the way they think I was structured.
Yeah.
Which is why I read Terry Pratchett a lot because you know exactly what's going to happen.
We've mentioned, we've talked about this before, that I'm blowing my way through the Pratchett biography of the book.
I can't think of the word I wanted to say there, but yeah, I'm up to pyramid so far.
And at first I remember that I didn't enjoy it very much and I'm really enjoying it second time.
Yeah, exactly. I had the same experience.
I think it's also a lot to do with the that I'm listening to a lot more in our time podcasts.
And you get to experience a lot of the stuff, you know, entire episodes have been basically parts of the book, you know, with small gods.
They had just saw an episode about the philosophers in ancient Greece.
There was like, he's just copied all of these but met a funny.
Oh yeah, yeah, you can often see where he's got his ideas from.
But yes, he's done a brilliant job on and turned him into a novel.
And it's amazing how we're commenting about Terry Pratchett books.
Anyway, the following day we had instead of doing what we're doing,
which is commenting about the Alien Brothers podcast.
I saw the invisible man, this was a discussion of the now old by internet standards news of New York times piece about real, I guess, a state.
I had difficulty finishing that sentence.
I have to say.
I meant to write to them and ask them what I was supposed to say.
They obviously didn't notice that they'd run out of the 100 character limit when I've been there.
Yes, it's they are interesting and I'm using to listen to.
They have the process of hopping around between different themes and subjects and stuff is quite interesting.
I still find them a little bit too long and that's not a criticism.
It was me, I'd want to sharpen things up a little bit.
But maybe people are saying the same thing about what I do.
But you know, it's certainly found quite a lot there that made me smile.
Yeah, exactly. I'm getting into their shows along me.
They continue.
So the next day, some stuff I bought at a recent amateur radio rally by Mr. X.
With an example of a bomb and some iron brood.
Yes, yes. Do you want to read your own call?
For the people who don't know an amateur radio rally is where a sort of car boot sale.
I guess a front yard sale.
Is that what the Americans call it?
Garage sale.
Yeah, yeah.
And Mr. X found some quite cool stuff, I thought, including a cheap Kindle.
Yeah, so I just had to say quite a haul, my comment here.
I envy your finds.
I didn't know there was such events in this part of the world because Mr. X can't be too far away from where I live.
I did not know that there was such things.
I didn't actually catch where it was, but you probably want to keep that quiet to keep the unwanted out of these things.
It's a looting here.
You didn't know what I mean.
Pretends Scottish people trying to turn up.
To bring my English coat with me or something.
Simple Libra office repo for Fedora.
What an excellent idea.
Not only for Libra office, but for just having your own repo for putting in stuff.
Whether it's Debian or Red Hat.
There's a brilliant, brilliant idea.
And also I see it.
He managed to get the pipe character in to the tabs because we're having a lot of problems with the pipe character right at this moment.
Yeah, back to the show.
Yes.
Yeah.
There's certainly a lot of pipes in there and for sure.
Yes.
We'll have to talk about how he might have managed to do this, but maybe he came through a different route than the usual one.
Well, for some background history, just two minutes.
I was two minutes before posting the show.
The Feed the Validation failed because one of the shows that I posted had a pipes separate, you know, a pipe character in it.
And when I replaced it with a hit, when I replaced that character, then the feed is now valid.
But the feed is valid with this in it as well.
So I'm just going to copy and paste whatever code he's used for this.
That renders problems.
Yeah.
Very strange.
Anyway, yes.
It's certainly an interesting idea there.
It's got some cool thinking behind what he's doing there.
Yeah.
And especially if you're doing stuff on the network.
And I was thinking with the likes of like if you've got a Raspberry Pi network somewhere, which you're controlling by Ansible.
Just like in that case.
That you could have a central repo for the stuff specific to your company that you are, you know, your own scripts that you want to update.
Then, yeah, you can't push them out, but you could also have them, you know, do an app get update and update this.
They're stopped it.
You're managing your own repos.
So if people have done that, have managed their own repos or are managing their own repos show on the benefits and hazards of doing that will be awesome.
Yeah.
It's an interesting subject.
You can do it with windows or have been able to do it with windows.
I can't you.
I'm sure that's what the windows guys at my last job did for updating hundreds and hundreds of windows machines all over the university.
The local.
No, you can definitely, you can definitely do this on the next area problem.
The following day, we had the psychology of no, especially put in for February this 14th, which was the first show for.
And I remember.
Can you give me the name again?
Yeah, I have to do double take RS R.
Sorry, coffee.
All for Mike.
All right, push.
Do you hear me?
Sure.
Yeah.
Perfect.
This was for show and an absolutely excellent show combining two of my favorite things.
Shows for start.
And this was one of the few episodes where I was actually able to engage in a conversation with my wife about it.
Not because, you know, it's a love episode.
Of course it is.
But the whole neuroscience neuroscience and the theory of mind and all that stuff is right up our streets.
So we had a good out shot about that.
And I love the idea that the analogy about the about people think it's unromantic to say love is a chemical reaction.
In the same way, looking at a poem, it's just a series of words or words that affect brilliant, brilliant.
Yeah.
Oh, I find this very interesting.
I listened to it.
I think three times in total because he had some very detailed descriptions of things here.
And I was making like a notes about it because it's my background of biology and animal psychology.
I'm very interested in all this sort of stuff.
But the sort of sociology aspect of it, the art culture versus the guest culture.
Never heard anything about that.
That sounded most interesting.
Yeah.
Look into that.
So fascinating.
An excellent first episode.
Yeah.
And we expect even better.
No, the next episode.
No, we don't.
A lot of crappy art.
Absolutely.
Lord the bar.
I just made a note to myself that I love that the sounds in the background.
He's obviously got he's not too far away from a main road because those those background two things of horns.
I've sanded sanded, you know, quite quite distinctive.
Yeah.
I'd love to know where he was.
Good episode.
Good episode.
Yeah.
Lawson Bronx creates a tiny video file.
Hold on, hold on.
It was a comment.
It was a comment.
Yeah.
A comment from when our first comment was.
It was a comment from when to go.
He said, welcome.
Quite a topic for a first episode.
I enjoyed it and look forward to your next submission.
Smiley face.
Couldn't have said it better.
Myself.
Anyway, context is everything.
And if I was a real podcaster, I'd go back and edit out the bit where I said where it moved on.
But anyway, I'm not.
Have I lost it?
No, no, no, no.
I was just going to say to areas human.
So we'll just just live with it.
Super.
Yeah.
How Lawson Bronx really managed to get down the size of these files, which is something that we need to do for HPR as well.
And I commented on this, been there, done that.
See what I did there, Dave.
See what I did there.
It's funny that you have to pause in brackets, deliberate type or Dave.
Or I get an email from Dave.
Can you do realize that you typed that wrong?
You've never received an email about comments in your in your home life.
No, I don't.
I do not.
I wish us through comments.
Comments are sacred as far as I'm concerned.
If you wrote it that way, it stays that way.
Okay.
Number one, yes, you describe higher head forms.
I don't think he intended to describe higher head forms, but yes, the very you ask a question and the very next question is always you shouldn't do it that way.
And then suddenly everything's derailed.
But also, I wanted to know really why people are on the assumption that this network is all about getting answers to stuff.
You know, or getting here is this cool thing I've done.
It's finished, but it can also be here's a problem that I'm really stuck with.
I need your help to solve it so that entire first half of that episode could very well have been right.
This is what I'm trying to do.
It's a really weird one can as anybody got any help whatsoever on this topic.
And I happen to know that there are several FF MPEG people on the network who would definitely be able to do follow-up shows on that.
So, yeah, good point.
That's a good point.
It is very much the norm that we as a community offer solutions rather than questions.
So, yeah, there's scope for that.
And it would be quite interesting to start those sort of conversations too.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay, here's what I'm doing.
Here's why I'm trying to do it.
Here's why I must use this tool or, yeah, basically, yeah, good thing to spawn shows, I think.
And what's in my podcatcher 2?
This was a hookah show, obviously.
And some of the things on here, obviously, Hacker Public Radio and healthcare, you think, hey, hookah.
And then I hear of Sherlock.
And you just get another, the mogul cast.
You just get another view for into some of these interests and likes by their podcast recommendations.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's fascinating.
I thought this to myself.
It's the number of overlaps with things I listen to.
But also Kate Bush.
Yes, this is fascinating.
The interests of our community is good insight.
Yeah, very good.
And the next day we had some news with Phoenix, who's one of the security guys, had Phoenix textically and back doing some stuff on security here on the network.
Very nice to hear it again.
Yeah, this was most interesting, actually.
I processed the notes and was fascinated to see that I'd usually check the links to make sure there's no errors.
And the first one about Syhub is very relevant.
Having one daughter who's currently finishing her degree and business of access to journal papers and stuff is very relevant.
And all of that, it's a huge big subject.
It's Aaron Schwartz and what he tried to do, et cetera, et cetera.
So very interesting piece of news that to point out to us.
I love these sorts of shows that, you know, raise our attention towards things that might not have noticed otherwise.
Yes, speaking of making stuff public, my wife and I were in discussion.
Well, actually, what was it?
Most and Bronx, to the show, a long time ago about the topic about autism came up.
And I mentioned to my wife that we should do a show about it.
And she said, well, I'll write down some notes and a page of an email turned into a booklet and the booklet turned into a thingy.
This is actually turned into a full volume one of a book, which has just been released.
It's an ebook actually.
It's called Daugle Lake Autisties.
And the English version will be called Clearly Autistic.
And it's a journey through the theories and the history behind autism and all the different aspects of that.
So remind if you could remind me to put a link in the show notes, anybody, any Dutch people or people who speak Dutch.
The book is available and you can forward it on to whoever you like because it's released under Creative Commons CC by SA.
And when the English version will be translated, it will be released on this network.
So wonderful.
Two years of some serious work on that.
Yeah, it's, yes, applause is due here. I think that's a hell of a hell of an achievement.
Okay.
An evening subway ride, which was a subway ride from Toronto Subway from College Station to Shepherd Young Station.
And yeah, brilliant.
I love this.
Clinton Roy said.
Did you want me to do that?
I'll do that one because, you know, see how I do this.
Tinter Roy says, swapping in.
It's been many a year since I was in Canada.
Are there the rubber wheeled ones?
Are they the road?
Are these the rubber wheels ones?
Which is something I didn't even know was a thing until I read these comments.
And RWA replies.
HBR2492, that's this one.
An evening subway ride, he says.
I recently moved to Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
And it's been years since I used the local subway here.
They call it Marta Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority.
It's a combination of subways and buses.
This past weekend I decided to give Marta a try at Toronto Subway.
Sounds just like the Atlanta subway.
And no, I didn't fall asleep.
I rode the subway for three hours.
I only saw one person asleep.
And in Badrero said, screeching wheel tires.
The Toronto subway trains have steel wheels.
The Montreal subway trains have rubber tires.
For more details, give us a link, which I followed, which was awesome.
Yeah, I didn't follow that one yet.
Yeah.
Fascinating subject.
Yeah.
You're going to read yours.
Yeah, I did.
And I also said, meta.
I was sitting in the train listening to a podcast of someone sitting in the train.
I love these things.
Absolutely love it.
My daughter's getting worried about her exams coming up and stuff.
And she wouldn't mind me saying, I'm sure.
But sleep as a student can be difficult.
And I said, you should listen to this.
You know, the ambient sound in the background would be nice.
Yeah.
And I mean, she has.
But she's looking for some sort of ambient thing to help her sleep.
I was thinking, I actually ended up, as I was writing this on the reason I normally don't comment on.
And she was directly, but I was listening to this show.
And then I went and found myself playing, gone, you're doing a repeat on that.
Because I hadn't reached home yet.
I was just really bizarre.
So my commuters actually longer than his.
Yeah.
Actually, the train part of my commuters longer than his train.
Yeah.
It's amazing though.
How pleasant these sorts of things can be.
You know, you can just sort of drift away to listening to this sort of thing.
I don't mean sleeping necessarily, but just be doing some other things.
And somehow you're absorbing the atmosphere of the sounds there.
This whole sound scene thing.
Soundscape thing is what's a very enjoyable sort of shows.
Do you know?
I never, I never think starting off that they're going to be as enjoyable as they turn out to be.
Strange.
Yeah.
It's something about listening to the sounds of different parts of the world, the human world or whatever.
Natural world is fascinating.
So the next day we had your update on YouTube subscriptions.
And I still haven't online.
Big Clive is on there.
Absolutely excellent.
Computer file.
I had a look at explaining computers.
I subscribed to that one.
Rest.
I had a quick look.
And winter gardener I'm also had also subscribed to.
So quite cool.
An easy swan.
I think I may have.
Yeah.
Well, you know, it's it's.
And then it's another look into somebody else's preferences.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I just.
There's been add additions to the list since last time to it.
I think it's well worth updating people about them because, you know, if you enjoyed the first one,
then maybe you'll enjoy the subsequent stuff.
Indeed.
Hipster said entertained.
I can't wait to look at these YouTube pages.
So many interesting subject.
Thanks.
So this time I commented back.
Enjoy, I said.
Hope you enjoy some of the channels I mentioned.
You could contribute some of your own recommendations at some point.
Sure.
They'd be appreciated.
Smiley face.
Oops.
See what I did there.
I did Dave.
I am noticing things.
Soon I will not be needed on this network.
And then we had the Nicholas Steelhouse interview by Clinton Roy.
I could have sworn I saw a comment about from Clinton Roy this month.
I must have misled it somewhere.
Right.
Anyway, yeah, very good about the accessibility workshop.
And yeah.
Yeah.
I was fascinated that Nicholas Steinhardt had commuted all the way from Canada for this conference.
And he was giving a talk there, obviously.
But his view of Lawrence Comfort AU was that it was a prime instance of a conference at the world level.
I'd certainly gotten the impression that it was something special in terms of Lawrence conferences.
But it's good to hear that sort of confirmation from an attendee.
I'd love to go.
Yeah.
I'm sure I can.
Yeah.
You can go to Foster.
I don't think I'll be able to check.
I'd love to go though.
But did you notice?
I was when I was listening to it, I was going, hello, why would you be first on and last off the airplane?
And then I realized at the end that he made the comments that, yeah, in a wheelchair, you always have the best seat in the house.
So you're completely, this is the beauty of podcasting.
You're preconceptions about somebody is completely gone.
You're not biased as a result of somebody's physical appearance.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's nice.
He was a very entertaining guy to listen to.
Absolutely.
And the next one was 10 years of soak.
Oh, dear, oh, dear, hit your 40.
Wow, 10 years.
Look at how.
Yeah.
Well, well done, I say.
Exactly.
Wow.
Congratulations, Linda Roy says.
It's a milestone I can work towards.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He said he's not lost his accent.
His soak.
He still sounds very, very popular.
British.
Good for him.
But, yeah, a lot of the statistics are.
Oh, don't get me started.
Don't get me started with statistics.
But the reason for the episode 999 is it's been so high is because it's the one I used
to test anything.
I pop it up to episode HBR 9999.
And that's why that one's popular, popular.
Who knows?
Who knows?
Yeah.
Well, there would be more statistics that people can examine from themselves.
As we continue using our card to organ, I think.
So it made that point as well, didn't it?
Yeah.
It's a bit of an unfortunate time to be looking at the analysis, but because of the move now,
all our feeds will be over there.
But, you know, I can't completely have no faith in the download numbers, you know, in the
early days because we were getting hits from spammers all the time.
And anything that had an MP3 file was being downloaded by, you know, those MP3, you know,
or it was back at the time of Napster and all those websites hosted MP3 files and stuff.
So we were getting hundreds of thousands of downloads at the time.
Yeah.
That's.
Yes.
It's not a very exact art, I would imagine.
Yeah.
But as I say here, I think the best way to measure, this is my personal opinion, not anybody else's,
but the best way to measure the impact of your show is the number of people that have commented
on us, the number of people who come back and say, thanks very much for doing that or built on us
or who are using your show or who are inspired by us.
And, you know, the only way we will know that Dave is if somebody gives feedback.
That is the most important currency that you can have as a, as a podcaster is the number of people
who have emailed you or thanked you or done follow-up shows.
Yeah.
Speaking of you, the next show was making a Raspberry Pi inventory.
Thank you very much for popping this up.
I think I prompted you to do this if I'm not mistaken.
It was, it was something we, we, we talked about for a, for a while, I think.
Yeah.
It's been hovering in the background, this particular thing for a, for a while, but given the,
the hole in the, in the queue.
Yeah.
Get it done pretty quick.
Be easy said directly into my toolbox.
Thanks, Dave.
I have half a dozen pies myself.
The script will go directly into my script toolbox.
Your mind is a treasure trove.
Please keep digging.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
I said, thanks be easy.
Hope you find the script useful.
Suggestions for improvements and enhancements are welcome.
And there's an episode in the queue from Be Easy about your script.
I've just posted it.
Yes.
Exactly.
Absolutely.
Awesome.
He makes, he makes you happy by using the script.
He makes me happy by generating another show.
I mean, this guy is not only should we thank him for his awesome work on the GNU Arc series
in cooperation with you.
We should, we should really thank him for making shows of course.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm looking forward to hearing that one.
Not, not for self-aggrandism, but just to know how, how he's, he's made use of this.
Because you write a thing for yourself and you give it, sort of hand it out to the world.
And you think, is that a pile of rubbish or not?
Yeah.
It's good to know if it's not too rubbishy that this is for somebody.
That's a great feeling.
And the following day we had the first of the HPR New Year's shows.
And I need to post the remainder of them.
But there's now fortunately a backlog in the queue.
I would ask people now, during the month we had a shortage of shows.
We were very, very low and people are filling up the queue.
But please, please, please read the scheduling guidelines.
You should always have an audio recording ready to upload before you pick your slot.
Always try and fill any free slots that are available in the coming week, only week.
If the queue's already filling up, please leave some slots for new contributors.
If you have a non-origin show, then find an empty week and schedule on them then.
And if you're uploading a series, please consider scheduling one every two weeks.
So because everybody now is sending in a big bunch of shows one after the other.
And then the queue is full.
And then in three weeks time we're back to square one again where we're asking for shows.
So people upload on the shows, please leave space.
There's now one, two, three, four, sorry, three weeks completely full until there's a free slot.
So if somebody was just ambling along and going, hey, I think I'd want to do a show.
But I want to hear it now next week.
There's no free slots.
So yeah, psychological mind people.
We need to keep those free slots for people to continue contributing shows.
And nothing cheers me up more than seeing weeks.
You know, the whole calendar full with at least one every week having one or two shows.
Yep.
Yep. Good, good thinking.
Well, this, I saw this one in the queue three hours, 40 minutes.
I said to my son and his girlfriend, we're in.
I said, wow, look at this.
It's so huge.
And I was sort of slightly daunted at the prospect of this thing.
It's just something so long.
I loved this.
This was fantastic.
It's just so interesting.
I plugged my ears with this for an entire evening.
I was doing another thing.
And I didn't feel like nearly four hours at all.
I enjoyed it a lot.
So congratulations to everybody for doing a great show as far as I'm concerned.
And I must say Casper did a normally good job filling in the show notes.
Did he?
Yes, he's brilliant.
He's a nice guy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I really enjoyed his, his, his approach to this.
And you want to make sure there was no dead air.
He was doing his station IDs.
Yeah.
Playing nice little things on the guitar and stuff.
Yeah.
Amazing.
There was nice to, personally, it was nice for me to, to chat with tattoo as all who I don't
get a chance.
Oh, I chat quite a lot with them, but I don't get a chance to talk to them face to face.
Yeah.
Great.
It was good.
And there's some pretty, pretty good notes, actually.
They needed a bit of massaging.
I just go on about this.
Of course, this is what I do.
They turned out pretty well listening to the show and looking at the notes.
They do seem to cover that cover it pretty well, I think.
Yeah, very good.
So the following day we had a life without Gugel, Quibnu, goes a month without G apps on his
phone.
Stealing is show that I was planning on doing this weekend.
Oops.
Well, no, there you go.
It ended a show.
If it ended on the server, he got in first.
Yeah.
So awesome.
And also had a few tools that I would not have thought about either.
So very good.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
No, some real gems in here for a show that was only four and a half minutes long.
There's some pretty intense stuff that many of which haven't followed up yet, but want to.
And then the following day we're into March, so we can stop right there.
Absolutely.
So we go over the other comments that come in.
Yes, indeed.
Yes.
I have to take my hand off the keyboard.
Will I change?
Change tab.
No, excuse me.
Yeah.
Yep.
We're good.
So we had a Hitchpure comment on what's in my handshark part due.
We're misdirected and he commented hi to many.
Thanks for your kind words.
Land you found it enjoyable.
Sorry for taking so long to reply.
I only just noticed the comments.
I really should check more often.
Yes.
He replied to tattoos coming from a lot earlier about the show.
I was good.
I had the thought in my mind.
I should remind Mr Hicks that he could join the comment feed.
I thought maybe it's a little cheeky to do that.
Probably not done so for some reason or other.
Yeah.
Maybe he doesn't know.
That's a possibility.
Yeah.
Just let people know here.
There is a common feed that an RSS feed when the comments come in.
You can subscribe to it.
I actually have that coming into
Contrabird.
Yeah.
Me too.
Me too.
I get alerts to say there's a comment.
I've processed them before so it's not quite the same thing.
No.
Do you want to do the next one?
Yes.
So the next one, Tim, Tim, to me.
We're not going to talk about because we talked about it last month.
As you will well, you will remember.
I'm sure.
The next one we didn't deal with was reading audio books while distracted from
D-O-D-D dummy.
Yeah.
And he's we had made a comment.
I think I'd made the comment about it was there was a chicken sound in the background of his show.
Indeed.
And he said I meant to remove the roosters but forgot in the Philippines and there are roosters everywhere.
And I think that might have said something like maybe I just thought it sounds so much like the far east.
I spent a bit of time in Indonesia and there's damn chickens everywhere and they're always shouting it.
Very early hours of the morning etc etc.
So yeah, it was interesting to know that that was the case.
And really goes as also distractable.
Thanks for the tip.
I am also very distractable.
I find myself rewinding HPR episodes constantly to catch what I just missed.
I try to looping an episode this one in fact and saw a real difference in what I remembered.
I was curious about the roosters but don't mind them too much.
Perhaps you should just listen to this course the next time.
Awesome.
Oh yeah, yeah.
I think it's great.
I think a bit of animal sounds in the background just adds a bit of atmosphere.
Okay.
The next comment was on the City of Masks, the HPR audio book club.
And Hammeron said a second Star Trek reference.
As soon as you said Star Trek, it made me think of the next generation season 7, an episode called Masks.
In that episode, both data and Picard wore masks and had alternating roles.
Yeah, interesting.
Last and Bronx says, excellent episode.
I really enjoyed this installment at the Audio Book Club.
It's great hearing from the author who was thoughtful and articulate,
explaining what sounded like complex concepts and making them clear.
I'm really excited to listen to this book.
Spoilings notwithstanding. Great job, guys.
And there's something here from Clinton Roy.
We've done those.
Oh yeah, we did.
We've done Clinton.
We definitely covered it.
Yeah.
I always keep you all over doing them.
So yeah.
Okay.
Excellent.
Where were we Dave?
We had Dave.
What do we do now with the news feed?
What's the mail?
Mail.
Yes.
Mail thread.
Yes.
The mail thread.
Slot reservations.
Was this subject?
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
And yes.
Policy change.
Oh, dear, dear.
Oh, well, it was an error uploading, right?
403 for Bidner.
There's a...
How do we do it?
How do we explain this?
I think we explained it before.
There's been a tightening down of the shows.
So sometimes if you're uploading stuff,
you get a 403 for Bidner.
In which case you should try and check and see if it's an A to Z
that you're not loading strange characters in your episode names.
Or that you're using the single code in the show notes.
No.
What was the pipe character in your show notes?
Yes.
Well, it's a bit strange.
Yes.
It's something...
The pipe character does seem to be, you think, the triggers.
But also maybe some unique code stuff, perhaps.
I don't know.
Could be.
Basically suspicious stuff.
And that's what happens there.
So there was...
In the previous month, there had been three requests for a reservation.
And the whole reservation system thing goes back to the days
when there was no option to pick a slot.
You put in a show and then you said,
oh, I want this coming out on Tuesday of next week or Wednesday of whatever.
And then we had a big, long, complicated way of scheduling the shows
based in first come first serve.
But it was an interview we do this.
And it was just far too complicated right now.
You can go and you can book any show for the coming three months on the website.
And then at the drop down list you can also go
and show for the next entire year.
And in actual fact, you can book a show way beyond that if you want.
That's not a problem.
What we want to do is change the policy somewhat,
so that it goes from all reservations need to be approved in the case
where you wish to reserve a particular slot,
but do not even need to record it.
You would need to get a reservation approved in advance on HPR mailing list.
And there was some comments about that.
Basically, I love the way of,
if it's an open slot, use it.
If you cannot upload it, ask to lock it,
which actually no,
I said that was what was in the past.
What we're saying now is if the slot is open, use it.
Reservations are a pain for us,
so please don't ask us to do that anymore.
I think that's a fair summary of what we're saying.
Yes, yes.
It is a bit of a nightmare,
the whole process of reservation,
given that we have now some quite tight time constraints
in terms of getting stuff posted
and onto archive.org ready for the feed when it starts again
the following week, et cetera, et cetera.
It's all got very, very much more complicated
and the reservation stuff is very,
makes it even more difficult.
And now after this show,
I'm going to have to edit it.
Edit it straight away so that we can get it out in time.
So any of the proposed texts following comments from our RSA.
Any host can select any free slot for up to a year in advance
by recording their show and uploading it to the desired slot.
In exceptional circumstances,
it may be necessary to reserve a slot
while not having the audio available,
but this must be approved by the mailing list in advance.
Please be sure to allow as much time as possible
and include the reason why you feel it is necessary
to reserve the shot.
This slot.
This is intended only for exceptional circumstances,
such as a scheduled interview
where we would like the audio to be released
as soon after the event as possible,
or to cover an important topical situation that has occurred
due to the extended time now needed to post shows
to external sites.
The extra work this entails
and the disruptive effect of reservations
will no longer be allowing them
except in very rare cases
of the type mentioned above.
Right, you've been told.
Zen behind.
Can you upload a show that you were planning to do?
Which was my attempt to
get the procrastinators?
I would say we went very low on shows all of a sudden.
Yes, yes, it's quite good psychology, I think.
Thank you, you're welcome.
Then HBRHunky had some problems uploading the shows
for the new year shows.
Thank you very much, honky, for doing all that work.
Absolutely excellent.
I do know how much work it is.
Brilliant, brilliant.
Thank you very much.
I would say I really enjoyed the new year show this year.
It was nice just to be able to sit back and chill
and just be part of it rather than having to do it.
It was absolutely awesome.
The same last year as well.
Yeah, absolutely.
That's great.
And you're very well.
Josh says, whole slew of IP were blocked
and you had some issues, but I think you...
Any other business, dude?
Quick change of tab.
I got my new clacky keyboard here,
so I was trying to press things.
Oh, no!
I got a real IBM keyboard here.
Wow.
I want to know all that.
I feel the skip at one of them at once.
No, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's one of them.
It's one of them.
Okay.
This one's got an AT tiny in it,
so I can do magic things to it.
I have no idea what they are, but...
Anyway, yes, this was just meaf.
Yes, yes.
Getting to where I need to be.
So we have only one bit of any other business,
which is just regarding tags and summaries
that I like to comment on the contributions we've had.
We had contributions from Windigo on from BJB.
I did some as well,
so we've had 25 tags and summaries added to the database.
Reset or there.
If you would like to contribute,
then there's a link here for doing it.
I also modified the page
where you'd go and look to see what needs doing,
and added a section which lists all of the tags in the system,
which is something like 3,000th of a moment.
This was a request.
There's a comment from BJB who said,
it's really hard to know.
I'm paraphrasing here.
It's hard to know what tags to choose,
because there's no means of...
No easy means of telling which tags people have already used.
There are ways of doing it,
but I was looking for when,
which they could be summarized.
All of them are there in alphabetical order,
and each one is followed by links to the show.
So you could go and look at them.
It's all one great big blob at the moment,
and I'll tidy it up at some stage.
But it's hopefully that will help people who are interested in adding.
That's pretty cool actually.
Yeah, it wasn't hard to do.
It's just using templating stuff,
which I need to do a show about at some point.
Yeah, cool.
So that's it.
That's all we have to say on AOB, I think.
Yeah, cool.
I'm going to skip the traditional singing at the end,
due to the fact that I can't breathe.
Okay.
So, we won't say anything positive about your cough, it's okay.
Oh, that's that hurts, that did.
All right, children tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Hacker.
Public Radio.
Thanks, David.
Bye.
You're welcome.
Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the earth.
Create a comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
