Episode: 2859
Title: HPR2859: 2018-2019 New Years Eve show part 7
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2859/hpr2859.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:29:45

---

This is HPR episode 2859 entitled HPRNY Show 2018-2019 Part 7.
It is hosted by Honki Magu and is about 179 minutes long and can remain a explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community comes together to say happy new year and chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
So, Ms. X, you're in the shipping business?
I'm sorry. Could you repeat that? We are having a conversation about portable battery charges
for cell phones. Sorry. You're in, you do work for a shipping company?
I work for a ginormous company that has their hand in every little pot that has to do
anything with logistics. They're international. My division is third party warehousing or fulfillment?
Well, my brother, as I said, is long haul trucker.
What company does he drive for? Decker.
You know, I'm not out on the dog carry off in any more because I'm usually chained in my desk,
but I'm sure we've had the minute timer too.
Yeah, well, as I said, he covers the only area that he doesn't get into with this company is the North East.
He tends to stay down toward Georgia and not when he's in the East.
Yeah, we don't usually do a lot of truckload calls outbound.
We get a lot of that inbound, of course. Most of the stuff that we get comes in from the port
or out of Canada. Where's my Amazon package right now?
I go now. I don't work for Amazon Wing Wing.
Well, here you go, www.ups.com.
Actually, my brother has got it tough. He's in a 2019 Volvo truck.
Stop right there. If he thinks that's tough, right?
Insert sarcasm here.
Automatic transmission, air conditioning, satellite radio.
It's got an APU that keeps the batteries charged and provides house power,
so he doesn't have to run the main engine and it also keeps the main engine warm.
And main battery is charged.
Yeah, you did have a little trouble adjusting to a vehicle with no clutch pedal.
Yeah, my dad was kind of old school and he had an issue with that too.
He's back from when they used to have a double clutch and had 18 gears and,
you know, he's missed one crossing the summit and, you know, good luck.
But now they're all automatic.
He said there is a learning curve.
I wouldn't have believed it, but he said there is a learning curve.
Well, I believe that this is a second truck with an automatic that he had, but he was saying
the first time he had phantom pedal troubles. And he said, because this is a Volvo truck with
a Volvo engine and transmission, they're coordinated much better than the Peterbilt that he had
prior to.
When I had my first car growing up was a five-speed Honda manual.
And I remember I used to have to sometimes drive my mom's automatic because my dad would have
my car for some reason. I couldn't tell you whether this stage of my life.
And I had a phantom pedal problem.
And my sister was always the first one to tell a lot of me because she thought,
very sure, my parents, we live in because I stomped on the brakes that hard.
But it was looking for a clutch pedal that wasn't there.
Well, I think they should install a dead pedal just to ease the withdrawal symptoms.
I think my sister probably would have had less whiplash.
Yes, Kat, it is a good sandwich. Thank you very much for your interest.
Yes, remember there's a comb terminals over in Missoula, Montana.
I always liked Montana.
Well, it's pretty good. Although some things can be a little challenging with the weather.
Yeah, I imagine so. But, you know, if you kind of like being a hermit, winter's nice there.
So, since my brother is basically a turtle, he doesn't really have to worry about it too much.
Is the sleeper that he's got whether it's a refrigerator in microwave, I think it has a microwave.
He didn't install a TV in this one.
He's probably got the internet. He doesn't need TV.
I was going to say some of those sleeper units are just about as big as built.
I mean, they're just as big as an RV in some senses, but not a lot of them are that huge,
but they're all pretty well apportioned.
I've seen some that as long as you're not taking a family, a six would be perfect for,
you know, just they're pretty nice.
It's a hotel on wheels. It should be awesome.
Well, he, uh, with one of his prior companies, he had a little Chihuahua that would go with him.
Oh, someone, and I have no idea where I spoke to him. He went everywhere with his wife,
and he got the extended sleep cab. So basically for his wife to have a bit of space there.
Um, and that, I don't know, it seemed pretty, it must, I imagined it was fairly luxurious if
you can convince your wife to come driving around with it.
Yeah, well, oftentimes all this missing is the toilet and the shower.
Yeah.
And I've even seen some of our drivers come in and, and, and they'll tell you they've got a little
Kim toilet in there, which I'm not so sure is pleasant, but I guess it's better than,
I don't know, just some people. It's better.
Yeah, our fellow, a fellow on YouTube called this channel that is called Cruising the Cut,
and he's on a, a narrow boat, a basically a powered canal boat, and he uses the,
what they call a cassette toilet. So that would probably work in a truck too.
Yes, and it's impressive when you realize the truck itself has satellite navigation,
satellite communications radar, drives itself.
No, they're working on that.
They're working on that one.
Although my brother was in the service of late 70s, early 80s, and evidently he did have to deal
with someone who mistooks a cruise control for an autopilot.
There was that person who'd bought an RV who was driving down the road, hit the cruise control
and then went into the back to make themselves a sandwich. And oddly enough, when they crashed,
they then tried to sue the manufacturer because it did not say that the cruise control would not
steer for them. This is decades ago when cruise control was failing you, and they,
they did win some money out of it. It's one of these stupid lawsuits, things like the McDonald's lady.
Yeah, but here's the thing. Okay, here's the thing. You're an entire existence.
You've never been able to push a button, have a car drive itself entirely,
without some kind of human interaction. Well, I would you suddenly decide that today,
when you got in your motorhome, you could push a button and everything would work like a charm.
Wouldn't you be a little leery as a human?
As said, did my babies in the process for a while?
Well, actually, actually, my brother helped clean up that incident in the military,
because evidently, the person who had the accident was
diplomatic royalty. Sorry, that was probably a bit harsh. I just don't understand how common
sense can be so uncommon. Well, you haven't talked to a lawyer recently. This person was coming from
no, common sense dictates they should not speak to them. The middle, the middle east,
and his jet had an autopilot and he believed that America was technologically advanced enough
to put it in everything, just because you don't believe in lawyers doesn't mean they don't believe in
you. I believe in you. I don't. I'm just kidding. Please don't sue us.
Actually, back in the bad old days, I believe it was illegal in Massachusetts to be a lawyer.
My how times have changed. Reminds me that Star Trek next generation episode where
Q talks to Picard and they're talking about the time in history where they killed all the lawyers.
That was Shakespeare, wasn't it? First, we killed all the lawyers.
Could be. I don't know that that well. Wait a minute. You don't think Star Trek couldn't
steal from the classics? Well, they had a Shakespearean actor on there, so
that's perfect. I just figured that would be his favorite thing to do.
Make it so. But I don't think you're with the episode. I think one of the most interesting things
that I've seen was that a convention where Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner has an Ashbee,
one of my favorite actors since Commander Data has very much the Ashbee traits.
He spotted Brent Spiner and he said, Commander Data, you're out of uniform.
I like the some of the conventions where Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner are and
there's one of them that Patrick Stewart's up on stage taking questions and then Brent Spiner comes
up and starts asking questions except he keeps going like, okay, my captain, so I've got a question
for you, my captain. It's hilarious. Captain, my captain. Yeah, he keeps going like captain, my captain.
It's just brilliant. And then Brent Spiner does a pretty good Picard impersonation,
broadly enough. And apparently at one point, so Patrick Stewart was married to,
she was like a producer or something for Star Trek. And at one point,
she was working late as quite often the actors had to because they're trying to film something.
And the Brent phones Patrick's wife up impersonating him and tries to say that, you know,
something's come up, honey, I'm sorry, I won't be able to come and just keeps going until she
realizes that it's Brent. But you can YouTube these, you should look for them. It's actually very
amusing. Actually, what I find amusing was finding out which members of the cast hijacked their uniforms.
Yeah, because Patrick Stewart was chastising the others. He said, I just went and asked if I could
pay that because these apparently were like $3,000 uniforms that they were wearing. It was like
wool things like hands made. Look, we have these the same Hollywood celebrities who are mad at me
because I don't buy a smaller vehicle. And they're a kid starving in Africa. But for the
prop department to make these one-off uniforms, basically, Taylor fit to each actor cost like three
grand or some strange crazy amount. And a bunch of the basically just stole extra uniforms.
Patrick Stewart went up to ask and he said, like, I'll go check three grand, you know, and they
basically told him, no, he was most upset. He's like, I should have just stole it.
I wish they would continue with the blunt talk, but I don't think they're going to.
I know one uniform, which the actress and question, I know I should say actor, but I'm old-fashioned.
I was a 50s kid raised in the 60s. I still say waitress and stewardess.
Well, if you were raised in the 50s, even though the decade had six in it, you know,
for all kinds of ladies, recalled girls, stuff like that.
And none of them got offended because it meant they weren't old.
Yes, and you could open a door without having to cover in sensitive organs.
I think you should just let the door smack every one of those, which isn't the ass.
Sorry, did I say that out loud?
Well, that's why...
No, just on the internet.
Even better!
That's why there's a big YouTube channel called MiGtow, which is basically men going their own way
and avoiding attachment and cohabitation with ladies.
I just don't understand when everybody got so hyper-sensitive.
And I mean, I don't know, take a towel and all our go-die quietly.
Well, there's an interesting, one of my newly discovered YouTubers is a lady.
This is all one word, blown in the belly of the beast.
She's a counter-feminist and an interesting and attractive lady.
By the way, there was legislation in at least one Australian state
where putting your child's gender on the birth certificate is an opt-in process.
And they're allowed to change it at a later date.
Which is just...
I just don't get it because it's a simple XY chromosome thing.
And if you don't tell your doctor that you were born, a girl or a boy,
when they're looking at, well, I've got a pain in my stomach and it's cervical cancer.
But they don't realize because you turn up and say, I'm a boy now,
it's kind of important information that they need to know.
I probably said that wrong, didn't I?
No, I don't know if you said it wrong.
I'm just American and you're not.
I just need to know that we're talking about the same thing.
Cervical?
Yes.
Okay, got it.
Yeah, maybe it's just an English thing.
I'm going to say that's what it is.
Yeah, I'm sure that's all it is.
And not the amount of bourbon or drunk.
Also, the tests are different for cervical cancer and let's say prostate cancer.
Obviously, it would have to be, right?
But I don't know why, yeah, yeah, I don't get it.
I mean, don't see why you can't medically be one thing and identify as something else.
Maybe there should be a space in the birth certificate to say,
yeah, when you're born, it's that.
And then sometime later, if you want, you can add on.
I really identify as this, but you're still medically have all that
wouldn't down somewhere because like you're saying that it's kind of important
if you're going to go to medical stuff.
Right.
Well, I think about it this way.
I know this is kind of hyperbolic, but okay, we've all read the stories
about the people who who think that they're cats or or or think that they're dead.
There's all kinds of scenarios, right?
That's the one I could pull up right now in my brain.
But you know exactly what I'm saying.
That doesn't change the fact that they're human, but they still can,
I mean, they're close family and friends if they choose to play along,
well, by all means, they can call them, you know,
Felix and pet them while they purr.
I don't care, but that still doesn't change the fact that they're a human
female or a human male, right?
They still aren't they are.
If you've watched too much too many episodes of House,
there are some people that are both and they don't realize it until there's a problem.
I don't think that that's enormous.
I'm not saying that you do.
I'm just saying.
I think it's possible.
Yeah, it's possible.
It's just possible.
Yeah, well, it's also possible that lightning strikes my house right now.
It's probable, you know.
Yes, it is left the room.
And the, the same years that some friends of mine were going through the
Carolinas and they happened to be transgendered and they were recording things
and they said, goodness, we're out of North Carolina,
so I can actually go to the bathroom.
I mean, I don't want anyone to take anything I just said to me that I'm not
sympathetic to people who identify as one thing
and are born as another.
I mean, there's truly got to be some mental turmoil going on there for you
no matter what.
But I just don't understand why everyone's got to be so angry all the time
if somebody accidentally calls Caitlin.
You know what I mean?
And that confuses me up.
So if I'm talking about when that person won the races,
do I call him he then or her?
Because now he's a her, but he was a he.
But at the time, he was a he.
So I should call him a he because if I'm talking about
where I was a kid, I'd refer to myself as a child.
I'm not a child anymore, but I was back then.
So I don't know.
Basically, I'm wrong because I'm a white male.
So that's all I know.
Yeah, and another space for that when you're white male,
just had a space wrong and there you go.
Yeah, well, Australia has a large program
to teach young boys not to rape women.
Okay, they really just need decent parents to do that job.
I mean, seriously, every child comes equipped with a reset button
on the back of their head.
You hear enough times they figure it out.
Well, the thing is also you have to teach people who aren't going to rape,
not to rape because you can't teach women who may run into people
who haven't read the memo to defend themselves
because that would be un-lady like.
Oops, I'm not un-lady.
I'm not lady like at all, ever.
Well, I have been known to punch people in the throat.
If you the concept of self-defense cannot be if you to women,
otherwise they would like they would want things like mace
or tazers or something so that they could defend themselves
and act like adults who are being attacked.
Now, if you define every male as a potential rapist,
then you can focus on the bad males who,
who because they're male, they have to be bad
and they have to be told how bad they are.
I don't fit into any of those categories.
She just don't mind.
I am quite competent at defending myself.
I can't run and I can't fight, so I don't have a gun.
Oh, Australia took guns away
because there was an incident, a mass shooting,
and they passed it as a health protection act.
Same as the UK.
Yes, what?
People still die in both countries as victims of violence?
Yes, but you see, also, they made it illegal for anyone who happened to have
what were formerly legal firearms to dispose of them to anyone except law enforcement.
You know, I like to get on these topics on this stuff here,
but if you don't want to own a gun or you're not comfortable with guns,
or you don't necessarily believe in that variety of violence,
even if it is to defend yourself, that's your progative you don't have to.
But don't take that ability away from the rest of us, right?
Well, in Canada, there was a motion
to have all semi-automatic firearms kept in gun club vaults.
I'm not saying I'm against any kind of regulation to try and control
whose hands that kind of firepower can fall into,
but I think that we have proven in this world time and time again
that has single law and instituting bans
does not keep anything out of the hands of a criminal
because the criminal will always find a way.
So the only people who follow the laws are law-abiding citizens
and they're not the ones you have to be afraid of.
I mean, yeah, murder is illegal.
Most will happen.
Rafe is illegal.
Rafe still happens.
Drugs are illegal and I'm pretty sure I could go down to the street corner.
I need something from.
It doesn't work that way, I'm fortunate.
Bans don't work any more than boycotts work.
It's it's education that you have to follow through or not.
That's just different.
There's 30 people from doing certain things.
And if they're seeing an uptick in gun violence,
maybe they need to go back to like, okay, think about it.
40 years ago, there was more there were more guns
and more homes had guns.
There are more guns available now,
but they're not as in as many homes.
It's like a select few people have tons of guns
and most households have none or something like that.
But in any event, I think things are a little bit better
off than people hunted more and knew more about guns.
I don't think we had nearly this amount of
misuse of the firearms because more people knew more about them
and more people heard them.
And because of that, the people who would have committed the crimes
with the guns knew their chances of succeeding
in what they were attempting to do were lower.
I don't know.
I think there might be a correlation there.
I know correlation is not causation if I subversive,
but it's something that I think we really need to talk about
in a public forum.
Well, yes, if you're breaking into a home in Texas
where the homeowner may well have a shotgun
and know how to use it,
or you're breaking into a home in New York City
where the homeowner is going to be very unlikely
to be able to buy or legally own a weapon for self-defense.
Which is the better bet?
Well, I can't pretend that I have all the answers
and I don't think that anyone that's currently on here is either.
I don't think that for a minute,
but I definitely think a healthy dialogue should be opened.
I just don't know that in this current climate
and this current political scene
that anything healthy is going to happen.
That's the sad part.
Yeah, because it normally turns around someone will look at you
and say, oh, you like guns?
You hate children and want them to die.
Well, wait, where did that come from?
I got accused of being part of the problem
because I'm a white male and no offense.
And it's like, you don't want to help the children, of course.
Yeah, and basically she wanted to get pissed off
for whatever reason and I just have to be there now.
In my mind, you see, this makes her racist and sexist
because it's my fault because I'm a white male.
If I turned around and said it,
drugs are your fault because you're a black male,
suddenly I'm a racist.
So in my mind, because I should back up.
When I was at school, I was in the sixth form,
which is hard to sort of explain in American terms.
Think, sort of like you're doing an associate.
And there was a teacher in that we had a morning assembly, basically.
The teacher was reading this story about
there was some shop and they had a rule
that only two school children were allowed to enter at one time
because they had a problem with theft.
Some kids from a local school had stolen some stuff.
So if they're only allowed to children in,
they could keep an eye on the children that's a theory.
And she was reading this story and so what if it was
the sign said only two blacks were allowed in
or only two women are allowed in.
And they said it's, you know, it's not okay because it's on.
It's just if you switch one for the other
and it becomes racist or sexist,
then it was always racist or sexist.
It's not one of these things.
It can't magically become this because
whatever argument is now the power struggle or something,
isn't it?
Because why people have power?
They can't be made,
that you can't be racist again, white or something.
No, it's a simple.
If you change color from one to the other
and it becomes racist,
it was always racist.
It's that simple.
So turn around and say it's my fault
because I'm a white male.
It's racist and sexist.
I'm an equal opportunity hater.
I don't care who you are.
If you're stupid, I hate you.
That's how I feel.
And I'm sorry.
Guys, I'm going to turn in for the night.
It was really good talking to you.
I hope you still want to talk to me in the future.
You kind of got off on some topics
that are a little bit frightening.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
And thank you, Mom and Mr. Axe as well.
Thank you all for the jokes.
And we'll talk to everyone in a year.
Or sooner we hope.
We hope sooner.
Or Friday.
Friday to cool.
It reminds me somebody was saying,
well, if you're hate against the police,
it can't be a hate crime.
Why?
Because police is not a race.
Well, the definition of hate crime
is against any member of an organization,
gender, et cetera, et cetera, ethnic group.
What have you?
If the police are not an organization,
so if you hated your local nonprofit,
that could be a hate crime.
Well, if you're hating them
because they are belonging to a local nonprofit,
yes, that's a hate crime.
Well, then you could have a hate crime
if you're hating the local police
because the police are a group.
But they were saying,
but there was a female that was saying,
well, you can't have that
because they're not a minority.
So to be a hate crime,
your local nonprofit would have to be a minority?
Well, because they're potentially white males,
which is a minority segment of the population,
they can't come under the protected minority banner.
However, the definition of hate crime
does not say that you have to be a minority.
It just says you have to be part of a group,
whether it's part of a given church,
a given ethnic background, whatever.
And if you count noses among the population,
the number of police versus the number of civilians,
if the police are not a minority
by headcount, I would be very surprised.
Well, how would the police not be a group?
Because they're not a minority group.
They are not a minority gender,
they're not a minority color,
they're not a minority ethnic group.
And then when you had a white male,
read the definition of hate crime,
which didn't say that you had to be a minority,
you just had to be a member of a group.
The female was very shocked
that anyone could defend a white police
or any group that could be considered non-minority,
rather non-designated minority.
Just like in the Boston School Districts,
where the public school population is,
well, the ones that are left
are largely, shall we say, people of color.
Yet those people of color,
even though they're the majority of the population
in the schools are considered minorities.
Also, an incident that happened
to a friend of my fathers
who happened to be living in the town near here,
where they had people from minorities
from deep in Boston,
bust into suburban schools.
Now, what happened was that these people of color
were wearing, shall we say, black power,
sweatshirts and whatnot.
Well, a white woman made the mistake
of wearing a white power
sure to have similar design
into a public school in this town.
The black ladies,
all this person into the bathroom
and discussed the issue physically.
Now, the people in the Metco program
that were bust in
were also under Metco discipline.
They were not under local discipline.
So if a white person
or a person who lived in the town
who invited these people from Boston
to come and get a better education,
if they broke a rule,
they were hammered for it.
The people imported from Boston
were counseled by Metco counselors.
If you want to truly generate racism,
unequal handling of the races
or colors, or what have you,
gives a dandy way to ensure it.
Well, in that matter, I think I'm done.
Hope to see you Friday.
I'll try to catch up with you guys then.
Well, thank you for hanging in.
Absolutely. You too.
I may hang in here a little while.
Um, kids should be awake by now, huh?
Well, I'll hold down the fort.
Um, I was late to the party,
so I'm going to be late to leave as well.
All right, we'll have a good night.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Is there anybody out there?
Oh, yes. I'm out here.
Good morning.
And now I have the audio turned back on.
I wrote Happy New Year.
Oh, thank you very much.
I mean, I've been holding,
I'm holding the fort day
since the Western continued
failed at Minerva.
What time is it there, Nick?
I have a little after six in the morning.
Uh, Eastling standard.
Well, it's 12 past 12 here.
I don't want 47 minutes to go.
It's a little officially ends.
We'll obviously leave it running after that.
Two, was it busy?
It's been off and on.
Uh, there'll be plenty of silence to be compressed.
Yeah, there'll still be plenty of time, I reckon.
And there'll be, uh, some segments.
Well, let's say I got a little more
political and technical.
So the New Year show is all about the wrecking.
May I ask where you're coming from?
Yeah, I live in the Netherlands
now from Ireland, originally.
So I live in the Netherlands.
And, uh, yeah.
Well, a good friend of mine
through my college years was from Harlem.
Yes, Harlem.
I reckon the original one was
famous in a wreck in the whole time.
I don't know, the original one
or the one in New York.
The Netherlands origin.
It's sometimes, remember.
That was during late 70s, early 80s.
Yeah, my, uh, my friend had lived in the US
but went home, did his military service
and then came back having
fulfilled his needle obligation
and that's was free to go to college here.
Okay, that's, uh, stopped a good while I got.
Well, as I said, this was
1978, 79, 80, 81, 82.
And, uh, also, he didn't mind getting drafted
when he went home because nobody was shooting at the Dutch.
Yeah, good point, yeah.
Which does improve the service situation, indeed.
Roughly the same time my brother was serving
in Germany and, you know, Pershing missile unit.
Okay.
And did you, uh, served with all?
No, I did not, uh, I got my PTSD domestically.
Okay.
But then again, I have, uh,
a number of physical issues
that would have probably made me
not pass the, uh, the physical anyway.
Okay.
So I'm going to go back to bed or still.
No, I'm going to hang in until, uh,
at least it's time to shut down and see
if anybody shows up.
I don't believe I've had the chance to, uh, express
my appreciation for finally meeting you, sir.
Full of, don't overdo it there, um, uh,
it's nice to, uh, chat with people that say,
so I do like the New Year show for that.
And thanks for staying on the whole, uh,
keeping the thing going.
That's awesome.
Well, back in the day, I used to work 4 p.m.
to 8 a.m.
Friday and Saturday morning.
So this is much like what I used to do,
except much more fun than the,
driving a security gate.
Well, actually, it was a stop sign in a speed bump.
Yeah, to protect and serve.
Or is the server protected, uh, well,
the most interesting conversation I had was with a state police officer
who, uh, had a little problem with, with the rules,
because I said to him, okay, officer,
you tell me who you're going to see and I will lock up the gate
and I will escort you to their unit.
If you're visiting someone, I'll give them a call.
And if they would want to have coffee with you,
it got awful in the morning.
That's perfectly okay.
But because you're in an official vehicle,
I cannot allow you to prop our property
in an unofficial, official capacity.
What were you minding a barracks or something?
I was minding a, uh, condominium complex.
And it was my job to, when the police had it,
had reason to escort them to a unit to talk to a resident.
Or if the police officer wanted to pull in to have a coffee break
with, with someone who he said was his girlfriend on site,
I would be perfectly willing to call her up and announce him.
But one of the reasons they had security was to make certain
that official visits were official visits.
All right. Was this like a gaseous community or something?
Uh, yes, it was somewhat gated.
It was a condo complex.
And there were some people, including one fellow
that was pretty well acknowledged to be a turf accountant.
Uh, they had, some people may have had reason
to want to keep official officials at arms length.
Mm-hmm. Interesting.
Also, there was part of our job was to try to keep teenage boys
away from, uh, residents, daughters while they were working
overnight. Uh-huh.
Now, how I was supposed to do this while sitting in a gay house,
some 50 or 100 yards away from the entrance to the building.
Also, on our complex, there was the buildings on one side of the street
where under our protection, um,
such as who was, and the buildings on the other side of the street
were not, um, so honored.
So somebody could say that I'm just visiting somebody over there
and they could just drive through.
Okay. Yeah. I see a problem with this logic.
Also, the young lady, most in, in demand, shall we say,
lived in a unit which had entrances on two levels.
So you could be, even when we were controlling, you could be dealing
which we did on weekends.
That night, you could be dealing with, with the front door to her unit
and people could be moving in and out through the floor above.
Security people celebrated this young lady's 18th birthday
when she was legal to allow her own guests in,
nearly as much as the young lady probably did.
Oh, wow.
Well, they had a pool with a two-foot high fence.
The problem with it, the pool with a two-foot high fence
is that it can inhibit rescue activities, but
is not tall enough to keep people out of said body of water.
Yeah, probably aids them going into it more than anything else.
And, uh, also, uh, where we're, you know,
you're at the gate, you know, 50 yards away, um,
your ability to control access was strictly limited.
And I went out some sort of fence going around.
But then again, a lot of the things in this building
in this complex were more features than actual assets.
So, and while we're here at New Year's,
I must point out, uh, an incident that occurred
when a New Year's Eve party.
Yeah.
Well, I have to describe the facility so you get,
get the background.
You have a cast concrete floor,
senior block walls.
The overhead is a overhead,
uh, the roof of the facility is made out of precast concrete slabs.
Yeah, I know they, I know the type.
Um, now,
Tweedle-Dom and Tweedle D have a beef,
and one of them is wearing a pistol in a shoulder holster.
So, they have a beef inside this facility.
One of them opens his coat,
his opponent sees the pistol in the shoulder holster.
During his distraction, the person wearing the gun,
sucker punches the surprised individual
who he's having the beef with.
In that environment, I will say to you
that using the gun as a distraction for a sucker punch
is the proper use of that firearm,
because drawing and shooting such firearm
is definitely not the proper use of such firearm,
but distracting your opponent.
So, he is vulnerable to nature's weapons,
is if, if anything,
the only proper use of that weapon.
Barring, you're going to apply,
apply it in the Bat Masterson technique,
which is to say you lay the barrel
alongside your opponent's head
until he has no further interest in the proceeding.
I believe Bat Masterson was far more
famous for using his pistol that way
than in a more noisy fashion.
Besides, cowboys you'd knocked out
with your pistol survived to pay the fine in the morning.
Yeah, good point.
I'm going to go grab a coffee before we close this up
on the back in a minute.
Well, this is not a place where you rush very much.
Yeah, that's true, that's true.
Good morning.
Yeah, who is still there, you, that minor?
Ken is off to get coffee.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know if he's going to have some Irish coffee.
I ended up getting some sleep, it seems, so yeah.
I mean, yes, Irish coffee, that famous invention
caused by aircraft and the Shannon River.
Yeah, yeah.
I was going to be off this completely
but change of mind slightly.
Oh, one plus I woke up again, so.
Well, I used to, every week, I used to work
a 12 p.m. to 8 a.m. shift.
So I'm told the end of my tour is a security guard.
I was working 64 hours a week or something.
Basically, around the clock, so I'm used to being up at all hours.
I'm back.
Yeah, I come a little bit like that as well.
I can be awake at nearly all hours.
And yeah, sad returns.
It must be the New Year's show.
Yeah, but I'm not keeping it going for another five hours.
Come on, let's time.
We have tradition here.
Well, I was wondering, Ken, was that Irish coffee you had?
Oh, no.
Regular old coffee.
Not after last night's worth it.
Well, I'm just wondering because I've always been fascinated
by the fact that Irish coffee, according to what I heard,
was a side effect of the aviation industry.
Was indeed.
I was there, actually, in the borough where Irish
companies were invented.
On the Shannon?
That's the very one start.
Yeah, as well.
Yeah, well, that was back in the days when the drink service was
after you landed instead of after you took off.
Yeah, correct.
I think I told the story before here.
Well, I heard it elsewhere, and I was always sort of tickled.
Recall it to me, recall it to me.
Well, if what I remember, and again,
my memory is none of the best, the flying boats, which
they used for transatlantic service,
would land in the Shannon River.
And after a long cold transatlantic flight
in the flying boat, well, you need a little pick me up.
And the Irish coffee was designed so that between the coffee
and the addition, you would be picked up one way or another.
I was told the story by the guys on there,
and they said that the ladies and gentlemen,
the passengers, were allowed to drink,
but this is on the way out.
So outbound flights to Newfoundland.
But the pilots were not allowed to drink, obviously,
because hey, there was no such thing as outer pilots.
And even today, it's considered not very cool for your pilot
to be drunk, getting on the airplane.
So they would have coffee for the pilots at the bar,
and then the barman, whatever it was, would say,
would you like me to turn that into an Irish coffee there, sir?
And then they could quietly have a little bit of a warming glow
before they went up into their unheated, unpressurized cabins,
and flew the whole way across the Atlantic.
You're saying that they added a little Andy for you,
such a coffee?
That's the body, yeah.
Right, yeah, Irish coffee, but Ken is there,
because you're in Netherlands now.
Is there anything else that you like, really like,
because it's Dutch now?
Well, actually, about deviating from the story,
I heard recently about the Dutch-Jane-Aver,
or what do you call us in English?
Jean, Jean, Dutch-Jane.
You ever hear the expression of Dutch courage
in the Protestant Catholic Wars?
Dutch?
Yeah, probably.
The Dutch soldiers were allotted a snifter of Jean-Jane-Aver
before they went into battle.
So that tradition spread through the armies
and become a little bit of Dutch courage
before you went into battle.
Yeah, as well.
Given the Royal Navy did a bit of that until what they call,
I think it was Black Tuesday.
It was a day, I think, in the 70s,
when they decided that a ton of wrong and modern weapons
just didn't go together quite.
So Seb, how have you been up to all year?
Not that much, really.
It's another year gone by in a different place, which is nice.
Not that far, really, from where I was living for, but still.
Because I'm in a better location for getting around now
and things like that.
Just out of the city, which is very good.
Is it good down there more than do things as well?
Yeah, good, nice.
I'm going to now continue scanning the photographs
that I started scanning at the beginning of the show.
I had finished last night at the boat,
Eastluck, or so I thought.
And then I found that the box I was pulling all the photos out of
was actually a top box.
Because there were two additional boxes underneath that box.
So rather than being almost finished, I barely started.
I have here an interesting document from the early 90s.
It's called Exploring the Internet,
and the Internet Travel Log by Carl Mellemut.
And one of the things that he did is so he translated a bunch of
ISO documents into PDFs and put them on a server provided by Sun.
And he also gave the ISO PDF documents
instead of their original data was in some proprietary form
which they couldn't even deal with.
But going around the world, he went into the Netherlands
and he went into a little corner store.
And he was surprised to find that this corner store was
was selling a bunch of marijuana of various kinds and whatnot.
He said that his travel fog brain didn't need any extra help.
But it was interesting that some places for many for so long
have had that legalized marijuana for decades.
No, it's actually not legal. It's just not prosecution.
Yeah, well, well, this country still gets a frenic on that.
Because there's a lot of stuff where it's
state regulations allow it, but the federal
still consider it to be the evil weed.
And yeah, and in this one it's, well, they talk about sometimes how it
could go legal, but it's not going to happen soon, it seems.
The real problem that they have in America
is while there are industries, including some providing
purely medicinal infusions, extractions, etc.
with no psychotropic properties whatsoever,
or at least none of the recreational properties.
Uh, because of the federal view of things,
money made in these industries cannot be put in a
fight, the usual financial institutions.
Nor can it be safely expressed on on federal tax forms,
which is to say the states are recreating prohibition one
stated at a time.
As I recall, it didn't work so well the first time.
That's true.
Now we just need a one-to-time as well as in
when the time zooms get chained for the can and go back hours,
because this, you know, 16 and an hour of the head thing,
and what's summertime and market, and then that either moving
whatever, and then the 12 hours behind thing.
So yeah, then we'll have a 30-hour day
for this instead of 26.
30-hour show instead of 26.
Did you hear me?
Yeah.
Well, how is it going to be a 30-hour show?
I mean, if the time looms mess up again, like,
you know, like in summertime and the island moving,
yes, we've got 16 hours ahead, so it starts,
you know, and 12, 12 hours behind.
I mean, the time zone will only get affected
on the international deadline, not on the zero.
As if Ireland's moved, one, Ireland, or England,
or Europe moves left or right,
we're just either closer to the east or closer to the west,
but you're still within that bracket of the 24-hour period.
Maybe, right.
Yeah, I guess so.
But we didn't end up with the 16 hours ahead
and 12 hours behind still.
Yeah, or relatively, we moved across the window itself.
I would find it very hard to see how they could increase
of more than 26 hours off there, fine, whatever.
Just need that last time zone out to be like,
you know what, we don't want to be lost anymore,
or one of them if there's another place, and you can have,
yeah, so what have you been doing all year set for photos?
Yeah, it's been a strange year.
It hasn't been too bad, but it hasn't been the best year ever,
and of course, I'm hoping that's a good sort of this year.
Maybe get better or get a little worse.
We'll get better or worse.
My personal situation that I don't intend to talk about here.
Anyway, yeah.
Okay.
I also think net mining might not make it to the very end
unless the year is actually still there.
It was valiant, often done now.
I'm here, I came late to the party
because I didn't realize it started at 5 AM Eastern.
Wow, there's 176 terabytes of data sent
over the mobile network of one of the providers
on Saturday on last night.
Hundred and how many terabytes?
176 terabytes.
Well, from this year.
On one of the providers, probably 50% of the network traffic
in the Netherlands yesterday,
during the night, the New Year's change
had 176 terabytes of data in video messages.
Yeah, listening to HBO.
Yeah, sure.
I'm sure.
Well, have you looked at the new Intel chips
where the physical and virtual address spaces
are going to go from absurd to petabytes of data?
No, I miss that.
Yeah, Intel has announced an expanded
both physical and virtual address space in it
and it's upcoming chips petabytes of addressable memory.
Okay, so we've got about 10 minutes to go officially.
So I think let's have this as a topic at the end.
So open source or Linux predictions of 2019,
I can't really think of anything as such,
so it will have some new devices
that are probably quite interesting coming out.
I'm wondering if the pie 4 is coming out this Friday.
Well, there could be a Raspberry Pi,
but I mean, what's going to happen here
is it going to be the year desktop Linux?
No, it's not.
Is it going to be the year mobile Linux
taking over our Android, which is basically,
we know it's not things like this, you know?
Is Google Chrome going to lose loads of market share
to Firefox because, you know,
maybe that's probably not going to happen either?
Oh, that's a very depressing approach
to take what predictions.
Oh, it's kind of also pointless though.
It's all relative to the market share
of desktops are decreasing anyway.
And yeah, so it's unlikely that everybody who hasn't switched
already to running a Linux desktop
are suddenly gone to the side this year.
Hey, let's listen to all those people
and put on a desktop.
Well, the desktop has never gone to take over
unless you're running Chromebooks.
Well, yeah, yeah, I agree with that.
I'm right.
It's a version of Linux.
This is why Richard Sawman was saying all the time
that Linux is not GNU Linux.
It's Linux, so people ask the question
when is Linux going to take over the desktop?
It already has.
Yeah, now I agree with that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, we would have a desktop
where it's bound.
Well, mobile, it's taken over already by Android.
But like, yeah, think of some predictions of the year,
what you think will happen or might happen.
That's why I meant actually, actually,
Google has done the smart thing with the Chrome OS.
He's while Microsoft has the Linux subsystem for Windows,
the most current versions of Chrome OS
have the Linux compatibility layer
or whatever you want to call it for
a Linux-based OS, which is an interesting
and-around people trying to use like Cruton
to put a full Linux distro on your Chromebook.
Google has sort of short-circuited the procedure
by saying, well, just run your Linux applications
under Chrome OS natively.
Well, of course, you got to take into account that Google's developing
their own OS for underlying systems to take over.
So, if we say, okay, yeah, it's, it's,
counting Chromebooks, it is the year for Linux desktop.
Well, how much longer is that going to be true?
Okay, guys, three minutes and this thing is over officially.
And Google claim books can well Android apps,
so that's, well, yeah, more than we'll be able to as well.
And the other operating system in the works,
something, whatever was called after something.
It's going to be interesting to see how the transition goes.
It's like, well, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, over here, but everyone knows prediction articles as well,
but I mean, Microsoft loves Linux,
they're apparently open source.
So, I guess it could be an interesting year to see
what happens when it comes to Microsoft and open source.
Business loves open source at the moment, guys.
Well, I know it's because, I know it's because of that.
It's because big enterprise won Linux and it was awesome,
but Windows, they have to play along with that.
People will follow the money at the end of the day.
Yeah, money, yeah, money, yeah.
So, I say apparently love open source.
It only wins in business interest.
Well, that is nature of business to love,
whatever is currently making them a profit.
Yeah, that's exactly that's the point as well.
And yeah, it's got one minute to go officially.
Or something like that of this.
Okay, by my 2018 for the whole world, I guess.
And welcome to 119 new slux here on HBR.
Yeah.
Yes, we officially open a show.
2018 is officially in the past for the whole world.
Yeah, crap, I'm going to be riding it on my checks
though for the next month and a half.
Well, before you get used to riding it, you mean?
919, yeah, 19 at the end of the stat.
Well, I'm officially behind the 8-ball
because I didn't get myself a new calendar.
I was given a new calendar and it's better than all I had last year
as in 2018.
Well, I'm going to have to see if I can get a 2019 YogaCats calendar
to keep up the tradition.
It's one of those paper things with numbers on it, isn't it?
Yeah, and some photos when we do something to make it look nice.
That's one thing I've noticed.
I mean, usually I would acquire by then the year,
you know, two or three calendars I would never really use.
But, oh yeah, there's a bunch of cool pictures.
Fine, I'll look at it, you know, longs or free, but that, you know, I think
never occurred to me before, but moving into the digital age,
I don't see that many just free.
Here's a calendar of cool pics of things on it that much anymore.
And then you meant to write on the calendars yourself
what's going on, what are you doing, things like that.
And I mean, no, they are sold in the shops here quite well still,
but it's a bit old and fashion than away because we've got, yeah,
because we've got all this tech now, we've got computer calendars
and maybe all the income and there's no that.
Well, that's it.
I mean, if somebody develops a paper calendar that updates itself to Google,
then, you know, somebody might buy that, but, you know,
I was just born.
I found out the other day that I've got an echo device,
and supposedly I can actually time the echo device in the Google calendar,
but so far I've done that and so far none of my stuff on Google calendar
shows up on my echo.
Well, that's one of the reasons why I like XFCE.
On a sidebar here, I have the numeric date,
I have the day of the week, and I have the time
in coming for our format.
Right, okay, but I think about two points, one you can probably do similar in other
interfaces and two extra week three points.
Two XFCEs is mostly in the past, but saying that so is the interface that money at the moment.
Well, I mean, that's nice, but I mean, if I'm going to do a calendar,
I want to do one central calendar shows up on all my devices,
because I mean, it's the phone I'm going to be carrying with me that, you know,
needs to buzz and go off and remind me of something.
Yeah, I always have Google calendar capabilities,
but I haven't really used it.
Is Ken still able to do this, Pat?
Yes, he just appeared this week.
And honky, did you jump in or not?
Well, I guess he's muted, so I guess not.
I think most of the people except U50 are here as audio syncs.
They're not actually here as active participants.
Right, have you guys been here this whole time?
No, no one's been here the whole 26 hours.
Oh, I hope not.
No, I didn't mean the whole 26 hours, but since I dropped out,
what two hours, two hours ago, I dropped out earlier and then got some sleep.
It seemed, well, yeah, and then I was like, actually, this stuff is still open.
It's my only again, for bet.
But yeah, I got in late to the party, but I've been here except for a brief stop.
Well, there we are, we're lunch.
Well, there we are officially over.
So this will be the after show, however it's done now.
Yeah, essentially, we quit talking, you know, or well,
I'm not saying that other people aren't welcome to jump in.
That was the main reason I got back up.
And I didn't really get any sleep, but I got back restless and, you know,
kept getting out of you and stuff, trying to go back to bed and...
I did get some sleep, but not really properly, but then it, but I have,
I'm going out later anyway, it seems.
My neighbouring stuff, so flat neighbour, so might as well, you know,
do this for a bit and smaller things and doing that, I guess.
But I'm used to being wicked different times anyway.
Like, and that minor was saying, but for different reasons.
Well, like I was telling Hunky earlier today, it was, you know,
it wasn't Hunky, it was a kin.
No, whichever it was, it's, you know, maybe it's a kin, because I asked
me if I'd normally up that early and I said, well, it's a bit, you know,
I got in a weird sleep cycle of, you know, not, not being asleep when I should be and
sleeping when I shouldn't be or whatever and trying to break it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's actually, yeah, that happens to me at times.
I'm a little bit, I'm a bit like that at the moment, but, but, but then again, I do,
but whatever, I mean, I do like the night anyway and it's mostly night at the moment,
but that will change. At the end, hopefully at the end of this month, it'll get, you know,
more light. Yeah, of course, it's still dark, still got a couple hours of darkness here,
so I'm probably going to be. It's actually day here now, but yeah,
what's that you're saying you're going to be here a bit longer or going wasting?
Oh, not much longer. Yeah, I mean, it might stay about two hours and that's like everyone
disappears, but otherwise, they're ahead and they're, but yeah, that's just, but, but actually,
yeah, sleeping, that's a good topic in a way, because once, once you've like, you know,
let's say you've been up all night a lot and then you're going to sleep, you, you know, 8 AM,
come, 9 AM, come, just a little wake, 10 AM, come, you sleep for a bit and then you, and then
you kind of messed up again for the next day or you don't sleep enough and you feel tired,
but, but then you wake up and then you can be awake for another, you know, 17 hours, 18 hours,
20 hours, if you really want, and then you'll probably go into sleep again, feeling not tired,
you go like that as well. Also, I tend to sleep in like two hour jumps. What, really, just two hours
wake up and then sleep more two hours. Well, yes, and depending on how I feel and in the phase of
the moon and what I haven't listened to on whatever I'm following at the moment, I may be up for
a couple hours and then crash out or when I get myself awake, I'll just stay up until I feel tired
again and instead of, you know, swapping and out between sleeping and being active with very
little respect for how this links in with the day or night cycle. Yeah, so, are you saying you
basically sleep in day or night whenever you feel like it, but then you feel two hours each time
like that? Well, I can generally, depending on how tired I am, I will find myself sleeping in two
hour jumps and when I surface, I will decide whether I'm going to stay awake or crash back
into sleep and it's usually a coin flip. Yeah, yeah, I'm a bit like that as well.
Or on then sometimes you can, for whatever reason, you know, you've had your like, you've been awake
for like, let's say 17 hours, 14 hours, 17 hours, 16 hours, 18 hours, maybe even 20 hours and you
look at the time and you think like, oh, it's like five o'clock in the morning or it's eight o'clock
in the morning or it's seven or six or something like that and you think like, but I'm wide awake,
I feel wide awake, but yeah, because I haven't gone to sleep, I haven't had any sleep since
whenever, I'm going, you know, you're going to go to sleep and then you sort of, just
if you like that, you just sleep when you sleep and then you sleep five hours, six hours, maybe,
probably not eight hours. Yeah, and sometimes, sometimes, again, it depends, sometimes when you're
very tired, you'll break free. Well, I have PTSD dreams, but sometimes I will break free of that
dream since I'm, and I have to really push myself to go back to sleep. Anyway, no, I'm more like
sleep when I sleep, get comfortable enough and put me in really anywhere as well, as long as
you like comfortable enough and then you sort of sleep, you could do is off to sleep after a little
while, but then put not that long or whatever. But yeah, but thing is, I can, thing is, you can
go to sleep at times, like I'm saying, because you sort of feel that you should, because like,
day and night cycle or whatever, it's just the look at the time and everything, but you're going
to bed or you're going to sleep very, um, well, actually, why the wake, I would say, which is a bit
odd in the way. If you get what I mean, you know what I mean? Well, my trouble is I will do
something stupid, like get started on a series or something that the whole thing is dropped on,
that flicks, like, and like binge watch and keeps, you know, keeps thinking, yeah, I'll go to bed
at the end of this hour and then, you know, there'll be a cliffhanger and, okay, yeah, I gotta see
the next, you know, and so it's late in the morning and, you know, and then literally, like,
Kinney Rogers said, I get too tired to sleep. Yeah, well, I find, I do a lot of YouTube and
sometimes I do audio books on there and, uh, sometimes I listen and stay up and sometimes I lay
down and crash out in the middle. But, uh, you do mean that what do you say, crash out? Do you mean,
like, at the computer, yes, in your chair? Well, if I have an audio book playing and I have it
on the speakers, I can be laying in my bed, listening and just hearing it as sort of the background
and then, then realize that I didn't, that I slept through the last two hours of the book.
Yeah, when we got something on and then you listen to it, you think, oh, listen to this for a
bit and then he just, he just, he just, he goes off to sleep. Well, it's doing that, yeah.
Oh, yeah, I have famously fell asleep in my, uh, desk chair, uh, and apologies to Dan Fry, who
may listen to this a years ago, I had a house fire and, you know, he was at the time, he worked
in IT department of a office furniture company. So we actually had to send him out, uh, sent me out
a desk and one of these, you know, like thousand dollar desk chairs, or, you know, were several hundred
dollars, you know, and ergonomic and all that, you said it, oh my goodness, it's incredible.
And then about about a year ago, I fell asleep in it and apparently lost my balance
some time and turned a thing over and it hit hard enough to break stuff. I still need to take it apart
and like, you know, glue the plastic back together and, you know, bend, bend the metal parts back
in the shape, you know, it's, it's, I don't think it's unrecoverable, but it's, I, I just haven't
got around to it. I suppose that's the one thing we're sleeping in that case as well. Yeah,
if you sleep in, let's say, the wrong place sometimes, like you, you've done it, it sounds like
potentially you're going to fall out of that chair or whatever, it's going to break something and all
less, but not, I've not had that problem myself, but it's how you have, because when you're asleep,
you know, you don't have any control, you're, you're, you're sleep basically. You don't know what's
going on. Well, one of the most frightening situations I found myself in some years ago was
I had what I think they call sleep paralysis, uh, where my mind was awake, but my body was still
shut down. So your mind is going a million miles a minute, but all the inputs are, are turned off
and that can be quite uncomfortable. Oh, well, so like, it's like you're sleeping in your body
but the mind's awake, so I mean, yeah, your body, most of the, most of the time and sleep, there's
a mechanism that when you fall asleep, your body is sort of disconnected, so you don't hurt yourself,
you know, falling out of bed or what have you, but sometimes your mind can be moving while that
mechanism is, you know, steps on the clutch and disconnect your, your body from, from its motor
systems and its input, so all your mind gets is basically mental noise and is trying to make sense
of things and then nothing's really, you know, nothing's happening and, you know, your, your body
because it's shut down by the sleep systems feels very strange to a mind who's used to driving it.
I don't know if I'm expressing myself clearly, but it is a very,
very feeling. Yeah, I mean, that doesn't sound very nice,
of I think I understand what you're saying, and I mean, you know, watch out because they might,
no, I don't know, maybe something like that will happen. Actually, how, how many times does that happen?
I think it's only happened once or twice some, many years ago, but
in the case of yeah, probably not tonight for you then, after that. Not, not after this, although I make
crash out rather, rather deeply, but again, I will usually go through some kind of hour or two
hour sleep cycle. Yeah. Of course, they will, they'll, they'll do a restroom break and then
crash back, well then they're two hours of constantly, sleep cycles is maybe not the best thing
ready. Also, I tend to have, or seem to have very active dream cycles, so even when I'm sleeping,
me I'm not exactly rested. Well kind of dreams. Oh yeah. Different kinds often times flying
or driving neither of which I I am licensed to do but what I often have that I often have dreams
about being in where my grandmother's farm and main where I was at home. Actually you know what
turns out you're steeped right now. This is not actually happening. It's a dream. I knew a dream
about 5150 as well. Well 50 sorry but usually I try to scrounge up somebody.
Well she is he is he actually here. It seems he just appeared as well. 5150 wake up. Mr. Gwynn,
car 54 where are you? Maybe he's not with us anymore than he he's got some sleep.
Sleep. Make Beth has murdered sleep. Make maybe talking about sleep. Actually made him go to sleep.
Well perhaps he was the one with the Irish coffee or the Irish at least.
Like yeah that could be an independent tool. Next time or whatever but yeah yeah I don't know
to have a steep cycle doesn't sound very good though but it sounds like but like what is it like
four or five times and say a 24 hour day or what do you mean? Well I will maybe sleep two or three
two hour chunks and then be up for an indefinite period and then go back to two or three two or three
two hour chunks. So the being awake could be 20 hours 17 hours 40 hours basically and then
you sleep for two hours and then off we go off you go again. And also like if I'm doing something
like writing or YouTube or whatnot even when I lay down my I'm not relaxed so I can lay there
and for a while and then I'll get up and do a little more YouTube or something or you know.
Yeah and then you get the feeling a bit like that moment but like you slept but you haven't
released that property so you kind of wake up but you feel tired you get that as well times I guess.
Yeah well also there's the times when you're laying down and you're trying to shut down but your
mind is just dieseling on you know I don't feel like shutting down so I ain't going to no matter
just because you've laid down doesn't mean I'm going to turn myself off.
Yeah I suppose. Oh he's coming back from his nap I think I saw a light up.
We were just thinking it falling off to steep with all the steep torque 5150.
No I was playing over in the browser and I was looking at one of my browser tabs saying
oh what what's that that I have open there and uh and clicked on it and I probably need to restart
Firefox but uh well I said this particular machine I mentioned earlier this evening it just
seems to slip through a memory hole and time and space and it's got four giga-ram it there's no
reason it should uh for what I'm for what I'm doing with it but uh yeah that that was a problem all
the sudden the whole system just oh nearly locked. Yeah because um we I mean you were probably on
something that um out of there if you took by Nathan and so yeah well I have so many
tabs. I have so many Firefox is open it's not even finding in there multiple tabs on each one.
Yeah I think I'm going to take this thing back to bare metal and try a different version of
Linux on it you know I try try to change the desktop and that's that's not a big enough change
but I don't could could be a faulty memory module uh I don't know but it's it is not performing
I you know I got this uh essentially just to see off of eBay you know uh well I've got I've got
the uh I've got the pine book which is essentially some hundred dollar computer course by the time
I had it all uh every single accessory to it it cost but yeah yeah it cost more than that um
the the pine book I saw one day was in November that was finally and it's kind of interesting
I also saw the uh slim book or briefly the kd slim book thing um but yeah the pine book I was
going to all the one days you said accessories what kind of accessories. Oh uh ethernet adapter and
and uh it increased storage and uh oh what else there was something else uh externally plugged in
but uh oh I use the pine book for my travel computer it is fine for that the the speakers are not
fit for purpose if you want to list I mean yeah if you turn them all the way up in a quiet room
and it's you know but it's like straining your eyesight you're straining your ears you know
to hear anything so but you know maybe if you're traveling you're going to you you're going to use
your bugs your buds or something anyway or maybe it's in a travel speakers that's the first thing
the the the speakers are absolutely and of course there you know they're it's a hundred dollar
computer and it's got the same aspect of like a uh you know it's as as thin as the the the
thinnest of apple uh yeah yeah yeah yeah it's a cheap computer um then it's me cheap
but like having mouth beat pine I guess it's up to the pine book and pine board and stand
pine 64 and also um is it the 14 inch you've got all the 11.6 because apparently the
11.6 and really made any more inch yeah I've got the 14 I've got 14 inch and uh the next thing is
the track pad is you know is pretty horrible at least it works I mean the speakers like I said
the speakers are absolutely not fit for purpose the track pad is uncomfortable to you you know
it's a pain in the butt to use but at least it works it's it's supposed to be like a secondary laptop
that's the idea I think like you wouldn't use that as your main laptop or we probably know
no but it's a great light thing to to throw in your luggage when you're traveling or you know I
you know I could definitely see using that is a consultant as a work computer uh yeah but uh
the main thing is and I don't know maybe maybe somebody's educated the TSA but this is what I
take with me on on uh on airplanes to go into Linux fast and they you know whenever this thing
goes through x-ray it's like 90% hollow there's like two little boards stacked on top of each
other which are uh you know electronically they're equivalent to a pine 64 because you can use a
pine 64 image uh you know you go over there and you look at the pine box there's not that there's
not as many images but uh door door geek found out that you could you know any any of the images
for the pine 64 also work on the pine book so electronically it's it's completely compatible
and I did ask about a year ago hey is are there going to be any upgrades for the board you know
are you going to put the rock chip in a new you know in a new pine book and uh I told you the time
yeah yeah that's they said yeah that's coming uh yeah uh okay but you said swing about TSA
was you saying they let they they scan it and it goes through looks okay enough or it doesn't
well no they're they're used to uh you know they're not used to seeing big hollow spaces in your
laptop so they they want to look at it out at the back today or normally yes every time the first few
years in fact uh last year I had one lady lady come up to me said you know put her hands under
hips and saying sir are you aware that your laptop is hollow and I said yes it's an armed
processor and it's got all that it needs yeah I had wood like did you uh the pocket chip as well
where something go on the day the thing you might one day is actually you go pocket chip as well
yeah uh yes I do yeah yeah I need to reef I need I need to reflash it I screwed it up uh
yeah I think I might have a piece missing of wine I'm not sure now well that was part of the
casing many way um I heard somebody say that yes mean like that you take that to an airport and
there's a chance that again the security can be like uh what's this for thing um yeah I've
brought pies or similar things through TSA and not had a problem you know I think they're getting
used to it you know uh looking at looking at stuff and well I know I've brought home uh
like electronics kits and our do we know some stuff that have been uh you know so uh you'll
you'll go to a conference and you go you go to the one you know uh uh a fang on soldering or
you know what whatever and they actually give you the give you the board which is a great deal
yeah and I guess um with certain that ports for down there enough to use conferences and so there's
it going to be a little loads of people going in suddenly on certain days with these devices
and I'm like okay yeah I don't know if they know that but uh you know I mean even even coming back
last year uh uh was if we say I don't want you know uh they're they're starting to say no don't
bother taking off your shoes that's ridiculous yeah well well on yours there's also a thing about
you meant to take your laptop out and all that also really say but I think I've read some more
whatever that you don't necessarily have to take like many pieces out and your um phone even
because of how but usually you meant to take your laptop out still because it's big or something on that
yeah but you know phones they don't look at laptops they do uh you know well like the one lady who
you know said uh you was on me do you know your laptops hollow I mean I've had beat I've had
them give me the stink eye and look at the laptop and yeah we got to look at that closer and
that you know they do all the wipe test and make sure there's no explosives or drugs or whatever
in it I guess but uh uh you know so but that was the first one they actually directly confronted me
and uh well I kind of lost some of the train of thought isn't that minus delay yes I'm just
drooling over my next uh server machine that's going to be hauled out as well yeah
and small so you can give your TSA with that as well well I don't fly but I've been learning
this i5 2,400 laptop here and its screen gave out and I was just wondering what if I went to an i5
desktop cord for how much more performance I would begin oh that's what I was going to say about
the uh the pine book and and apparently everybody's mileage varies uh when the battery is fully charged
you know I get a pretty you know pretty strong battery life out of it but mine just sitting you
know if it sets for 48 hours it'll discharge just sitting by itself not on even from a full charge
and luckily before I got on this flight this I guess this is the outbound leg so uh I charged
it sitting at home uh otherwise I may have had a problem because you know I wouldn't have been
able to turn it on and show them that it was working oh you mean you had it charged the home
so you could turn it on that Apple exactly you know most laptops you would really had that problem
you know the you charge them up they stay charged this this you don't know uh pretty much at home
I leave it plugged in all the time for the battery gone the license it's got good battery life once you
know uh from a full charge but for some reason and like I said I uh uh I know a lot of people with
them I think I know one other person who said they have that same problem or bail says we know
what you're talking about yeah laptops and batteries I mean I've had problems with this laptop
recently and the battery so like I had it opened up and then it was like so we said like oh so we
say it could be a CMOS battery and it's like no CMOS is joined with the main battery I was
mean and it basically says on online to take your battery out and put it back in again that's
meant to at least temporarily fix it and annoying because the newer laptop you've done screw to
even get into the battery and where's your one used to tuck it out and then this was done about
three or four times and it basically wouldn't charge from a flat battery and it might still have
this problem now I'm I don't know quite uh I don't want to let go down as far as that it has done
I think once or twice since and it think it was okay the last two times but basically my battery
could be on the verge of going out as well because laptops from June 2015 but yes annoying
you have to unscrew to get into these batteries now whereas in the past you just took out
the back and that was that wouldn't happen to be a Dell I've noticed more problems you know
Dell's have software that tell it to the you know the batteries down and well I've had them show
well as a HP and also had the whole UFI issue which we talked about earlier but um
yeah I've asked quite a few issues with a laptop for really from day one overheating and then
motherboard failing and the UFI issues and later on because of a new motherboard and then the
battery issue and but when it works I mean it when it works it's a nice enough laptop it's got a
touch screen which admittedly I had the heavy actually used it's got you know it's a nice
enough size but for 13 inches and like that but but yeah the battery stuff is not what you want
either but to be honest after the issues I've had with this laptop that's basically it I intend
to never buy HP ever again I don't want to buy Dell I don't want to buy Acer I don't want
to buy the Nova I don't want to buy any of this this stuff because you know what one there are
other devices that are much more well they're more interesting anyway now things like you can put
the pine bucket in that even slim book which is not a laptop anyway but the mobile device is the
pocket chip the the GPs you know there's all kinds of things now I don't need to stand the
laptop as much anyway so keep this one going and if I want to buy a new laptop or when I have
money for this I would put it down at the moment I really don't but I would look more seriously
again at n4 where or something like we've got n4 when the UK Linux um computer Linux laptop company
Linux only company and there's more options in America I think system 76 and all that but
you know you know it probably will be worth to pay a bit more and get something with Linux pre-installed
ready and HP and all this there's just you certainly support windows and even make
properly so why give money to them my bother with them oh because it's a brand well yeah but then
my motherboard comes back it's meant to be replaced and I can't even dual boot with Linux to
begin with because of the problems ends up where I was talking about earlier yeah if I were going
to buy new I would I would buy thank geek or system 76 but you know I'm always I'm always buying
used junk and then install it in installing Linux on I mean this this laptop here in front of
me case case in point it was time to experiment yeah I said okay like I said I was I was comparing
that to the pine book and I said okay if I give myself 75 bucks to spend if I go you know if I
go on eBay can I find a laptop that is arguably you know more powerful than the then the pine book
and this is it you know a dual core AMD from a few years ago 17 inch desktop replacement
uh laptop I did have to throw a little memory in it but still cheap you know cheaper than
why I spent on the pine book but not nearly as convenient you know I'd be a lot more worried if
I were just to throw this in my carry on that it would get broke because it's you know it's bigger
it's bulkier it's heavier and probably you know in a way probably more fragile than the pine book
I mean the the pine book because it is hollow as I have mentioned you know even though that you can
grab the two corners and twist it a bit you know there it's it's not like there's a full length
board you know uh running through the thing that's gonna break yeah I guess uh but you didn't I
don't think you got the pine book secondhand though that you poorly bought new now of course I've
got the pine book new and you know I established with my lust for the GPDs and stuff I am a sucker
for you know compact computers you know maybe not so much enough to spend five six hundred
dollars on one but definitely look at that and that you know looking at see yeah I want that
a lot more than I you know want a big heavy 17 inch like logable computer right uh mumbo crash
again I think I mean this upon this is the first time with a poem with that I think but it does seem
to stay up without issues for quite a long time can I be heard yes you can be heard very well
yes I won't keep on saying with this as that as well at least if the weather tickly just
put on 10 ms or I've did and left left the rest and I think people are can get
a bit annoying they have to do the mumbo wizard every time you read you you uh open up again
as somebody said oh yeah yeah I think that was that was honky I'm pretty sure said that I have had
that problem before always as always comes up yeah yeah a couple linux lug casts ago when I'd
first got this set up it took well that might remember it took me a while to get connected because
everything looked you know I hadn't tried mumbo before well I should say I dropped a new linux on
bare metal and installed mumbo and then of course you got to get everything lined up in
in every part so you got to go to yeah and then of course you got to get everything lined up
in in every part so you got to go to yeah you know uh uh pulse audio and uh you know if you've
got more than one output device like I do I've got built in speakers and and microphone and then
usb headset get that set and it looked like I had that set up and you know I couldn't hear and I
couldn't talk and uh finally went through the mumbo set up and and got everything got everything
working that week and I thought it was gonna oh man we'll do that every week but the next week
it just works so just yeah I mean here it uh for this time for me it's just uh default
input web and I'm like no select the USB headset for those and it's just it's just working great
and it's had say it's actually new as well so um so yeah and completely on my end I'm sure
because nobody mentioned it but Seb uh about three times for you this evening and once for that
minor you know uh it's been like a broken record you know it repeats the last thing you say
and it's like you know about seven times in and you know do I do I need to kill mumbo and then
finally it comes back but what uh what what when I when I when it crashes what do you mean
well you know whatever you were saying it will just repeat you know repeat the last two words
or whatever four or five times what mumbo will do that you mean well did it for me tonight I've
had it before on a bad connection but uh you know I said it just happened to be you you know like
three times and I think that might or once but nobody nobody else said anything about it so
I figured well my end I don't know there was a mumbo crash to have a problem I think three times
like just now as well and also there was somebody on earlier when it started repeating them and
when he said it wasn't me it was them so when it was like repeating what they were saying yeah
that's happening yeah I think that's happened about three times with other people
no that's that's a different thing that's feedback when somebody has their mic open um so
one one one one one one one one one one one okay that wasn't me repeating that that was actually me
right but um but no it shouldn't really repeat what what I'm saying ever so I guess it's a
problem with a connection or mumbo law whatever because it's tech it isn't that it's not perfect is it
no but never is uh cool thing sometimes I you know there will be a thing and uh you know some
some sort of momentary glitch and it's it's like mumbo tries to buffer everything you've missed so
all of a sudden somebody you know whoever was talking to be really speeded up so I could hear
everything that I missed yeah yeah so like I was saying though tech is not perfect right and I'm in
a basically a flat block slam and of course we have a lift and the building is about is a year
and a bit old now really it's quite still quite new and that lift has I think always worked so far
but you know you have the like a lamp and it's broke down all this and I'm thinking like you know
one day that lift is going to break down and potentially I'm going to be in that lift will have
hopefully not one I'm trying to go to Brussels uh at the end of this month to go get off to
fuzz them right going down with a suitcase probably and then you got your taxi and you're
going to get picked up or whatever but but I think you're like you know it can happen there's a chance
so like new year I don't want to be stuck in the lift I'll just keep out of the lifting go to
the stairs just in case I mean it's probably fine I could go in the lift but as that chance it's
going to break down at some stage because it's tech I was talking somebody about who worked on
left and he said you know it very unlikely a lift will you say elevator there actually a lift is
unlikely to go break down but you know there's a chance isn't there you don't be stuck in the
lift or elevator I think you're saying that ain't it not the moving stairs the uh the lift yeah
yeah moving moving moving stairs is escalator yeah yeah so escalator is moving stairs
and I'm talking about the lift we could say left here but you would say elevator yeah I was like
a new and be fairly reliable the ones that would bother me you well you see in the movies or
something I never really got in one to you know the the old the old ones that used to have have
to have an operator run it you know but you'll see them in in in movies and apartment buildings you
know that are old enough to still have that same tech and you know you got to run it yourself
well yeah the new one should be reliable for the most part but still that chance it's going to
go wrong one day well I've got an elevator story from the building of the Empire State Building
hey right what's that well the Empire State Building has as one might suspect Otis elevators in it
being the big elevator company in the US but they got into some a little hot water because
the elevator in the thresholds or door frames have the word Otis and part of the contract of
anyone contracting with the Empire State Building construction company was that no brand names
was supposed to be visible without approval by the Empire by the organization who was building
the building so Otis had to make special nameless thresholds or whatever framing for the Empire
State Building elevators because they put in their standard this is an Otis elevator
badging yeah right yeah interesting so I think I'll stay here for like strictly I'm gonna say
one hour or about one hour because it will then become two o'clock in the afternoon here wow
yeah afternoon and like to do some other things and then should be going out a bit later I think
with someone neighbor apparently one of these other things first thought that as well um
shouldn't actually happens this time because the other day it didn't um and uh yeah yeah another hour
I think and then take some other thing this one saying basically yeah a lot of people don't know
this I keep me to do an HPR on it and haven't got around to it I collect old uh rotary cell phones
and have all of mine uh connected up uh actually to my uh google voice number through various boxes
and stuff and uh so uh so they're all uh voice over IP phones but one of them I have is is an old
elevator phone you know in the old days you had that panel you opened up if you got into trouble
and there was a phone uh I don't know why they made them old rotary phones because I'm sure
they weren't hooked up so you could just call whatever whoever you wanted long distance as long
as you were an elevator but you know you you think it'd be a phone for button on it to call
who you know whoever you need to call and tell me yeah you're stuck in the elevator come help me
oh I know why you have a dial oh actually get you know he says me else my KKFest
dial allows you to generate pulses which would cause somebody to ring okay yeah that makes sense
and if you if you have just pick up the handset you're basically breaking squelch or breaking the
dial tone but you're not making an active say I would I would thank though that just give you a
capacitor and a hand crank like deal wooden phones well actually that's probably something uh yes
but dial mechanisms where you pick with us at the time of dial phone well that's where the
stories I was going to you know I was going to include because while the phones I have are
automatic electric and uh they not AT&T actually developed automatic you know
dialing system with the you know they developed the rotary phone and they tried to sell AT&T
AT&T things yeah we're not interested and then there was a strike by operators in about
1915 and AT&T came off from saying yeah let's let's let's talk about licensing this tech what
you have by by hands I can might seem to move on to phones some reason but I wanted to say some
about lifts quickly or and and yeah I mean I'm on a third floor um a third basically and if that
lift breaks down a minute one day you know I've put up four this before a few times but you know
you're gonna feel like oh finally I tuck the stairs why does I not take the stairs why do I go
on the lift is usually so annoying you know what I mean in a building where you you could take
the stairs most of the time anyway even if you got something heavier it will always but oh yeah
I can definitely excuse me is that third floor American or third floor european my safe
fair floor but it's like the ground floor is known to zero might and then you got a floor above
that which is known as number one and then you got this floor which is known as number two
to come oh I never knew that that's that's thank you that minor that's new info for me
well I don't know if this is American or opinion but I know that some buildings have like
yeah the ground floor is known as zero and then you might even have a basement or something
that you're like minus zero and that could be here or in Europe even but yeah it's free it's a
free floor building really I'm on the roof floor basically we're done a flat as well which
very nice actually no neighbors except one now in in Europe you guys still skip this 13th floor
like we do we've no 13th floor well most buildings aren't most of us to be able to tell us
opposed on as big as that anyway the way you know well even over here there's there's no it's
some office blocks of building yeah yeah and some office blocks probably got like 13 floors as well
that's true I don't think it's skipped here but I don't know quite maybe it's skipped because
unlucky yeah number 13 yeah that's exactly especially if if the government owes you a bunch of
money well he was 51 50 was it you said yeah that's why it's skipped is the way said yes because
13 is considered an unlucky number that's exactly why it's skipped but so like 13 becomes 14
standard wall exactly exactly that yes really they do that but I didn't know that I didn't know
did that but uh for the 13th is more of things isn't it especially with no sure anybody actually
if France if the French government owes you a bunch of money watch it no way well the king of
France on a certain Friday the 13th decided that if he could accuse the Templars of all sorts
ghastly things he wouldn't have to pay him what he owed them um I think France a 51 50 some money
yeah well well that's what Friday the 13th is all about is the is the destruction of the
Templar order really is it I thought it's just because like you know like teenagers becoming 13
and things like that well if you follow the Jewish tradition 13 I believe is when the
barman's when the backman's was done oh yeah no it's fine you're just a
what those Friday the 13 movies are not particularly good as well as I say that minor you are
just a font of information and not just technical give it so it might be wrong for we know you have
to check it on the Google and Wikipedia except Wikipedia can be wrong as well as can things
on Google actually what actually Wikipedia I'll tell you something about Wikipedia and it's really
really annoying me now in fact because I there there was like a you might these emails yourself
I don't know I'm sure maybe some of the people who can listen to this to actually listen to this
get these emails and then what I'm gonna say now I had like a thing pop up on I think on Wikipedia
itself like four four years ago something and it was like is Wikipedia come donate to us
why don't you donate to us use your computer in the fault wow yeah I use it quite a bit I'll
go on money at this add more money at that time for like this kind of thing anyway I don't know
and I was like okay I'll donate 30 pounds to Wikipedia because I can and I had somebody else
when it's used group had done the same thing they donated 30 pounds some money about 30 pounds I
think as well but then every year ever since I'm getting these emails that are apparently from Jimmy
Wales who the founder Wikipedia and it basically is nagging to donate money again and every year happens
like twice or maybe three times and I think somebody said that no they have loads of enough money
anyway so basically spam in a way and then you get like this is my last final call
you donated back in 2014 or whatever when you donate again and all this and it's just really annoying
who's basically nagged to donate every again and you can go on to Wikipedia as well and you get
these things popping up saying like you use Wikipedia so why don't you donate to us yeah and it's
there's the old English saying you know if you pay the dean guild you don't get rid of the dean
well if you pay up they don't let you go they nag you to pay again without me mean or
yes it yes it's also uh it's the general fallacy of paying a ransom that can be made recurring
yeah if it's like for money well that's like anything anything any any cause you contribute to
on the internet you know they've got your email address you know they're they're going to come
back and hit you up again and things like Wikipedia and archive dot org I don't I don't really mind
I don't always respond you know respond but occasionally I do especially when they say yeah we've
got the sweetheart deal where if you you know it uh we've got somebody it's going to triple your
donation or whatever that's that's more an archive dot org deal I think they run every every year like
if you know if you if you contribute twenty five dollars we've we've we've got this age will
contribute or who will contribute seventy five fs f is another one it's like you know I used
I used to have an fs f membership and then he had an email all the news will certainly come
well let's not say power the fs f to be fair but you know this very much like you remember back
in 2014 of the fs f why don't you sign up again and Seb this is probably something completely alien
to you what's what's even worse if you ever shopped for a gun online um this is something well
you think you don't know dude I have basically that's all usually not
america you might do I suppose but that's what you remember he didn't you
yeah I I mean any any firearm site that you that you visit remembers you sign up for
you know it's pretty much going to show up in your email once a week if not more often
yeah I haven't used it but I really need to figure out plus addressing on on gmail
they were wasting the site will pop up saying come by for me again is what you meant
oh yeah uh you get a you get a lifetime supply of spam I probably get uh five 10 emails a day
you say lifetime supplies of spam except then uh you um potentially get shot by that gun anyway so
actually uh there is a method where you can add a plus sign I think on gmail so that you can
you can give the provider a legitimate address but it's already flagged with uh something that
designed to make filter and use I know it's hate shown some people like talking about guns which
I wouldn't normally do or bother with that discussion however I'm gonna ask questions now because I
just thought of something um what guns have you two got I've got no functional firearms at the
moment yeah that's not something and you know I go I get something I go brag about to my friends
but it's probably you know not something you want to create a list for online now of course all
minor legitimate you know the government already knows what I have uh so the other thing would be
you know maybe maybe uh not go out there and try to create a list of thieves but in in general I
got got started uh oh three or four years ago uh but I I wrote you know wasn't something I was
looking for because I didn't you know I didn't say not really practical for self defense uh but
the price you know at the price point uh a uh reprodu uh an Italian reproduction of a uh
peacemaker cult and that got me started you know really being interested in the uh vintage
you know uh single single action firearms uh single action revolvers and I said that this is not
you know uh the these are for fun they are they are not probably the first thing I would want to
pick up for uh home or self defense or carrying or whatever and I'd got down to act you know
well if if you wanted to buy every version out there of a uh model 75 peacemaker yeah there's
probably 50 of them but I mean if you're picking from you know one from every uh you know a different
gun you know uh a remington a peacemaker a busley uh you know there's really only about six
out there and the last one that I hadn't got is a Smith and Wesson uh break action revolver and
the reproduction of those go for about eleven hundred dollars so I started looking around
and saying you know I could probably get an actual hundred-year-old coat for that kind of money
and I did that last year so you know if you're asking the kinds of things I'm interested in
Seb uh that that gives you a pretty good rundown uh 50 do you know what a bus 44 is pretty sure
I've heard that before it's uh mentioned in uh uh what's what's that guys I can picture his face
the old country singer is uh mr. Charity oh I'm drawing a blank on that I think it was a
small handle short build probably 44 40 revolver yeah it could could be though there were a
lot of percussion 44s as well well I think this was this was in the character gear um
Marty Robinson sings about it I always thought it was a bad 44 but somebody said it was a
bass 44 okay and uh you know there were there were also I think there are both 44 40s but there was
like the uh oh not the Winchester but the gun the Winchester was made after but you know there
there are no 44s rim fires not center fires and now we've just put Seb to sleep no we're not quite
but I'm gonna go in about 40 minutes because I've got other things to do today but I mean if you're
on time about comes a bit later go ahead but um or do they also can talk about anyway
okay hit Henry that's what I was thinking I just wanted to say you know uh you know
the Henry rifle when it came out the uh the the financial backer was always Winchester
and then when it became when it became successful and popular you know the second version
that that came out they said they uh uh yeah we like we'll wipe hit the the guy who designed the
rifle wipe him Henry out and we'll call it the Winchester and the difference being you know you
you've got the side gate loading on the Winchester and on the Henry you know you you uh open
you opened up the tube and loaded from the bottom um there's a proponents for both but still
as an homage to Henry if you buy Winchester ammo there's always there's an h-stamped on the back of it
yeah I found the lyrics or or a page that talks about uh that Marty Robbins song uh 50 it's
missing less than a number it's a three new model Russian with a four inch barrel small
on but yeah that's that's the one I don't have that I was just talking about but it's $1,100
you know there were two there were two model 3s there was one that had the uh rush you know the
Russian model which is a single action but it looks more like a double action grip and then you
you know you you have the scope field uh which is essentially the same guy before western grip on it
but uh modern scope field group productions are in 44 cult right 45 cult
yes originally it would have been 44 40 or uh 45 scope field which is slightly shorter
but of course there and you can still get those I guess uh watch the video pick up 45 the other day
hits and 45 scope scope field ammo but yeah almost everything uh like that has been re-chambered
for uh 45 long coal so is it only seven o'clock in the morning for you two yep 720 you're 22
well nearly yeah uh 50s in turns of central central time I'm Eastern time so it's nearly 830
8 so that's all right let's see five hours to six oh yeah yeah I guess so just come up to two here
um yeah that sounds right yeah I've got two clocks on my desktop and uh one of them I set you
after the UTC so shows me 13 23 and 24 hour time so would you already know yes time man
I'm in 23 I'm gonna have to pick up uh the couple of clocks and one of them that I will have to
set to UTC why do you work for the new TC it's going to be supporting my radio habit
and radio international radio yeah well I'm going to be talking about uh I'm going to be
getting a software defined radio and some of the channels are going to be aircraft which some
stuff is Zulu and uh in a lot of it's going to be shortwave which is largely Zulu based
what means Zulu what's that uh what Zulu is uh is what Americans and our military calls UTC
all right well then try to add into the facts which you might might know already or not I'll do two
things so DTC or zero zero zero yeah and the time zone uh stuff is also called it's also called
what's called then yeah yeah it could bring it to me in time yeah that's correct dancer
and then you don't want to summertime's called when it's eight the clocks go forward
kind of yeah we're waiting actually British summertime right but then what I find interesting
as well is this which you may or may not know because we went to Iceland in uh made 2015 right
the clocks had already changed here for summertime gone 40 hour but because I just
and stays on UTC all year basically here we went back an hour just because of the time zone
change because of the summertime and at the moment obviously it's the same time because it's
on winter time and also America changes a week earlier earlier I think for both of those
something like that yeah we changed like we changed our time in March and uh first weekend in November
now yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that's yeah that's it isn't it yeah so in the March
America goes forward an hour first I think or the other way around and then the other one is
um yes because like four hours behind so the five hours well it used to be the solstices
and uh I think that changed under uh bush number two did a little earlier and a little later
also uh we had one year under Jimmy Carter that he decided it would you know we wanted to do
uh summertime all year round and then he got criticized probably unfairly uh because uh
because uh kids got run over waiting for school buses a couple of times during that winter
because it was so dark so you know uh the conservative party was looking for a reason to call
Jimmy Carter a child killer so they found that uh but back back in the old days during the
thirties when it first came through uh you you'll probably find this under entertaining sub the old
folks called uh regular time gods time and daylight savings time Roosevelt time or not maybe it wasn't
a funny story I can believe that also supposedly deep under New York City there is a couple of very
special cars that hold President Roosevelt's limousine yeah I love like those videos on youtube
where they go down and and see stuff like that well it's like a uh special stop to Ritz hotel
there there used to be uh for celebrities and for presidents and stuff a subway a subway stop that
you know right under the Ritz hotel and you know and and then you will see some of the unused subway
platforms and they are just so incredibly ornate and there's a lot of stuff in Europe you know
I've seen youtube stuff and it's just like you know they parked all their old crap in the in the tunnel
so you know people have gone down there and you know there's there's all these vintage subway
cars from the thirties and trains but also there's just regular cars you know for some reason park
down there well one of the big things that they found was a whole bunch of cars that have been put
underground to keep them out of the hands of the German and and there's a youtube channel
is exploring with the fighters but apparently there's this crevasse in uh in England that people
I don't know for 50 years people used just to throw their garbage in so like at the bottom of it
you know if you get you can get down to it through some you know there's caves and then it could
connect to mines and you can finally get down there and it's kind of sketchy but I mean there is
this like 70 foot pile of old cars that people just you know to get to get rid of their old cars they
just pushed them pushed them through this big crevasse hole of the ground yeah and there uh I think
some of the slate mines during the war well they started it in world war one but in world war two
they took some of the slate mines and said gee these are nice deep underground protected nobody can
bomb them tunnels so let's fill them with all kinds of ordinance including bombs well one fine day
somebody was having a little trouble with this bomb removing a stuck feuds or fuse plug
so this genius cuts it with a brass drift and mr bomb decides he doesn't like that and he goes
off and his buddies go off and there's this huge mushroom cloud coming out of the hillside where
where all these bombs used to be stored and where they decided they didn't want to be stored
and there's the world war one movie that I think is uh fairly accurate under hill whatever it was
you know we're you know the really interesting story uh you know the the tunnelers and the counter
tunnelers and you know they tunneled under enemy lines and and uh you know stacked up a whole bunch
of TNT oh yeah also uh one of the uh who does shows as they dug out a German flamethrower
emplacement and at one time the German flamethrower was a monstrous construction it had you know
fuel tanks and nozzles and stuff and had a bunker for the crew and stuff like that but evidently
this one was in an area that the Germans basically just got it in place when it was overrun
well you know I'm a big efficient auto of you know uh desperation weapons and you
you know board war two you had and in fact they're ever used more than a couple times but I mean the
the the the uh the big cannon pointed at London or what you know and you had the various charges
that would go off in stages behind the shell oh I don't I think that that gun was never completed
it's the same on the same style as the big supergun that was which they tried to construct for
sozama saying it was using the same sort of principles yeah maybe right may may never been used
and then you had you had uh you know uh they wanted to build a tank with like a uh battleship
turret on top of it this huge huge tank which would have fallen through any any road available
in the day um and the the the whole thing's crashed because yeah we we uh you know we can't build
engines for that I mean they could they could but it would have been taken so much resources that
they didn't they did have a couple of experimentals which the Germans called the mouse which met
mouse which was like 80 times yeah they did they did have experimental uh experimental
mouse and it did it it had the same failure you know they uh you had to put like uh ship
diesels in it and that you know they uh then him you know probably smartly enough they didn't
you know they didn't commit the the diesels big enough to actually make the project work but
I you know I was thinking of the rat you know which they ever did build but uh if there was
going to there was going to be some that were multiple hundred tons even uh pushes running
gear which made the ferdinand and soon to be called the elephant as in white elephant was a rotten
well I I mean even even and less under perfect conditions even the tigers too big
also well you see a lot of those uh Germans with their interleaved road wheels
right that was an American design well I don't know about that but I think you're talking about
the Christie suspension like on the uh 234 but the interleaved road wheels was a great engineering
solution well but you dealt with enough throws and mud to appreciate what that would be like
if you got mud between those things right now I'm always interested in the uh design you know uh
tracks driven from the rear versus driven from the front because driven from the front you've
got to run that whole drivetrain from the from the engine in the back of the tank to the front
but the whole reason they did that which most people don't know is that if you if you if you
have your drives pocket in the back then all your mud and stuff that is stuck to the treads
you know runs you know runs over that sprocket and wears it out whereas if you put it in the front
all that stuff is falling off uh you know by uh by the time the track gets you know goes over the top
and uh runs through that track but it's you know the the again the trade the trade off is you're
running the whole drivetrain the length of the tank uh rear to forward well also with with front
drives sprockets uh oftentimes they put the transmission up there near the driver so the linkages
would be sure well that's true but the the real dog was the first world war tanks where they
they didn't have good the exhaust was dumped into the crew compartment oh yeah and then you
haven't you had an uncovered uh drive shaft spitting and guys would get their legs caught in that
I mean you know probably we're serving at a World War Tank two tank was no treat but uh you know
and I I'm not sure even about uh current tanks though I I rather imagined M60 as some kind
of air conditioning or whatever but yeah the World War one guys you know they they were driving
those things around in their skivis because they were so hot yeah well yeah um a lot of stuff one
of the things that that I find laughable is the uh on the M3 leak slash grant they had a stabilized
stabilization system for the upper turret the for the 37 millimeter however that was a new
and secret development which meant that a lot of the people that were supposed to run it were not
clear to know how it worked yeah and I've always thought the uh Truman got a bad rap yeah it
not not equivalent to a tiger but I mean uh the Germans were not trying to ship over an ocean
and uh you know a lot of people be shouting at me you know uh all the you know all the tanks that
had that you know compared to a tiger or to a panzer you know uh had had to be sacrificed but
I don't I don't it it depends on who you talk to you know a lot of historians say it's not
was not as bad especially later in the war when you hit you know when they equipped the uh some of
the Germans were for bigger gun that could penetrate the the German tanks and a lot of the German
tanks you know they you know they they were formidable but they weren't reliable you know
so at least on the Russian front and pretty much I think on the European front
you know most of the panzers and tigers you know they they succumbed to break down rather than
actually being destroyed by the enemy also because we we had enormous depth of spares part of
what the Germans would do would be they would not only shoot a Sherman but they would try to
keep even after the tank had been disabled or officially destroyed they would knowing that
that if it was just taken out of action it could be repaired quickly they would uh try to do
overkills to slow down its return to service well I mean in the in the first war in the first
war the Germans had a lot more captured British tanks than they actually had tanks they built
themselves the the AV-AV7 or whatever it was was a was a gigantic monster with no ground clearance
exactly and a lot of people you know the little French tank you know the first tank of the
Transversing Turret you know a lot of people think that was the best tank of them well it was the
there was that one and then there was the British Whip it which wasn't too bad for what it was
no I meant the first one I mean the first one I didn't take the whip it made it into the first
well it was it was produced I don't know how how many got forward but it was it was designed to
to follow the breakthroughs created by the by the mark ones and mark fours or whatever
the the traditional Lomboy tank that started the British tradition of the infantry tank being
in slow you know infantry support and a cruiser a faster tank designed to it get into the enemies
rear and tear up the place like cow and of course you know the third the theory is you should not
be putting tanks against tanks tanks should be put it against infantry and if you want to take
out tanks use a tank destroyer yes which is to say a glass cannon most of it I mean some of the
tanks were pretty pretty heavily armored lot of them were of course mobile artillery and not
very well protected for the crew but you you know you had a chassis and a really big cannon long
range and then some you know depends depends on the theory there were you know there are few
out there that were you know more heavily armored than a standard tank though generally the
what you gave up was the transversing turret is you know you you would have to actually turn the
tank the aim the gun and the gun might have three or four degrees either side of travel and very
limited elevation of I think we have put those to bed but I'll be back in just a second now
now chatting to somebody on Facebook but now but I was going to clear this down so you know
the way isn't this me me yeah I'm holding up the side yeah I'm going to clear this down so you
now chance some of your Facebook actually which is nice when I met before you know four years ago yeah
yeah well I'm I may wait well if you're going to be shutting down I'll wait to see if 50 comes
back before before everything goes down yeah I mean I intended to enclose this at two o'clock
and that's coming up so yeah soon 50 said you'd be back in a few minutes I didn't know when
that few minutes were where I'm in a few seconds I just had to take a nature break but yeah man
you know I don't want to be the guy to keep the keeps prolonging you from getting to bed or whatever
no I'm staying up for the day now I've got things to do actually we need to find an excuse to do
this at the summer's holsters or something maybe half as long in the summertime well you know
maybe we could do something on LLC I don't know if I want to give uh Ken another headache yeah
we're going to do it twice a year now well I was not thinking twice I was thinking of one and a half
of course we could get the pagans upset as damn Christian stealing another one of our holidays
yeah the whole appropriation thing that gets people upset these days well I
then feeling uh but it's time for me to say timber before I kill over is I'm running on
tomes and uh so I will say see you Friday or see you next year or see you both and thank you
for reading extra yeah it's already 2019 so I'll see you for definitely see you Friday uh net
liner well here here on this channel little it may well be the next next year oh for sure
in the case I'll cut you down the road well we have once again extended uh the the HPR
due years for nearly two hours so I guess that is uh some kind of accomplishment
whoever is going to come by and clean up after us whether it's haunty or kin fellon
I will absent the channel so there will be any confusion and said I guess you you've got plans
already for the rest of the day yes and uh oh should wake up a bit more as well as it goes in
so that's good the sun has come up here but I uh so I've my my own agent I am going to try to
settle down and uh see if I can get a couple hours sleep before I get up and uh do the stuff
of the day so uh you know I don't want to speak for the whole pack of pack of radio radio oh well
you know I can't complain I can't complain yeah uh I think I heard you last year I couldn't
to talk been he's sitting up at my desk now chilling nothing much I heard y'all yesterday
well how you been hold on I have to said I have to get it set right
can you give me a few give me a few minutes sure I'm sure to get it right okay now how about now
yeah let's see if there's yeah I don't I don't hear any feedback
yeah and earlier this summer was a little rough I had a uh pulmonary embolism uh which I was not
expecting and uh you know took me to the hospital for a while I hope you got better I I did uh you know
most of the protocols are for people 10 years older or more than I am and you know I I they were
saying yeah you're gonna have some trouble for six months and take it easy and you know I I was
back to it within a couple weeks they put you on any war frame or anything oh yeah oh yeah
it'll be a good thing or I'm gonna be a I'm gonna be a rest in a restaurant yeah I think I
told you that a couple years ago I had that in 2012 I had three DVTs in 15 minutes well you know
my doctor and I and I was like can I get off of this stuff you know because it's expensive
and tea you know he he was pretty much thinking well you've got all these knee braces you've
been wearing for 30 years because you're bad knees that's probably what caused all the uh blood
clots you know so if I'd never gone off the fitters it probably never would have happened you know
and uh yeah I've been off them for about uh six months and then you know this this this thing
happened and I thought it was the arrhythmia you know and called mountains and they said no we don't
you know we don't think that's what it is and took me in of course took me to a hard hospital
and all that and uh said yeah you've you've had an embolism and uh well even my heart doctor
I I had to remind him he said you know every tells me I'm gonna have to he he was telling me oh
yeah quit your uh fitter on February now I was like well you know a few months ago you were telling
you know it's gonna have to have it all my life and he he looked at chart and he's like oh yeah
that's right you know uh you you you can quit to aspirin but uh you probably need to stay stay with the
the blood center for now on yeah man I just go through my blood test every couple of weeks
that'll even argue with them going on sears now they just do what I gotta do yeah they cut me
on the more expensive stuff for taxes so I don't have to test it well I'm glad I don't have to pay
the VA covers I heard you yesterday you didn't you didn't you got drinking anymore remember when
we were on we were half lit early on and I really you know this this time I I've been
maintaining because uh well this this morning and you know it it was like yeah if I if I get
hammered I'm gonna go to sleep so uh no I I've been pretty much maintaining all through this uh
new years yep I haven't done anything uh smoke me a cigar this morning when I got up I had a
cohebo somebody gave me about two years it took about five tokes on it put it out put it back
in it's a little bit of smoking again next yeah sounds pretty good I I hear cohebo's pretty good
yep my sister had a friend who was he got out of the military and he decided he wanted to do
a tour of South America and when he got the Cuba for a visit he asked or she could bring him if he
could bring her anything she said yeah my brother always loved Cuban cigars if he could get him
and so when he came back he gave me a cohebo yeah I went through went through college I'm not
smoking a lot uh anytime we had a poker night or whatever you know I just spoke a little but you
know squish or sweets and that's you know sort of thing so completely uh different uh different uh
you know strata uh of the cohebo's but everybody says those are so good yep they are nice and they
got a nice little box and everything uh I bet I was smoking when I was in the military but that's
40 years ago I had a quit in 95 so occasionally I can't drink I'm not supposed to drink so I drink
maybe once a year can't smoke maybe drink a smoke once a year and basically that's it like when I
go to the doctor I don't have to lie and say no I ain't drink I didn't smoke I didn't do anything
so I can tell them the true yes smoke smoke I know I I wouldn't mind especially now it just makes
big cough but uh yeah cranky cranky is where I would draw the line yeah where you where you on all day
yesterday or were you just popping in and out oh yeah probably yesterday is let least I've been on
since the beginning yeah I didn't have much to do that I was watching a bunch of remember the old tv
show the equalizer oh I love that show yeah I woke up early one morning other day and it was
long one of these stations up here in Atlanta and so I clicked the where else you can watch
the thing and it said the NBC out on the Roku so I've been watching equalizer for the last week and
a half yeah back in the day we used to call him the graphic equalizer yeah Robert McCall you still
on the farm the bank hands oh yeah oh yeah well I moved from Robbins Air Force Base about 90 miles
south of Atlanta to Dunlady Georgia I remember what I hate the last time when I last time we talked
but you know you were simulating a whole big uh server migration so you guys still uh involved in
in that kind of stuff now I'm just chilling I bought me a house up here and it's got three floors
I live on the top floor the bottom floor has my computers and I got a flex server and a couple
other servers and I go out when I want to and come in and invite people over but basically I'm
a hermit I finally got my man case uh huh sounds like the plan yeah you know I I finally got where
you know my old equipment was just too old to be sustainable and it you know uh well I
seconded my dad but you know until he passed but after that rather jumping back into it and
being on a tractor you know 50 hours a week it was it was so much easier just to turn over to a
neighbor and uh say okay you got you guys got the better equipment you take care of it yep
that's the line guys I said I'm going up to the big city I got a few friends up here I see
him a couple of nights a week see my sister and her husband I don't have nobody to take care of
I can spend my money the way I want I go to the doctor come on home and chill out
well earlier this summer uh I don't know if you followed me heard this story but um you know I
I was on Craig's list which I should never do because it always cost me money but uh you know
there there was a fellow in which star had a 41 caddy ambulance and you know it was pretty
ratty or whatever but you know you know it was kind of solid but uh you know didn't run
or wherever he hadn't run in a while and uh you know I I knew a little guy would roll back
and and said you know uh before I bid on this what would it cost to get me getting home
so I talked to him and he said you know if you if you're in the like ambulance is dude do I
got a deal for you and uh win in town in this 84 Cadillac curse and uh and uh you know from
upstate four Cadillacs he won more fort than it would have been worse but uh look looking at it
you know the my the mileage was really really low so uh you know I didn't even dick with him I
gave him the 24 hundred bucks and uh you know uh since earlier summer I've been the proud owner
of an 84 Cadillac curse you have to do any real work on it anything I had a friend and I was
in high school in 1973 he bought a Cadillac curse we used to ride around in that sucker
Warner Robbins that was the party move we had a good old guy and it was white too
it originally was black and he painted it white well no I mean it's a sweet spot it is an efficient
250 uh I wouldn't have thought it would have been any good but uh 250 50 cubic inch motor
and uh something to win a drag race is but he gets you down the road with fuel injection
uh the interior is like you know pristine um you know the crushed velvet or whatever it is
you know in the in the back it's just great you know because you know you let these you let these
things sit outside and they go to crap but uh this wasn't and I'm keeping it inside and uh
you know the the blur or whatever interior is just perfect so uh you know I'm thinking this is
my ultimate road trip machine well when I talked to you last time I had an old 1996 Ford
contour and I was never gonna buy another car I was gonna buy me a scooter if I had to get
anything because I wasn't going to make the car payment then last year I said when I was moving up
here I said I'm gonna get me the car I bought me a floor and I keep that baby parked in the garage
everything hey I don't leave it out for nothing I know what you mean you got to take care of my
and I pay for it and I'm gonna keep it I'm not gonna let it get all beat up and everything else
the one thing I can say though living up here at Lion Metropolitan area can't drive I can always
ride the bus or the trains yeah it's good it's it's good that you guys still have a
uh measurable metropolitan infrastructure because there's so many cities that they you know they
were kind of paid off you know oh yeah we want to sell cars so uh why don't you kill your
infrastructure well here up in Atlanta this year they decided they were going to expand the
train system to outline counties that didn't want to do it when they set it up 30 years and for
the next 20 years they got these extra tax and they got train stations planned all around
further out from metropolitan Atlanta you know I first got up here I bought a metro car
for us to put ten bucks on it I think I ridden a bus twice in the train three times for VA
hospital downtown it was alright but it's not something I want to do everything Atlanta is the
worst place in the U.S. or traffic you hit the interstates the wrong time you won't go no
yeah uh still trying to work everything out but uh I usually go to PaganCon in Detroit
uh in May and I I'm trying to work out to do it for Amtrak I mean you can't get the you can't get
the big suite that that is way too much but you can get the you know the smallest the smallest
suite to yourself uh for for not a lot you know and I looked at uh uh you wouldn't you wouldn't
be in a big city it's not uh to uh to join that and uh go north but I'm not sure I want to go
that you know train both ways and uh if you're due to train then you're going to you're going
you're going to wind up in uh which trial and have to find find a way to get get back to
L's worth uh you know so that that's that's the part that's kind of that is kind of uh problematic
for me but yeah definitely definitely because it's like you would uh not the perfect time but you
you'd you'd leave about two o'clock in the in the morning and then you'd ride the train to Detroit
and it would be two o'clock in the afternoon so about 12 hours on a train and some of you'd
want to sleep but some of you want to sit out but look out the window all the time I was in the
military I never rode the train we'd always put equipment on train to move them we had to go
somewhere load up we'd load up the train and then a month later the train we'd get there with all
our equipment so I never rode amtrak I was never stationed any place that had trains available
for passengers so this year in October told my sister you know what I want to ride the amtrak so
for my birthday I bought two tickets from Atlanta to New Orleans and we rode the train should have bought
the the room you know where you can go and lay down on a bed and you can sit the chair but I got
us a couple of seats on the train for 68 dollars one way but it was like you said it's 12 hours it
was 12 hours I think we left here like we were supposed to leave Atlanta 12 o'clock one Sunday morning
and the train was late so we didn't leave till about 10 o'clock and we got to New Orleans at about
10 11 o'clock that night but it was it was a long trip I'm not gonna do that again not you know
just sit in a seat pay the cheap price and next time I go I'm gonna get a room with a bed for a
little bit but I didn't think it would take 12 hours that that was a long trip I could but I
could say though that the chairs that you sit in the seats are better than airline seats I think
you got more room leg room you kick back and do you like a recliner real good it was an experience
all I can oh I'm sure there's got to be room there there are on a recliner and it's like you know if
you're an airline even even it's a night you know it's like do I want to hit the button or recline
and and be jerked to the person behind me well see that's the thing I like these you could
recline all you want in there with the seats are far enough far where they didn't bother the person
that was behind you and you had you had the internet and you had your electrical outlets you
could plug in we had a car where you could go eat if you want it to it eat breakfast and lunch
just go on through the one thing though that bothered me a lot was every time they cross a road
they have to ring that down whistle and so you have to get you some good noise canceling headphones
for the trip down the trip back once we got there we had a hotel at the Hilton to the right
off of Bourbon some so we didn't have very far of the walk just go down Bourbon Street in the
French Quarter and eat all you want and if you want to go to the casino you walk down Canal street
about half a mile and there was the casino get on a river boat yeah a good time I hadn't been
the New Orleans since 1906 yeah I was a little kid when last time I went yeah make me to my
my parents sent me to New Orleans in about the 70s and there were there was a lot of
educational stuff which is probably lost on me but yeah I would definitely like to go back
and check it out today one thing though in October it was hot it was humid good lord and everybody
was wearing shorts I was surprised it was that hot down there it must have been 90 degrees for the
four days was there and it rained every day you had to take your umbrella because you'd be walking
down Bourbon just skies just open up people just running into places to get out the rain and
10 minutes later to rain quit other than rain it would not be unusual I mean I'm not saying
Kansas is bad as Texas and you know Louisiana or you know whatever but we do have our hot days
during the summer so this wasn't summer this was October 1340 1560 well in that case yeah
probably not I mean my mom wanted me to have pralines which I did didn't have any pralines they
a lot of shrimp you know fried shrimp regulars baked shrimp cooked on the skillet just whatever
and you come out you came out of the hill and you're on the bottom floor you just smell this
shrimp this fresh shrimp oh it smells so good I smelled that stuff for three days after I got
back here in Atlanta it was it was magnificent food it was expensive but it was good oh yeah so it
always expensive when you get away from home but you're back you're right probably uh
well that was that was the thing played my mom you know in her later days you know she
she wanted seafood and you know we just didn't have it here we do we do now you know stuff she
wouldn't want to you know I go down to get stuff but uh you know chrome chrome for anybody else uh
but in those days you know they're just you know if you want to fish from the store it was like
fist it's not just a crowbar occasionally they let me see I think I went last week they had a bag
of shrimp medium size 1798 yeah you know I got something about to say uh like salad shrimp
for uh want want to do some uh egg food yum you know about the same price I like the I like
shrimp scamping some onions and garlic in a ton of butter a little bit of lemon juice just throw
them bad boys in there and cook them for about two or three minutes throw some some angel her
pasta mix it up oh you make me hungry well catch your plane I'll pick you up at the airport
I got a bag and house there's in the fridge give me a minute I'll be right back okay
no my mom she was uh bored into queen and then later his family moved to uh
street port street port yeah I don't know street port there's air force space to drive through
street port to head up to um lot doggal on the fort silt well that's how my parents met my uh dead
was uh stationed in barkstale right right after college yeah no barks he used to be a B52 well
back in my day it was strategic air command then you set B52s down and my dad used to go down
here for the what I had been there though that way in about 20 years oh yeah I think it's B47
based when my dad was there but uh or told the story of this you know B47 had to come back in but
you know they had to for they could they had to fly around for hours and uh you know burn off
fuel well I think what it was is they for some reason ripped off the canopy so the poor pilot you
know he was out there in the whole wind blast for like eight hours that's why he got paid the big
book well I don't know about the bugs but you know probably fun enough to fly to those hot
airplanes around yep oh did you get anything for black friday for Christmas well I'm on my own
now sir everything is you know what I do but yeah I did go walk around Walmart for black friday and uh
oh well I I should have waited black friday didn't want it uh but I've been wanting to do some
french fries so I got an air fryer about a a week or two before black friday and uh I need to
call him up because now it don't air or fry no more I you know uh I got the like the highest
in when they had because it would it would do you know air fryer and you know it would do dehydrator
and I said yeah I I loved me some dehydrated uh banana and apple chips so I did that you know
I I I did that and then figured out about halfway through what you know it wasn't doing anything
anymore well okay I didn't do much I been looking at this old 32 inch Dell monitor for the last
year or so went into Costco last summer I had it for 180 bucks I'm gonna get me need to replace my
old 22 inch my desk never did buy it and then about two weeks before black friday I was on had
on sale for 149 I just said well might as well get it you think it's not going to get no cheaper so
I ordered it got in a couple of days and it's sitting up here on the desk as big as my little
real good TV nice little thing 149 dollars I can't play well I used to be a big gamer I'm not
so much anymore I I need to get back into it but uh yeah I have 130 inch monitor but I you know I
had stuck on old PCs that uh you know what pretty much kind of the trash early you know people throw
and stuff away so you know old core 2d oh duo PCs and uh start watch on youtube uh uh
uh
lettuce but it's not lettuce that we know from uh you know Linux it's it's it you know
it's just lettuce guy who uh does software and hardware and he's not you know
you he he's not open source unaware but most of the stuff he does is a closed
stores but he was talking about you know the Walmart gaming laptops and
desktops and the laptops were better in the desktops but and the prices were
coming down and I went in and looked and on Walmart.com and I looked and there's
company doing you know refurb HP's you know with with the gaming card and an
i5 and what I picked 16 game memory and a give it hard drive which is you know
I've got other hard drives bigger laying around failed systems that I can
that I can use but you know it's two hundred thirty bucks for for an i5 16
gear ram and a gigabyte hard drive and a gaming video card in video and I would
think of that if I hadn't had so many beers but you know it's like yeah I could
take a chance on that so I you know I've got that coming you know to to replace
the core to do a tower that I was thinking that you know was gonna give me
back in the gaming well I still have my old Lenovo P580 laptop I bought a
laptop stand to slide it down and stands up next behind the monitor I was gonna
think about getting me a nook i7 that I still hadn't pulled that trigger still on
my Amazon wish might get I'd like to have one and that might be the last PC I
get oh yeah if you don't need the video graphics that's that's the way to go
well I don't do nothing but watch when everything that's what that's why I
wanted the thirty-tenth monitor I could unplug my TV from computer at the
HDMI cable and so I plugged it at HDMI cable to mod and I got them I got my TV
computer sitting up here on the desk side by side and I didn't watch what I
want and I want mainly I needed the big monitor for I don't have to wear my
glasses no more when I see this big-ass screen that's the main thing yeah that
was the last year got got the big display for my dad you know so he wouldn't
have to put on his month glasses see the monitor yeah and he seemed to be
appreciative of that but it makes a lot of difference once you hit 60 years
old your eyesight gone mine left me about ten years ago and I had
bifocals and trifles sometimes you just don't want to wear those and then I
went I went to the doctor one time I told him all right can you guys give me some
computer glass I was going to the A and say yeah we make use so I got some
computer glasses if they work pretty good but after a while you get you know you
sit in front of the computer eight hours a day you don't want to be wearing
glasses so I'm sitting up here now I'm looking at it I can just see everything
without my glass it's best investment I ever made oh yeah I had those for a
long time they've already offered that to me for a while but yes slightly less
powerful glasses to do the computer and then you go outside you gotta drive
didn't these other glasses but you know and I've had bifocals for a while and
it's like you know I can I can see my phone for about 10 minutes and then I've
got to take my glasses off you know for the first 10 minutes after they after
they dial my glasses in it you know the lower thing works okay and then after
that you know not well 10 minutes is stretched but you know weaker to within a
week or two I'm taking my glasses off to see my phone well when I look at my phone
without glasses I can't see anything so high out from the glasses on what do you
rockin for a phone these days oh I get whatever was cheapest oh I guess it's a
Galaxy 7 and only reason for that and it's been a year and I still haven't
done it is the Lenovo you know Star Wars experience or whatever where you
know you put it into the goggles and you can you know fight dark dark
well no dark dark dark faders up there you know you start you start out with dark
females okay I got me a Motorola G5 plus a year and a half just when they came out 300 bucks
went on the Motorola site and said I want an unlock phone they said oh well finance you so
finance it's in the 18 dollars a month paid that sucker off and off over it was only 300 bucks
well it does everything I need nothing nothing extravagant you know five and a half you know
mainly I got it was because it doesn't have all the crap on it like Samsung it's just the plain old
Android experience none of the no extra software or anything which are credentials in it and
off to go the only thing I didn't like about it didn't have a doesn't have a RFID you can't do
none of the you know the banking stuff with it you know you go up to a cash register and tap
the thing you can't do none of that. Joe HTTPS call and slash slash www.youtube.com slash watch
v equals bsh tflh6 a z w and amp t equals 25 and what was that oh um that's the poco phone
the what the poco phone Papa Oscar Charlie Oscar yes
and just looked it up I see it you check it out. Hi old anyone here?
yeah we're here me in 1515. I see does that poco phone f164 gigs with six gigs of ram dual
camera 6.18 inch LTE factory unlock global version 318 but yeah I understand that the
uh UI that comes with it kind of sucks and the uh camera is um made to be worse through software
so it doesn't compete with um what is it the pixel 3's um flagship phone but uh fix all that
through rooting and roaming it. Yeah look at that. I was like I can use my American Express membership
rewards point. I almost did get a pixel too last year. I mean this year google clips in
any emails red you can buy you a pixel 3. I might get a pixel 3 next year when they get a pixel
yeah I'm a fan of uh getting by just what I can what I can get for what I want to do.
Well if you can get by that's all you need. I've never been a flagship type person. I don't need
that much phone for me to drop it and then have to cry and get it replaced and if I you know I
paid my money for a $300-$400 phone I'm happy put a good case on it good to go. If it breaks I
just buy another one. I see it was made by Zell me. I bought me a you got into the smart watch
thing yet. I did try to start uh honky you know uh put up a thing on uh you know and
and independent deal and uh I look and uh got like uh you know there there are a couple Azus
things out there and the Azus one is not Roy's support anymore and I thought yeah let's try that
and see what we can do with it and uh you know it's it's recognized by the the new software but it
won't connect so I'm thinking okay yeah let's let's beat on it with the uh independent software
but there's a lot of things you know uh air connectivity not not support I mean you you you can do
your own uh uh calendar but you really can't export into Google or something like that so you know
it's just something to play with but yeah after having something on my on my wrist for years and
years and years has been very liberating not to have to have that well back in June I said you
know I think about getting me a smart watch but I didn't I didn't like the Wear OS you know from
Android and I wasn't gonna buy a I watch for nothing and I just wanted something that could do
I could do my walks with it would tell me my steps in my mileage every day and it had a could
could have a couple other stuff in it so I saw on Amazon had a amazed fit bill for 70 bucks so I
ordered one for myself and one for my sister she's my walking partner day and so you can set it up
it does everything I needed to do and it's a nice little watch you know check it out it's on
Amazon called amazed fit bill 70 bucks nice little watch and so I use it every day I keep it on you
can buy straps for it I had the original black strap I bought a brown leather strap put on it
do your sleep it'll tell you your pulse rate of your location has GPS has a compass in it you can do
different types of workouts tell you your steps your mileage you can put different faces on it
everything it's nice for a watch for 70 bucks plus it lasts for three weeks we only have to charge
about three weeks four weeks at a time yeah I was never so much dialed into you know what's my
health thing I probably should be but it was more you know yeah I'm meeting lunch in town one of
my missing on IRC and these these days it's not so much back in back in the day you know I
I was on my mobile dialed in IRC all the time well I got it after I had my blood clot C12 doctor
said you have to start walking again I can't run the knees are shot out of bad legs I've been
doing three and a half miles for the last couple of years every morning get up at five o'clock
just go out and walk around the neighborhood and then come back and I got my 10,000 steps for three
and a half miles whatever that's probably a really excellent idea you know uh my doctors are like
yeah take this handful of pills every day well I take a handful of pills every day but it don't
help my dead leg that's why I do the walking that was one of the things that came out of my blood
clots remember the TV show house that's me the dead leg from knee on down can't feel nothing oh
wow that that is that is not a good scene you know I always I always like that show but uh oh I
didn't know you're like uh you know you couldn't feel half a leg that's what they make walking
king that's what happens when you get oh you get as old as me up 62 that's what happened
well I'll have to put a link in the chat there there was this old uh you know local character
you uh what met but I you know I wouldn't say I knew but uh passed away this last week but
one of the things he was known for was these canes and his canes were not made out of what they were
how do I say it they they were made out of a bowl part stretched over a
to steal rod I got a couple of wood ones I got an on eight wood one I got my great grandballs
old cane from 1950 and I got the VA regular L shape aluminum cane well this wasn't any of that but uh
I've got the website loaded up so I'll put it in the chat let's see oh 50 I got the go I got
somebody knocking on my door I think it's a relative or somebody I'll bring me some dinner you know
it's still a breakfast I might get on later and how are you still able to if not I'll how are you
you still on look cast I am and uh you know like I said if you can if you want to come back and
check the mumble I'm just a step from uh post reading links so uh you know if you might be
interested uh go look at it okay I'll check it out um look cast still second Friday uh first and
third Friday first and third okay well I choose good to get back to you both later I'm out for
reading well shoot I think uh read this connected just right before I posted my link
that's gonna be probably not uh it's probably gonna be distasteful to a lot of people but
I'm faking the entire uh you know uh new year's Eve system is probably gonna be flagged
not safe for work so do we have anybody in the uh chat mumble that has the afford to say yeah
it's done let's quit you're still there 50 unfortunately yes well I answered the door it was
the kid next door yep I was just saying was there anybody out there with the authority to say
yeah we're done this year seems to be it's only been a couple of months I'll see you next year
we're looking forward to it man yep have a good one take care take your medicine
yeah oh I always need to do that I'm out like my dad you know always put all these things
he has taken it's like you know what what I got to take is at least as much if nothing it's
depressing it's depressing when you become your parents of course I gotta go see you later 51
see you next year edge okay I'm so recording I will mute and defend myself and
whoever jumps back in and decides that we're done then we're done and k-wishers just told me
looks like he's killing the stream so yeah we're what three three plus hours post what we should be
oh man that's not a good thing
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a live 3.0 license
