Episode: 2401
Title: HPR2401: Music Theory Hara-Kiri
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2401/hpr2401.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:19:39

---

This is HPR episode 2,401 entitled, Music Theory Harakiri.
It is hosted by the nude and in about 16 minutes long and carries an exquisite flag.
The summer is a show on music theory and figuring out what nude are on here actually want
with a music theory show.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Alright, how are you guys doing?
This is the dude here going to be talking about some music theory but before I get into
that, I just want to say sorry for not continuing the tick conspiracy.
I got really busy over the summer with music projects so therefore I didn't really have
time to podcast but now I pretty much kind of do not that my music projects are gone
but this stuff's kind of calmed down a little bit but anyway I'm not quite sure what
HACCRA public radio expects from a music theory show or not but I guess I just talk about
the basics at first you know.
We have, shall we say, the definition of music theories pretty much and this is just
me explaining this on the top of my head, how people write music and the possibilities
that you can have with writing music.
And I like to start with clips which aren't necessarily show you what key something's
in but it definitely shows which octave range.
There's three main clips, there's a bass and treble which are the two most common and
then you also have the tenor clef also known as the C clef because it helps you find
middle C but anyway this is going to be hard to just scribe without you know showing
it via video or anything but I'm going to start off with how to read each clef and
the different techniques to you know pretty much read music because learning how to read
where the notes are or the central step one for music theory then anyway we're going
to start the treble clef because that's what usually what everybody starts with.
Now the treble clef also known as the G clef because it actually helps you find G and
the treble clef is that when you look at sheet music it's the one that looks like a
weird S figure 8 and the cool thing about that there is what's called G clef is because
it helps you find the note of G and that curly cue that's in the middle of the thing will
go through the G line sometimes I'll just touch it but if they fancy it goes a little bit
over I'm not over but under it and I'd say find that and then you can just go alphabetically
from space to line, space to line, space to line and then you can do that backwards as well.
However if that's a little bit too difficult for you you can always think of the
game and I can't remember what they're called but where you use a phrase to remember a pattern
and remember the pattern every good boy does find and that will tell you the notes that are
on each line which would go E, G, B, D and F. Ellen for the spaces is F, A, C, E which
spells out face so you got that right there and usually that helps me remind that so every
good boy does find and face. All right for the base clef that's the one that looks like a
squiggly line with like two dots. Now the cool thing is that it's also known as the F clef
which helps you find F and the line that's between the two dots will be F so you can go alphabetically
up and alphabetically in reverse to find each note for each space and line that way. And again
with the pneumonics, that's what it is. The pneumonics, the pneumonic for that for the lines is
good boys do find always so you go from G all the way up to A so you have a good G. All right boys B so G, B,
fine that's F so G, F. Sorry no not good boys. Sorry it's G, B, D, F, Ellen, A for that. Ellen for the
spaces it's all cars eat gas or all cows eat grass. I'll get with all cows eat grass because
that makes more sense but anyway it's A-C-E-G for the spaces. And usually you'll have like your
baritones and you know bases because obviously it's the base clef. The lower instruments or
lower voices will go off the base Ellen for trouble that'd be your higher instruments and your
higher voices. Now there is one more clef like I said the tenor clef, the C clef. That helps you
find middle C it's the clef looks like a line and there's like a reverse three but anyway in
the middle line that breaks the thing it has the line that's touching the middle of it will be
middle C Ellen you just go alphabetically up from there and down from there. Now I don't have any
new molecules for that one because it's not used commonly so I guess to you is if you can't
think of going up or down with the notes my suggestion is come up for your pneumonic and that
will really really help. Alright next thing I should also talk about is leisure lines and those are
lines that aren't on like the lines that are provided in sheet music. There are notes that
are added with like a something that looks like a hyphen you know they just add a little bit
up top because they go off of what's the lines and spaces provided. With those you're pretty much
going to have to go up the or down the alphabet to figure those out although I will say at the
bottom of the scale for the treble clef if there is a note with like a line through it just one
on the bottom way on the bottom of the clef that's middle C and you to remember that it's like
satirancy and that should really help and the stuff above I know there's other names that you can
come up with everything on there so that would really help you to identify each thing or at least
and memorize each thing if you give each a little note that's on winter lines and name.
But anyway let's see what else can I think of I think I should also talk about like time signatures
since well first I should probably talk about notes before time signatures that way each note
you know what it is to help you with the time signatures. Anyway we have different types of notes
you have like the colored in dot with like a line without any flags that is a quarter note.
The reason why it's called a quarter note because in standard four four time it's one beat and it
takes four four entire measure and then what a measure is is a pretty much like a group of notes
and the end of a measure they usually split it off into like lines it's different sections of like a
piece of music that's really I can say in my own words. I'm pretty sure there's a more complicated
definition out there if you really want to look that up. Anyway we're back to the quarter note.
Now if the dot's not filled in it is a half note and if it's just like the dot that's open then
it is a whole note so that'd be like one two L and uh
four so each is divided. So there's two quarter notes and a half note
L and four quarter notes and a whole note and uh dependent L and when you look at it there's
a flags on some that are just like the quarter notes that are filled in with flags if there's one
it's an eighth note if there's two it's a sixteenth note you just keep on dividing after each
um flag. But anyway now that's being said L and I already talked about the measure
we're going to go into time signatures we're going to explain with like four four. Four four means
that there's four notes not really four notes but four beats per measure so that's
how many like rhythmic pulses I guess I can say but an example of like you know
pretty much you know if I could be you know with four four or do like four beats per measure sorry
I'm mumbling but uh I'm kind of holding on to my um microphone here with my mouse so um
my second like this would be uh four four so yeah one two three four all right oh and uh
that would be four beats now to figure out which note counts as one beat that'd be the other four
so four four you'd have four beats per measure illin uh uh which note gets the counted as one beat
and with there's and what's in four four is the quarter note that gets one beat
now if we had it as like four two then the half note would be one beat
and with that being said that uh is pretty much the basics um
um of music theory uh hopefully I'll be able to do this more often and uh go into more detail
with the different music theory stuff um I also encourage others to um you know
give me suggestions on exactly what to do with like the music theory thing like is it just
to explain like different uh music theory concepts uh make it as like a music theory tutorial but
I kind of did at first or pretty much talk about like uh music that has like uh weird takes
upon a music theory so let me know but anyway I am the dude so uh I'll see you guys uh in the uh
next episode
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have
comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record
a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released under a creative
comment's attribution share a light 3.0 license
