Episode: 2622
Title: HPR2622: Raspberry Pi Temperaturator
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2622/hpr2622.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:40:21

---

This is HPR Episode 2622 entitled Raspberry Pi Temporaturator and is part of the series
Hobby Electronics.
It is hosted by B.E. and is about 5 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, I invite my six-year-old daughter on to discuss how we set up a temperature
monitor on her eyes.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An Honesthost.com.
Hello again, Hacker Public Radio fans.
Today I have a special episode where I'm going to bring in my daughter, and we're going
to talk about how we set up the Raspberry Pi to record temperatures.
And we're going to just jump right in, and I hope you enjoy the rest of this episode.
Stay tuned for more episodes of Hacker Public Radio, and remember to always keep hacking.
Hi, I'm now joined by my daughter Viviana, and we're going to talk about how we turn
our Raspberry Pi into A.
A temperature radar.
Yeah, and a temperature radar is a machine that measures the temperature.
So Viviana, we have it all set up with all the wires plugged in, and we'll tell you what
it looks like here.
It looks like you need to get wired for files, you need to watch whether the grid would
add a report, and the small ones need to have yellow, red, and black, and the smallest one
needs yellow, green, green.
All right, and so we have some of the ones, and the ones that have had the stripe tape,
but it's kind of like a circle, but it's not.
That's called a resistor, this one, yeah, that's a resistor.
And so we have the one, the green wire going into the positive, and it's going into the
Raspberry Pi, we have the ground going into the other side, and then we have the orange
one, which is the data going into the other part of the board.
And then we say we combine the green with this wire going over to that side.
We combine the purple one with this yellow one going over to this side, and you can see
it ends up going to the black because that's the ground, and then you can see that the green
one connects to both this side of the resistor, and that side of the resistor, which ends up
in the red, and you can see the orange lines up with the yellow, which is the data.
And everything you need to order from files.
Yeah, we ordered most of these stuff from files, except for the...
And this is the thing that that temperature is, is it?
Yeah, it's called a temperature probe.
So a temperature probe is...
And what does it do?
It does, on the computer, it reflects the temperature, it can go up or down.
That's right, now, so we have to enter some commands in the terminal on the Raspberry Pi.
The first thing you have to do is re-write some things and look and fit that TXT file
on the boot.
But then we started doing these other commands that would go in help us, and then we wrote
this little program, and let's see if I can run it.
It is what is getting gone, but it's set off your arm.
And now it's running, and what does it say?
Oh, it's hot in here.
What temperature does it say right now?
Oh my gosh, 80.
85? Oh, it's because you're holding it in your hand.
It's saying 85, and it's saying over here, the date and the time, right?
Yeah.
Okay, so what do we learn from this from doing this, baby girl?
We learn from doing this, but daddy got the idea from doing it.
Yeah, I got the idea from listening to one of my friends on the radio show.
What?
Yeah, that's how I found that about it.
Someone who made a recording just like ours right now, they made a recording about how
they did it, and I listened to it, and I found their instructions.
So if you want to do this, you need to go to Frights.
Yeah, and then if you want to help out other people, what do you have to do?
Recording.
That's right.
You have a friend.
All right.
Do you want to say anything else to the people before we go?
Uh.
You want to say bye-bye?
Bye-bye.
And thanks for listening, and you've listened to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Bye for now.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a life, 3.0 license.
