Episode: 2803
Title: HPR2803: Update on my Raspi 3 B OpenMedia Vault and Next Cloud instances
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2803/hpr2803.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:01:50

---

This is HBR episode 2,803 entitled, up made on my last B3B open media about, and next
cloud instances, it is hosted by NAWP and in about 7 minutes long, and carry my next
visit flag.
The summary is a short podcast on how my little home service are working or not.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Good day Hacker Public Radio community, my name is JWP and I wanted to talk to you about
one of my Raspberry Pies, so normally I just do this, you know, the tech thing in the weekend,
down in the basement, and everyone's for a while, throw myself down there for, I don't
know, two or three days, and not come out for a while until my wife comes and gets
me and says, hey, it's time for you to ignore it again.
And so I recently had one of these things, and so I had a pile of raspberries and a bunch
of different other computers, and I think there's like 13 of them down there now, and learning
a bunch of stuff and doing a lot of things with them.
And what I learned was that the Fedora 64 bit is not quite there yet, and so I put
a raspbian on one of these 10 or 13 things that I had, and it was a Raspberry Pi 3B, but
not the plus, and so I have three Bs in the collection of these 13 different devices
that are down there.
And so one has Sousa, one has a raspbian, and the other one has Sousa Enterprise Linux
on it that I pay $28 a year for, $27 a year for, and you get a lot of stuff for that $27
bucks.
You get the full knowledge base of Sousa, full login, full everything.
I get the Red Hat login automatically from work, because we're a Red Hat partner, and
so it, that way I have both, and it's quite helpful with any kind of support issues for
anything that I do at work, or anything that's well worth the $27 bucks.
You're thinking about a good resource, the $27 for the Enterprise License for Raspberry
Pi 3B, not the 3B plus, but the 3B is $27 in Sousa.
Okay, but the one I wanted to talk to you about was the raspbian install, and so I had
a 3B, and I put the Fedora on it, and I tried the 64 bit.
Now the normal 7 was sentOS, it worked fine, but I knew that it was a 3B, and I said,
it's not doing 64 bit there, and so I said, one over the door, I'd see it at the 64
bit, and I downloaded it, and it had GNOME, and it was very slow, and it kept having
kernel panics, and all kinds of things, and so it took like 800 megabytes to get it all
up and everything, and so I was like, don't do that, and so I was like, what am I going
to do, and I just said, well, why not just download nubes?
And sure enough, it was probably one of the easiest installs that I did.
The hardest thing was probably adding the other new, the second user, so I added me, JWP,
and then added me to the Sudo group, so add user group, Sudo, I think it was, and it
worked out fine, and so the magic of it is, it's so, so fast, especially on the VNC,
so the 3 or 4 of those boxes, I have a VNC connection, and the reason is, I can get
you get on it, and I can download all kinds of stuff, and you know, I blew up stairs,
and the internet connection downstairs is maybe six or seven times faster than what
I have up here, and so it's just so quick, and so quick, and I have high res, and that
the terminal is configured, and the colors that I exactly want, and full office suite with
Chromium, everything is, everything is exactly there, and it uses almost no resources whatsoever,
so I highly, highly, highly recommend that you enable the VNC, that you use the VNC on
your Ubuntu 1604 client, and it does everything, you can kind of paste, it's just exactly like
having a separate remote workstation, you also put YouTube DL on it, so any of the documentaries
or anything that you see inside of YouTube, you get there, and that's the YouTube DL,
and that's standard in Davien, I didn't have to add a PPA, or do anything, just pseudo-applicate,
install YouTube-DL, and then you type YouTube-DL, minus capital F, and then you paste the link
from YouTube, it'll come back with the download options, and you repeat the command by using
the up cursor, then you replace the capital F with a small F, and then the number of the media
types, so I usually have either 22 or 43 as a media type, then I'm downloading, and it's
really great, and of course, why do you want downloaded content from YouTube, a lot of
reasons, you get a lot of old concerts, I travel a pretty good deal for work, and to have
my Intel internet stick with Ubuntu and 128GB of downloaded videos, you get into a hotel
room, sometimes internet's good, sometimes internet's bad, sometimes you don't want to stream
Netflix, and everything is all right, exactly there, and it's all connected to my Ford
Terabyte O'Droid, that's a client, of course, when you're using the O'Droid, it doesn't have
that built-in SSD, or a 3.5 inch laptop hard drive thing, as a SATA, I'm using a Ford
Terabyte USB drive, and it caps out, it's only got a 2, and so it caps out about 13 megabytes
per second, download, but it's still very, very okay for screen and stuff off of it, and I found
with that O'Droid that if you don't update it, it just goes for like, ever, it never has
trouble, if you start doing stuff with it, like updating it and stuff it, of all the
all the sudden it'll freeze, and you have to go down and plug it, and you're wondering
what's going on, and all that stuff. But, so yeah, so that Raspbian, it's just so clean, fast,
clean, outstanding, everything's going great with it. All right, hey, reaching about the
seven minute mark, so if you have anything for me, please email me, jwp5athotmail.com,
or leave a comment, already, take care, have a nice day, bye.
You've been listening to Hecopublic Radio at HecopublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is. Hecopublic Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomicum computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host
directly, leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
