Episode: 2290
Title: HPR2290: How to change the height of your Ironing board
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2290/hpr2290.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:55:13

---

This is HPR episode 2,290 entitled How to Change the Hight of your Ironing Board.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and in about 3 minutes long, and Karim and Explicit flag.
The summer is amazing life hack that will change your life forever.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi everybody, this is Ken, and this is another amazing life hack, following on from the
immense success of my patent pending, Episode 1801, How to Tell Your Left Earboard From Your
Right.
I'm now going to show you how to make an amazing life hack where you can modify your
ironing board to be taller.
For some reason, ironing boards tend to be low, and every time I do the ironing, I have
put a lot of stress on my back, and I've had this ironing board for about 20 years, and
to be honest, I have no idea why I've not done this before.
So it's just your bug standard ironing board with a bit of cheap sort of plywood underneath
with a piece of foam and thingy, and you've got a scissors type connector that gives you
three settings, low, lower and lost, and after doing some ironing, you're basically
going to sort back for the rest of the day.
So what I did was I just put the ironing board up to the height, put it on the ground,
lift it up, put it on the height where I felt it would be comfortable, and I drew a pencil
mark.
Then I got a cheap 90 degree angle bracket, around about 25 centimeters about an inch by
an inch piece of angle bracket, held the top part with a vice grip, or vice, and hit
the rest with a hammer, so that when there's a 90 degree angle, it comes up, and just at
the top half way of the top piece, it just bends over a little bit, like you would cut
your fingers over.
And then when I do that, then I've got this extra super high height.
Now what it does do is it puts the feet, because it's a scissors, it puts the four feet
slightly closer together, so it's a little bit less stable, but as you're ironing, you
can hold onto it and be aware of that.
So that's it, that's my amazing life hack, and one really cool thing about doing ironing
is you pile it up, and then you can do, you can watch YouTube videos and instructional
videos, and stuff like that, so great thing to do.
And you get it all out of the way, whilst the previous chore that you were not looking
forward to, suddenly comes something that you can get a boring job out of the way, and
entertain yourself by watching some educational videos.
Don't get me started on what a massive waste of time ironing is, because essentially
you're removing ripples out of a piece of clothing that you're going to wear anyway,
so you're walking around with a ripple less clothing, plus the amount of energy it takes
off the national grid, for the purpose of just people not seeing rippled clothes.
Kind of strange if you ask me, but there you go, you have to conform to the social norms.
Anyway, tune in tomorrow, where the social norm is, another exciting episode, hopefully
brought to you by you.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a light, 3.0 license.
