Episode: 2224
Title: HPR2224: FOSDEM 2017 K (level 2 Stands 1 to 9)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2224/hpr2224.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 16:05:11

---

This is HBR episode 2,224 Entitled, Boston 2017 K-Level 2,109, and is part of the series,
Internews.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about 77 minutes long, and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is, can internews the project in the K-Building Level 2 at 101-9?
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
With 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Hi everybody, I'm at the Mozilla stand that I'm talking to.
Ludo.
Hi, how are you doing?
I'm very fine, thank you.
So can you tell us what Mozilla is and how we might not?
Yes, Mozilla is the maker of Firefox, the web browser that's open, and that is
defending the web, and it's not tied to any commercial background.
We have partnerships to make money, but our goal is to keep the web open and make the web
accessible on whatever else you want to use, whatever website you want to go and need
this to work with it, so we're the independent web maker, web browser maker.
Excellent, and now Ludo Schwag is just arrived, which is a good news.
That's a computer, and that's like some other stuff, I don't think we have so much swag.
We're something that we lack at our events is having swag to give away.
And so what's been happening in the last year and what's coming up next year?
So what's happening in the last year is we've refocused our developers on our browser
on the desktop and a bit on mobile, so we've released a browser on iOS, and next year we're
going to focus even more on bringing new technologies into the browser.
So for the last five years, a group of people have been working on new programming language
that's supposed to be safer than C++ and JS, which is called Rust.
Rust is mature enough, and as a site project to Rust, we had another bootcamp browser called
Servo that's written in Rust.
And so we're going to incorporate features from Rust that are faster, that have been written
in the last three years or so, into Modula and replace some old crafty stuff that has been
lying in the Modula code base for up to 20 years.
So the idea is we're going to get faster, safer, and having a browser that beats the competition.
Because if we want to stay relevant in the world that we live in, Modula needs to have
a market share between 15 and 20%.
So when we go to W3C stuff and we say, this is the way to do it.
People can just say, well, you're only 5% of the way we're not going to care about that.
Our web devs are going to be like, ah, she's 20%.
I need to do something about that browser, and I need to support it.
So if they support us, then they support more diversity than just Chrome and WebKit.
And is there not like a risk in going for a new language that's maybe Mike and
we have as many developers as before?
So FossDem is a good way for us to present Rust.
And there's a bunch of talks in.
We have a room with full of talks today.
Some of them are focused on Rust.
Rust is a vibrant community, and it's attracting a lot of people because it's a nice new language
with a bunch of new features.
And the way it's developed is very open.
If you want a new feature in the language, you can have it.
Bissap.
Well, you have a process to follow, but you can have it if you implement it.
And so it's very vibrant.
It's full of libraries being created because you don't need to care too much about how
you manage memory.
Not the Java way, though.
It's different than the way Java deals with memory, but it's safer.
So you want to write your code in 10 years later, like, ah, fuck, there's a security issue
because we have a buffer overflow, and we need to fix it in the code for 10 years.
So that's the principle in it.
So we have a lot of people there, and it's vibrant.
And so the servo parts that we're going to incorporate.
We're not going to incorporate everything.
We're going to incorporate the thing that are ready.
And that project started like four years ago, so some of the stuff already, we already
have stuff in Firefox that comes from servo.
The awesome bar, some of the feature in the awesome bar, when you type, instead of typing
URL and finding what you already saw, some of it is Rust-based code, already.
Very good.
Is there a preview of this product and download it?
Yes.
Nightly.modula.org.
That's the place where you can find our daily releases.
They are six weeks ahead of, no, 18 weeks, sorry, 18 weeks ahead of the normal releases
that you have.
So you get all the features now.
You get a few more bugs.
So if you're not a text-heavy person, don't use it.
If you're a text-heavy person, it's very stable.
It's the thing I use daily, I never need to switch to anything else.
It really is stable.
Once in a while, yes, I'll get a crash, but I don't mind, I just send a crash, and I
know it's going to be looked at by the devs and fixed in the next few days, because that's
our focus right now.
That wasn't the case two years ago, but now that's our focus, so we don't have enough
nightly users these days, we lost a lot, and we want to regain these.
So at first, we're going to try to get more people, it's a text-heavy conference, so we want
more people that are text-heavy to say, hey, I want to help Mozilla a bit, and a very easy
way to do that is just using nightly instead of Firefox.
It's available on all platforms that we normally support.
So it's just called Firefox nightly.
The icon is different, it's blue instead of being the nice box, but it's the same feature
set.
It's the same extension that you can use, it's exactly the same except there might be
a few more bugs, and you are helping Mozilla and the project by just running 19 and saying,
hey, is this a bug, is this a new feature, and just reporting them, or if you have a crash,
just making sure that you send a crash.
I can guarantee you 100% that every single one of our listeners will rush out and download
that.
The URL to get it is nightly.mozilla.org, and it's available in more than 8 more languages
just English, so if you want, use it in your language, you can too.
Thank you very much.
Enjoy the rest of the show.
I'm here at the diaspora booth, and I'm talking to you.
Lucas Mutt, am I pronouncing that correctly?
There's word D, I-A-S-P-O-R-R, hey, okay.
So what is it?
It's an alternative for, for example, Facebook, decentralized alternative, which we compare
normally against male servers, it's kind of like a male server.
You can set up your own server and start posting, writing comments, liking stuff, liking
a normal social network, yes.
So I can run my own instance, and you can run your own instance, and then they can,
those two instances, cut out.
They can talk, they can share, it's called, we call it the federation, the protocol,
which, yeah, synchronize all the public data.
I say public data, because of course you can create, we call it aspects, which is just
groups, where you can put it into your users.
And if you send to those aspects messages, it will be not synchronized through your whole
network, only to the server, which is, well, which is required for the synchronization.
If you, for example, have users only on one server, and you're talking only to the users
on your server, the message will never leave the server.
Yeah, for clear duplication of where your messages are going to.
And is it difficult to set up?
You have to require some basic knowledge about Linux.
Well, that's not entirely true, because we already have some images, some one-click solutions,
I cannot remember all the native names of the hostes.
But if you check out wiki.dispowerfoundation.org, you'll find a ton of installation tutorials.
Well, yeah, you will find for DBN open to, and whatnot, step by step, tutorial installation
guides.
And is federation difficult to set up, or does that happen automatically?
Basically, the difficulty is to install all dependencies, and we'll start the server.
So once that's done, and then how do I know, how does my instance know about your instance?
It's called pop-up service, which is currently run by, I think, we use one from Google, which
is basically a feed where the server registers and says, hey, everyone, I'm here, I'm ready
to receive, and yeah, that's how we discover our server.
And do you have any integration with other services like new social or pomterlayer?
For example, Frennikar and Habsilla, of course, we just expected the federation protocol
from the Espoir itself, for exactly that kind of goal that other services can integrate
the protocols when talk with us.
Okay, excellent.
So, how's it been happening in the last year with the project?
Well, in the last year.
For example, myself, I integrated the XMPP, so that you can chat with all your friends
that happened and a lot of background work, and we managed also to switch to bootstrap,
completely, because that was some custom thing.
I'm not different than Guy, I have to say that, honestly, but yeah, well, some big points.
We have an interview about that explaining, or maybe people want here at this point,
but due to the magic of time-traveling broadcast, they will hear it soon.
Okay.
All right.
Yeah, and another big milestone would be the API, completely forgot about that.
The thing is, it's not completely finished yet, but if it will be finished, then I hope
we'll see new apps spreading around Android and whatever other platform there is.
Yeah.
If there's one thing that I have to take away from fostering this year and every year is,
it's not finished yet.
Every project seems to say that.
So, what's the plans for next year?
Cool, coolness.
Can I expect to finish the API?
Good.
Anything else that you need me to know about?
Right now, there comes nothing to mind, I think.
Okay.
With that, enjoy the rest of the show, and thanks for taking the time.
I'm up here as the K23 table, and you are?
I'm Michael.
And what project are you representing today at Foster?
We are representing Apache, and especially Apache OpenOffice.
So can you tell people first what Apache is and then what OpenOffice.org is?
OpenOffice is a free and then project which develops a free office suite, form unknown
as OpenOffice.org.
And last year, we have our 15th anniversary.
And now we are here together with the whole Apache foundation.
And we, I'm very proud to took Apache to foster them.
Very good.
And what is the, there has been a fork to the liberal office.
No, no, no, liberal office is a fork of view.
Yes, liberal office, our friends who develop liberal office are mostly before in the OpenOffice
org community.
Yep.
But they want to know their own thing.
Okay.
And how is development of OpenOffice going now that you become a member of the Apache foundation?
We were first an incubator project.
And then we are promoted to a top level project some years ago.
And what do you have any talks going on this year?
Yes, a lot of, but I haven't the overview yet.
We can get more from the website.
Okay.
Yeah.
Do you see?
What would you be just, in the afternoon at 2 p.m., as I talk about our API and about Star
Basic.
Very good.
And are you also involved with the OpenDocument Foundation?
No.
For ODS?
No.
We are members of OASIS.
Okay.
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the standardization organization.
Very good.
And how do you find, Keith, my friends are members of the ODS.
Very good.
How do you find keeping up with the ever-changing document formats that has gotten easier over
time?
I think it's good that we have an international standard.
Yeah.
That's very useful, and I think this standard is very easier to handle than other document
standards.
Okay.
Are you intending and putting in the Microsoft ribbon up on the top of the, um, of the
Barry bodies?
I don't think so.
Okay.
And what will you be just showing off here on the booth today?
We are showing open office, the newest version.
Yeah.
And we are showing some, um, uh, one program of the, I would say, um, environment of open
office.
Okay.
Uh, but that's an independent project.
Okay.
Okay.
I think the other, uh, we will see who's coming because, uh, Apache are more than, uh,
170, um, top level projects.
Wow.
So that I think that, uh, uh, some over, uh, 200 projects, including the incubator projects.
So whoever turns up for it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That is.
I think we are with, uh, 200 or 300 or 400 persons at the booth here.
I might get a big crowd.
Well, thank you very much for, uh, taking the time for to do the interview and, uh, I hope
have a good remainder of the show.
The, um, our, uh, celebrities will come, uh, later.
Very good.
Hi, everybody, I'm with the C-W-2 booth and I'm talking to Cedric Thomas.
Hi, Cedric.
Can you tell me what, uh, O-W-2 is, um, O-W-2 is an open source community.
We concentrate on, on infrastructures software.
So we host, but between 50, 60 projects, um, it's a community of different project, different
people, companies, uh, community projects, and it's all open source.
Okay.
Do I know any of these projects?
If I join us, we have, uh, bonita software, we have talent, some of these are really
backend oriented.
This isn't right software, cloud computing, that's what we look after.
Okay.
And, um, uh, how does somebody become a project, uh, under your umbrella?
Well, think of us as a, kind of, a European Eclipse Foundation, Apache Foundation, Open
Stack Foundation, or Linux Foundation.
With a mix of that, but, uh, we were created 10 years ago in Europe.
So we totally independent, we were created by companies and universities.
And we have gathered dozens of projects.
This project concentrate on infrastructure software, as I said.
And if you want to become a project part of the O-W-2 community, you go online to www.O-W-2.org,
everything is on the website, and you can submit your project.
And then there is, um, uh, we have an open source governance, well, standard, uh, transparent
open source governance.
And there is something called the Technology Council, which is the, uh, the, the group of
all the project leaders.
So they will look at your project, evaluate it, and co-opt you, and accept you, or not,
in the O-W-2 code base.
And is there a requirement on a particular type of license or anything like that?
No, we're very liberal as far as licenses are concerned.
All we, we want is that these license have to be recognized by the open source software
initiative, or, uh, or the F, the FSF.
I mean, these are, are the software.
We are really, uh, careful not to accept any vanity license, any kind of, uh, or any
business model.
The business model has to be very clear.
We're very careful not to have, uh, so-called open core, uh, business models, et cetera.
This is very, very, we're very careful with that.
Okay, very good.
And, uh, are you, uh, non-profit organization or a for-profit?
Uh, yes.
O-W-2 is a non-profit organization.
We were founded 10 years ago, out of Europe.
Um, and, um, one thing we have to say is, for us, open source is a way to develop software
very efficiently, uh, with, uh, all sort of ethical values in sharing and, and openness
and transparency.
But we also realized that open source is a way to develop a business.
It has made it dense in the business in the software industry.
So this is what we're trying to do.
We're trying also to support open source software, not so much as a way to develop software
collaboratively, but also to develop software that can change the software industry.
So for us, we are trying to support the open source ecosystem.
So from a European point of view, so if, uh, if you're at a European company who was
thinking about doing open source, but maybe would like somebody closer to home than
a patchy or a free software foundation, they would come to you.
Yes, we have, uh, also some companies.
Some of them are very small companies, like six, ten, ten people, like a fusion directorie
that we have here.
Some of them come from large organizations, like, uh, the project, the Spoon Project we
have here, which is from, uh, Inria, uh, which is a huge, uh, research, uh, organization.
Uh, we have, uh, project from Thales.
We have projects from, uh, the big, uh, uh, uh, Italian systems integrators engineering.
We have projects from front-offer focus, so there can be large organizations having open
source software that they want to, to put out there in the community.
And we provide them, uh, a neutral ground, a home for, uh, for these open source projects.
Fantastic.
And if they, uh, you, I see you have a job offer up here.
Uh, yes, we're growing because we are very busy.
So we are, today, we're looking for a software engineer, because there is a lot of work
in, uh, integrating, uh, own technical infrastructure.
We provide all, all the services that, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, developers, developers team
want.
So they have everything they want that to be true.
But there's also another thing that is very important that we're doing.
Uh, over the last few years, we've been working on quality.
As I said, we're trying to, uh, support the business ecosystem, but we want project to
be of good quality, but we also want them to be market ready.
So this year, what we're paying attention to is project market readiness.
So we are developing a whole methodology to evaluate, uh, market, project market readiness
and to help project leaders, um, become more, um, um, more, uh, into more aligned with
what the market expects.
Fantastic stuff.
Thank you very much for taking the time and enjoy the rest of the show.
Thank you, Ken.
Hi, I'm at the Jenkins booth and I'm talking to Robert Sandell and what's your first
walk and you tell me what Jenkins is.
Jenkins is an automation, uh, automation server, uh, that lets you automate the entire
software delivery pipeline.
Anything from building, testing, packaging in up, delivering it, pushing it out to customers.
And what's your role within the Jenkins community?
I am a plug-in maintainer and a core developer.
Okay.
What plug-ins do you maintain?
Oh, I can't remember them all.
My first one was the Gary Trigger plug-in that lets you integrate Jenkins with Gary and
Trigger whenever a change request comes up.
I have Buildfailer and our Lyser.
I had a hand in the Rebuild plug-in, uh, there are over 1200 plug-ins for Jenkins and I
may be maintaining five or six of them, so, so you're not the first person to point my
fingers.
No.
Uh, the recent one is the Pipeline Utility Steps plug-in for our new Pipeline feature
in Jenkins.
Uh, so I wrote a plug-in that, that sort of adds a bit of flair to the, the, the, the guys
that wants to do advanced pipelines.
So what's the Pipeline's plug-in?
It's a suite of plug-ins that allows you to do configuration as code, uh, so instead of
the old traditional point-and-click web UI type of configuring your, your jobs, this is
now a file that can live in your source-curl control management system and that sort of has
the recipe for how to build your project.
Very good.
Where are you aware, uh, when you started this, how key Jenkins would be to like the whole
continuous integration agile way of working?
It's an immensely popular project and, uh, has that helped or hindered you in any way?
Well, it's, the reason why I'm still in the project, I mean, I started in 2010, I think
was my first, uh, contribution to the project for work, uh, and I've been working with Jenkins
and, on Jenkins since then, uh, so yeah, and it's only been growing ever since, so that
allowed me to keep my job and actually work, get paid to work, to work on an open source
project and that's also, yeah, that is awesome.
Um, what's Jenkins written in and, uh, what sort of help, how can somebody get involved
in the project if, you know, these bigger projects, how, how do you get involved in?
So if you want to contribute, uh, most of the, like, 99% of Jenkins is written in Java.
Uh, it's, it's a Java web application, uh, but the biggest, the big community is mostly
in the plug-ins, it's hugely extensible, so, uh, and, and those are easiest to do in Java,
but you can write them in Groovy or Ruby as well if you want to, but you still need some
foundation in, in Java and know how, how Maven works and stuff like that in order to, to,
to, it's, it's actually relatively point-on-click, uh, you, you do an app-guess install and then
it's rolling.
Yeah, yeah, if you want to use Jenkins, then it's just an app-guess install.
Yeah.
Uh, how come your Jenkins looks a lot cooler than my Jenkins?
Uh, this is the Blue Ocean UI, which is currently in beta.
Uh, it's heavily focused on the pipeline feature.
Uh, so this is a project that has been going on for the last year.
Yeah.
Uh, so it's basically a plug-in that you can download and try out.
I think it's only in the experimental update center, no, it's on the public update center,
yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, uh, end of March, it will not be a beta anymore, so, uh, okay, so any other cool things
coming up?
I mean, anything that we should know about?
Yeah, what we are sort of, what we have released of this weekend is the declarative pipeline.
Yeah, okay.
So last year we were here and we have been talking all year about the new pipeline that
is a scripted pipeline that basically a Groovy script that I was talking about before
the Jenkins file.
Now we have a layer on top of that that is more declarative in style.
So it's more about...
It's like a Jason file, really.
Yeah.
Uh, and it's a lot more restrictive.
It's not as free to do whatever you want with for loops and stuff like that in regular
pipeline, but here it's...
We got a lot of feedback about people having a heart.
It was a huge threshold to get to learn pipelines.
So now we have the scripted pipeline that is a lot simpler.
It's a lot more rigid in the way you do it.
You're more declared what you want it to do instead of scripting it.
And being this a bit more simple, a bit more rigid, the blue ocean UI will have...
It's currently in a release...
What did they call it?
A release?
Yeah, the visual pipeline editor is now available as well that allows you to edit and
sort of point and click your way to a declarative pipeline script.
So that is in a release candidate at the moment or pre-release that you can play around with.
So it's...
If you go to Jenkins.io forward slash blog and there's a link in there to blue ocean.
Yeah, cool.
Okay guys, thank you very much for taking the time and have a good rest of the show.
Thank you.
Hi everybody, I'm at the wiki booth and I'm talking to Tiki, which is no longer Tiki wiki.
Exactly.
How much your name?
My name is Alex Anameta.
I'm at on the internet.
Why did you lose the wiki?
Because Tiki wiki had grown quite a lot and had added a lot of other features.
Fire galleries, buck trackers, forums.
So Tiki wiki was just too narrow and we figured like we lose the wiki part or we actually...
We were named Tiki wiki CMS Groupware.
Exactly, so now it's just Tiki and we're happy with that one.
Yeah, you basically explained it but give us a brief rundown of what Tiki is and what it's trying to do.
I like to say it is a wiki based content management system.
Because it started out as a wiki and it has a very strong wiki with a strong plugin architecture.
Lots of additional features you can put into the wiki and then it has all the other things that you can use for web content management
around it and it has more or less become kind of a framework.
Like we have some social media sites like Facebook or stuff but for smaller communities they are built with Tiki
and you can use the features in there to create such sites too.
So it's very multifunctional in that regard.
A lot of you have been in major news in the last year that has occurred.
Major milestones. Well we have an LTS model of releases.
We release every half year and every three years we release a long-term support version that is supported for five years as far as I remember now.
And the last of that one was Tiki 15 and that was with Integrating Bootstrap as the CSS Framework.
So that we now have responsive design also for mobile devices etc.
Very nice. Very nice.
Coming forward this year what are the plans?
Well we do not really have plans in that...
Planings for whims.
Exactly. We develop organically so to say.
As long as we have just three rules now development process and the first one is respect the environment then make it optional.
It's actually the third one. Commit early and commit often and the third one make it optional.
So as long as you adhere to these rules you can come with your ideas, you can implement them and you can get them into the main core distribution.
And so we seriously develop according to the needs of our users.
Excellent. Anything else that you want to mention before I move on?
No, just a piece of love and Tiki and thanks for being here.
Thank you very much.
I am at the X wiki boot and I am talking to Ludwig.
Hi, can you tell me what X wiki is?
Yes, X wiki is an open source software for collaboration so we are based on the wiki principle and we help companies organize their information.
So it competes with other wiki softwares like media wiki or conference but it also competes with more general collaboration software like SharePoint or even with file management.
I think most companies are actually still sharing information by email and with files.
When in reality they should use modern tools like wiki and like X wiki.
Can you, can two people collaborate at the same time on the same document?
So we do have these features as an extension so you can do real-time editing but actually talking about real-time editing we could talk about another project that we have at X wiki.
In our company we launched a project called CripPad and CripPad.fr. You can go online and visit it right now.
And there you can actually create it's a bit like etherpad where you can create the document and collaborate in real-time on it.
But actually there is a big innovation in it and the fact that it's encrypted.
So it's actually a zero-knowledge real-time wiki editor and so that's actually quite unique.
We haven't found anything like that on the internet and so it has compared to etherpad.
It's encrypted well when the technology inside the etherpad cannot do that and because there's lots of complexity to get this to happen.
And it's even more powerful with the wiki editor.
So the technology for real-time editing we built it for X wiki.
The encryption we didn't build it for X wiki but it came with the technology and so we launched CripPad.fr which is its own service and own open source software.
And that's all open source as well.
It's all open source.
What license do you pick?
So X wiki is LGPL and CripPad we are a GPL.
We're a bit tougher on it and the reason actually behind it is not that we don't want to share it.
The reason is that we start to believe that if we want open source to actually succeed in itself,
we also need people to collaborate more in open source.
So we're very open to share everything we do with everybody but we like everybody to do the same thing.
And the thing is we see more and more proprietary software that embed tons of open source software but they don't even share that much what they do themselves.
So they reuse a lot of the open source software.
So on this project we decided to try something else and to be a bit tougher on the license.
Let's do a free and open source license.
Yeah and I mean if there's really companies that even would want to use it, we would even be ready to accept.
Like if it's a question of fine, you need to integrate something else.
Well anyway, it's a cloud software and you can actually integrate it other ways.
So there's other ways to integrate if you really need to have a piece of proprietary software and what you do.
We're not here to talk about proprietary software, we're here to talk about Xwiki.
So what has happened in the last year?
So in the last year, Xwiki is continuing to grow.
Actually we had about 50% growth of installations in the year so we're pretty happy about that aspect.
We have more and more people coming to Xwiki to discover it.
We worked a lot on the UI.
Actually we adoption is a key aspect and simplicity and ease of use has been one of our key works in the year.
And another aspect is that we've been able to announce this year that Amazon has chosen to use Xwiki and replace MediaWiki with Xwiki.
And Amazon is probably one of the biggest users of Wikis in the world at the size of the company.
It's probably one of the companies that is using Wikis globally as a very serious usage.
So it's like a key collaboration software inside their company.
And so in 2015 they chose Xwiki and they even sponsored features.
So they sponsored the roadmap of Xwiki 7 and they have deployed it in 2016.
And we've been able to announce that we just announced it actually last week that Amazon was using Xwiki.
So that's also a good boost for us in terms of recognition of what Xwiki does.
Excellent. Any plans for this year? Are you finished? It's done.
No, no. Our plan is to continue to work on ease of use.
I think it's another ending story to make also people discover more what we do.
We also plan to launch some extensions for specific needs.
As we call that flavors, Wikis can be used for many different things.
So support knowledge bases or technical documentation, collaboration.
So we plan also to have kind of a not distribution, but we call that flavor.
Flavors that you can install for a Wiki that is for specific use case.
Is it hard to install on the salt?
No. So Xwiki can be installed with APTGET on any Debian or Ubuntu.
So we have a specific install. It's Java.
So it requires a bit of infrastructure.
So you need to have Tomcat, a database, either my SQL or PROSDOS.
But actually, so we have APTGET installed that installs it in one common.
We also have a Docker package now for people to install and try Xwiki in a couple of minutes.
And we also have a cloud service.
So if you actually just want to try Xwiki, well, you can open in Xwiki in about five minutes on the cloud.
So you go to xwiki.com and you can get an Xwiki instance in a minute on our service.
Cool, very nice.
Anything else that's coming up on the events that you're going to?
No, so we're not going to internationally at this point, but we'll see.
Maybe in the future, we'll try to participate to more events.
So we come to FOSDOM every year.
And we're very happy to be there because it's probably a great event for developers.
So we have a conference, a lightning talk this year.
But so otherwise, we participate to conferences in France, mostly.
And we try to communicate on the internet.
Thank you very much for taking the time.
And enjoy the rest of the show.
Welcome and thank you very much for having interviews of all the open source projects.
No problemo.
Hi everybody, I'm as the wiki boot and I'm talking to Mark Laport.
I'm our coach, projects are you here supporting?
So I'm here for wiki suite.
Wiki suite is an enterprise suite, which is a free-level open source.
And basically, it aggregates a bunch of open source projects in an integrated way.
Okay, how does it do that?
What sort of projects are there?
So basically, the idea is to do just about anything that a typical organization would need.
So that could be like from email to wiki, to a blog, to anything, commerce.
We need to support this.
Yeah, exactly.
So basically, if a typical organization needs that functionality, it should be part of wiki suite.
So basically, it's a dozen open source projects, which are put together in an easy-to-install way,
and which are well integrated so that the goal is that it feels as if it's one application.
And what sort of projects are included in this?
So the big ones are clear OS.
Clear OS is the operating system, so it's a derivative from Red Hat.
So basically, think of a typical operating system out of the box, like it doesn't do anything.
So this one is made for the small, medium, enterprise, distributed enterprise.
Then there's Tiki Wiki CMS Groupware, which is basically just about anything for data management,
which is from blogs, to wiki pages, to commerce, to...
And then we have RoundCube for the webmail.
So, sync thing for file syncing.
Elastic search and Kibana.
Elastic search for the search.
Kibana for the dashboards.
Kimshi and KVM, so KVM for virtualization, and Kimshi is a web interface for KVM.
Keltura for video management.
Pewik for statistics.
And OpenFire meetings, which includes Jitsimit for all the real-time collaboration aspects.
And for password management, it's key pass.
And for fusion PBX and free switch, that's everything for the traditional phone system, SIP Phone, PBX.
One last one is Exibo.
So Exibo is a digital signage project.
So basically, if you have a bunch of TVs somewhere and you want to control them from a central point.
So this is basically everything a business could possibly want in a box.
There you go, that's the goal.
Oh yeah, ding!
Okay, that's it, interview over, cool.
So, what these are diverse projects.
How do you manage this similar look and feel you mentioned?
Even that must be a nightmare.
So basically, we've been working for several.
I started this project in 2011, and it took a long time.
It was a lot of work.
And basically, the first thing is for a common look and feel.
It's removing all the projects to use the same framework called bootstrap.
So the bootstrap, ticky, it moved to bootstrap, clear OS moved to bootstrap, fusion PBX moved to bootstrap.
So the goal is to move all the projects to bootstrap, of course working with each of the project.
So then it makes it easier to have a common look and feel.
So that's one thing.
The other thing, and that's why I was very important to use clear OS.
So to pick the operating system, that was the most important thing to pick.
Because that's the base.
Everything has to install on that.
So it has to be easy to install.
And then once you have a control of the operating system,
then things like installation, upgrades, and also single sign-on and things like that become much easier.
But if you don't control your platform and you try to, you know, it has to work,
anything would have to work with anything.
Then it gets very complex.
So we just focus that our operating system is thorough as our data management is ticky.
And then, you know, we make those things work together.
So we have limited the number of permutations.
So yes, on one hand, it's huge.
And there's a lot of complexity.
But on the other hand, it's a lot simpler than any other way of doing it.
I actually completely get that.
The integration must be a lot easier than if you know where you're coming from and then over.
Definitely. And if we take the big projects, for example, in it,
like Tiki Wiki, CMS, where already that part is the free-lib open source web application with the most built-in features.
So that actually doesn't have the problems that other CMSs have like with plugins.
So it's even a website that I made called plug-in problems.com.
You may check it out.
So basically, it explains all the problems with plugins.
And if you have projects like WordPress to have 20,000 plugins,
or even other projects only have like 5,000 plugins,
there's no way everything's going to work with everything.
But with a project like Tiki, you could say,
you could turn everything on, and your interface will be huge,
because I have a lot of menus and stuff, but everything's going to work.
So we're taking the same idea that we had that was been successful with Tiki.
Now we're working in version 17, concurrent release version 16.
So it's a project which has a lot of experience.
We're just expanding that same idea to avoid plugins, to avoid complexity,
but to do it for the whole stack of what a typical organization needs.
So basically right now, we do just about everything except accounting.
So the whole accounting, human resource management, that's something we're weak on.
But the goal is to get to that in the next few years.
It's quite, and it's also quite difficult,
because each region, each jurisdiction, and even within the jurisdiction,
each region has its own set of rules.
And that's why I also I kept it for later.
And also most organizations, you know, everybody needs email,
and everybody needs like some things.
But even if we do offer accounting,
doesn't mean that people will switch to that right away.
They'll typically keep it separate.
Okay, that is a fantastic initiative.
And one question I have given you time to die.
How do you, if there's a security breach in one of the applications,
is it simply just a Yom update or a DNF update?
Right, it's with Yom.
But it basically clear OS automatically updates.
So it also updates all the downstream projects?
Well, not yet, but that's what works.
That's like half the projects, yes.
But the other half was still working on it.
And they're all working towards that goal at the end of the night.
So for me, like as being a project leader of a major project,
for a long time, I understand how it's very important to work with upstream.
So I'm working directly with upstream in all the projects
and making sure a question often comes like,
what code does Wiki Suite have?
My goal is at the end, Wiki Suite has zero code.
Everything is done upstream.
And that's what I'm working on.
And I actually have some meetings organized this weekend
with the project leaders of several of the projects.
Delegation, delegation, delegation.
There you go.
Fantastic. Thanks very much for taking the time
and good luck with the project.
Thanks, go.
Hi, I'm at the open NMS.
That's Mike.
No, that's not.
It's open November, Mike Sierra Booth.
And I'm talking to Taurus Baylog.
And I hear that you know about HPR.
I do. I do know about Hacker Raider, public Raider.
Been around as some boots in the past.
So tell us.
T-shirts, I would have worn one head.
I'd known you guys were going to be here.
So given you a T-shirt, because I've got no T-shirts.
You don't know the right people.
So we trade swag.
Oh, that's a good enterprises is alive and well.
So what is open NMS?
It's funny.
It's sometimes hard to say.
Open NMS is a network management application platform
that was 100% open source.
And my open source license, we mean?
We're a GPL for the most part.
We do have some Apache code.
So like if we write libraries, et cetera,
we tend to publish those under permissive licenses.
But since we're a small organization,
we're always worried.
In our past, we did have someone take our code
and make a product out of it and sell it in violation of the license.
And if it was a permissively licensed product,
they would have had free right to do that.
And we spent 15 years building this product.
So we don't really like it.
We offer it for free.
But we don't want someone commercializing it for free.
And what open NMS is targeting is scalability.
We would like to be the platform for the Internet of Things.
If you think about it, it's like one of our customers
is monitoring over 100,000 devices
and they're in a hospitality business.
So they provide Internet to about 200,000 hotels in Europe.
And you think about it.
With 100,000 devices now, what's going to happen in the future?
Let's say I have a room.
I might have 10 devices.
I might have a door lock.
I might have a refrigerator.
I might have a set-top box, a thermostat, a water heater.
Let's say I have 10 devices.
And I want 10 metrics for each one of those.
So 100 metrics per room.
200 rooms per hotel.
And now I'm at 20,000 metrics.
Multiple of that times 2,000.
And you're looking at 40 million metrics.
And so we need a platform that can scale to that ability.
And a lot of open source projects started
when a guy had an itch to scratch.
And so he writes a pearl script.
And someone goes, oh, that's really cool.
And can you do this?
And they change it to monitors.
They tend devices.
And then it breaks.
And so they rewrite it in a different language.
And it grows.
We started out to day one aiming to be hundreds of thousands
if not unlimited devices.
And so one of the things we're proud to, well,
we're going to be proud to introduce is in the next release
of OpenNMS Horizon version 19, which was supposed to be
released before today.
It'll be next week or the week after promise.
It includes support for this new functionality
we call minion.
And it's the ability of putting a lightweight agent out
on remote locations and then feeding all that information
to a centralized OpenNMS server.
We have a large pizza chain,
which I'll remain nameless in the United States,
who uses our code.
They sell over a billion dollars
with a pizza a year online.
And all of that is headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky.
But they need, so the orders go there,
but they need to talk to their 4,000 stores.
So there's a little piece of OpenNMS code
in every one of those stores.
Now we've beefed that up into the minion.
And the idea is to be able to go out
and if you had multiple 10 networks say
you can aggregate them together all in one location
because we've added location information and things like that.
Plus at the local level, you can determine what's important
and what's not.
And only forward the important things up
to the centralized OpenNMS.
So what exactly do I guess?
Okay, so the term NMS, network management system, I'm old.
And so in the olden days,
that was what you used to monitor your network.
And there was a very formal definition.
And then as the industry grew, it was like,
well, network management means routers and switches.
And application management means you got server management.
In this case, network management means network as my father,
who's 77, defines it, which is anything
on the other side of a keyboard.
They'll call me up and says, the internet's down.
And I'll go, well, how do you know?
And it says, well, I can't get to my mail.
I said, well, can you do a Google search?
And he's like, well, yeah.
The network's not down.
We start your client.
Because for some reason or another,
once a month is finally.
And so we monitor the entire stack, all 10 levels.
So you've got one through seven, including economics,
politics, and religion.
So we do the top three as well.
But the idea is, you know,
so you get event management is the core.
So we get traps.
You can send events into open NMS,
Syslog, TL1, pretty much anything that's an event source.
You can send it into open NMS.
Well, well, we can do automations on it.
We can do a correlation.
One of the things we do is event reduction,
which means if you get a lot of duplicate events,
that you define as, hey, like a lot of devices
if they're overheating, they'll spam you with messages.
Like every 15 seconds, they'll go, I'm overheating.
I'm overheating.
Well, instead of having, you know,
600 of those in a browser, you have one alarm
that says, this has happened 600 times.
The next thing we do is performance data collection.
So you're, people listening can't see this,
but we have two defaults on the show notes.
So we have an integration with Grafana,
where we can take all this data that we collect
and put it out on a platform, on a screen that you can see.
And we used to base it on our detail,
like a lot of products do.
But we recently ended up doing an integration called NOOTS.
So we wrote a time series database
on top of Apache Cassandra.
And I've seen tests where we're easily able
to get 60, 60,000 updates a second.
So we're monitoring, you know, two million,
three million data points.
And the technology is such, if you need more,
you just build the cluster out bigger.
So we can store unlimited data there.
The third thing we do is service monitoring.
So we go out and, you know, can we ping a device?
Can we connect to a port and make sure something's listening?
All the way up to, we have an integration with Selenium.
So if you're using Selenium to test your web app,
you can plug the Selenium XML file that is created
directly and open in a mess,
and it will periodically run that for you.
And the fourth piece, which everyone forgets,
is provisioning.
The provisioning part of open in a mess is,
if you're monitoring a million devices,
you're not going to do that with auto discovery.
You're not going to say, okay, go ping this IPv6 range.
And find these devices.
So we have a strong, rest API
for getting information from an external inventory system
so that they can easily update, change, do ads moves
and deletes from their simple systems.
And a lot of companies do not focus on that
when they're talking about provision.
So what's, you mentioned some of the new stuff
that's coming out, anything else that we should be aware of?
One of the things that we're experimenting with is,
you know, so our business model is very strange.
There's a .com behind open in a mess.
But we have no outside investment.
Our business model is called spend less money than you earn.
It's crazy, I know.
I mean, you're not, we're huge failures in Silicon Valley
because we make money.
But we've been around for 15 years because of our philosophy.
And so we're always interested,
how can we stay true to being a 100% open source company
yet feed people?
Because I have employees who rely on us to pay their mortgages.
So we're thinking about offering open in a mess as a service.
So this minion technology that I was telling you about,
you could buy a minion, stick it on your network,
and then go to a cloud-hosted instance of open in a mess.
We already have a proof of concept built on Kubernetes.
So what happens is we have a little broker when you log in.
It spins up your own little instance of open in a mess.
And you go and you talk from your minion,
which is on your network, over, of course,
a secure connection into this cloud-hosted open in a mess.
And we manage the backups, the upgrades,
the configuration, and everything like that.
Now, the problem is we need to improve how users interact.
Because right now, as a company,
our big customers pay us to make open in a mess more powerful.
Not easier to use.
And so that's why they insist on this heavy-rest API.
Because sometimes they don't even look at the GUI.
They just make queries.
And they're like, okay, what are my alarms?
Here's a query.
I want to update the server.
Here's a push.
You know, I put a post.
And I've been in four countries in the last five days.
And I'm forgetting what language to speak.
And so we're thinking that, hey,
you can go to OPAWS, open in a mess as a service.
And you can run it.
And if you choose, you press a button,
we export all of your data to a XML file,
and then you load it up on your own server.
So you don't get the lock-in that a proprietary solution.
I mean, to me, network monitoring is only going to become
more and more important.
As more and more devices get stuck on the internet,
you're going to have your refrigerator and things like that.
And you don't want to be locked into a proprietary solution.
Because they can always just twist it to you.
What if they decide to charge you, you know,
a dollar a month per data point.
And you've got 40 million data points.
Well, that's a lot of money.
So as a business, I could just take your code
and run it on my thing and never contact you.
Right.
I'm at FASDEM.
I'm not really expecting to gain too many customers at FASDEM.
I want to gain users.
I mean, some people apologize that they don't give us any money.
And I'm like, no, this is our philosophy.
We want to do this.
We want to do this.
But for larger customers, we do provide support
and other services.
And they're happy with those as well.
But yes, you are free.
We do publish under the Aferro GPL.
So there are some limitations if you want to integrate
open NMS into a system.
But for use, you know, we don't...
It's fully free for everybody.
And we're really strong in that.
As you're from the US, I assume.
And you know what?
Ireland.
Okay.
I apologize.
But what Donald Trump decides to do tomorrow?
Yeah.
Well, your accent isn't very strong.
So I've been to Ireland a couple of times.
So Dublin and Dullin.
So I've been on both sides.
In the United States, you'll go to a conference
and open source doesn't mean what it means here.
You know, and they'll say, well, we're not free software.
We're open source.
You can see the source code.
And I have to scream at them.
I'm like, look, let's...
We like with Mr. Trump.
We have to decide on what words mean.
And to me, if you say open source,
it means you meet the open source definition
as published by the OSI.
They don't see it that way.
And we call that open core.
Actually, what I call it is fopen source.
We actually have a FAUXPNSource.org website
with the fopen source definition.
And we're not for that.
I mean, we have found that you can make money.
You can survive.
You can grow without having to charge people for software.
However, I've found this from a personal point of view,
the advocacy of free and open source software
is actually easier if there's a bill
and there's a maintenance contract.
They don't actually care.
It's actually easier if you come in with a company
and go, well, you know, this is a better solution
and they're more expensive also for you.
Well, it's not a factor.
It's actually easier to get it
because you look like a professional organization.
This is a professional business.
And we publish all of our prices online
and we productize our offerings.
And so you can call up and order various things.
But I've found in this business,
I mean, I didn't start out as a free tart.
You know, now I run open source.
I run Linux on my desktop.
I run Linux on my router.
I run Copperhead OS on my phone,
which only has froid.
It all starts with Firefox.
And then it just grows.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, I'm just, I am a, you know, a big advocate.
But when I talk to people, I say,
look, it makes business sense.
If you're a business,
your special sauce, your magic,
is in how the processes you've created
to deal with your customers.
When you go out and choose these enterprise tools,
you quite often have to fit your process.
My wife works in a hospital
and they just ended up
introducing this huge system called Epic.
And they had to redo every single thing they did
to fit the system.
And I'm like, if you're in a business that's competitive,
what makes you special is your processes.
So if you go with open source,
you can fit the solution to your business.
We have large customers who come to us and say,
hey, you know, can we do this?
And we write features for them.
Just to fit open NMS into their environment.
And then as part of the process,
we open source that.
So a lot of open NMS growth has been funded
by companies who have a certain feature they want
and surprise everybody else once that feature too.
But did they not have a problem
with the fact that that becomes,
we paid for that, and that becomes.
So I get that all the time.
And the way I sell it is the same story I just told you.
I'm like, look, if you're basing your competitive advantage
on what tools you use,
you're defeated anyway.
And so let's say a feature costs $50,000.
And I say, if it isn't worth $50,000
to your bottom line, you shouldn't do it.
You know, forget who else shares.
And plus, we're going to make that feature exactly as you want it,
which may not be the rest of the way the rest of the world wants.
So we'll make it the way you want it.
And if we need to change it for the rest of the world,
we'll add some options.
So you get to determine, you personally get to determine
the direction of the feature.
If it's you, you get it first.
You know, and most people are okay with that.
But if you explain to them, I'm like, look, if it's not worth what it would cost period,
then you shouldn't do it.
It seems incredibly logical to me, but then again, I'm here.
Yeah, it does.
And it's surprising in the fact that everyone thinks that open source and free software
has this huge range that we've got this rainbow of people involved in.
We've got the kind of anarchist, freedom-loving people.
And then we've got just business people.
And it makes sense.
If you've ever had to pay a maintenance contract year over year over year or subscription fee,
year over year over year, that you wouldn't get value out of,
but you had already locked yourself into it, you understand.
And with open source, I mean, the thing I love about running an open source desktop
is that I'll need an app.
Usually I have three choices.
You know, and if one doesn't, if I'm using shot well and I don't like it,
I can use another tool.
I don't have to get locked into one thing.
And I can't go back.
It's like I used to be an Apple fanboy.
I was like the biggest Apple fanboy on the planet.
But I used to be this Apple fanboy.
And now when I go back, I get frustrated.
Recently, they updated the mail app, and you cannot get GPG to integrate anymore.
And the wonderful people with GPG tools are struggling to reverse engineer the changes.
Whereas, Thunderbird, here's the API.
We have an API for that.
And that, to me, makes it.
You know, I can sit here and tell you why.
I like it, but I like open source because it's just better.
And when it comes to open NMS, our customers find it's just better.
I'm going to end it up because you didn't just...
That's a perfect ending.
I'm at the Cola booth, and I'm talking to Christian Malikov.
Hi.
Hi.
What is Cola?
So, Cola is an open source collaboration and communication solution.
We are not just that mean.
So, it's an email, clandering, task management, no taking, file management,
soon as well collaborative editing.
We're adding instant messaging as well.
So, yeah, that scope.
And is it run on the web bar?
Is it run as a client?
So, Cola is the server product.
It includes a web client, which is based on RoundCube, with a couple of extensions.
We offer various protocols, so you can use the native mobile applications,
for instance, to sync over active sync, and web dev IMAP.
So, we set a big focus on open standards and open protocols,
as well as providing secure access and giving you back the control of your own data.
So, you can host Cola yourself and your own infrastructure.
We provide professional support for that.
We also have a hosted offer, which is called ColaBnow.
There, we host your data in Switzerland.
So, through the jurisdiction, we can ensure that nobody gets access
without an actual warrant.
Excellent.
We did an interview with you last year, so we can refer back to that
and people want more information.
So, what has happened in the last year and what's the plans for next year?
So, one of the big projects that I worked on is Cube, a new desktop client
that we're working on.
It looks very slick.
Thank you very much.
That's where we're trying to achieve.
It's right now, still it's in its infancy.
It's built on top of a high-performance core.
We are using QML for the UI, so that will allow us to rapidly move the UI forward.
Also, build different UI for different form factors,
so we're targeting mobile as well.
There, so I think in the future we will have a lot more opportunities
to build new features quicker and better,
and also to integrate different traditional groupware types more.
So, the calendar and email and task management integrate better
to help users solve their actual problems rather than just write an email or create a task.
So, what's the plans for the coming year, do you have?
So, for the coming year, one of the big things is certainly the collaborative editing
that we build together with Colabora,
so we integrate their solution.
So, you can now open Libra Office, so ODP documents.
Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
And collaboratively work on those documents.
That's fully integrated into the Colab file storage,
so you can share your documents from there and start collaborative sessions.
Okay, very good.
Anything else that I missed should have mentioned?
Well, instant messaging will be coming up at some point
that something will work on during the next year.
Going to be based on that on XMPP, I presume?
Probably not internally.
We'll certainly provide an XMPP bridge for external clients.
Okay, very good. Was there anything I missed?
No, I think that's what's the name of the website again?
The website for our enterprise offer is colabsystems.com
or of the open source product is colab.org.
Thank you very much.
And enjoy the rest of the show.
I'm Vatlas Branik, I'm a community manager of Tourist Omnia
or Tourist Project.
And we are doing awesome hardware thing, open hardware
and open source software.
We started on IndigoGo or three years ago.
We started as a nonprofit research project
in our company CZNIC, the main domain registry.
And after three years of collecting data and researching
and this nonprofit, we realized that we want to be global
because the first part of research part was in Czech Republic only.
So we went to IndigoGo.
We made a success there.
We raised 1.2 million dollars.
So we can range how much?
1.2 million.
My friend.
So that's a good start.
And a big promise to our users, to our backers.
But that gave us what exactly were you raising?
Over you raising money for me.
Yeah, that's an open source router
or it's more than just a router.
It's the open source center for your home.
You can run nearly anything on it.
The limits are very powerful hardware.
It's ARM-based.
The software is based on OpenWRT.
And to top of that, we are doing a lot of improvements.
You can run LXC on that.
So you can provide functions such a home-nass.
That's not...
LXC is not needed for that.
So can you pick it up there and let's have a look at it?
Yeah.
It's about the length of your hand.
Or I will...
Because this is a campaign only.
Yeah.
And the blue one is...
There's a blue one over there.
There is another one, black one.
But it doesn't matter.
It's only a color.
We can't see it anyway.
It's really...
We can also take a look on a board all in a second.
I'm taking photos as we speak of the board for some reason.
They're very big and far away.
I think I did something with my...
Actually, oh.
So, what we...
Can you tell me a little bit about the board, what you're seeing there?
The main difference between our rotor, our board,
and the casual or common solid rotors,
is that we are...
We have really powerful ARM processor.
It's from Marvel.
And about the possibility to customize your rotor,
we have GPIO pins here.
So you can connect a lot of smart electronics.
We have three mini PCI Express slots.
So you can connect SATA interface.
You can connect LTE modem as a backup or as a main connection.
Or you can simply connect a few Wi-Fi cards
to have really strong and fast Wi-Fi.
Also, this one is combination of M SATA and PCI Express.
So M SATA is possible to have it as a NAS only with M SATA
or you can connect your classic drives.
Here is a power connector for anything you need to fast USB-3 connectors.
And this is a SFP cage.
So you can connect optical straight to your rotor.
You don't need any converter, media converter.
We have five gigabit ports.
What are the split into two different regions?
It's just two feet on board.
The first one here is one port.
The second one is one of the long ports.
You can switch it.
But in the processor, there are three Ethernet interfaces.
So one is dedicated to one.
And the second and the third are dedicated to the rest of the long ports.
So it's really fast.
You won't have any problem to road with one gigabit throughput.
Oh, very good.
Very fast roadster.
Very interesting thing for a lot of people.
For a lot of our users, because people want to play with the device,
are those 12 RGB lights, fully customizable.
So if you came to our booth a few minutes later,
it will blink like an eye-trider.
So you can program any function for Christmas.
We made a little gift for our users.
It's a library based on Python.
You can input your MIDI.
And it will blink your MIDI.
Oh, excellent.
It's just a play.
And you have three Wi-Fi radios.
We have three antennas outside.
But inside, there are two cards.
One is two on two MIMO.
And the second one, the five-gigard standard, is three on three MIMO.
So it's up to 1,030 megabits.
So it's really fast Wi-Fi.
It's not MIMO, but it's really fast.
If you want to change the configuration of a Wi-Fi,
you can, because you can open your router and you can customize it as you wish.
So the whole lot from ground up is open.
So I could go and get the harder designs of that.
Yeah, you can get hardware designs.
I'm not sure if the whole design are out yet, but it will be.
They are on our website.
Everything is on our website.
You can download the schematics.
And there were actually some of the users that even tried to figure out what's going on
where and what they could connect.
And we have a forum where people are discussing stuff.
And somebody asked some questions in the middle of the night.
And somebody from the US read the schematics and answered him.
Very good.
So we have a lot of things working.
And you were the check internet registered.
Yeah.
The non-profit organization.
We are not government organization.
But we are so called non-profit because a lot of companies are connected in our company.
So a lot of internet providers and big internet companies from Czech Republic
are connected in our company.
And we are doing not only this awesome rotor, but we are doing a lot of our other.
A lot of other things, a lot of other projects.
You can know BIRD.
It's a bird's internet routing demon.
It's very commonly used.
You can know Knot Resolver, DNS Resolver.
Everything what we are doing in our company is open source.
So that's what we believe in.
Yeah, it kind of looks like it.
We are doing a lot of other projects because we want to make internet better and more secure.
So part of our company is called LAPS.
And we came from the LAPS, the tourist project.
But there are other projects that want to make internet.
Not only check internet, as you see.
Smarter or more useful for people.
How much is this retailing for?
Where can I buy these right now?
You can buy these.
You can buy it on Amazon or in Alza.
Those are two shops for whole Europe.
We have a lot of shops in Czech Republic.
And we are expanding to rest of the world.
But we already have a lot of users all over the world because of Indiegogo campaign.
So we have users in Asia.
We have users in America.
How much does it cost?
I'm not sure about the rights.
But it's under 300.
It depends on the exchange rate.
But if you want to buy this awesome router, you can go here on our stand.
And we can give you discount cards only for attendees here on FOSDOM.
So if you really want to have this router, you can go here, ask some questions.
And you will have 15% discount.
Very nice.
Is that open to some of our listeners as well?
Can we get a few of those?
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
If they can run here.
Well, seeing that this isn't going to be posted to those after FOSDOM.
So in the night machine and...
Very good.
Maybe next year.
Maybe next year, guys.
Okay, thank you very much for taking the time and good luck with this.
Is this intended though as telephone operators to distribute or is it?
Yes.
Some ISPs in Europe, in Sweden, Switzerland, wants to use our device because it's highly customizable.
So, yeah, we are in conversations with them and maybe there will be a success.
And a lot of users, maybe, will have this router at home straight from their ISPs.
It looks very nice, very neat and very compact.
Good luck with it.
Well done.
Thank you very much.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
