Episode: 2521
Title: HPR2521: HPR Community News for March 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2521/hpr2521.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:44:18

---

This is HBR episode 2521 entitled HBR Community News for March 2018 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 65 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about shows released and comment posted
in March 2018. This episode of HBR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and welcome to another edition of Hacker Public Radio
Community News for March 2018, where HBR volunteers talk about shows released and commented
posted in March 2018. Joining me tonight is, hello Dave Morris here again, always bad penny,
always turning up. Glad to have you Dave. Would you like to just to tell people what the show is about
is Hacker Public Radio's Community podcast where you the listener can submit shows to be heard
by other members of the community and we're doing the show slightly earlier because I've had a very
busy weekend and Dave has kindly reached two hours earlier, which is fantastic. Sorry for everybody
who wanted to join the show, but there you go. Yes, I think David Whitman said something to the fact
that he's always wanted to join someone of these. I hope this isn't the one way he's trying to
to join in. Do you want to welcome our new hosts? Yes, we have one new host this month and it is
the remora, which is a pretty great name, I think. Remora is a type of fish because I've got
biological background, but it's a good name for a person or for a fish. I thought it was a character
in a movie, we shall have to investigate it later on, I guess. Well, yeah, my biological head says
it's one of those fish that you find attached to the underside of sharks. It's got a strange
sucker thing on the top of its head that can stick to other fish and divers as well apparently.
So yeah, cool, but it probably is a movie character as well, for all I know, I don't know. Okay,
our first show was by Mr. X tuning around the high frequency 40 meter band. In this
episode, I give an example of what sort of things you can expect to hear on the HF band and
this is a show that I've been requesting for some time. Yes, yes, yes, some great notes actually,
I enjoyed that. The only thing is a little bit more in the way of explanation might have helped me.
Anyway, probably you were you were way ahead of not all I had no clue what was going on,
but I thought it was more a soundscape episode than anything else. It's just nice to hear. Yeah,
yeah, it was cool. It was very cool. There was a comment on this one, I think, wasn't it? Yeah,
go for it. Scroll, scroll. Yes, Michael says, great show. I love the idea of tuning around and
simply demonstrating what you can hear. However, I would suggest to add a bit more commentary to make
it more meaningful to those who do not already know what they're listening to. Let me add that the
Morse code, CW signal in both cases was a French station, F5IN, calling a CQDX, a general call
for far away stations. In the first bit and just finishing a transmission in a contact in the
second one, when Tom DF2BO described his antenna setup, this left me mouthgaming. Yeah,
Jaggies is at two elements on 18 meter, 35 megahertz and three elements on 40 meter, seven megahertz.
These are monsters way beyond what any normal amateur will be able to put up just an amazing
configuration that almost makes me drool when thinking about this is the kind of background
information that makes sense to add to put your deal in context. Regardless, Michael, I mixed
extra slides saying, hi, Michael, many thanks for the comments. Glad you enjoyed this show and
you're a public correct that a bit of commentary might have been a good idea. There were a couple of
reasons why it shows not to add any commentary first. It made the podcast easier to make, but the real
reason was that I was trying to create a bit of the mystery for people who had never heard the
strange sounds you find when tuning around the amateur radio hf band, which I thought might be the
case for a large portion of the audience. When it was a young boy, I remember listening to all the
second world war valve receivers that I occasionally had access to and was fascinated by the strange
sounds and voices, having no idea what I was listening to. I thought initially giving no
explanation would create more intrigue for those who had never heard hf before. And if there were
interest that grouped them, then they could look at some shunals. I'd probably be adding some
commentary next time I do it. Yes, many thanks for deciphering the Morse code to cw and yes,
that was an incredible setup of the DF2BO had. Certainly breeds my half-wave dipole
flung in the loft. Absolutely awesome. I remember the reason I am so intrigued by amateur radios
for this very reason that while studying at night, I had a shortwave radio receiver and would
hear tune around and hear the Morse code and radio piece in harmony from the Soviet block at
the time. Yes, I certainly did that until I had a valve radio with shortwave on it and used to listen
to a lot of stuff, just sort of searching up and down the van, trying to find interesting things to
listen to. Don't remember much, but what I heard though. Yeah, exactly. I always wanted to know what
the Morse code, what exactly they were saying. Of course, now you could probably just
hook up a device that will translate it for you, but that kind of is cheating. I think yes.
Anyway, the following day we had a hook up with his podcast recommendations. This is the third
in the series. Some nice shows in here. Quite a lot of them. These I'm already subscribed to as well.
Yeah, me too. And Steve said, how in the world my question is, how many hours a day do you spend
listening to podcasts? And are there many hours in the day? And are there that many hours in the day?
Thanks for the episodes. Quite a list. Well, yeah, yeah, it's I think who could possibly do what I do
and just having headphones on all day long listening to exactly and probably speeding them up a bit
as well. Well, I know he does that. Yeah, yeah, he's mentioned it in the first. So the community
news show we had I posted two comments, one with the link to the book, my wife's book and the
other. And she's decided to write the second book in Dutch before due to the translation, but I
can't influence her in any way, given up trying. And the other comment is that the pipe character
can be escaped using the upper sand octotorb space one two four semicolon. That was more to myself.
Yes, yes, it works. It works. Yes, I was impressed. There was no space after the actual
octopop mind you. Yes, yeah, all of those. I had to put them in all the ways that were
escaping. Yeah, we just made an yesterday pope symbol, yeah. Yes, and yeah, Clinton Roy had a
comment where he said, thank you, tricky bastards, he said, no idea. I'm not not a clue what
that was about. That's the middle of summer, getting too much sun down there in Australia, I reckon.
Placky says refleem market or yard sale or a garage sale. And maybe that video from
if you go to YouTube, it's an MC front a lot stoop sale. Did you happen to listen to that? I didn't,
I didn't, I completely forgot. I warned, warned anybody who listens to that video. It will get
into your head and you'll be going around seeing it for a week. Do you see it? I don't know,
sir. I'm a Brooklyn. Where I come from. I must do that. It sounded like fun. No, I'm always prepared
to extend my knowledge of things. But yeah, yeah, yeah, there's a stranger there's so many names
of the same thing. Yeah, well, pretty cool, pretty cool. And the following day, which would have
been a Tuesday, I guess, volume of thought by lost and Bronx attempt to measure how the volume
of his own thoughts and basically he figures that unwanted music is minus 30 dB and then this trail
of thought starts to derail. I actually need to do this. It's an interesting concept.
Yeah, it's also the type of music though, isn't it? I mean, I can listen to, well, I don't know,
I've not done, he's obviously thought this through quite carefully and experimented, so
that certain types of music distract me at whatever level. Yeah, I know what I've said as well,
I get distracted by by beeps and peeps and phone ringing and you know, people not answering
the phone and you know, that, that, uh, bongs from incoming messages and what's up and stuff
like that. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Anyway, when did you go other comment? Do you want to read us
or shall I? Yeah, yep. Two comments says when to go. Firstly, after hearing the title of this
episode, I thought you were going to be discussing how much three-dimensional space your thoughts took
up. That's not something I've ever considered before. That's a nice comment. Secondly, when you
actually discussed the loudness of your own thoughts and what types of sounds successfully could you
to lose track of them? It was also something I've never considered. Well done, so well done.
There we go. Now a whole, a whole scientific branch will open up as a result of this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's, I can think of some experiments you could do in psychology lab, you know.
So the following day, we had Dave, the love bug, telling us about his 10-year journey into podcasting,
which was extremely interesting. Yeah, he's strange how things will come along and how. Yeah,
he's very busy. He does a lot of podcasting, does Dave. He certainly does. He's had a long history of
doing this type of stuff, doesn't he? Yeah, and he has a, he's achieved a very professional
style of quality to it or even though he doesn't make his money that way, but it's a very high quality
stuff. Indeed. Clinton Roy says, wow, what a great story. I'm not into music podcasts at all,
though, it can't speed them up slightly, but this was a fascinating look behind the scenes of a
professional. Yes, and I think professional would be an appropriate term. Yeah, Dave replies,
really wow, he says, thanks, Clinton. I'm really glad you enjoyed the episode. The last 10 years
really been a blast and I can see many more podcasting years ahead. I've had a few people call me
professional. And once that isn't strictly true, I'd be lying if I said I wouldn't want to be.
Yeah, cool. And the following day, an intro to get with pen and paper. And this actually
tattoo introduces gifts using pen and paper. And this actually made me read their rebooting
speech since the thump thump. Right. You know, a professional would actually cut that out,
but I'm not going to bother an intro to get with pen and paper. This actually made me
I have a one of these items that I need to recommend a good course to people, ideally, for free
in work. And this is something I've recommended to them. Simply because it explains very,
very eloquently how to what get is all about brilliant really for once burnt at on my head,
what get is all about. Yes, yes. And there's the voice of experience that you can tell
tattoos worked in collaborative environments and stuff where a good knowledge of this is
important for him and his colleagues and so on and so forth. So, you know, I tend to use get
just locally a lot of the time. So yeah, it's it's a really useful insight for me as well.
So yeah, excellent. So the power of GNU Reline, part three by Dave, this is now a series I see
software library that provides line editing, bloody value value. Yes, it is, it is, but it is actually
very, who do thought Dave? Who do thought you could have got a series out of this?
Well, I was surprised to be honest and I started. I thought I'd maybe get one show out of it,
but it's definitely going to be going to be another one at very least. Yeah, I was having a chat
with my son about this because he's given me a keyboard, which has got an 80 mega in it,
which is programmable. But I was just saying to him, well, what would you actually program into it?
And really, you could you could do things like add key sequences to switch media or on and off
or something like that. But when you look at what Readline can do, you wouldn't really bother.
You know, so it's, it's actually got Duddy, a shitty presence.
No, no, he agreed. He agreed. He just got me socks like everybody else.
Now, he had a wonderful time. It's an old IBM model.
Oh, he got me started on those horrible, horrible things.
I had it in the attic and he said, oh, can I have that? And I said, yeah, and then I got it back
again with it all completely refurbished in a programmable doodad in it. And you can you can put
different software into it and talk about macros and things to it and so on. Back to
Lost and Bronx, I sure went with those keyboards. My decibel level is zero if not positive 10.
I can hear them a mile off. I wouldn't actually use this with anybody else in the house. So
my daughter's here just briefly, but she has headphones in all the time. So she knows she's
not bothered by it. But I think anybody else in the house would be slapping me in the back of the
head. Who was it? That's a, oh, all of a second door to door geek has one of these. Yes,
door to door geek has one of these. And he was saying yes, when he starts typing away all the
desks around him become vacant. So maybe that is a reason to get on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I can imagine that. Anyway, Jan says, some lines of support.
Hi Dave, thanks a lot for your effort. If a machine is under heavy load and therefore
kind of not responsive anymore, that real line magic comes in handy. Same goes for slow
links between user terminals and remote machines. No, good point, good point. And Clinton Roy says
current command, I was not aware of the comment, I'm sorry, comment command, he says, can't read
today. I was not aware that the comments slash D comment commands, they might be useful. I'm
making a right pig's ear this summer. I was not aware of, yeah, anyway, it's nothing wrong with
the sentence. It's old and the person who's read my head is broken, I'm afraid. And for anyone
worried that I'm going to slag off your show, don't Dave, Dave is one of the most professional
podcasters out there, but even even the best of them fun balls sometimes. Okay, Klacky says a big
long thing. So brace yourself, everyone. Surprisingly useful. I went in thinking, blah,
readline, it's like C controller, controller, controller, some kill and yank, what's to learn,
but it was Dave and somehow there was a three-farter. So maybe there's something useful in there.
Wow, I was so wrong about knowing everything there was to know about readline. I didn't know how
useful the capitalization things are. Control T, I'd already knew about, but I think the most
useful for when you have press control C by mistake, but M, B, meta B and meta F, oh my god,
which two are those, Dave, quickly, quickly. You don't expect me to remember. It's back, it's
backwards and forwards, but it wouldn't. Yeah, it's pretty cool. I have needed these for years. I
usually hop around with control left, control right, but there, but when you're one marsh, one
T-mox, and one pseudo down, usually all the arrow, King Colts of God, and it's all misery.
Now with meta B and meta F, my life quality has drastically improved. Actually, I might burn
those two into my memory. Anyway, back to his comment. Also interesting to know that the
args thing is for, I've been vaguely aware that as it's easy to trigger by mistake, but I think
I will use it more now that I've been taught what exactly it does. Maybe for counting the length
of a gist commit message, for example, you want to know, we want a 60 character max commit
length meta six space zero space control B. After you type the message, we'll show you how much
you're around that limit. Yeah, good point. Good point. Thanks, Dave. As always, a great contribution
even for those of us who may think we already know everything. Well, that's awesome. That's a
lovely comment. That's awesome. So I said thanks to everybody. Thanks to Jan,
Clinton, Roy, and Clarky. Glad you're finding the series useful. I've known to readline's
existence for years, and there were some features that might be useful, but I'd never spent the time
to find out what it could do. I'm most surprised at the amount of work that's gone into this library
and the great features it offers. I expect to be able to get another couple of shows from it before
I'm finished, and there's scope for others to contribute to if they work out cool things to do
with it. Fantastic. Fantastic. Okay. The following day, we had built your own Lisp, a book review,
learn, see, programming, while building a Lisp. And for those who don't know, Lisp, Lisp
is a moving language with long history and a distinctive full syntax prefix notation originally
specified in 1958. Lisp is the second oldest highly loving programming language in widespread use
today that I didn't know. This was an interesting show. This is fascinating. Yes. Yes. I am oddly,
there was a guy I knew when I was a student in Manchester who was a computer scientist who was
building a Lisp writing it using Algo on the on the mainframe there. And I couldn't, I just
couldn't understand why he would want to do that. But after thinking about it, it's quite an
impressive feat. And I'm fascinated to read more into this one actually when I get some time.
Very, I mean, very niche, but also cool. It's also cool to start off with a, you know,
something that you're interested in and follow through that that way of thinking.
Yeah. Yeah. It comes from the computer science department at Edinburgh University.
So it's got to be good to pass it to my son because he wants to go and do a degree there.
We can. So cool. The following day, this, I don't know, was this a soundscape on or was it a
functioning programming or a package? Oh, it's all the one. Wisdom shows, they're clacky.
Where he was walking through America and talking about functional programming. He had me worry
there for a minute with copyrighted music in the background. Ooh, dear, dear, my heart skipped a
beat. So racket two innings, has he, he now was working full time on this? Is that correct?
Yeah. Yeah. That's what I understood anyway. So yeah, he's, he's, he's living the dream.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. I must admit that it went 90% over my head, but yeah,
I was very cool. And I was in the stress sphere a little bit above you, to be honest,
or actually below looking up at your calls. No, I kind of got what you were saying, but I,
I have not needed this niche as yet, but no doubt we will come across somebody who will say,
yes, I know somebody who's done a whole series of shows on that. Cool. The next one was also a
throw-off by Lost and Bronx. They're common. Do we, oh, sorry, common. Do we want to,
it's a bit of a, no, we're going to do it. We're going to do it clacky, typo. Larger than I thought
was a nastrix. Yes. And then I said, because I tried to look for these things when I'm processing
the notes. And I think these were, I can't remember if they were HTML, probably. I'm also surprised
that you don't have, you haven't sent me a port port towards the explanation like you did with
whether or whether or mother. Actually, you, you need to do a show of all of those together and
just put them on one, on one as an episode out. Just, well, I started, I started to think about
an episode where, because I see people writing then and then mixing them up and putting apostrophes
before S's where they're not needed and all that stuff. And I'm just, I'm just afraid I'm going
to turn into a monster, you know, a grand, a grammarian monster that will bear down on everybody and
kick them. I already nagged my kids and they, yeah, I was a loader. So, yeah, I have, I have
something sort of started, but I've been wary of becoming that, that hated person at points
at everybody's mistakes. But anyway, I, I, this, this dialogue was really like it pointing out
a problem where he thought that simply putting it in the comments would be sufficient. And I took
that to be a request to change it. So I changed it, which then made him come back and go, ah,
right. I thought it would have been enough to just leave it like that, but you went and
changed it so that means my comments now redundant blah, blah, blah. Of course, this is stupid.
So, so there were three comments there to, to know great about it, otherwise, that, to, to
have an interesting chat about it. So I'll, I'll maybe skip over the contents and leave it at that.
And like I said, you got word from Stuart with the link and fractal in it has an account
that I've spoken something. A node won't have an info dot RKT. It's one fractal, one package.
And the nodes are pointing out internally within that package. For more amount, all this means
what a fractal is more and more look forward to an interview with Stuart whenever we get that
in order. Pretty cool. And then plackies respond them with a correction to you saying that's
a correction to the correction. No, I didn't misspeak anything. I just misunderstood each other.
Sorry for the comment. Okay, fine. So yeah, yeah, chapter of accident. So is the term used
to still interesting. So false profits, which, ah, called personalities may affect space
exploration. I was not expecting this to go the way it went, but, ah, but it was pretty,
pretty good. And the comments were interesting. Do you want to read the first one? Yes, it's quite
a quite a long one. Um, that's why I knew you just. Clackie says, you are right to worry, but
Musk isn't the only one. He's the one who got the further and has the grandest master plan.
We don't forget about Bezos and Branson and their space venture. So I don't think we're pinning our
hopes on one man, but my answer revealed something else. We're still pinning our hopes on great men
as in the great men theory of history. Musk, Bezos and, um, Branson aren't geniuses in the sense
that they're science in engineering, all this stuff when nobody else could. They're just hiring
the people who do. Still, I think people forning over Musk is awesome because it means people are
pinning their hopes on research, engineering, onto entrepreneurship, because that's what he symbolises.
And hustling the money and funneling it in the right direction isn't nothing either.
It's far better than people who are marrying people who literally don't contribute anything,
or who are contributing negatively to furthering the knowledge and power of the human race,
like David Avocado Wolf, Dr. Oz or Gwyneth Paltrow. Okay, so we're not at the mercy of a single
man, but we are at the mercy of three men. No, don't forget about China and India and old space
travelers, Japan and ESA. ESA, I should say, and even Russia. They're also further into space than
Bezos and, or Branson, and on some axes further than Musk. I'm not overly worried. Humanity will
get our eggs in the second basket before the century is over. That's a great comment. Yeah,
unfortunately, there was too many mans in that from my liking, but does reflect the fact that there
are, yeah, it does reflect the hashtag me too thing, I guess, that's the majority of millionaires
are men. Oh, I'm afraid so, yes, yes, this, although we can do that at this stage in the game.
And also, even Russia comment, fairness, Russia have been carrying the space program
for the last 10 to 15 years, guys. So, yes, yes, yes, how, who is supplying the international
space station? So, yes, I know they're all on. Phalania, lost in Bronx says, I agree with you,
bought. I think China is our biggest chance of competition in the long run, but they are
moving quickly. That may change, I hope it does. I also believe that the commercialization of space
is the only real future it can possibly have. If people can't at least hope for a better life out
there, they won't bother. China may be a big player here too, since there's no problem sponsoring
large-scale commercial venture. Looking at from that point of view though, business people like
Mosque and others may turn out to be our last best chance for humanity after all. Surely,
I sure wouldn't mind being wrong. Now, with that said, there was a very interesting
discussion from Wendover Productions about this very thing, and while the first part is
a bit of a company sponsorship video, the latter half goes into exactly this long-term goals and
why governments need to get involved. So, that's worth a watch. I would like to also comment as well
that the China space program has been very slow, but it's been incredibly meticulous,
and that the goals that are set seem to be set with a achievable project deadline in place
so far, they seem to be meeting their goals. So, I wouldn't rule them out either,
as a means to guess, do you speak? Yes, yes, yes. I'm not sure which is most important at the moment,
whether it's getting people into space. I mean, that was the point of this discussion,
didn't it? Or whether it's also doing space science, like there are plans to go to the possible
life-bearing moons of Jupiter and stuff? Yeah, I think it's, I think, Nostrum Bronx
goal is to get us there at least some of us off the planet so that there is a chance that the
human race itself will continue, because don't forget folks, we are on a spaceship. We are traveling
to space right now, and yeah, yeah, I really think if everybody viewed the world like this,
we might go a little bit easier on it. Oh, absolutely, yeah, yeah, that's partly one of the criteria
that should be part of this discussion, that to be rushing off the planet. I don't actually mean
that, but if that's the priority over making sure that the existing terraformed place that we
already have is worth looking after rather than rushing off to terraform somewhere else.
Is, you know, the balance needs to be, needs to be. I think to be quite carefully. Yeah, I think
we need to do both. It's very simple, we need to do both. The following day was audiobook 16
matchers rules, and I don't know what it is, and then realized that it actually read the
earquotes yesterday before. And God, Poki didn't like this one. Oh, dear. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
and I think 150 didn't quite get the whole concept of non-spoilers before the spoiler of it.
Yeah, oh, the picture they painted wasn't particularly attractive on it. The note I made to
myself was maybe give this one a miss. Actually, I really, really enjoyed this book when it came out.
I really did. I, yes, was bugged by some of the things like the lights, the doorsticks,
and the control thing, the Poki was on it off, but I left it off because it was such an interesting
world that was built. It was a nice, comfortable world. It was a comfortable read. So, yeah.
Okay. Okay. Well, I'll maybe give it a, give it a shot. My cue at books at the moment is quite
long, but it's even on there. I would rush out to read it, but it's not, yes, everything Poki says
is correct, but it was still, you know, it's still past the time in my book. Chentron Roy says,
interesting. This was an interesting discussion, maybe because of the disagreements,
also, thank you for the audio notes. Which is cool. Yeah, some good notes. Yeah, I did. I liked the
discussion on this one, especially when I didn't, you know, had my, I had listened to it and
was, hadn't my own opinions of it as well. Yeah, the thing that I miss out with is I've not listened
to these things. I mean, the original idea was that you get a chance to listen before you heard
the show and that sort of the timings or got messed up unfortunately, but yeah, I think I might
have appreciated it more if I'd, if I'd heard it. But still, good, good series. I'm enjoying it
very much. The following day, we had Privacy and Security by Ahuka explaining the Diffy,
Hellman, Miracle Key Exchange, and it was nice that he took the time out to credit Miracle
there as well, and did a very good job at explaining how this works in audio.
Yeah, yeah, this was excellent. It sort of passed me by a little bit, but it's the thing
with podcasts, isn't it? It's really something that's complex, it's hard to absorb when you're
doing the washing up or whatever else, cleaning the cats tray or something, but not both at the same
time. But I just realised what I'd said. It's very cool. No, the dishwasher is real.
I did go number on the Scottish RSPCA is.
I did scrub that cat again, but Kevin's website is an excellent source of further reading.
That's really important to note because I tend not to do that as much as I should and
I did go looking at this one and I'm going to come back to it and it's excellent. And the maths
was interesting because I just sort of caught the edge of what he was talking about and it's just what
my son's been doing in his maths course just now. He's trying to do a caused
fam for doing a computer science degree and he was doing modulo stuff just at the moment.
I'm sure he could put it better than I can. So relevant, all relevant, all important.
Yeah, and there's an excellent Khan Academy video that describes the mechanics of that using
a clock and a piece of rope that you wind around the clock to get the numbers and also they use
mixing two colors of paint. So you take you pick a color and then you mix your secret color
with the shared color from the other side and by mixing them together, it's easy to mix them
together but it's very difficult to unmix them. So that was the analogy he used. If you have
the benefit of sight, checking the Khan Academy videos for that is probably a good thing.
Yeah, that's good. Good hint. Thank you. And a response to episode two, four, nine, six,
busy going even one more up on my list of cool people who are doing stuff I asked them to do,
basically responding which tools to tools. And this was the PI identification script,
something that I need to run on the network urgently, Dave, urgently. Yes, yes. He did point
out a deficiency in it, which I hadn't really thought about. It was one of those scripts that
you write and you think, oh, that's great. It works. It does the thing and then you think, oh,
somebody else might like it and you don't completely think the thing through and say, but what if
I usually do that, but I didn't in this case. So it was good to go a point of shared
collaboration. Yeah. It's what you wanted to do and if it can be extended to do something else
by somebody else, then pretty cool. So I shall update my GitHub copy at some point in the near
future. But yeah, the way that Beasy was using it was brilliant. I really enjoyed listening to what
you said. Make it cool. And armed with our knowledge of how to pull the how Git works with
posted notes, and to extend his series on introduction to Git, where he is describing
remotes and origins and all that sort of stuff. Very good. Get remote. And it became a lot
clearer to me what the word origin is and other remotes and local is. I'm not saying that I'm
getting it entirely, which I should because I do this stuff every day, but at the same time,
I'll hike with everything else. You know a few commands and then you just repeat them over and
over again and hoping that it won't break. Well, quite. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a bit like using
them or something like that. You know enough to be to survive with it, but not enough to be
traveled with it. Exactly. So this yeah, I the note I made to myself was go over this again with
a bit of paper and make some notes. So yes, yes. I need notes. I need things written down a bit of
paper. So it's the only way writing makes it go in my head. Otherwise, it doesn't go in very well.
So the following day, we had why I choose aperture first. And this is David Whitman encourages you
to choose aperture as the most important setting in your camera. And yes, still happen how to show
about the dogs. Dave, have you noticed? He did give a sense. I think he's teasing us now. He's teasing
us with it. I did have a quick look at one of the, but it's not impossible to have a quick look.
No, that's right. Each thing is about two gigabytes of photos and stuff, but I did have a
peek at some of them and some magnificent dogs that I'd like to know more about. But this is good.
More camera stuff would be would be very, very good, I think. Again, there's a lot of other
things I don't have a camera at all now. The camera I had I tried to fix this. And it's now in the
fix me box pretty soon going into the hack me box. I have several actually, but some of them in my
son's left overs because he says, I don't really like this or under here much. Do you want it?
I said, okay, then. And so yeah, Michael pulled thirds and things like that. But the same argument
applies to these. Imagine David's got some some pretty impressive cameras, but you know, just the
little portable point of click ones so you can still get quite sophisticated with.
Question though, why don't we have more camera stuff on this network?
That's what I don't know. I don't know. There's a lot of signs involved in it. And you know,
you'd have thought this would be a great community to be getting more into this. But yes,
but like I'm ready to tell you, ask people for it and bog them enough. They don't think that
that's something of interest to hackers. And yes, it is. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I would certainly vote
for more. Absolutely. The following day, we had electronic calculator kit. And my bill talks about
building a $16 electronic calculator kit, which is now part of the new hobby electronic series.
Yes. Yeah. Good. You went mad this month on the series making series.
Well, it's yeah, there was a bunch of series that needed to be made, I think. So, indeed.
So the love bug said, blind fit. I haven't even listened to the episode yet, but I've just ordered
myself one of these calculator kits from Amazon. And my bill says, enjoy the kit, Dave. I warn about
a few small pitfalls I ran into building it, hope it saves you the same trouble. And the love
bug says, done undusted, bought it, built it. Surprisingly straightforward, thanks to A,
to have your advice bill and B, the links you couldn't get to work fine for me. And they had a
pretty picture, pretty detailed picture guide. It's a bit clicky, says my wife,
so all the more reason to use it. Oh, that's not nice. And here's a PG 13 of the calculator
in action. And he says, I managed to break my GMG instance without even knowing about just
my next project, perhaps. What's GMG? I have no idea. I don't know what he's talking about,
green man, green mountain gills. But it's some global mediation group. I bet a Bangladesh
airline. It's the picture's good, though. He made it, he made it say an interesting number.
So yeah, it looks, it looks really cool, actually. Not a thing I would, I would, I would buy for
myself. But the next room hidden in a drawer is one, which I was going to give to my son,
just to amuse him as his birthday next week. And he's of a nature, he doesn't want things for his
birthday. And I thought, I'll just buy it for him and see whether he, he'll probably make it in
about 10 minutes, because he's pretty good with this. Though the case build looks a bit fiddly.
But yeah, very cool. It looks, it looks quite useful. Not just a calculator, but it can also do
stuff with the color codes on. That's how it seemed like. I'm going to start to use that.
That's also going to do. Yeah, exactly, exactly. So yeah, it looks like it's going to be fun.
So the New Year's Eve show part two, part year. Listen to it. It was cool. It was weird,
weird, relaxed, laid back sort of thing. It was, yeah, yeah, it was, it was good. I enjoyed,
I'm enjoying these more this year, more than I have in the past, to be honest with you.
It was, it was good. There were some good topics. I know you're having a chance.
CM Hobbes promised me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Waiting with Baited Breath for those, absolutely.
I advise him to stop doing physical penetration testing in the States. That doesn't sound like a lot of
fun. No, it doesn't. Far too much fun. Gerald heard me talking on this.
Gerald comes from Stains in the UK, which is not far from where I was born in Stains is in
Middlesex, I believe. So he heard somebody with a, with a sort, bit of a land and accent sort of
thing. He said, I've got about 20 different accents now because I've moved around the country
in this one every 10 minutes as you move around this country. So anyway, so he didn't actually appear
on the, on the recording though. I was expecting to hear him speaking. Oh, anyway. Thank you, Gerald,
anyway. Clacky, Markdown Shawnauts. Can, tattoo and can were discussing the merits on Markdown
and the horrible, horribleness of multitudes of Markdown flavors. Here's what I do from my Shawnauts.
I write on hashify.me markdown on the left live render text on the right so you can easily click
control links to check them when I mark text on the right right click choose choose selection
sources and Firefox. It opens up a new tab where the source is almost correctly marked and I'm
putting the emphasis on almost myself. I mark it, copy then paste and the Shawnauts text box
in five as the text type. So, eminently sensible. Yes, except it's got dip tags in there,
Clacky. Yes, it does and you send them to us and then we need to purge them, purge the dip tags,
Clacky. I didn't say I never knew. It's fine. The method I used can produce dip tags. I try not
to do it that way. Yes, don't give me started on dip tags. Introduction to giz branching.
Oh yeah, another, another Clacky one and good actually, very good. It makes sense, especially
some of the comments people have made to me going you do realize that you just a little bit merged
to master from the dev thing. Okay, thank you very much. That was bad, wasn't it?
Yeah, yeah. Well, as I said earlier on, I use Git in a similar way to the way you use RCS,
which was the thing we all used back in the day. That was like a single user type thing and I'm
still doing something like that with Git or is shared obviously. But what Clacky is saying here
is effectively telling me how to use it properly, which is brilliant. Kind of the whole point
of the service actually. Well, quite. Yes, yes. But how do you know that you're using it
improperly until somebody starts pointing me to that? Oh, I think you can figure that out if you
use it. It depends on some websites somewhere and you have no clue what it's doing,
then you're probably using it incorrectly. If you're working with a team and the team you're
going, no, don't do that, then you're using it properly. Yes, I'm not really doing that yet
to any great extent, but there's still some important lessons we learned here.
Mike Ray says, great podcast. I've been using Git for a few years now, but there is something
new even for a season Git user in this series. It's a subject that needed clarity because a lot
of stuff, a lot of the online stuff of our Git is complex and confusing. More please and more
about the kind of DevOps related stuff and more server config and admin. Couldn't agree more,
Mike? Well, don't keep it coming flat too. Yeah, naturally said. An operator is producing some
very nice shows lately. This one was on a DIY CC TV securities using, I think, Internet,
Power Over it, IP security cameras, Power Over Ethernet cameras, and basically a
hodgepodge of stuff to give them a lot of control over what you can do. It's pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah. The impressive setup he's got there. Really? Quite something.
Yeah, and some videos as well to go along with. Yeah, I didn't have them. It's been a busy, busy
month, but I will. They look really cool. You did need a beefy PC to be able to do this, though.
Yeah, yeah, that's the trouble, isn't it? I've been tempted to do this. I know other people
who've got into this. There's people in the local log that are in, have given talks on doing this,
but I don't have a tremendous need. I do have a Raspberry Pi zero with a camera attached to it
that stuck to a window here, but that might do. Yeah, well, yeah, it's just taking court
rarely snapshots at the moment, just to see the way the weather's going and things.
There's a device you can buy from one of the British companies called the Pi Hut,
which onto which you can mount a Pi zero with a camera, and then it's got two suction cups
you can stick to the inside of a window. Yeah, it seems other than the Pi magazine. Yeah,
so I've got one of those and it's zero W, so it sends me pictures wirelessly every 15 minutes,
but it's not like this. This is something that's got most attention to, then
then, you know, taking, taking videos and stuff. So, yeah, interesting area to be working in.
So, Mindra is a pretty cool thing. I've said it all once, but again, my need is not that great.
Basically, I don't have any crap worth stealing, so there you go. What a
no iPads here. Some old Raspberry Pi is, if you want.
Yeah, yeah, same here, really. And the neighborhood watch is pretty good. We're also
tightly packed together in these Edinburgh states, so everybody can see what everybody else is doing
anyway. And the following day, we had Steve Sainter with Converting My Laptop to do a boot,
and this was an excellent one because it built on a previous episode by Mongo Episode 2, 3,
0, 5. And yeah, you know, I was thinking about this. I was thinking this is brilliant.
If you ever do need to go and put windows back on a PC and how you can basically go about it.
And then I realize Autodesk Fusion 360, that is becoming such an important piece of software.
And we don't have something in the free and open source community to tackle it, you know.
And I think we're always behind the game. You know, there's always going to be, we get a
top quality video editor. You know, there is a, people say, oh, I can't move to windows.
I have to stay on windows because of Photoshop. And then eventually the game is good enough to do
you know, compensate for that. And then they go, oh, I can't go and move because of video editing.
And then we go, well, you know, you got a keen life and you got a splendor of what more do you want.
And then there's always something else. There's always something else coming up that isn't
available. And it just gets a bit tiring after 20 years of, when will there ever be a day where,
you know, this is this. You don't need windows for run stuff.
Well, absolutely, absolutely. I've just been having that conversation with people that I think
are sort of really fancy getting into 3D printing, but I wanted to be able to have a totally
Linux solution to it. And basically, I'm on a loser. It's not going to be because if I want to
actually design something that I need something like Fusion 360 to do it. How is that even possible
when, you know, that all open source maker community is like, this is exactly what we can just,
get a bit tired after a while. I really don't know. It's the, yeah, I want to go and talk to the
the guys at the hack lab. There's an open day coming up. Okay. Next month, so I'm going to go
and ask them what their advice would be for buying a, yeah, bring a microphone.
Yeah. I might just do that. They might be up for having a way we chat about those things and
recording it. So see what I can do. The Ramona builds a character on the edge of empire. And this
was a bit choppy, buddy. An excellent job at rescuing audio. Anybody having a problem with the audio
in here should remember the golden words, and I should read them. Verly, I say to the, if it's
audible, it's good enough. And this was, this was audible. Yeah. But think about this was, I,
I'm still missing a little bit about the, a little bit about the, what the dice is, the dice do,
you know, I really think we need somebody, and I'm trying to line that up with, um,
tattoo and lost from Bronx to do an episode on, you know, completely novice, like, no idea of what,
what, that there are, what type of dice there are, where, where to actually start. But I need,
thanks. I'm sorry for the audio was so bad. I was forced to use Bluetooth headphones because
audacity would not take audio from my USB headset. Yeah. Nobody's going to slag you off for the audio
because, anyway, any, any audio is better than no audio. That's what we're saying.
Yes. Yes. He did get there. So we'll pound him for that. Yeah. The, the, the dice business
thing is something I don't fully understand. Right. So I've said, said before my daughter's
into it and she's got a bag full of multi-sided 12, 20, whatever it's cited, things made out of
steel or whatever. Don't you drop them on my table? No. And, but, uh, it's, it's, why don't you record
a show? Why don't you record a show, Dave? And why don't you record a show? I keep trying to talk
or into doing shows with me, but she's, uh, she claims she's on one. Yeah. She's done
well. Yeah. And I turn off a Wi-Fi and then you'll find that her attention will come back.
And she, she claims she's got a degree to do this, this year's, all right. Yeah. She's, uh,
well, it just excuses. I know. I know. But, uh, yeah, we'll, we'll actually know to be fair. She did say,
um, maybe somebody'd be interested to hear what I've been doing in my dissertation for my degree.
Cool. So she's been out in Canada watching hummingbirds for, uh, several weeks. So maybe that,
I don't know. It's not really hackery, but there's, there's interesting things to be heard there.
Maybe we'll do that. Kevin, again, with his Diffie Hellman forward secrecy stuff. This one I'd
heard about and was a bit familiar with it, but this one did actually help me
clarify exactly why it's, uh, and I like the way you, you dropped that perfect from forward
suit. I like this. Pretty good. Good children. Yeah. Yeah. Kevin, Kevin chugs out these
shields that we need. You know, well, that was any fanfare whatsoever and just the right there.
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
I think we know who we're doing. But no, it's, uh, it, uh, real gems that we, we're
gained from, uh, who are always, uh, some excellent stuff. So yeah, it's, and there's, uh,
there's a whole stack of them just sort of dropped into the future. We don't, we don't think anything
obvious. You know, all of a sudden, he gets, uh, he gets an idea into his head to completely
explain this entire thing and he records them and he uploads them and yeah, job done. Cool.
Yeah. Okay. So what else have we got on the ticket there? Note to volunteers, comments marked
in green were read in the last comment show and should be ignored in this one. Thanks, Dave.
Yeah. Yeah. Of course. I mean, come on. Oh, you must really, really hate me. There you go.
Anyways, the first comment was by myself, uh, on that, uh, on the round table show that, uh,
was a disaster and there hasn't been a round table since, obviously, because I ruined it for
everybody. And this is a waveform site that describes how wind forms are, um, put together. So
when I find things related to this show, I put it back here as a comment onto, onto. Now, cool.
Dave, uh, sorry, Mr X replied to a comment of you that you had on, or he's your stuff I bought
as a recent amateur radio rally and you had commented was I envy the fines and he says,
or do you want to read that one out? I'll read it. Yeah. Yeah. Um, says hi, Dave. I'm not surprised.
You didn't know about this as there are not many amateur radio rallies held in these parts.
I only know about it because I was a long time, a long time ago, a member of the Corkenzi
and Port Seaton amateur radio club. This event is a mini radio rally. It originally went under
the title of Jump Night, but it's since gone up market. It's held at Corken. I can't speak to
me. Corkenzi and Port Seaton Community Centre, usually around the beginning of August. I've been
going there for a number of years and now best bit about it is meeting up with old friends and
sampling some of the homemade food. On the hall, I usually end up with very little. I just
have to be lucky this year. So that's great. So thank you, Mr X. I never wrote back to say thanks,
but it's Corkenzi and Port Seaton is sort of to the, on the coast, to the north of Edinburgh.
So not very far away from where I live. 10, 12 miles maybe. Oh nice. You should be able to go.
Yeah, yeah. I certainly like to go and just snoop around. It's something like this just to see
what's going on. Meet Mr X one time maybe. And common to quib mues show life without Google.
And it was by Draco metallium. And if that isn't an awesome name, I don't know what is.
No more emails on my phone. Thanks. I had not realized that I really didn't need the Gmail app.
Most of the time it was just annoying. I am almost always in front of a computer. So I would have to
find out about the new email a few seconds later. And for some reason the spell checker doesn't
work if you update it. You have just freed me and my wrath.
Excellent. Nice comment. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was interesting. Life without Google.
Indeed. And that brings us to the kind awkward, which I'm going to read for both Dave,
much to your embarrassment.
Tatoo says, I'd like to publicly thank Be Easy and Dave Morris for their amazing series
on Alk. Too long didn't read. I learned Alk from their HBO series and have used it every day
this week. It has changed my life long version. I have to confess that I've been,
I've had the O'Reilly set an Alk book on my bookshelf for five years. In fact,
it's one of maybe six books I brought with me from the US June, New Zealand when I move.
Try to read it several times, got basically nowhere. And yet at least once a fortnight,
see what he did there. I encounter some situation that will make me think, I bet this would be
really easy with Alk. I really, I should really learn Alk. Still, no dice. This has gone on for
at least five years. On Monday of this week, however, I had to write a vitally important script for
work. I knew this script was a perfect case for Alk. So I downloaded the Alk series, followed
along and by the end of the day, I'd written my script and yesterday I wrote a conversion script
for some RPG resources I had lying around for the past year, waiting for manual conversion to
duck book. I've been using Alk every day this week and don't see myself putting it aside
ever. Thanks for your series, guys. It's improved my Linux experience, which I was pretty sure
had already reached a pinnacle. Nope, it just keeps getting better. I all, all, all to HBR,
cue the outro. Now, Dave, that is what makes you get up in the morning, huh?
Well, that absolutely made my, my year. At least, yes, if not, my whole time with HBR,
shout out to Be Easy as well. Absolutely awesome series. I've said it before and I'll say it again,
it's awesome series. Yeah, yeah, I'm so glad that we've managed to, to convey stuff that's
useful to people and yeah, long may it continue. And we're episode 10 is currently in the queue,
so there's more, there's more. In fact, it's a big subject we could be going on with this for
a while yet. Absolutely, everybody, we're learning a lot as we go along. So we'll keep going
for as long as we as we possibly can. I know Be Easy's thinking about episode 11 at the moment,
he was telling me. So we're not, we're not, we're not fast. We started off quicker than we are now,
but we're trying to keep it just chugging along, you know, so because we have lives as well.
Yeah, exactly. So I sent a mail to the list about a time capsule countdown electronics project
for a school. So I was asking for help from my brother and I know who was doing a,
a his and our teacher to school and was doing it wanted to do a time capsule containing 12 years
of stuff belonging to the kids. Now, as it turns out, you didn't have the time to do any of this
because very quickly became apparent that finding a power supply that would last for 12 years
was a bit of a thing. A lot of the conversation actually happened directly off the list.
And some people sent me very good links. And I've contacted the companies James sent me a link
for 20-year batteries. I've contacted the mask asking them in general if they want to come on and
do a show describing these batteries and how they keep them going for 10 years for like meter readings
and and whatsoever. Because it turns out your normal batteries will disappear after two years.
So not very good. No, continuous use. So we'll see how that goes. But I really think it's a
cool project. He says regardless, he will, it might be something that'll do somewhere else,
I don't know the school that'll later date. So yeah, it's a great, great project. That's
happy fascinated to hear more about it. Yeah, it seems like one of your really into dragging
the most power out of something. How, how would you achieve it? I mean, the thing does,
the actual, if you had a regular power supply, what it's doing is not going to be
that fantastically difficult, you know, power on an Arduino and display a page of text saying what
the day is, what the countdown's going to be, and you know, a message for the day from somebody,
would be a cool thing. But how, how to get 12 years of, or possibly even longer, of power out
out of that thing. Very, very cool to set yourself the goal. We'll see. Do you want to read
Dave's one, Dave? Yes, this is from Dave Lee and the love bug. And he says, this is merely a
suggestion, but one that affects me directly, could we have a phonetic version of the host's
given name available within our host profile? My given name in HPR is the love bug pronounced
of bug, but he speaks for an answer as the love is the most spectacular mangling.
This is me speaking here, which isn't quite read at all as intended. I've noticed the other
host who's given name gets totally put through the mince about he speak, not naming names, but a certain
northwest England correspondent who's given name is almost a sentence. Anyway, is there enough demand
to request that a change is made, or is this simply a case of suck it up, Dave? So, yeah,
suck it up, Dave. Or, yeah, we should do that with eSpeak with no spaces in it, and then that would
be great. Yes, so we could do that. We could do phonetics, but then again, yeah, it's one
field in the database. I did experiment with this briefly, because I was giggling over it with
my kids in the room, and they said, what is it, Dave? What is it? And I told them what it was,
and then showed how if you put spaces in between the love bug, then it says it really well.
So, you know, and the NY bill doesn't come out as any bill anymore and stuff like that.
Murrish it. That is that, yeah, that's not just a case of spaces, I think, but the sensible answer is
that one could have a database filled with this in that was read by eSpeak, and then you could,
you could, you could, yeah, not in the current, never in the current database perhaps, but
no, no, we could do that, yeah, there's no problem, but it's doable. But you have to understand
that the reason you read the course names, Dave, is because I butcher them, anyway,
even if they're written properly. So, I don't mind facilitating this technically,
but even if we did do this, might the phonetic strings that I would come up with for eSpeak,
speak them would also be wrong. Yes, yes, it needs to be crowdsourced or
so by the owner of the name or what to the point, I guess. So, yeah, but technically it should
be pretty simple. I personally think we should do this. Yeah, and the other alternative is that we
is that we take the person's name as an audiophile, because we have that,
yeah, yeah, that's another way of doing it. That's also a nice idea. Although that is also,
I have a lot of them, which is, so it would be like, today's show is by,
hello, HPR, my name is Bob. Yeah, so a lot of editing will be involved there, so yeah,
maybe it might be better. Just get an eSpeak to do it right, would be fun, yeah, yeah. I mean,
I just discovered you could say the love bug with the northern accent, if you do, put the right
parameters to eSpeak. So, you know, there's a lot of flex to do that. We're not going to do that,
although now, every time you have dropped ducks on the love bug again,
but anyway, he could have a different phonetic spelling for the holes. That'll show him.
Okay, and then we had the HPR community news. How was the and the other business Dave?
Hang on, changing gear here. So really, it was just to say there were three new series,
but we've already really covered them, but they're in the notes for a future reference.
The other thing was my usual feel about tags and summaries. Windigo was very kind to send in
some updates in the past month, and I spent a bit of time fiddling around with the thing and
added some more. So we've managed to achieve a maximum of a record of adding 40 more missing tags
and all summaries to show in the past month. And the other thing was that the summary page
has been smuttened up a bit as well. The one where you can go and look for things that need work,
and there's a list of all the tags at the end. I mentioned that last month, but I added an index
to it. And in discussion with Windigo, he suggested using some CSS to turn it into columns,
which I followed up and did. So it just looks slightly prettier and it's easier to find things
if you're thinking of adding a tag. I can't see if it's been used already and in what context if you
want to. So cool, here we go. All right, that's it Dave. Thank you very much for joining and
apologies to anybody who's going to be waiting in an hour for this show, but I'm really just so tired,
I need to go to bed. And tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Join us now and share the software. You'll be free hackers. You'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the
binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
