Episode: 2611
Title: HPR2611: HPR Community News for July 2018
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2611/hpr2611.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:36:50

---

This is HBR Episode 2611 entitled HBR Community News for July 2018 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR Volunteers and is about 84 minutes long and can
remain a explicit flag. The summary is HBR Volunteers talk about shows released and comment
posted in July 2018. This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An honest host.com.
Hi everybody. My name is Ken Phalan and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio. This is Community News for July 2018. Joining me tonight is either Dave Morris here as
usual. Hi Dave. How are you? I'm good. I'm good. I guess we need to do the standard
we're having a heatwave here in Europe. All the windows are open and there's going to be a lot of
noise around. Yes, yes. You beat me to it. There's a flock of seagulls outside my house. So if
you hear strange noises, it's them fairly enough. My kids are outside. All righty. So this is the
Community News show which for anyone joining this month and there may be people joining this month
following the review that's just been done. Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast, Dave. Do
you want to give an explanation as to what a community podcast is? Well, it's a podcast where episodes
are produced on a regular basis every weekday and they are contributed by the community and when
you contribute something, you become a host and we hope you will then continue to do more.
And who exactly is the community, Dave? Well, the community is hackers. We're hacking is the old
sense, the original sense, meaning people who like to modify things to make them work better
and generally improve them rather than the derogatory term that's used in the media these days
and we try, we welcome hackers to come and contribute and to aim for those like themselves
to fellow hackers. But really, the range of things that you can talk about on HPR is huge.
Yes, limited by your own imagination. And if you are put off by the fact that you don't think
yourself to be a hacker, the qualifications are actually just look up my ironing board show and
ask yourself, can I do better than that? So, yes, yes, good. That's a good yardstick, I think.
I'm lowering the bar so you don't have to. So it was pleasant. Do you want to talk about that review
that was done, Dave? Yes, yes. Well, I hadn't got it on the agenda or anything for today,
because I'd only seen it a few hours ago. There's a review that is covering the top 25
podcast with Linux emphasis and the site I don't have in front of me. Do you recall what the site
is called? We can make sure it's in the show notes afterwards. I do. I happen in the, if you go
to the HPR website and you go to the above page, about PHP, and in the press, I've added it there.
It's the Linux, it's part of the Linux links site, Linux links.com. And it's a review of Hacker
Public Radio podcast from the hacker community. So we came out 20, what was that? 21st, I think.
And the verdict is, this is definitely the hardest podcast to give a reliable rating.
Sampling 50 shows is a bit like visiting GitHub and picking 15 random repositories.
There's no quality control. There are some gems, but there's content which is uninteresting or
frankly pure garbage. See my earning board show. That's much how Hacker Public Radio works.
Shows from tattoo, bash scripting from Dave Morris, and many others are worth a listen
for Linux enthusiasts. If you're not sure where to start, check out their in-depth series section.
Which is kind of cool. Yeah, yeah. That's not bad at all, I think. Top of the fair.
Top of the fair. Yeah, yeah. There's some truth in it. There is occasionally stuff which is
maybe not the best, but I'm not sure I call it garbage necessarily, but.
Thanks, Steve. But still, yes, yes. There's a variety of qualities.
I think the three hour snoring session would even be that one was top.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and intended to be so, I believe.
Yes, I think that was a certain jokingness to that one.
Indeed. Anyway, the hacker public radio, if you don't know what sure to pick,
then pick this one and we run down through a list of all the shows that have been
on the network in the last month or so. And some people, even regular people,
hold some of the network themselves, use that as a way to filter out, go back and make sure
that they didn't miss anything. We, of course, listen to all the episodes because they're all,
I've yet to come across a show that was, that was not of, is some interest to me on some level.
Yeah, I agree with that. Yes, indeed. There's always some element of it or
somebody you know or it's like to know a little bit about the circumstances of it or whatever,
even if the content is not the thing you would go for, you know, normal. Exactly.
Exactly. So, if you do decide to do a show, if you've been thinking about podcasting and Europe,
obviously, if you're coming via the review on the mix links, then yeah, you could yourself
become a podcaster by simply recording a show about your technical background. That's a fairly,
fairly common introductory show here on HBR. And then you can move on to what's in your toolkit,
also good one. And then based on the feedback from those, you will get a big long list,
big long list from me, Dave, about interesting shows that I would like to hear about.
Yeah, so that's a good way to start. So, let's, without further ado, let's go back to show,
2586. And that was the previous community news show for last month.
But before you do that, we often look to see if we've had any new hosts.
Well, we haven't had new hosts in a while, Dave. We have not had new hosts for some considerable time,
but this particular one we have. So, Philip has joined us, and we'll be hearing about his show
in a little while. So, well done. Thank you for coming on board. And I had to, I had
had to add Philip directly to the database because the CMS has broken. So, oh, yes, yes, we need
to work on that one, I think. Yeah, let's write that down for any other business as he
wants to annoy Dave that I didn't tell you about that for your business section.
Okay, so the community news show for last month, there were no comments. So, the following day,
we had a 2587, which was cleaning out your digital gutters, which was nightwise,
having a quick chat while cleaning out his gutters. As his home, I thought this was a quite
interesting take. And again, one of these soundscape episodes, I thought. Yes, I enjoyed that.
I knew that. I hope he wasn't going to do the thing where he pretends to fall off the ladder
with the sickening scream and the thought, no, he didn't show up. Thank goodness.
Well, the nights, the lives are out tonight, Dave. Now that you've been, nobody would do that,
nobody would do that. Now that you've been reviewed special mention in the review sections,
yeah, yeah, yeah, put back your head. No, but it was, there was an interesting show. Yeah,
it's just put sleeve it, actually. He's actually done a one or two of these. So, let's continue on.
Just give me one second. So, the next episode was from Tagutor Auto, I think. Better than how?
Tuterto, I think it's how you like to say. How nice to say. I went back and listened to his
introduction, Dave. And that is the closest I could get you speak to say it. Okay. Anyway,
yeah, miniature painting. This is a, this is a thing that I thought only existed in,
in detective series where they find a broken miniature crushed in the corner and then they're
able to piece together who exactly did the murder. Yeah, it's, it's not a thing you hear about
much these days. Imagine people who are still doing it, but not making a big thing of it. But,
no, it's, it's a fascinating thing. I've never had a particular desire to, I've never had
the coordination to do this. And these are really intricate paintings. Oh, yes.
Oh, and I've seen some of his pictures on Gnu Social where he posted stuff about it. And I
wish he'd put some into this, this episode because they're wonderful. They're beautiful. They're
really, really cleverly done. So, yeah, it was, the show really lit up for me. I learned a lot
from what he was saying. And Tlatou says, painting miniatures, I see amazing painted minis
at my local hobby shop. And it always makes me want to get into creative deuramas and battlefeels
for games. But I don't feel like I have the time, money or space for, tanks for letting me live
a curiously through your hobby in this episode. Very good. Good point. Yes. D-O-D-D dummy says,
wonder no more. I've seen lots of miniatures in the past and wonder what goes on in the mind of
those who paint them. Now, I know. Thanks for the insight. Great enough. Yeah. That's one of
the interest hackers and we didn't even know we'd be interested. No, no, no, no. Well, one of the things
that Tlatou said about this was he uses a substance called Gesso as a base as a primer. And that's the
thing you can get easily in art shops. And that resulted in a discussion with those who do a lot of
model painting in this house who have moved to using it as the base. This is handmade resin
things that get made here. And yes, I have asked them, would they please do an HPR on them? I
haven't managed to talk them into it yet. Thank you. So the next day we had saving money,
a response to Tlatou's personal finance series. And I love these response episodes. And Tlatou says,
basically, Tlatou has done a series on personal finance and John gives some information about a 403B
tech shelter bonds, US savings bonds and guitar makers. That was a very interesting episode actually
from John. You get the more color about his background. Yes, indeed. And yeah, it's actually quite
amazing because I'm having that whole, I consider John to be a friend, having never met him,
having no idea about his background or his policies or political views. You know, but I would
always consider, yeah, I've got some friends in the US. And you know, if I'm ever passing, I would
definitely drop in and visit him. Yet, I know absolutely nothing about the man's background or
or essentially any of the people on the network who I consider my friends. And yet, I know nothing
about them. Strange that, I guess. Yes, yes. It's one of the modern strangeness, isn't it, that you
you can know and communicate with people and not actually know them in the same sense that you
would have done back in the day, like meeting somebody in the pub on a regular basis or something.
Well, then on the other hand, you know, you could know more about somebody than their neighbors
or their school friends because they've never shared the fact that they're into model painting
or never shared the fact that they like antique fans or, you know, stuff like that. Yeah, so
anyway, Tatoo says, thanks for the furthering this discussion. You make some really great points.
Thanks for taking this discussion further. I've been interested in hearing about more people's
experiences with saving money too because I don't think there's just one right answer or arguably
the obligation or ability to save it all if somebody wants to argue. The morality is interesting
to me too, as it seems the only way to grow money requires either contributing to something
doesn't actually want to support or taking advantages of others. Basically, this is one huge topic
and it's one that's getting more interesting, the more I hear other people talk about it.
Yeah, yeah, good point. John Culp replies the suburban option.
Thanks for the comment, Tatoo. I'd like to hear more discussion about this too,
especially any argument about whether saving money is really necessary or not. I have at
least one colleague at work who rides his bike 4.5 miles each way and has for the last 20 some years
and he says that he doesn't save for retirement because his retirement plan is to get hit by a
suburban on the road. I think he's only half-kidder. I have said many times my retirement plan is to
take somebody out and then just go to prison for a while because you get, you know, free healthcare
and spreadsheet. Yes, exactly. And well, admittedly in the Netherlands where the prison system is,
you know, is catered to rehabilitation and training and such. Yes, yes, there's many varieties of
that prison life around the world indeed. And that would be a show on itself. I actually
like to hear somebody who has prison experiences that would be of interest to hackers, either
having served sometime or being involved in the prison system or works in the prison systems.
Yeah, indeed. Really interesting. Yes, Tony Hughes, Akka, 28-1-1-0-2, blowing a PC power supply.
Oh, yes, who has not done that? That faint smell of ozone. Never actually done that, but something
similar, yes. Yeah, yeah. Tatoo says, switches and mains, I've never really seen an on-off switch
in the electrical circuit until I came to New Zealand. Here every outlet has a dedicated power switch
so that you can plug into a device and then power it on. It's really useful. In the USA, I think the
only way to simulate this is to use power strips or something like a research protector. Other times
just a splitter, which often have switches on them. That's become a thing I've noticed in Ireland
as well. A lot of them have switches. Yeah, yeah. When I was a kid, the UK plug standard was
different, or at least it was in older houses. It was not uncommon to find sockets that had no
power switch on, but the standards for the electrical standards for these things
gone up really a long way since then. It's quite strict in the UK compared to many other
countries I think. Possibly New Zealand and Canada are similar because of derived standards,
but it makes damn good sense. Pulling or pushing a plug into a socket is so easy to
get short circuits or arcing, or it's a more arcing than anything else I think. That will
really do damage to stuff. Right. The following day, NY Bill,
they repairs my kit. The kits that keeps taking and taking. This guy had me very worried for
sending me the bill for a new microscope. Just to give people the background to this, right?
NY Bill suggested that you get we get electronic kits. So I got this electronic kit and during
the New Year show, which is a 24-hour show, actually 26-hour show, which we split up, which
honky splits up for us. Thank you very much. And releases later on. It's a live event,
so if you're around the New Year's, you can participate. So this is my first attempt at soldering,
and I met a dog's dinner of it. I don't know if it blew or broke that one of the legs of one of
this. I think you've cooked it more than anything else. Yeah. I've applied too much heat to it.
Thank you. Anyways, in my defense, it's tiny. Oh hell, yeah, yeah, absolutely. I've been very
wary of doing this because my eyesight is not so good these days. Yeah. So I sent this over to
NY Bill, which cost money, which cost like about 10 times more than the unit itself, and then he
sent, he fixed it and sent it back, which cost more than the unit itself, and he bought a microscope
as well. Oh yeah, I bought a soldering kit in the first place to do this and light and all sorts
of stuff. So it was about two or three hundred euros to get this. And I don't know how much he
said his microscope was going to be. I don't recall what he said. It wouldn't have been cheap,
though. It's had me very scared, very, very scared. Well, I first saw his comments about this.
Wow, Ken's really generous. Hang on. He's a bit of a wind up going on here.
Well, yeah, I was very worried. But no, very nice of him. He sent it back. He color bridges
was on my right here on my desk. That's wonderful. Cool stuff. Yeah. It was a fascinating show to
see his analysis. So here is analysis of what was going on and what he did to it and stuff,
and his pictures as well were great. Yeah. And also, what I really wanted from this was
was to find out not so much what was wrong with it, but how he would go about troubleshooting
an electronic issue. I know if it's a computer program, I know I put in some watch statements,
and I know the procedure for debugging something like that. Or if it's a natural issue,
I know the procedure for debugging it. But I found that after I had this done, I had no clue
where to start. And it was really nice to to hear him troubleshooting the issue. And that's
that was really cool. Also, it was also was very tough to have somebody to send off a thing
knowing that you failed publicly on the 24-hour show. And now somebody's going to potentially
embarrass you by by identifying your faults. But on the other hand, I've had to tell myself if
you don't open yourself up to failure, then how can you ever improve? Absolutely. Absolutely.
I had a conversation with then my bill several years ago. I'd got a circuit from the 2600 people.
It was the badge that was used for one of the the hope conferences. I bought one of their calendars
and they got one of them. But it was not populated. And I was saying to him,
do you think I could actually rebuild this into the state that it would have been if I'd gone to
the conference? And he said, don't even try. Because it was all it was all SMD stuff,
you know, really, really, really tiny. There's a lot of things on it too. Don't even try.
So I took his advice and didn't. I'm intrigued to see that both you and he are delving into that
that sort of thing. Yeah, but there's no choice really. I moral of the story of you're buying a kit
if you're new to soldering and you're buying a kit trying to avoid SMB complements. It's very
difficult to do now. Sometimes you can pay a little extra more, a little extra more. That's not
an English sentence or a little more. A little more extra perhaps. A little more. A little more.
Later. Later. And you can get the kits with them already on and just to do the through hold
components. But it was, I really enjoyed putting it together. I know it was great to get it back.
I know how I have the one that I bought complete, which is now on my project board.
And I've got this one and I've got a kit still in there with the SMB components off.
The next new year, I'll put the other one together with the through hold components.
Anyway, enough about this. Following on, the next day was a tech talk with Alesson.
Very interesting. Siegflop and Alesson. Uberly's Hacker Force. And all sorts of stuff about Ruby,
US design and all sorts of cool things. Yeah, it was most interesting to listen to it. I found
the these are two very bright people. It's great to hear them. And yeah, Alesson is a Ruby developer,
which is very impressive and is thinking about operating systems in Ruby. I think it's what she
was saying. I'd like to hear more about that in the future. I think if I walked into the room,
the average IQ would lower considerably. Well, same here. Same here. I feel the same way.
Anyway, it's really good to listen into that conversation. That was great.
Now, this one I'm going to butcher as is my... How about you do this one, Dave? Thank you very much.
So this is to Turtle again. That's how I think it said, but you might disagree.
And he's talking about a game called Debellis Antiquitatus. Sounds about right,
just that's exactly what I was talking about. So yes, I'm not quite sure what that means.
It sounds like it's sort of Latin, doesn't it? It means the beautiful... The Wars of Antiquity.
Bellis, you'd think, would be something like Beauty or something. The Wars of Antiquity.
Okay. Wikipedia can't be wrong. Right, right. So learn something every day. But yeah,
so it's more painting of soldiers and things and talking about the game.
And the unofficial guide to DBA, which I thought was Database Administration, but...
Yeah, yeah. There you go. Could have sworn there was a comment about this. Maybe it's on the
further later episode. I think they were all on the first, weren't they? And I don't recall
they're being one on this, but... Okay, yeah, okay. So the first show, Newcomer and Water Topper,
NMTUI, the network manager, terminal user interface by Philip. Welcome, Philip.
A something I didn't actually expect to... Didn't expect to... Didn't know about?
Grigial, lovely. Yeah, this is actually quite an interesting facility. I've actually found
a YouTube thing about it and it's one of these terminal-based things with... So it uses terminal
graphics and stuff to display the menus. And it looks really, really, very, very good and
easy thing to use. Encursus stuff is actually very good. I was thinking of a show on NCDU,
which was a tip from the Ubuntu UK podcast, who pipped us to the post for the number one best podcast,
Dave. Yeah, yeah, I know it's that. Yes, I also heard that they talk about that and went looking
for it and checked it out. Absolutely, excellent. Yes, yes. So actually, if you have any other
recommendations for NCursus stuff, it would be cool, because NCursus and Screen and
all laptop or whatever, and you've got yourself a very powerful GUI. You can do some quite
quite smart things with it. I have used it. No, I mean, I wrote something for it. There was
a menu system for our students that they could change their password on the on the mail server,
on the mail system. So I don't know why we decided to do it that way, but we put other things that
you logged into the main university mail server and you could change your mail password in the days
when we didn't have unified passwords. And it was pretty, pretty easy to do and worked,
worked remarkably well. Yeah, cool. Love it. Clatu said, nice first episode, great episode,
loved your use case and the walkthrough of using the tool. Also, I tried NMTUI out for myself,
and it's actually quite useful. Network configuration, configuration is such a bother, and
that's so nice to have an easy button with these tools, like these, and still don't depend on
Xorg, Willander, whatever. And point Philip was responding to Clatu's show in the first place,
who did a prompted that discussion, prompted him to do this show. Yeah, good stuff.
Doing exactly what you say on the tin, you hear something and you comment back.
Tony aka new laptop, Bargamin, Tony H1212, or aka I come on and Tom's Ken with all these cheap laptops
that I buy. He got some good deals. He does. He does have his advantages. Three laptops,
and each one, he didn't say how much they cost, but you say they were under 160 bands each.
Yeah, yeah. It's as much as he filled with laptops. Yeah, I don't. Yeah, I don't. He said it would fetch,
even today they fetch $166 in good order for the likes of eBay, so I don't know what he paid for them.
He'd say something like I didn't pay as much as that, or I paid less than that. So yeah, so he'd
definitely got some bargains there. Cool. Yeah. And the following day, we had battling with English.
Yes. Some people just can't let it go, Dave, can they? They just can't let it go. The then and the
then. I must say I never had a problem with the then and the then for once. It's surprising how
many people confuse them though. I don't know what it is. If it's the spell checkers that offer the
wrong one, you know how annoying spell checking can be, but you'd have thought there was
enough knowledge of grammar and those things that it wouldn't offer you then when you needed Dan.
It seems to be quite common. Yeah, it's difficult with the context. Remember, you were with me for that
in Fostam, the first talk two years or three years ago, on spell checking and the context of
spell checking. That was difficult. Okay, Tlachi says there's a lot of comments, so let's go through them.
Great series. This is such a great series. I can honestly say that having spoken fairly poor
English for my entire life, I hate that was. That was proper English, by the way.
Proper. Just to just to get that right. Very proper English. Yes, that's that's that's an important
statement. Yeah, thank you. Important different different differences, the word of all the
languages poised to serve as a global language. There could not be one more undeserving
than an augmentation of German. Please, Tlachi, what the hell are you doing to me? All right,
then an augmentation of Germanic forced through a filter of Latin. It's inconsistent, confusing,
over complex, and yes, as insufficient, see the free software struggle for a lack of
abject term for free as an example. I really wish a sensible constructed language would be
adopted in English as place. Anyway, no series, although your efforts are surely in vain because
English will never make sense. I like that. That's a great one. But English has never meant to
make sense. No, no. I heard in our time podcast about that. We'll do the mention up before.
I don't recall now. We were back when I was living in the UK actually, and they were saying that
the language just developed because of the trade around London, and it was just pigeon
a pigeon language that was used on shipping vessels, and then it just became into fashion that people
started using it more widely. At the time, within English itself, there were a lot more dialects,
there were a lot more dialects in Dutch, German, and French, so with all the traders coming together
around London, they used a lot and shared a lot of the words together. That sounds possible,
I haven't heard that one. Certainly as a kid, I moved from London to Norfolk. Norfolk was a very
remote county way on the east side of England, which is 100 miles away from London. It's nothing,
but it's a big distance in English terms. The difference in the language, totally through me,
people don't, they use different sentence structures, they use different words,
and there's dialect really, but the difference is a massive, because it was an isolated place
that stuck with a lot of ancient terms, and some of the Norman, French, still there, and so on and so forth.
Really through me, and it's an indication of how weird English is that it's, you can go all over
the place and find those sorts of differences in the local dialects, so yeah, I'm listening to
that IoT thing, by the way, so I'm doing it again, okay, did Morris says, you want me to do that one?
Is English really so bad? There's no doubt, in my mind anyway, that English is weird and difficult,
annoying at times, and illogical, perhaps because I was a bad student at school in my teens,
I've never properly understood the whole issue of grammar, parsing sentences,
parsing participles, and all of that stuff. However, I've always had a fascination with words,
their meanings, and their origins, and I think it's English that has led to that interest.
Other languages also have their problems, I learned French at school, as I did a few years as an
adult too, I never got to grips with the genders of nouns. Why is a table of the furniture variety
feminine, for example? How is it possible to remember of more? I still enjoy attempting to speak
French, nevertheless. You point to the deficiencies of English with regard to the meaning of free.
Absolutely, that's a shortcoming. However, many other languages have their own ideas,
synchres. I worked at a university with a campus in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia,
Bahasa, Malaysia, the local language is a very different grammar compared to English,
and there's a reference to Wikipedia page about the grammar. For some aspects of it,
I remember having conversations with Malay speakers suggesting in English way of expressing a thing,
to be told that that was pretty much impossible in their language. It's led me to believe that
English might be more subtle, but perhaps on the other hand, it's more suitable for
circumlocution, evasion, and indirectness. At school, my French teacher was also an advocate
of Esperanto. I wonder if that sort of language was what you had in mind in English. I don't know
enough about it. Oh, yes. It's been a bit hard to judge. Yes, I think it was. But I wonder if
structured language can really be as rich as a, quote, natural, evolved language,
even with all its clutter and detritus. Thanks for your comments. They really got me thinking.
And I think I've already done an episode on the pre-software free thing, so I can look that up.
Hipster says, thank you so much. I'm pleased you responded with the
etch. What was that? Ecumenical etymological. That's the bunny. That would be an ecumenical matter.
Etymonological, what Dave said, for some reason, knowing that kind of history really brings things
alive for me. I am enjoying the series. Yes, me too. I hope that at the later days,
there might be a connection to regular grammar and regular language. I've always been
fascinated by the connection between Norm Chomsky's linguistic work and the simultaneous
development of the lives as MIT. Both endeavors being obsessed with recursion. Oh, is that a show
waiting to happen? Hipster. Yeah, sounds like it. So, you want to do the next one? I'll do the next
to my own one. Yeah. BJB says, the ownership of apostrophe, I love hearing about the ownership
form of apostrophe, is really another example of contraction. Yeah, thanks for that, actually.
That was very interesting. Just on the general, very interesting. Sure. Yes, yes. I sort of vaguely
knew that there was something like that behind it, but I haven't ever really dug deep enough to
find it, and I was really pleased I had, because it sort of makes more sense. At least it's a good
way to remember it, even if it's not in a hundred percent true. I think it is true, just in case.
Yeah, so I get people, but the language, sorry, go on. No, no, it's gone. And look, we've got
people that the language evolves, because last week I spent some considerable time in a back-and-time
in a middle ages, and they were talking modern Dutch, and during this we got to read some
older Dutch, and language does evolve over time. So yeah, the whole time traveler thing should all
would all need to pretend that they're from a different, that there are tourists from a different
country. Ideally, if you're invading the world, what you do is you would take the form of a human,
and you would pretend to be from another country, and you would be looking at your interactive
communication device the whole time. So if you see anybody looking like that, you can know for sure
about their aliens. I'm sure that works, absolutely. So I said in regards to Hipster's comments,
I'm fascinated by etymology. I learned a lot of spelling and pronunciation by understanding
word origins as a youngster, and spend a favorite of time looking stuff up in addiction to find
etymological information. I will try and share some of the historical context as I go for certain.
I studied what was being called comparative psychology. I don't know. It's just a hell of a big
seagull if that was what it was. It sounded like somebody had been murdered in the back. It's hard
to tell when you got headphones on. Anyway, the police were all arrived on the scene.
But they say this is a quiet area. This is the sort of university ghetto, I feel like,
but sorry to strange noise. I studied what was being called comparative psychology at university,
and this involved looking at some of Tromsky's work. I wouldn't say I was very familiar with it
now 40 plus years later, but I'm prepared to have another look. I expect these shows will become
a series soon, and you will be very welcome to contribute to it. You are welcome to contribute
now. You see what he did there? See where professionals we are. Yes, yes. I had to play that
particular card, and then I commented on BGB's comment saying, rebe ownership of postraphy.
I hadn't quite looked at it like that, but you are right. I like looking for logicality in language.
Sometimes it's a vain search, as I'm sure Klaatu would say, but a fair bit seems to conform
to somebody's idea of logic. Nobody disagreed, so I've got to write. That's what I trouble
with most of my life as somebody's idea of logic. Yes, it's fitting your own brain to
that view of it. Yes, the following day, how to fix a remote control with buttons that don't work.
I'm actually glad that John did this. I did an episode about using an IR camera,
sorry, using a regular digital camera to see IR pulses from a remote control, and he also mentioned,
and I mentioned it in the first show, that just because your remote control doesn't emit
infrared for all of the buttons doesn't mean your remote control is broken, it could be emitting
on radio frequency, so what two buttons, the volume one and the on-off button will
more or less be guaranteed to be infrared as well. Cool, but this is good, actually.
You just took the whole thing apart, cleaned it and put it back together again, which is nice.
Yeah, given that these things have a rubber pad over a bunch of contacts,
then that seemed to seem like a pretty good idea, because a certain amount of
map will accumulate inside them one day. Yeah, hipster again, how to fix a remote.
Thanks for the podcast. I've run into the same problem once I cleaned my remote about three times
it was done. The gunk and the remote that gets into the circuit board is generally some kind of
silicon lubricant or solvent. Apparently, the buttons pads have to be cooped after they may
med to get all the silicon gunk out, and most manufacturers don't bother any longer.
They assume that you will only use the remote for a year or two before losing it,
or you'll just buy a new one. The actual physical art of pressing the button pushes
the gazillion gunk out of the pad, and thanks for the guitar pick trick, it's quite good as all.
Yeah, yeah, if you've got those in your house, that would be a great one.
Otherwise, you have to go and buy a whole manner of spudges and strange devices for
gardening cases. Yeah, I actually got a case from, do you look
extreme or somewhere like that? Banggood or somewhere? Really, really, very useful kit.
I've got some of the, I think, stuff for doing that. Yeah, similar to that.
Similar to that. Yeah, yeah, it's very good. The following day, we had calculating planetary
orbits in Haskell, and I got to tell you, I got Turo Turo Turo, who we are butching,
who I'm butchering his name. I was, this was a toffee. This was a toffee for me largely because
this, the only reason this, some of this medsense is because I have done some shadow calculation
work recently, and that medsense to me, but I liked it. I like the show a lot. Yeah, I'm so glad
he did this. I discovered that I don't fully understand what he's talking about. Either from
the Haskell point of view, or I didn't completely follow the, the ways he was doing this. So I'm
sure if I spent enough time in it, I could get a little bit clearer. But Haskell is such a strange
language, and it's, it's something that I feel out to at least have some, some, some idea of,
does he say in this one, suggest that you learn, no, he didn't mention it as a link in his,
in this particular one, but Haskell, there's a site called Learn Newer Haskell, which gives you
an introduction to, to Haskell. I'm sure he's mentioned this at some, in some context.
Yeah, I may have done in the past, but so I've started following that very, very slowly.
So it's a, it's a great example of this type of functional language, I believe.
It's, it seems readable to me, just looking at it. But he's also got great links in the show and
all it's guys. So if you're following along with the show and found it a bit much, click on some
of the links and it really helped me understand what he was saying in the show. Yeah, it's a brilliant show,
it's really, really well done and the links are so, so helpful. And again, I think he is orbiting
as a player and slightly higher than mine. So, you know, but that's what I'm doing here, Dave. I'm,
I, I can't be the one who's, you know, Ken's got his brilliant show there, you know what I mean?
I have to be the one to lower the bar. I'm taking this hit for you guys.
Speaking of which, the next day, fitting a 3.5 millimeter adapter to a Bluetooth receiver,
where I take a set of earphones and I make something that has the security team in the airport
looking at me nervously as I walk around. But it's actually quite good because you can,
it functions as a, a form receiver as well. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Now, it's a, it's a great idea.
I like it very much. I think I would have used a bit more heat shrink than you did to hold it
together. I would do my, and I'd probably wanted a 3D print of thing, but, well, actually, it's just me.
After recording the show, I thought to myself, this has got to be available somewhere on the internet.
I found one, I went to Amazon and found one for a 10 bucks total, you know,
printed case and all the rest. So I might do a review of that. Oh, that would be interesting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It is an excellent thing. I haven't quite reached the point where I need
such a thing. I'm not using my phone or any phone to listen to podcasts because I've got a stack
of these MP3 players, as you well know, because I've gone on about it very late. But, yeah,
the time will come. Yeah, but I'm, mine do get a lot of punishment because I'm on,
yeah, my three-hour commute and I'm jumping from here to there and putting on my rucksack and
taking it off and throwing them in the corner and they get washed and also, so there's a life cycle
with mine. I'm still, did you like my show notes where they're patent pending your books?
Do they have copyrights? Oh, yes, yes, excellent stuff. It's still working. It's still working.
And I bought the book Motherload by David Collins Rivera, a broken-down gunbook stuck in space.
And what that has got to do with the earbuds is it's also available as an excellent audio
podcast or actually it's more like an audio theater production. So by the book, listen to the
podcast audio book. Yep, seconded by me, yes. And comments from CM Hobbs. Great plan. Love the
episode. Can wish I'd have thought before I purchase this Teotronics TTBA0. I like my little
device, but I prefer the DIY. And then he goes on to say, my rockbox sensor device is still alive
with my dad's bit the dust. I'm hoping mine keeps going though. I am often using my Android phone
through this adapter these days. So actually, yeah, he's got a, he's got a nice little, looks like a
nice adapter. Yeah, I want to do a, I want to live with this for a while and then just do a quick
show sometime we're short of shows on my experiences using Bluetooth and this as a way versus, you know,
a sunset lip. Anyway, moving on, just boring people to that. And the following day was a special
episode on 2600 Blue Rocks and freaking celebrating our history as hackers. And we go back to the
all-school freak America show playing episode one. And episode 99 was the first mention of Hacker
a public radio. There you go. Yeah, good stuff. Now that it was a fascinating thing to hear,
I've not, I've not listened to many of these. I think I might have listened to some of the later
ones, but I had never listened to number one of that, that particular show. And it's a very different
world. Yeah, describing. It's a historically, if you're listening to podcasts, it is definitely
worth your while going back and downloading them. There are only 100 episodes. So it's not that
if you're an advert podcast listener, it's definitely well worth going back because there's the
different, some things have changed so much and some things remain exactly the same. And the whole
a lot of the hopes that they had, unfortunately, never attempted fruition, you know, today for
and also you hear things like Facebook being introduced and Twitter starting, I hope, and
you know, stuff like that is kind of cool. Yeah, yeah. Is that your phone interfering there, Ken,
did you hear that? No, I didn't, I didn't. Okay. I don't think it was mine, mine's the way
the other side of the room. Sorry about that. Okay. A preva. As we share here in Hacker Public
Radio, annual audio is better than no audio. And it happens is the audio tends to pick up the sort
of phone connecting with the base station noises, isn't it? So did you want me to do the comment?
Oh, sorry. No, far ahead. I was just going to distract you with the, did you know that the
monitor the mains home and they can tell when audio and where audio was recorded, did you know that?
Wow. That's scary. That's scary. Every country has its own in the power grid, it's 60 hertz,
but you know, your physical power stations all over the place, so it changes slightly, goes
faster and slower and up and down and stuff like that. And you can tell then at what time a
recording was made, because you will always be able to get some sort of mains home from the
background, regardless, even now, on this recording. So there you go. That's, that's a horrible
thought. This is me just in the process of saying no, thank you very much to a, to a smart meter
being installed. Thank you for pressing me to install the smart meter. Probably the time will come
when I can't do, but this is one of those that phones home every whenever it feels like it and
reports your electricity usage, but it can monitor you as well. I think monitor a lot of that, you know.
One of the interviews that we did was to, you know, more benign users would be to check them
on old folks that would be less intrusive. You know, the coffee, you have a spike in the morning
between 930 and, you know, 9 and 930 and it's the coffee maker going on and you have a spike in
water usage at 10 because, you know, the daily cycle is going through. So, yeah, I could see that.
It's, it's, yeah, it's good in some respects, but to, mostly not. Yeah. Anyway,
again, I'm distracting you. You want to get back to your dinner or whatever. I'm good, I'm good.
One of the, when I was interviewing a, a foster, one of the guys were from a, was from an
electrical company here in the Netherlands, and that's been imposed by the EU. And here in the
Netherlands, you, the smart meter is a common, you can't object to them, but you can force that they
don't be active, that they're not actively so. We'll see how it goes. Oh, okay, okay. Yeah,
it's going to build a faraday cage in mind. Yeah, I'm a cupboard where the meter was going to go.
That's what I'm going to do as well, Dave. It seemed a little excessive, you know, all the
wire netting and stuff in there. But, yeah, it's, yes. The, just on the subject of things being
monitored over power, did you see all the stuff about how some guy doing time testing across
optical fiber across the world was detected, strange changes in the signal, which were caused
by an earthquake. So it's turning into a new way of detecting earthquakes across the globe
by the effects they have on, on optical fiber under the sea. And it means you can monitor stuff
where there are no geological, or what you would call it, the things, the things that monitor the
size, the size monitors is the word, yes, yes, yes. You can't put them, you can't put them
at the bottom of the Marianas trench. Not with that a lot of difficulties, but you can run cables
through it, so therefore you can determine things about earthquakes all over the planet using this,
I don't think it's reached that stage yet, but certainly it's something they're working on.
Excellent, I love that. Cool stuff. Yes, that is cool stuff. That is stuff that is of interest to
hackers, Dave. It is, it is, yes, yes, if only I knew more about it. I could do a show,
and the definition of hackers, somebody listening to hacker public radio. Indeed. And my bill says,
ha, I won't be hearing this until tomorrow, driving to work, but it's fitting that it happened
to come out during the hackers on planet earth conference. Yes, yes, it is, very cool, very cool.
Yes, yes, it, he was, he and his wife, I think, go to, um, hope, and have learned how to do
luck picking and other cool stuff. So, yes, I'm jealous. Yeah, exactly.
Liverpool Maker Fest, an interview with Chris Dell, and this is Tony, who, uh, I would,
I'd love to go into this as well, and those edgy blocks look really cool. Yeah,
yeah, edgy blocks is a thing where you can, like, it's like a scratch to scratch, but in part of them,
isn't it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, this sounded great. I, I followed those links and I was having a good
look around. I think it said, is it on a pick chip based circuit? That's the one, yeah. Yeah, yeah,
which is, which is nice and cheap. Yeah, very right. And you can use it for IoT applications,
my notes say. So, very cool. Yeah. To find out more. Here's all the, all the boxes for me,
I must say, the hardware, the, uh, electronics, the Python. Yeah. Here's your quick tips with
upper edge of throwing away shows, throwing them away, Dave. What can we do? What can we do?
Oh dear. Anyway, Spyder Oak backups, DR trekking and hiking, uh, all three individually would have
been three individually good shows, but no, if I choose to waste them on one show. Um, but that
whole Spyder Oak backup thing, it's kind of, yeah, I've been considering the concept of, you know,
whether you pay for one of these services or whether you buy a large disk yourself and add it to a pool.
So that's sort of thing I'm very interested in. Somebody out there has experience with what I'm
trying to, you know, where I'm coming from. Either personal pools are more a shared bit torrent type
pool or not bit torrent, but more like a, a bit coiny type. Yep. Yep. I see the need. Don't have
anything like that. And just rely on local, local stuff, which is not entirely wise, but no, um,
because what I have been doing is, uh, what I've been considering is a Raspberry Pi. I think I've
spoken about this before. And I've never really had the, because it takes so much time, actually,
to do Raspberry Pi, uh, that you would buy, uh, with a default image, um, and then ship you a drive,
which, um, you would be able to access and then mount the encrypted partition over an SSH tunnel.
So even though your data is stored in a remote hostile location, nothing can be retrieved from
that data because you don't have access to any of the keys and vice versa, then you ship yours
to the remote location. That's kind of where I'm coming from. Yep. Yep. It, uh, it was a thing that,
we used to do between the university I worked for and another university, we used to hold each other's
backups. And, uh, I don't know that we went to enormous lengths to secure them that we did. We did
do that, but it was, it was more of a, um, sort of gentleman's agreement. Yeah. Okay,
some comments on this. Nick Burns, uh, from Hipster, enjoyed the podcast. I find it to be very
frustrating, asking technical questions. Oh, I'm sorry. Did I just jump? You, you just jumped to
just six or three, I think. So he gave a tip using a paper, paper towel to remove, uh,
travel coffee mug seal stuff. And around about, let me Google that for you. Yeah, that,
that was, um, an interesting, not so much the, the, the seal removal, though, uh, um, which I'm
sure is great if you have one of those. But, uh, the technical question business is, uh, is quite,
uh, quite a subject, um, about people asking other people for, for help and advice and that,
that type of thing. And how you should, how, how they should deal with it and how you should
do it. That's, that's a big subject and quite an interesting one. And worthy of a show, I think,
because I, I was thinking of replying to that. I have quite a bit to say about that. And I was
thinking, replying is, replying to the comments, replying here or doing the separate episode.
So we'll see what happens. Hipster says, Nick Burns, enjoyed the podcast. I find it to be very
frustrating, asking technical questions because a lot of guys want to humiliate people who ask
them questions like Nick Burns. And I find that these guys often don't actually answer the question
because they aren't listening. They're just listening until they hear a keyword and then they go
into a rant. Yeah. Yeah. Nick Burns is a character in some American show. No, unfortunately not.
Apparently, I didn't know who he was until I, uh, Wikipedia, and he has a university professor,
lecturer and former American diplomat is currently blah, blah, blah, blah. Oh, I assumed he was
like the bastard operator from hell or some such person. No, no, it's a real, a real person. Okay.
Obviously, acting apart. Nothing. B-O-F-H. Yes. Anyway, uh, D-O-D-D dummy says, related to
humiliation. There are lots of issues with how we ask and answer questions, but related
to humiliation specifically. What makes me really sad is when someone tells me they don't want
to answer the question because the person or people they will be asking humiliate. One of the
reasons I will not publish the asks goes name if they don't want me to. This seems like a weak
person, but I've had managers tell me that the look down on people, they look down on people
who don't know things. So I understand the hesitation to ask questions in an unfriendly environment.
There's a lot to learn and we might all be better off if we realize
person has skills, maybe not in the same area you do. Yes. Good point. Yeah, yeah. I'm definitely on
that bundle I can thank you. I have to admit that there was a tendency in my early days of working
in IT to be a bit arrogant in that respect, but I soon discovered that that that was a really,
really stupid and immature thing to do, and I never did it again. But in fact, I went the
opposite direction and tried to be that person who could be approached to ask whatever question
you wanted, because I quite enjoy teaching and it was a good teaching opportunity. I find this
very important to when I was interviewing people, I would always, regardless of the quality of
the canvas, I would always push the questions, keep pushing and pushing and pushing to the point
where they didn't know the answer, they couldn't. And in some cases, there were people so qualified
that they couldn't possibly know the answer. So I asked them something specific about
how you would interact in our company, you know, so they definitely couldn't answer the question.
And it was just to get to them to the point where they couldn't possibly know the answer
and how they would then approach the the embarrassment of not knowing the answer to the question.
And it's very simple. I don't know the answer. I couldn't possibly, I don't know the answer,
but I imagine it would be this and that's what I was looking for. And I tell you, some candidates,
some very qualified candidates got eliminated because they simply could not ask, they could not
just admit that they didn't know. And some entry-level candidates were going, well, you know, I don't
know, but this is what I guess and they got the guess completely wrong, but the logic at least was
these people are interested in knowing how to solve this issue. Yes, yes. And I have that
issue now where you just cannot possibly know everything. It's just silly to expect to know
everything. It's just mind-boggling. And I know people who are struggling with the fact that
they're finding it very difficult to say, I don't know, and I need help. And they're stuck with that.
It's very, very difficult thing to get out of. But yeah, just like with me with this and my
building, it's tough. It is harder thing to say, I don't know. To be honest, if a manager ever said
to me, you don't know something, yeah, big deal. No, I can find 50 things you don't know about.
Yes, yes, indeed, indeed. No, an environment that makes you feel small because you don't know
an answer. When you're probably there, you've been hard at certain, you have acquired the skills
which allow you to find out is an extremely toxic environment. Absolutely. You should be looking
to get out of it. That's it. That's it. That said, I did have a, when I had people
working from, or not working from, or just in the same team, I did, and there were new hires.
I had this concept that my time isn't cheap either. Yeah, so if I'm going to explain something to you,
I give them all a blue book. So everybody in the facility knew everybody was all
coming around with a blue book or learning stuff. So, okay, if you didn't know, if I'd explain
something to you, how does DNS work? Okay, I'll show you how DNS work. Where's your blue book?
Okay, I'll write down your blue book. Okay, and then I would ask some questions randomly at
lunchtime. Okay, what's, how does DNS work? I'm blah, blah, blah. And if they had the blue book,
they could refer to the blue book. If they didn't have the blue book with them, then they had to answer.
And you would get punished if it didn't know the question. That's very good. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's, we all, the team I was in, we all got a copy of a book called Dr. Linux. Have you ever seen that?
It's a great, great, great, wonderful, great book. I don't know whether it's still in print.
Big, big, big book with lots of, with many very, very thin paper pages that tries to cover
everything about Linux from from front to back and tries to at least give you the starting point
for a lot of, a lot of stuff. If you're looking to answer questions like that.
No, not, not because somebody asked you that and she's walking down the corridor,
but it is because you need to know it to solve some problem or understand the thing.
No, that was, that was more like a thing with the guys so that they will go back and get their
book and then you'll learn the stuff. And some of them wouldn't have the book and then they
wouldn't know the stuff. Yeah, great. I do have a rule though. One thing that doesn't know me
is somebody coming up asking the same question over and over and over again when I've explained
to them. So that if somebody comes up and asks me a question and I give an answer, that's fine.
If they come up the second time, when I ask the same question, then perhaps I haven't done a
good enough job explaining it to them whereby I will make an effort to go into detail and
ensuring that they know what I'm asking. And then the third time I really start losing interest
in the person because you're wasting, you're not only wasting my time, but you're,
yeah, you're just wasting everybody's time. That's not to say if somebody comes up for clarifications
on the same thing. Well, I've done this and on this system, it worked, but on this system,
it didn't work. That's absolutely fine. I consider that to be a new question or an extension of
what, how do I do this or I forgot how to do this is also fine or I'm locked out and I can't
get to my blue book. That's also fine. Well, somebody just been rather lazy, really doesn't
know me because you're wasting somebody else's time who's probably costing the company more
than you are, you know what I mean? Oh, yes. Oh, yes, yes. I used to work in the university's
different, of course, but we used to run a help desk, which was manned by us lot and we took
we were on a road and yeah, and so you certainly learned how to deal with all the
management of different queries and problems and sometimes they were same person I
and asking the same question. And you might lose these relations a little bit with that type of
thing. I, sorry, I don't complete a lot of tangent here. Sorry, everybody who's listening to this,
but I can't help but tell this story when I was on the on the help desk. We had the everybody
and everybody in the department was on the help desk, including the help desk manager.
And she was, she was cycling to the road and I used to love being on the week after her
because, you know, if somebody rang up, yeah, I'm some middle manager somewhere and I want to say,
I don't know how to change the printer and the toner cartridge. So I'm bringing you out of
office hours blah, blah, blah, blah. Wow, she would go ballistic. What are you doing? Where's my
people's time calling this? Hold on, I'm going to put on your manager. Stay there.
Greg calls their manager at home. I'm there more well for and have them justify why they're
why they're wasting everybody's time. Brilliant. You used to love them.
Yes, yeah, anyway. Yeah, that sounds, sounds like some good anecdotes they should be making
the show of it again. Yeah, too late now, I wish to just completely wasted Dave.
Okay, Brenda says people who waste my time by trying to find the answer for me, I totally agree.
And another thing is that is annoying is when you ask a question and the person doesn't know the
answer, but either tells you a bunch of generalities that anyone would know or tries to find out the
answer while they're standing there, then you go back to your desk, look yourself. What I would like
is a quick answer, but if it's I don't know or even I don't know off the top of my head,
they could throw in some keywords into a search if they think it might help.
Yeah, fair enough. So, quick answers, she's a good handle, says, I failed to do this and I'm sorry,
Brenda, that is annoying. What I've tried to remember is to do is to ask in the format of,
don't spend time on this, but do you know off the top of your head? But recently I asked someone
a question I'd already spent a lot of time researching and it appears that I couldn't do
what I wanted to do. But as I said, if I think something should be possible, I think this is
D-O-D-D dummy, actually, it didn't put his name in. If I think if things should be possible,
I won't let them know, remain. So, and remain so, and we'll ask again every few months,
even if it's a no now, things changed quickly. Anyway, I've got to add off the top of your head,
and I'm afraid one to two hours might have been spent searching for me to return the first bit of
text my research for being revealed. It's also bad about that slip of the tongue. It was D-O-D-D dummy,
actually. No, I get that. Well, sometimes I get asked a question that's actually really interesting,
and you go, Kroki, I don't know, the answer to that, it seems a lot of obvious. And then I usually
end up looking for hours and then asking you on telegram. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know. I used to
try and be the person that the last point of question was working. Yeah, the last line was so,
so I'd say if you really start coming asking, I'll see, I might have an answer. I used to get all the
regular expression questions. I still do my business. I still do nothing is changed.
Yeah, anyway. I enjoyed it. Okay, sorry, I felt that whole story didn't add anything to this
conversation, but okay, I thought it wasn't this. Anyway, asking questions, yeah. Yeah, maybe it's
a cultural thing. Some cultures do not want to feel small for not asking questions. Oh, the whole
losing face business is definitely a thing, but there's the confusion thing about that. I've
forgotten just for a moment, but I'm sure I've tried it out before. Something about he
asked the question may look a fool for a moment, but he who fails to ask that question is a fool
forever. That's something, something along those lines. And I think that's a very good, very good
point. Yeah, I've always encouraged the kids to go, you know, task questions ago, I don't know that,
but it's a really good question. I'm going to go find out for you or dance. Then, unfortunately,
that triggered a whole series of them coming up, but really, really, really difficult questions
that I spent weeks trying to figure out. And then you go, here's the answer. Yeah, I know,
we saw it on the BBC, you know, on CDs to the program. Thank you. We can read Wikipedia too.
Okay, well, no, that was great, Joe. Great, Joe, for, and you wouldn't have thought that would
have been something that would trigger a lot of interesting conversation. No, I think it's
a lot of people had experience of, so it's an excellent thing to be, to be talking about.
Should there's more mileage in that too? The next one, John called refurbishes a fan.
I had never seen one of these, never heard of one of these. It is the coolest thing I have ever
seen. Yeah, well, Ditto here, I've never heard one over. And isn't it great? What a wonderful
design. Yeah, you've got to see this flicker photographs, guys. Absolutely gorgeous. And he
restored it perfectly. Well, I mean, not perfectly, but sorry, John, you didn't replace all the
lead, but it looks gorgeous. It does. It looks really excellent. Yeah, cool thing. I was puzzling
over when I first saw it. Why is it a hasic fan? Because hasic means things like a cushion or a
small seat or something like that. Well, I don't know whether you actually supposed to sit on it,
but it looks like a thing you would sit on. It's probably unwise to do so, but I think it's because
it looks like a small stool that it's called a hasic fan. Yeah, different times they'll do.
Oh, I know, definitely. It's your knee disadvantage. It would be the cable dangling across the floor,
I guess. Yeah, yeah. So maybe in those days, because when I was a kid, it was common for people to
do their ironing in the in the living room or the front room or something, and they connect the
iron to the light socket. Yeah, exactly. It's just a deadly thing to do, but you know, you could
imagine one of these running off a light socket. Oh, yeah. And you meant our our fridge at home
ran for years off a audio cable or no, a telephone cable, telephone wire cable. Oh my god.
And as far as I know, it could still be like that. Any fingers crossed. Yeah,
excellent. Love this. Really enjoy this show. The eyes have a div. My history with vision issues
and how I have dealt with them. How is this man a lie? He doesn't like what a story. Yeah, yeah.
Hoka, he has, I don't know. He must have a filing cabinet all to himself and his doctor's
office almost a girl. Yeah, yeah, quite a tale. It's I wasn't expecting him to give us so much
information about his own health, but I think it's an excellent thing to do. I very much admire it.
Sorry, that that came across wrong. That's a bit like a plus one to when somebody pulls something
on, you know, I've been to a funeral plus one. Yeah, no, that's not what I meant. Thank you for
sharing us what I mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I think it requires a certain amount of courage,
too. And I'm mainly courage is strong, but but I think it does. So thank you very much for
having done that. And I posted before I on the day I posted the show. I see what you did there.
See vision eyes, get it? Yes, yes. Okay. Okay. Okay. So yes, Clinton Roy says,
Yausers. That's Australian expression. Yikes. I really don't have much to say. I used to run
away as a kid to get treats from the store next door. No trains nearby, though. And with the, yeah,
the story of little, no, guys, if you haven't heard his episode, it's all on listen to. It's working
out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's quite quite amazing. And speaking of somebody who has had their
own special medical journey and interview with Dan Lynch, absolutely thrilled to see him back
in the community again. Yeah, I know that I was delighted to see that this was coming up.
Just listen to it today, actually. And yeah, he sounds so so much healthier than he was. And yeah,
he sounds to be very energetic and et cetera. So he's had a hell of a time of it, but he seems
to be well, well on the mind. He's an organizer of this Liverpool Make Fest, which seems to be
quite a thing to be to be involved with. He's just one of these guys who is there, you know,
Tony as well, you know, Tony Dan and Ness Pounder, you know, just pillars of the community,
basically. Yeah, I've heard that word. They're pillars of the community, but these guys are a pillar
of the community. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Yeah, it's good to get to hear. Good to hear from them.
Very much. Okay, the last one for this month, processing. Yes, thank you, Tatoo. I spend literally
a half an hour trying to figure out what the hell was going wrong with the upload, only to find out
that he did it on purpose. That was a bit I liked the vest. Oh, there we go. What's wrong with this
thing? What is it? What is it still processing? I deleted the show. There's no reservation.
Hold on, let me check the log files. I can't find anything in the log files. Hold on,
the headers don't take. Hold on, their name is processing. Right. Very hilarious. I saw this coming
through is from the notes point of view. So it wasn't completely surprised though. I did do a double
take, but the fact that he said he'd done that in order to wind us up, I thought it was wonderful.
They'd be laugh a lot. Yeah, and I felt for it. But I would like to thank Tatoo for his excellent
show notes. He's really making a little massive effort to improve the quality of the show notes,
to the point where they're now approaching yours. Absolutely, yes, yes. One of the things about
the linuxlink.com site, doing reviews of podcasts, just they made a great emphasis on show notes.
There was one of the criteria for judging or reviewing or whatever, scoring perhaps.
And well, he won't be surprised to know I agree with that. Yeah, and also the podcast awards
use that as a criteria. Basically, everybody uses the show notes as a criteria, because the majority
of people don't listen to shows via the RSS feed. Apparently, that is not a thing anymore.
They read the show notes and then decide to listen to the show based on. Yeah,
accessibility point of view is why I like it so much, is that even if you have hearing
issues, you can still follow on with HQR because you've taken the time to at least boil down
the essence of what you're talking about on the show. So we're not excluding people. Yeah,
yeah, good show. I enjoyed this. I'd come across processing or processing as I would say,
years ago on a book show, you know, a book on it in the book shops, and I looked at it and thought,
yeah, yeah, I don't think I'll be using that for a while. Never have. But this put it in a different
light. It looks quite interesting. Yeah, it seems pretty cool. The portability to an application
in your form seems like a nice touch if you're into that. Yeah, yeah, definitely. Okay, Ski.
I think there's a comment. There's a comment. There is a comment. Yes, shall I do that one?
It's from Be Easy. It says, it seems like a great teaching tool. Thanks for this episode.
I've heard a processing, but never knew what it was or how it would be useful. I'll probably
turn to this after scratch for my kids. Yeah, yeah, Java doesn't really flood my board. I must say,
but there you go. That's just something of a subset of it. No, I think so. Yeah, it seems more
ordinary to yeah, yeah, like like it's essentially C or is it C++ that it's based on? So yeah,
it's it's a reasonable. It's a C-like type of language. So you know, it seems a reasonable
place to be working from. Okay, so that brings us to the end of shows, but the show isn't over.
See what I did there? The now we do comments that were submitted on shows older than this month's
shows. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay, so episode 2519, the Remora Bill is a character in the
edge of the empire. And the comment was from platoon. Great walkthrough. Thanks for the episode.
I've heard of edge of the empire, but I've never played. I really like your character build
process. And this was a nice overview of how the characters work in system. Thanks. I think
exclamation mark. Cool. So the next one was 2558 to the comment on my show battling with English.
And somebody who calls himself the snitch says that jig is up Dave. I wonder who that could be.
Points to a link to a comic comic talking about. What we say again, it was now I've forgotten.
I did read the thing. It was now the the the the transmogrification of nouns. Yeah. Anyway,
I replied to that. Ha ha. Isn't that like that line from that Star Trek Wars film?
Leverage the Force Luke. No, I'm wrong. That's a verbification, I think. I point to how the
verbification of leverage is really, really stupid. Sorry. That's just one of my
ready for me to show on this. Yes, and you probably will.
Anyways, comment on Tony uses show Ubuntu Mate. There was a comment by JWP. Tony
JWP had commented about he's not using Mate at the moment. Tony says great little update. Thanks JWP.
I'm glad at least one listener found it useful. Having been using it for a couple of months now,
I can say I'm very impressed and have found a workaround for the USB utilities I use in mint.
I have installed mint 19 beta into virtual box and it seems very good. And once the stable
releases out, I will still be on still be my go-to distro for installing for family and friends
who are not really next gurus. Ubuntu Mate will probably remain on my midbox until the next
LTS cycle as I tried to keep that stable as possible and change OS on it as then frequently as
I can get away with. Why is words indeed? Indeed. So the next one is show 2583 random rant by
the dude. And Randy knows aka the knows 100 comments on the juiced penguin. And says John,
how weird that I pick a random podcast out with a lineup to listen to and find this one on
feedley. I didn't even see the juiced penguin in the title this morning when I started listening.
Heck, it's not even something that I think about these days. The juiced penguin was an idea
that I had and knew that I couldn't pull it off alone. The late great Lord D assisted me with
the original effort. Took a lot of time to find the music and Cloud2 assisted with offering up
some content for it also. I found that it was really time consuming and Terry F took over for a
period of time until it fizzled out. The main idea that I had was to get more old content out there
to help expand the awareness of the org format due to restrictions of the MP3 format and that
many MP3 players didn't support it. Today most people are listening to content on computers
or Android devices. Most are able to listen to the org format if they wish.
My old memory serves me right, even Mark Chudderworth had stopped worrying about the MP3 format
being a real problem, even though it's still a closed file format. Granted, it's not open,
but the threat of being sued doesn't seem likely after nothing happening after all of this time.
For what it's worth, when I am online, I'm easily found over on gpluskrandinose.com.
Also, over on mastodon.rox as Renault. Thanks for reminding me, some good times years ago
all hail the juiced penguin. Yeah, cool. And like he says, MP3 is not a real problem. The fan
hire, fan hire for institute, US patent on MP3 have expired. So the MP3 format is no longer
problematic in connection with free software. The only reason not to use MP3 these days are because
it's decades behind in collic evolution. For example, Opus is strictly better in every aspect
and in envelope evolution, Matroska has a better metadata and streaming cool. That is that for that,
I think they agree. It is. That's true. That's us, yes.
Melonious discussion. Oh, yeah, the Open Networking Summit. We will be official press
of the Open Network. And I need to reserve some slots for those. Yeah, yeah, that looks
like fun. So yeah, I hadn't quite twigged that it was in September. I don't know why I thought it was
obviously didn't read read read read read this with my brain switched on. But yeah,
that's going to be something most interesting. I'm sure. And Siegplot commented that the
explicit tag was on an episode we fixed probably just something in the audio, but see you go.
That's an issue actually, isn't it? It never occurred to me until it was too late that we should
have gone and fixed it there as well, but so sorry to all concerned. But yeah, if we want us to
do the site. Well, actually, I might leave that this show is going on. I might leave it to next
months at cars. They're going to be talking about just sparkles next and not going to be thinking
about. And actually, people can be thinking about that in the meantime about because we have
this issue, the single point of failure for entry to HPR is the HPR website. We can easily
publish to multiple locations. That's not really. But how do we get in shows and how do we give
host the ability to edit their show notes and all that stuff? And I was thinking we could do it
with Git. And you know, we have a GitHub, not GitHub, but GitLab. That's the money. GitLab
on HPR. So therefore, people could create their own accounts there, which you've got emails and
their own share keys. And then, you know, that's the authentication out of the way. And also,
the old anonymization will be out of the way because we don't know if you're a cat or a real person
or a matter of us, along with you're the same entity that created it. You could then go in,
we could then assign, I guess, privileges to hosts to edit their own hosts,
while if they created a show, then theoretically could give them some sort of permissions.
So I'm not an off of an expert on Git to be able to define how all this will work, but
for the Git experts of their and clacking, perhaps. Could you all think about how you would do that
on GitLab or some sort of Git whereby people could manage their own episodes. I don't know what
sort of pull requests checks we would need to prevent spam and all the rest of it, but other than that,
that's kind of where I was thinking, because then if it's in Git, we can pull it down and then
publish it as static HTML files around the place. What do you reckon, Dave? Yeah. Yeah, that sounds
like there's some possibilities there. I was just listening to the Sparkle Share episode today,
actually, and which thank you to Cladufer. It seemed like a really clear explanation of it.
Didn't have a lot of time to concentrate on it, but yeah. So it seems worth digging into to see whether
there would be possibilities there, which we can leave till next week to discuss.
Well, the next one takes about that. This is that it would be distributed, and that's,
you know, somebody could do a Git poll every day, and then they have all the information they need,
and then pull down from archive.org, theoretically, then we're distributed.
And that's kind of the goal that we want, and that could be the source, basically, is, you know,
Git is the source. We could wrap something around that that would do the database-y stuff,
which could take in from Git, I don't know. I don't know how to do this. I'm just
leaving it open to people listening. That's kind of where we're going.
Given that terms, Sparkle Share is dependent on the Git hook stuff, and how much else could be.
I don't think Sparkle Share is really necessary, because, you know, we can put in Git hooks that
we don't want pauses on the thing, you know, we can SCP as our R sync as our plot creates a
torrent file, or whatever we choose to distribute it. So just the discussion about Sparkle Share
had me thinking about this, that I might be a way to do it, yeah.
That was what I meant, too, that there's lessons to be learned from how that works, and extrapolated
into some future HPR implementation. Yeah, if you have ports, send them in. That would be great.
Do it on the mailing list, or comments on this episode. There you go.
Have we done anything else? Any other business? You wanted to mention the CMS, and I was
going to mention the Tags project. You mentioned the Tags, because basically the CMS, that's what I
wanted to talk about. I just wanted to really do the CMS, and basically do it on GitHub or somewhere.
Yeah, okay. So just to say thank you to BJB for sending in a couple of tag updates to two shows
in the past month. I haven't had a chance to do any myself. I keep meaning to and not managing to
get to, but yeah, slowly, slowly, we're moving forward with that project. And I have a half written
PHP page for people to submiss their updates, but I haven't even told you about that.
Lucky, I didn't mention that there, or you'd be holding me to that.
Ah, making notes here. Yeah, they're afraid of that.
Lucky, okay. I think that's it. Right, with that, we will thank everybody for listening,
and if you met it this far, you're a real believer in the project. And tune in tomorrow for another
exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio. Oh, join us now, Wayne Chair. Let's all
be free. Hacker, you'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all
our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a
podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio
was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club, and it's part of the
binary revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host
directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise
status, today's show is released under a creative comments, attribution, share a light,
freedom of life.
