Episode: 2388
Title: HPR2388: Apt Spelunking 4: Planet of the Apts
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2388/hpr2388.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 02:08:05

---

This is HPR Episode 2,388 Entitled, apt pelunking for Planet of the Rapt.
It is hosted by Windigo and is about 9 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is another couple of interesting packages from the Vemian repo.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello everybody, it is Windigo again.
I'm here with the 4th installment in my apps pelunking series, not because it has been
requested, not because it has been heralded as a groundbreaking series, but because we
need more shows and I can crank one of these out.
So I'm gonna.
Also, I have decided to make the titles movie puns, which may keep me going for far longer
than the original concept did.
I mean, there's so many good options, winners like Shinler's Sources.list, apt to the
future, dawn of the Deb.
So as long as I can keep coming up with ridiculous titles like that, I think I can convince myself
to keep popping out series episodes.
But anyways, for anyone who's catching this for the first time, apps pelunking is going
through it.
Your package repositories doesn't have to be apt-based, it can be RPM or whatever arch
uses their Pac-Man repositories.
Even something cool like Geeks.
If you find a cool package in there, make a series and tell us about it.
The first package that I've found recently is called DUNST, d-u-n-s-t, phonetics, phonetics,
phonetics, delta, unicorn, november, sausages, tango.
It is a lightweight notification daemon and very customizable.
So if you've ever used Ubuntu or an operating system like that and you get a wireless
signal notification or you change the volume and you get that bar that shows what your volume
is set, it's like that, but only text and much, much smaller.
I don't mean physically size smaller.
I mean the application is very light, it doesn't take a lot of memory.
It displays passive notifications like Ubuntu's Notify OSD, so you don't click on the
notifications to do actions, but you can click on them to go away.
It has customizable keystrokes so that you can cycle through notifications you've received.
You can go back in time and see what's popped up in the past or you can configure how long
notifications pop up for so you don't miss them.
Although they've got something figured out where if you're not at your computer or
not doing anything, your notifications don't run away.
So that might not be terribly necessary, but I was working on an XMPP notification daemon
and I had the XMPP part, I just didn't have a notification daemon to send notices to.
So since I run a very lightweight wind of manager coming up next actually, I searched
around and didn't really like anything else that I found, but a dumps really did the
trick.
It's perfect for what I was looking for.
If you use i3 in particular, if it's in very well.
And speaking of fitting in very well, that segway works because the next package I'm talking
about is i3.
i3 is a window manager, so it controls all of the windows you have on your screen and figures
out how to display them.
It is a very, very lightweight window manager.
I don't have a terminal, and because I have a baby in my arm, but I think it's somewhere
along the lines of 500 kilobytes for the executable itself or the binary.
So extremely lightweight, very fast, and it's a tiling window manager, so all your windows
start up maximized, and they each get a slice of the screen.
If you start up a second window, well, let's start at one.
First of all, you just have your desktop.
No windows.
i3 does come with a status bar, usually oriented at the bottom.
That gives you some information, and it's also very customizable, but that's another
package.
So you're looking at your desktop and you start a window, and i3 sets it to take up the
entirety of the screen, so it's completely maximized if you want.
When you start up a second window, it will be half of whatever that first window was,
so it takes up half of the screen, and the second, the first window gets resized to half
of what it was.
You can orient them next to each other, vertically, you can do horizontally, you can split
windows up into subwindows, it's very, very configurable, and very easy to manipulate
to do what you want.
I really enjoy it.
It's very customizable, color-wise, I'm using a base 16 theme for right now, and if it's
right into whatever background I have, I can customize the colors for that, and it's
just, it really has started to fit my workflow very well.
I have dual monitors, and i3 supports that beautifully.
I have different desktops fixed to different monitors, so all the odd numbers are on my
right-hand side, and all the evens are on my left, or vice versa, whichever way you
want to do it.
So it seems like whenever I set up my computer, I always reach for i3.
I do like other desktops, Montes is very nice, OpenBox was my choice for a long time
in the CrunchBang days, but i3, there's just something really nice about it, so that's
usually what I reach for if I'm ever setting up a desktop.
So the third package on the docket for today is uqm, and that stands for per-quan masters,
and I don't actually know if I'm pronouncing that right, because there's no vocals in
this game, and it is a game.
This is a game derived from a game called Star Control 2.
It looks to be about the Super Nintendo era, and it's just a super entertaining fun game.
You are separated from the population of the earth, and the earth is enslaved, and you
happen upon the skeleton of an ancient alien ship of some sort, and you go cavorting
around the galaxy, trying to figure out how to get Earth 3, and it's just super fun.
It reminds me a lot of the Mass Effect series, in the way you travel, and the way you end
up mining planets for resources, but it's lots of fun.
Very dialogue heavy, everything's text, but you just run around from star system, star
system gathering resources, interacting with aliens.
It's deceptively entertaining.
I installed it on a whim.
I found it in the package repositories, like this series is supposed to be, and just
installed it to check out.
It gave it a whirl, thought, I guess this is entertaining, and then realized five or six
hours had gone by.
It is very addictive.
So if you have lots to do, if you have responsibilities that don't involve driving a spaceship, you should
probably avoid this game until you have some extra time.
So those are the three packages I've been encountering most lately.
If again, if you have your own package repository, or your own packages that you've discovered
that you think other people should know about, make one of these shows.
It doesn't even have to be apps belonging, make it whatever you want.
I might consider movie pun titles mandatory, but you know, I'm not in control of HDR, you
can do what you want.
So anyhow, this has been when to go.
If you need to contact me, comments or host page, they're usually pretty good.
Thank you very much.
We'll look forward to hearing your episode.
You've been listening to Hecopovic Radio at HecopovicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hecopovic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
