Episode: 2978
Title: HPR2978: GARAGE DOOR
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2978/hpr2978.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:10:30

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 2978 for Wednesday 1 January 2020.
Today's show is entitled Garage Door. It is hosted by operator
and is about 12 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is
I talk about various Garage Door and fixes.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Music
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is Hacker Public Radio.
Here again fixing my garage door.
If you're not interested in a raining soundscape of garage door fixings.
I've already fixed it. I'm just cleaning up and going to go over what I've done with it over the years.
So we moved in this house. It's a 30-year-old house or whatever in the 80s.
We moved in here in the garage door last at us about two or three years before it.
The gears on the garage door died.
A lot of times you don't need a new garage door opener.
You just need new gears or some other bits until the motor dies obviously.
So in my instance the gears, the teeth on the gears have gotten all chewed up.
They're like plastic gears. I think they're intentionally plastic because
you know, so that way, you know, it starts a metal will go in your face and stuff.
So they're intentionally, I think they're intentionally plastic.
So that you don't have a big mess on your hands when you have to do something.
Let's see. I'll go over.
So I ordered the right part.
This is an old brass man's patchwork power.
And newer ones have a plastic guided thing. This one's all metal,
which is actually, I prefer all metal over plastic obviously.
So I put the new thing in and you actually have to calibrate it.
So once you take the gear off or take the chain off or do anything with the distance between
when it decides it's closed and when it decides it's opening at the recalibrate it
and there's a little screws on the side and little bit switches.
And that was a whole painted bite.
But if you do it right, you set the extreme one in both directions.
And then you trim it down till it angles just right.
I don't think I need to adjust any of that with what I've done here today.
So what I've done here today is my wife said she heard a loud noise in the garage
and I figured out just something fell over or whatever.
So I get home and press the garage door button a couple of times.
And it's kind of like a really cracked open on my pants.
So I press the button and press again and it doesn't do anything.
After the second time I press it, I know exactly what the sound was,
because my mother said she heard an explosion in her garage
and her spring had busted or finally get away or press away or whatever.
So what ended up happening was the springs over time,
they either bust or come disconnected or whatever.
And that's what happened with her and that's what happened with me here.
So it lasted about, I just want to say five, six years before I had to do anything with it.
And I adjust the tension on it when I re-did the years
because you have to redo everything anyways.
As I said, I want to check the tension, double check it.
And there's guides out there on how to do the tension, right?
But you want to check your garage door or what do they say?
Quarterly, they want you to grease it quarterly, which is insane.
Nobody will, you know, maintenance is their garage door quarterly.
But they want you to grease it quarterly.
I used, I purchased two things.
Garage door lubricant from Blaster.
On the plastic parts, I use, because these casters are plastic or vinyl or whatever they call them.
I use a silicon spray, the Blaster silicon spray, because it's safer on plastics, I don't know.
Some say not to put any lubricant on the railing, some people do.
I say do.
Yeah, it's going to break down the wheels.
But the wheels are going to break down.
And the lubricant's going to keep it from squeaking and making noises in the god-awful sounds in the night.
So other than the right side and the right side top casters that kind of seems to vibrate,
nothing else seems like it's unhappy.
The other lubricant I use was to replace the grease that goes on the metal track.
You want to clean off all the old dirty grease that's on there.
And this is the track for the main hoist in the middle.
So I cleaned off all that grease and I thought about getting a grease gun with all the grease.
And it's like 30, 40 bucks for a nice grease gun.
I don't need that particularly kind of overkill.
I haven't really needed grease in a while.
So I got the white lithium grease, which give or take is not the best thing for a garage door.
A garage door application, but it does say garage door openers and springs.
So you could lube up your springs with it.
They tell you to lube up the springs.
There was only one spring on here when it busted and I figured, oh, that's why the garage door cracked out.
The gears cracked out because there was only one spring and some more on it and put the other spring on the other side.
So, you know, stupid me, I think that they've done it wrong.
And, you know, rightly so, all of the most of the videos I've seen were give or take two sided springs.
So I'll look at the videos online and I do the measurements.
It's a crazy measuring system.
I'm the gold, like it's .250.
There's a measuring system hiding measure, which spring to get.
And that's the important part because what I'll explain is that I got two springs.
And the first spring, I said 230 turns.
So I did 25 because I knew I had two springs.
So I figured if I got two springs, it's going to have to work less, right?
And it will work less and less longer and the springs will last longer and all that stuff.
So I do 30 on one side or 25 on one side and I check it and it's basically good to go.
Almost.
I was like, oh, that's not good.
So I dialed it down 5, which I brought it down to 20.
I put the other one on 20.
And I released the tension on the other one and the garage door started going up by itself.
And then proceeded to make a big mess and came off for the little,
the little,
the little rope thing, whatever, the pulley.
Came up the pulley on one side and then, and I was like, ah, I can plus grade it.
So I tried to get the garage door to go back down using the garage door opener.
And the garage door opener is not strong enough to push the garage back down, basically.
It's better at pulling.
It's not so good at pushing, I guess.
I don't know.
But the garage door just got, it's got squarely because it got off of the,
it got off of the pulley on one side and the garage door was actually slammed at one point in time.
And there's, uh, broken.
It's a bit, um,
it bent and shifted in a piece of the wood is this now disconnected from the garage right now.
So this piece is bent.
It looks like possibly.
I've been to, looks like a bit in the middle somehow.
Yeah, it bent in the middle.
So eventually, I think I've fucked up the door to the point it's going to be probably replaced.
Um, that's going to break eventually, probably, unfortunately.
I might put some spray, spray foam on there to give it some reinforcement to give it a few more years to whatever.
But there's a good inch between the, where it's supposed to be attached to the door knob in a system.
That's not good. Anyways, um, so they got shifted, got pissed off, got it all back together and I realized,
well, the reason it wasn't working because I was getting resistance when I was pushing,
when I was pulling the garage door up, I was getting resistance almost up to the top.
I was having to push the garage door the rest of the way up, which doesn't make any sense.
Um, and obviously when you do that, that means there's no more tension on the pulleys.
They're going the wrong direction at that point or whatever.
There's no tension on the pulleys anymore, so they're just sitting there.
Um, I think is what happened.
And then I realized, uh, the whole design of the springs is that they're supposed to spend a certain number of rotations with tension on them.
And basically, if you only spin it twice, and then you spin it, you know, you spin it ten times, ten, ten clicks, which is, you know, however many rotations divided by four.
Um, it comes with these little poles if you get the kid.
But the idea there is that I'm giving it, there's not enough tension for it to go all the way up.
So about three-fourths the way up, I'm actually pushing the springs the other direction because there's not enough wind in the spring for it to come all the way up.
So I was thinking I was going to have, you know, two springs, a bit of the one, who cares, whatever.
But the design of the spring obviously is important because if it's, um, it's got like two inch in there, two inch in there, two inch in the spring or whatever.
Um, but the idea there is, uh, I realized that I can't have two springs unless I get a different kind of spring that's designed for two springs.
Um, so I just disconnected the other springs and I have an extra spring, I guess.
Um, and it was about 20 or 32 for me, um, for this, for this garage door tension here.
Um, and I think that's pretty much it, Role.
Uh, it's kind of a pain in the butt, the trick to it is, I think, is to do like five or maybe three clicks, um, on the, on the rod on this spring.
So that you can manually tension the, um, manually tension the pulleys because there's no tension on the pulleys.
It's hard to keep them both a lot on the rail on the pulley, the wire on the pulley.
So if you do like two, five or three, just enough to pull it back, then you'll, um, have enough tension for it to hold itself high.
And then you can proceed to add however many you want to that.
Um, other than that, I, I grease everything up, they tell you they grease up all the, the joints and stuff.
Um, so so far, so good.
Obviously, keep your, where safety goggles and a, even a face shield, I have a face shield and I wore a face shield and a safety goggles and keep your face away from the poles.
So if something does happen, you know, the poles go spin in or something goes spinning around, throws the hot metal.
It's not going to be towards your face. It's going to be away from your face.
Um, so anyways, what the hell do I guys out?
Uh, Dave, oh, we've also got a little laser, one of the car parking lasers.
You can buy, um, it's kind of like the whole tennis ball thing, but it's used as lasers instead. So obviously that's better.
Um, I have that plug in, um, in here.
So it's too far motion-censored laser and you just adjust it to where you're, where you park at.
So, you know, exactly where you're supposed to park in and come in.
Um, garages, you know, take your time. Be careful.
Um, the kit I bought was, I want to say, $86 for two springs.
It could have been like 40 bucks with the, with the, with the kit.
Um, I had to actually take an angle grinder to the old spring, because it busted up and made it in, uh,
I couldn't get the, the bolts out because the spring was sitting on top of the bolt.
So I was sitting there trying to like pull the spring off off of the,
away out of the way of the bolt and realized that that's a super dangerous and B.
I could just cut the spring off because I don't need any of the parts that were on here.
Other than that, uh, safety first.
We're proper eye protection and, uh, um, hope that helps somebody.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
