Episode: 2083
Title: HPR2083: My 18th HPR Beer Podcast
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2083/hpr2083.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:03:49

---

This is HPR episode 2.83 entitled My 18th HPR Beer Podcast and is part of the series
Beverages.
It is hosted by Just Me and is about 5 minutes long.
The summer is just me here again.
This time with My 18th Beer tasting podcast.
This time we are tasting a flying dog.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
Better web hosting that is Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Well, that is that time again is another My Beer tasting podcast just me here.
Today we are going to try again flying dog.
It is a single hop warrior imperial IPA, Indian Pale, India Pale Ale, 10% ALC by volume.
It is brought by Flying Dog Brewery, Frederick Maryland.
I am going to read to you what is on the label here.
It says bitterness, flavor and aroma in that order.
Brewing involves a precise schedule of hop additions with certain varieties used with one purpose in mind.
This year we are taking this exploratory series in a new direction by working with hops that are typically reserved solely for initial bittering.
Not necessarily for aroma and flavor because maybe timing isn't everything.
Well, I love the label on this. It is a cute label.
Well, we are going to open this bottle up and hopefully it won't act like Mount Vizuvius and spew all over and we are going to take a sip.
So hold right on.
Let's see if you can hear this topping it open.
Oh, add a little bit of fizz there.
There goes the cap.
No Vizuvius this time.
So here is the first sip.
Let's see what it gives us here.
Well, before we get to the first sip, let's take a little nose appeal.
Hmm, it has got a good flavor.
This nose appeal here.
Kind of sweet.
Delicate aroma.
Kind of fruity.
Let's take our first sip here and see what it has for us.
Wow, really good.
A little bit bitter.
I'm drinking this at room temperature.
Got a good bite to it.
A bitterness which is on the top of them, roof of them off and towards the middle of the tongue.
Very, very nice, very fruity flowery flavor.
Kind of darkish, not a light beer at all.
As I said here, licking my tongue against my mouth, the top of my mouth,
the back of my throat is getting a little tinge and a little spice in there.
Hmm, not a bad flavor.
It doesn't taste like 10%, it's not that strong, though the bite or the heat might be attributed to that.
I would suggest this to anybody who likes a nice IPA, by all means, dig right in.
It's a good one.
And thank you.
I just took a second sip.
Sip actually a swig, a good mouthful.
Still quite a good bitterness.
Not so much bite the second time.
And yes, the back of the throat is getting a bit of the bitterness.
It's really a good beer.
Great.
And a denim here.
This is my 18th beer podcast.
Yes, I know they're a little bit out of sequence.
I will catch up.
And editor should say post the other ones as soon as I get them run through audacity and filtered up and such.
So until then, I hope you enjoy this one.
Thanks.
Well, until next time.
This is just me here, signing out and wishing you happy trails and happy beers.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
