Episode: 2840
Title: HPR2840: 2018-2019 New Years Eve show part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2840/hpr2840.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 17:53:44

---

This is HBR Episode 2840 entitled HBRNY Show 2018 MASH 2019 Part 3.
It is hosted by Honki Magu and is about 122 minutes long and Karima Clean Flag.
The summer is, the HBR community comes together to say happy new year and chat.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
It 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
HBR will be all that's fine new year's Eve, still New Year's morning.
So I'm from the future, I'm a time trouble, I'm actually in the future.
No one's doing pretty good, we have had a couple of interesting conversations on various topics.
But no one's talked about trombones in case you were thinking about talking about that today.
That sounds like a writing prompt, or a euphemism.
It wasn't meant to be, I just kind of pulled it out of the air.
Yeah well that's what you tend to do with the other end of the trombone, that's how you play it.
I don't know if we've talked about gaming yet.
But funnily enough, that was the whole reason why I'm actually on macOS, no macOS, iOS.
I decided rather than what I usually did with the HBR New Year thing, was just sit at the computer and chat.
I wasn't able to do anything in the background.
But this time I figured, you know what, I'm going to do the obligatory gaming drum driving thing with forza horizon while I'm chatting.
So I'm not doing push-to-talk unless it gets annoying unless people request I'm maybe wanting to push-to-talk.
So at least that would be something to do rather than sit and chat.
But in terms of gaming, what is that jerky?
In terms of gaming, what do you think?
I've been kind of wondering about how badly Battlefield V and Fallout 76 have kind of backed fired.
And it almost feels like they've pushed it too far, basically.
Bethesda and EA have pushed it too far, where they're trying to cut costs, but they've just cut it too much that the product they've put out at the end is noticeably poorer for the people that would have bought it.
And they're no buying it. They've just pushed the limits too far, basically.
And then result as both of them have went on sale immediately. Both of them have been deemed pretty much flops.
I haven't played any of the Fallout games, so I'm not sure.
Most recently for me it's been Watch Dogs and, well, I continue playing Borderlands 2 while I wait impatiently for Borderlands 3.
So PC or console or PC?
I don't know, I've maybe just got an outdated idea of gaming on a PC, but I'm just...
I think of a PC as something that the game is just keep pushing the envelope and you don't know what kind of quality you're getting out of the game.
Because every piece of hardware is different, and every combination of hardware is different, and it's just...
Remember, years ago it used to be...
It used to be watching other people, aren't they messing around with drivers and rebooting this and move this file from here and there.
I think that's probably a thing in the past to be fair, but...
Yeah, there's still some of that going on, especially if you're doing gaming on Linux.
Yeah.
Which I am.
There is Borderland.
Oh, good.
No, I was only saying that Xbox One appears for a game on, but more of look to it, the more I've been getting kind of interested in simulator games.
One's very essentially, I mean, it sounds sad, but simulating a job.
And there seems to be an awful lot more variety on Steam, of that type of thing.
Cool.
As bizarre as it sounds, the idea of sitting, doing a farming simulator, where he spends 30 seconds driving a straight lines,
and boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
Well, I actually did that.
Yeah, I mean, there is quite a few games like that where the simulator, it's the ticket to the, the nth kind of degree of doing that job.
And farming was just one, one example.
I've seen like the police simulator, there's a thief simulator, there's a, what's the, what's, there's an airport simulator.
There's a American truck driver or Euro Truck simulator kind of thing driving, particularly trucks, various places.
As bizarre as it is, I can sort of see the appeal in them just as I can pass them the time.
Just sort of chill in the environment.
Did they actually like, it was real environments?
As in real locations around the globe.
Yeah.
What real pictures or simulated realness of what things actually look at.
Hard look like.
As far as I'm aware, yes.
I think there are limited places in the map.
These are things that I've been looking at.
I've not actually tried any of them yet.
I've just been starting to explore them.
And as I said, I don't play on a PC and a lot of these are unfortunately steam only at this point,
which I'm not aware I can run either on an Xbox or a PlayStation.
But as far as I understand, yes.
The videos I've seen are specific routes between German cities or whatever, or between American cities.
I don't know, it might be more like the crew where it's made to look very close to it,
but it's not, I wanted one recreation of the map.
It's going to contract it a bit, but it might be that I'm not sure.
I don't know any of the areas enough to actually, to be able to tell that.
Okay.
Would you prefer console gaming?
Well, I like the idea of just pick up and play, which that could be the case now with PC gaming.
It's just for me, I've always associated that years ago with being very,
hitting this, very, um, updates, breaking things and, um, you know, that kind of thing.
So it also, again, it could just be a perception where with PC stuff,
because, as I say, because everyone's spec is different and everyone's pushing the envelope
and buying new bits and boards for it, you have to kind of look at the spec on the game.
Every game you're buying, you've got to sit and look at all the spec to make sure and try to get an idea
of how it's going to run on your hardware, and there's always that risk that,
do you have the one graphics card that there's a lone bug with,
and there's an update that breaks another game, and I like the kind of,
the consistency of a console where it's the same team piece of hardware that everyone uses.
Well, here now you can at least hook up a keyboard and mouse to an Xbox.
Oh, yeah.
But yeah, that's, that, that I just find it so much easier to, um,
play it.
Everything, every, every one's using the same spec and machine, the same hardware,
and it's all tested.
What, what you see on a, on a video and someone else playing it,
what you see, your mate's house from their playing it,
that's exactly where you're getting, you're going to get, um,
and it's all, you can guarantee it's optimized properly for the,
um, for the controller because that's the controller that comes with that console, you know?
Yeah.
I tend to like the struggle that you get with setting up games,
figuring out what broke when there's an update, and things like that.
But I take it, see, if you're, uh, gaming on, um, on Linux then,
is that the steam app on Linux?
I do a lot from Steam, and, um, with the advent of Proton,
it's really kind of broadened my gaming experience on Linux.
Made things a little bit simpler.
There's still a lot of games that don't work, but there's a lot more that do now.
Yeah, so, so what, what is Proton then?
I've, I've been, um, that's not something I've, I've been a bit off.
Oh, Proton, um, technically it's still in beta with, uh, Steam,
but it, it is basically a port of, um, play on Linux.
Oh, right, yeah.
I remember that, yeah.
And it's built into Steam, and you turn on the beta version,
and it will allow you to install, uh, well, there's two levels of that beta.
There's one that allows you to install any of their approved games that they guarantee
will work with Proton that are Windows games exclusive.
And then there's, um, the other level of the beta that will allow you to install
and test any Windows game.
And now, um, I haven't necessarily had the best of luck with it.
I was able to get one of the, um, Batman Arkham games working.
And, uh, let's see, both of the, um, Vampire the Masquerade games,
um, a couple of others.
The Dungeon Siege games installed and ran pretty well.
Um, Witcher has its own, um, Linux port,
but the Linux version is extremely terrible.
So it, it seems to run pretty good under, um,
well, I was previously running it on play on Linux.
I don't think I've installed it under Proton.
So are these the Windows versions of the games that you're getting
and then running it through, right?
So it's, it's kind of a like, um, well, why on Linux?
Or, yeah, a variant of wine.
Yeah.
Well, I presume is what I was going to say is this isn't,
as if I'm understanding how it's Linux.
Yeah, Proton came out and beta over the summer.
You know what I would love to see across the gaming industry.
Yeah, this is probably never going to happen.
Um, but the idea when, when games are, um,
not a platform, but vast majority are, uh,
I would love to see it where you buy a license for that game
and that lets you download it on whatever platform you want to play it on.
Rather than, rather than having it to, to buy it,
a second time on, um,
Steam and only being able to install a play on Steam.
Yeah.
I see that there are some of the older games,
particularly where if you buy them on Steam,
they will, um, pop up with the activation code.
And I'm pretty sure that you could take that and use it anywhere.
Yeah, I think I could be wrong, but I think the, um,
I think the Xbox stuff is the same.
Is that not the same thing if you play them,
play the same games with the same code on, um,
on Windows?
Uh, I know that Xbox, um,
if you audit on Xbox and it is covered by the,
or if it's available, then you can also play it directly on Windows.
All right.
But that might, that might be just a,
uh, an additional, you pay a bit more for it in the Xbox rather than,
uh, so that you can get that to play anywhere type of thing.
I don't know.
Yeah, but I could go over the list of, uh,
games that I haven't been able to get to work on.
Proton.
Is that, is that tends to be just the,
is there any kind of pattern to that?
Is it just games that are like to you that haven't been,
haven't been updated yet or?
Um, basically, I think this is kind of being community driven.
And if I really wanted to,
I could go out and look up the different settings,
but I'm just talking about stuff that's not working out of the box.
Um, I, and I did try some of the fixes for like,
uh, Elder Scrolls, um, Skyrim,
but the fixes that were out out there listed on the internet
that other people had done and had worked for them,
um, because of the audio issues and some of the crashing
and just the game stalling out,
they didn't work for me.
I wasn't able to get that working properly.
It will run.
It will play none of the audio works right.
Uh, same thing with, uh, Fallout form.
Um, Grand Theft Auto Vice City plays absolutely fine.
That's an older game.
Um, Quake III Arena plays good.
Resident Evil, I've, Resident Evil 4 played decently.
There was some issues with brightness,
but that might have been something from the game itself.
Uh, have not been able to get watch dogs or watch dogs too to play,
that's because of you play and not the games themselves.
Um, Elder Scrolls III, I wasn't able to get to play,
uh, if I remember right,
Arkham Origin worked,
but Arkham Asylum didn't, Arkham City didn't,
and Arkham Knight didn't.
Yeah.
I mean, even obviously that's the,
none of these, uh,
that you're talking about, I guess,
I mean, to run under an exists,
I can work around to get them running on the list.
Um, but yeah,
this is the type of thing that, um,
that I can, uh,
remembered from way back from, um,
oh, Grand Theft Auto Vice,
that was people trying to figure out how to play on Windows 98
and hexp and stuff.
Um, you know, it's just,
uh, yeah, some of our older games.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean,
I can look at that and say,
if I've got half an hour to play a game,
um, I would rather just load it up
and spend that half hour playing the game,
uh, rather than,
rather than spend 25 minutes trying to figure out
how to get the game to work.
Well, you know,
that's just the first time after that,
after everything all set up.
It should just work,
unless there's an update that breaks it,
but I like working on this type of stuff,
so,
and I wouldn't,
because I haven't bought anything from there,
but I'm also looking at, uh,
GOG's collection of Linux games.
I think I might eventually try one of those.
Have you seen GOG before?
I know of it.
Um,
the game is,
as far as I'm aware,
um,
GOG is really a PC gaming.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, which,
I don't, I don't play games with PC,
so, um,
the one that I wasn't even,
I didn't even think about it until,
until a few months ago,
was the humble bundle.
Is it, again,
I figured they would be,
uh, they would be PC only as well.
Um,
and then I saw something about,
um,
a deal on PlayStation games through there,
and I was,
oh, they know they did them,
so,
but yeah,
GOG,
are they owned by,
by CD Project Red?
What's the connection between them
and CD Project Red?
I have no clue.
Like I said,
I haven't used it before.
I just went to their site
because I remember hearing about them,
and I'm looking through
to see if there's anything
that I'd like to buy and test out.
There was something about some,
um,
controversy on,
that appeared on,
I think Twitter maybe a couple of months ago,
and it was something that,
it came from,
GOG,
and then people were talking about,
um,
or boycott,
CD Project Red,
and I'm like,
what,
what's,
I don't,
I don't get the connection,
like,
but one of them owns the other,
or,
I don't know.
Um,
um,
um,
CD Project,
that's the people behind the watcher,
and the people that make the watcher.
Uh,
and,
um,
ah,
cyber,
is it?
The,
I guess it's going to be coming out probably,
later this year,
or next year,
or something.
Oh,
oh, um,
yeah.
They had a preview
at e3,
and it looked really cool.
There's cyberpunk?
Cyberpunk,
yeah.
Yeah.
2017,
that,
that did look good.
I,
I would like to play that one,
but I don't know
if it's going to be possible.
Cyberpunk 2077,
okay.
Oh,
all these,
and,
I play,
I play older games. I've done quite a budget. I play a lot of older games. I've stopped gaming
for so long and then I picked it back up. I've got back into it. So there's lots and lots of games
that are old to lots of people but they're new to me and I'm sort of working my way through them.
I'm in no rush. So how are you playing? Well, I've been working my way through
Uncharted 1 and 2. I'm almost halfway through Uncharted 3. I got a war. So when I came back into
gaming, I had always been on PlayStation. I'd always been down to PlayStation room. I'd sort of
stopped gaming for a good decade. When I got back in it, I thought, you know, I've never had
an Xbox. So apparently the Xbox One decent console go to that. So I did and it was quite
happy and kind of started researching games that what's changed and all that's decade was what
franchises have came up. What games did I use to think were good that have fallen by the way
side, that kind of thing? And I saw a video on God of War and it was just all that. It just blew
my mind. God of War is awesome. So immediately I didn't realize it was an exclusive at the time.
So I'm watching this on YouTube, on the Xbox One. I'm pausing that. I'm going into the
Microsoft store. I'm letting you see how much that is. Couldn't find it. It's OK, back to the
drawing board. And then I found it was a PS4 exclusive. So it was the one game that the one game
that basically took me over the edge that said I've got to get a PS4. It's God of War.
And then just in the January sales there, it's down to 23 quid. So yeah, I've found
something that I've not actually installed it yet. But yeah, when it came round to the January
sales and the PSN store, it's got to be a mistake at that price. I tend to not like games that are
based around micro transactions or their entire gameplay is just online. So I play a lot of
older games because of that. Yeah, I mean, I'm working the way through a lot of single-player stuff.
I don't tend to do multiplayer. Right. So I'm doing like the single-player, obviously, about
uncharted as a single-player, I think, fourth one, which I don't have. I believe that's got a
multiplayer side to it. But yeah, I think that's the older games, the remastered stuff that I never
played the first time round. So yeah, God of War. And just a bit, two weeks ago, a week ago,
something like that. I've not tried yet. I've not installed it yet, but yeah, it's definitely
on the list. That's the only one that comes even close to getting by in that game. Well, I think
that's what, in the same year that it was released, a major AAA title that I've bought in the same
calendar here that it was released. Now granted, that was back in April, but still accounts.
Yeah. Most of the games that I get are, look at the older ones, the collections, the ultimate
additions, the ones completed with all the DLC and went to their own sales and things like that.
Well, yeah, looking through, I'm not sure which is newer if it's Witcher 2 or Watch Dogs, but those
are about the newest games that I'm playing. I guess the Arkham games are extremely new as well.
So yeah, they've got the Witcher, the Wild collection or something like that, the Witcher 3
that has the Wild Hunt and stuff with it. I get, again, I started that, but it was one of these,
yeah, it's on the list, it's definitely on the list. When it comes to the, what the game and
media, all the big releases and news over titles and stuff coming out, I've sort of
watched that and I keep an eye on the mental note, once that arrives and it's at a good price,
then I'll get that. And I have all the E3 stuff, the one that just dropped my, dropped my draw
was Sords of Tsushima. Sords of Tsushima. Blades of Tsushima. It's a Samurai one. Hold on, Blades of Tsushima.
TSU. It's basically, it's a whole open world sort of 14th century, a bit of it. Samurai and
you're fighting the Mongolian Vedals and it's very, very, I'm quite, I'm a fan of history.
A big ghost of Tsushima, that's what it is, that's what it is. Yeah, ghost of Tsushima.
BS4 exclusive. Yeah, I'm quite a fan of history, so I like obviously games, they always take
liberties to tell the story and some more so than others, but ghost of Tsushima. I wish it
a more accountable name. That's one of these things that initially when I was watching the demo,
I thought, yeah, okay, it looks good, but is it going to be the same sort of westernized impression,
kind of four samurai combat and whatever, all the Sords banging against each other and then
when it came to the actual resort or the fighting section of the demo, where it was like two gunslingers
facing off and then just getting ready and with the counter attack and I was, oh yes,
yes, these guys care, these people really care, that's authentic as hell. So I will be back in a
couple of minutes. Yeah.
Is sound ever an issue on steam? I would imagine that the bill has kind of got that shortly, but
then again, I mean, what other platforms, I keep thinking of steam as Windows gaming or PC gaming.
Is that fair? I mean, to people, what is steam just like a portal, a store, a single client,
you keep track of all your scores, all your buddies and all that kind of thing,
or is it still pretty normal to play games outside of the steam store, just individual games
on the PC? I think it's just through the steam client. I put it on Slack, we're last week.
I know EA have got their own origins, I think it is. I'm guessing that must be the same
can idea with the client and doesn't look very good though, but they've got their own, their own
conversion of that. Steam boxes, still a thing, but if they kind of been and gone and never really
took off or... Yeah, I'm going to have to do some family stuff for a while, I'll probably try to
jump on later. Oh, a fun. It was good talking to you though. Yeah, you too. I don't think they
have steam boxes in the store anymore. I remember a couple of years ago, maybe I was talking about
the fabled year of the Linux desktop, which is every year, but one of them was, oh, there's the
steam client and the steam boxes and whatever that's, blenders like seven or eight different models
by different people or different companies with different specs and things. And then you've got
the obvious one for people who are kind of tech savvy, is, well, why would you buy something
that's pre-built? Oh, I don't need to just look by building it yourself and install the steam
obeyed bones, Linux, like I've been to or something like that. And the Linux steam client,
seems to work otherwise. I was trying to get it on a demo video and I couldn't even get the
demo video playing, I just couldn't hear any sound. I just didn't know for something I did wrong.
There are some oddballs like that. Even, I mean, step aside from the gaming, I'd set up
the open-a-leak installed open-a-leak as a codeybox and found that it didn't seem to pick up the sound
than a lot of codex that I could not figure out how it affects it. So, and then I just gave up and
then back to what it's been to with the codeyap rather than open-a-leak, which is
that's what it's designed to do. So, it's strange. Is that possibly a licensing thing or?
You think the licensing would be taken care when you want the game?
Yeah, I mean, the hardware for actually playing it on a fewer. If you're not going to sound,
is that possibly a codex not being installed because of licensing? The sound is there, but
you need the codex for it. Maybe just how I have slack or configured. I'm still a little bit new
to Pulsario, so maybe I just didn't do something right on there.
Box Audio. Box Audio's, I remember when it was, when it was incurably FA and frustrating,
but that seems to have improved a lot. I'm starting to think it might work better and maybe
just add a bunch of stick just so I can boot in only that to try out steam, because I just
alluded to me this part of it.
Anyone out there got the raise on? I'm here. Hi, honky. I eat them.
Not too bad. It's been very quiet for the last half hour.
So I've noticed I just got out of work and I'm on my commute home and figured I'd pop on and
listen, maybe chime in a little bit. It's been pretty quiet. How are you not driving?
I am, but Pumbles, nice stuff that all I got to do is push a little button and I can still keep my eyes
on the road. Right, so you're using the mobile app for mumble. Yeah, Pumbles. It's pretty good.
Brilliant. So what brings you here into HBR land?
Well, actually, I helped organize this event. Oh, brilliant. That's great. So you want to
get wishes, Kroop. Yeah, Kevin Wischer actually needed a lot of
for setting up this year. And yeah, it's me Kevin and Ken are basically the ones who set this
up. I was going to have the fun afterwards of doing the audio editing and getting all the
show notes together. Excuse me. Ah, I don't ever hear that task of I've been doing it.
Some of the audio aids it's in for Mintcast for a couple of weeks. And I know how difficult
that is just with an hour and a half to hour show. So trying to put 24 hours together, he's
going to be a nightmare. Yeah, but it's you're going to take and then figure out how many hours
you want each section to be. So whatever you get for a amount of time. So like in the past,
it's been like 21 hours after you truncate silence. And then you want to figure out how many hours
you want each segment to be and then you just got to figure out where in the conversation you can
break it during that time. I mean, it's a task, but it's you know, unlike in the past, we're not
worried about trying to do it really quickly. So I have all the time that I need to be able to
just sit down and do it. But that's that's the easy part. The hard part is I have to go back and
listen to all 21 hours and then make sure that the show notes match up with what what what was
talked about during that segment. So the audio editing isn't that big of a deal. It's the it's the
getting the show notes lining up with the audio. That's that's the pain. Yeah. So I take it
recording in mumble. Do you recall you're obviously recording separate tracks? Are you?
No, we're not recording separate tracks. I I don't have a lot of great experience.
Excuse me, recording in separate tracks and putting it all together. So I also do a podcast called
Linux Lundcast. It's like me 5150 actually Joe who who's on the MNcast with you. He comes on
and we have another guy net miner who will probably be a pop it in sooner or later.
But when I do it that way we do it all in just one audio recording and basically I just run it
through a strip and it's a lot easier. It's there's a lot to look trying to try to do the recording
with multiple tracks is if you're all starting at the same time and all ending at the same time
it works out pretty well but if like people pop in in the middle it messes everything up.
Yeah I can understand that. Joe's been around today but he's had to pop off and go and do some
family stuff. Yeah and I think you guys have been doing a great job with the the MNcast. I really
really like the new crew. Thanks very much. Yeah I'm enjoying it you know it's my first experience
doing a multi-person podcast. I've obviously done a few HPR episodes but I haven't done
kind of a crew cast before. I might not always work better with more people. If I have something
I can talk to and bounce things off of. I feel like you're going to get more out of me and you're
going to get something better out of me than if you just sit me down in front of a microphone and
have me blather on for a while. Yeah I enjoy the interaction. I've just remembered I actually
have had a little bit of experience before I joined the Mintcast crew because I did the full
circle podcast for a few episodes but apart from that which we did until about three or four years
ago I haven't had that much experience and I wasn't doing any of the audio at the time.
Now I know the Linux Labcast doesn't have the same audio quality as you guys drive for but
I'm telling you we have I haven't set up right now where I got some help from some other people
and put up together a bash script that uses socks to process the audio. I use socks I use a script that
oh I forget his name came up with that helps with the audio tagging files. All right so
HPR when you listen to the community news the two basic people are Ken Fallon and why am I
blinking on the other guy Dave Morris thank you sorry Dave sorry Dave's been a big help with a lot
of stuff as blanking on his name. Yeah it's nice guy Dave I actually joined in the community show
a couple of a few weeks ago just before we were doing a Mintcast recording so yeah it was good
to meet up with them on on the community. So what made you want to join them in cast?
Well I've been a user of Mint since the early well for me when Ubuntu went over to the
Union Unity desktop I've been playing around with Mint up to them but kind of Unity forced me
over to Mint full time and I've been listening to the podcast since the early days and they put
out a call a few years ago for hosts and that's when Joe Ressington joined the crew but at the time
I was working so I couldn't join but I've since retired and when they put the call out earlier
on this year I thought yeah I'll see I'll pop me head up up on the parapet and see what happens and
Rob got in touch and said come and join us and Ress history as they say.
Now you guys ever talked about Timeless put the crew up into like
because how many how many guys are there? They're six?
Yeah we've only got six there was eight people made in express interest one of the guys
isn't able to record on the night we record because of work commitments and the other person
did a couple of shows and then it's dropped out so yeah the six of us although
yeah Moss couldn't join us last night because he wasn't well.
Now have you guys thought about doing like splitting it up with like three one one week and three
the next week or something like that? Now that I don't appreciate the the six people all together
I was just spitballing. We talked about it but so far it seems to be working okay there will be
episodes when for whatever reason like last night when Moss couldn't join us or I'm going to be
away during the year at times when I want to join so I think there'll be episodes where you won't
get the full crew but so far it seems to be working okay and Leo is doing a great job as you know
the main host and keeping his all in check. Yeah like I said I've really enjoyed him.
Yeah the big thing has been coordinating the audio and getting the audacity files together
at the end of it. We had last couple of episodes we've had a bit of problem with a little bit of
clipping but we seem to have resolved that now. Last night's recording seemed to go all right.
So you take all six audio files and then you can finally plug them into our density and line them up.
Yeah that's what we've been doing so before the actual we start the full recording we do
a counting. We do some silence so that we can strip out any background noise from your local
mic and then just before we run the intro we do another counting and that gives us two points
that we can seek the audio too. Hi Netminder. Hello friends. Hi. Hey Netmider. I forgot about the time.
We pushed it so. Yes I've been fighting with the audio interface here so push the talk does work.
Yeah can hear you loudly. The voice sounds slightly familiar. You look cast participant.
Yes I'm the representative Indian. We don't have minorities on this show. Well that is to say
I'm the official non-host of Linux loggest. Ah right so you you wanted the ones that just
gate crashes it occasionally. No I just I just play sidekick let the other guys host.
Right. We've just been talking I'm one of the new Mintcast crew. I don't know whether you
listen to that show. I don't do any as many podcasts as I should and I've heard of Mintcast but
unfortunately I have not listened to it. You want to listen in a couple of weeks time we've got
a 300th episode and we're going to do something slightly different. Well thank you for the heads
up. I've used Mint our nice system. I'm a refugee from Windows 7 after Microsoft started messing
around pushing Windows 10. Oh I jumped shit when they brought out Vista. That killed me.
Well I have been studying Linux back in the day I had briefly before I worked it a
3.66x machine with Linux on it. Yes it was a snail but it was a racing snail it was a 40 megahertz
3.66x. Yeah but everything was a snail back in them days. Well the sx being 16 bit bus was
slower than the regular 386 so I had a turbocharged mini basically. Right. We have a 386 in the house
but I never used to use it because it was on DOS. So the only time when we have that in the house
like the only computing I used to do used a bit work and then a few years later I managed to get
old of a Windows 98 machine. Well I've got a couple of DOS boxes still in the house.
Proper old time pro. Well actually they're they're a bit bigger they're P1s and they're running
the new free DOS which is pretty pretty maxed out. How would imagine DOS'd fly on a P1
when it does. It does pretty good. I haven't been hacking them lately but but you can get a
new net up you can get FTP and stuff. I'm planning on them as just basically operating in the house
net not it not on the world. Yeah keep it free of any nasty intrusions. Yep also surprisingly
for those who may maybe try in the retro game. I've got USB 2 working pretty well for
math storage so I can hang flash drives off of it and stuff. DOS format it.
Did they actually make drivers for DOS then for usb? Well if you dig around you can find drivers
for DOS and USB pretty pretty well. I found that the driver was a little finicky about which card it
would talk to but and partitioning a drive with G parted get you the most bang for your buck
as far as gigabyte storage but you know it was quite acceptable. Also I use
I have CF cards for for a boot device. Now I don't even know what that is I'm showing
me ignorance there. Compact flash. Ah right sorry yeah compact flash cards I remember them well
and you don't see many of them around now. Well the thing is that the compact flash
turned out and in protocol is the same as the IDE so it's pretty much DOS native except
the translation link. Alright I didn't realize that so what's your current main setup?
current main setup is sub Ubuntu 1804. Yeah I'm currently running
Mate 1804 on a HP tower I've got but I've got Linux Mint on laptops etc just upgraded to 19.1
on most of them. Well I'm definitely an XFCE man most most things although I have tried other
desktops and I've tried a variety from Linux Lite on up. Yeah XSCE is quite a nice piece of kit
I used to use it back in the day when I was rescuing old Pentium 1s and Pentium 2s because it was
the desktop environment that actually work on low low spec hardware but these days where resources
aren't really an issue I tend to enjoy the Mate respin of the old name 2 environment. Yeah I'm
familiar with Mate and Cinnamon's retro element. Yeah it's horses for courses isn't it you know we
all find something that we we're comfortable with personally for me on a debt as a daily driver
XFCE is just a little bit too bad down for me so that's why I've stuck with Mate over the years.
Well I can understand that but again some of my machines are well the best my best machines are
Windows 7 era machines so I've tried to stay a little light on on the interface. Believe it or
not I've just put Mint 19.1 on to an old Leno X61 s little laptop about 11.5 years old
or I've upgraded it to an SSD and it's got the full 4GHz RAM but Mint 19.1 Mate runs sweet on it.
I'll have to see I've got a single core at long 64 that I might be looking for a system for.
Yeah depending on what the other specs are of the machine you might find that Mint runs
quite well on it. I think it's certainly two two gigs and has a 6450 HD graphics.
It's quite slow but then again I put it together largely as a server so
the graphics side is not not a big deal. Yeah that's a great thing about old laptops you can
usually find some use for them particularly as little servers around the house or whatever.
This is an old e-machine tower actually but I used it to teach me hacking on more modern hardware
not digging into my main machines. So what have people been doing? It's been a mixed bag.
I didn't come on until about I'm in the UK by the way obviously so local time for me it was
just coming up to one o'clock when I joined and I came on for an hour or so and then disappeared.
Just come back on about seven o'clock but when I was on earlier on we were talking about all sorts
of stuff talking about HPR shows and various things. It's quite interesting. The
breadth and depth of different conversations. Yeah I've been doing some looking around to getting
into software-defined radio thinking of using some of my older machines as front ends and having
the display stuff run on my more modern stuff at the other end. That's a nice thing about
Linux I could put a pie upstairs with the SDR and then remote it anything that needs
heavy lifting to better machines. Yeah I was thinking of Raspberry Pi and do that really great.
You can actually get kits for the Raspberry Pi for those kind of things. Well I've got some old 32
better for proof of concept and then then I go to a pie. Sounds good. What turn software-defined
radio would you use then? I've been looking at either well I may go I've been looking at this
RSP 1A it's about a hundred dollars US or a hundred pounds I believe. It's a pretty good
purpose built system but then again for for twenty dollars you can get the original RGL SDR
TV receiver dongle so depends on how big a bite I want to take the first time. Sounds good.
Yeah well some of the hundred dollar unit is I think twelve bit sounds so it's much better quality
and much better hardware but the cheap one would allow me to work the bugs out and then upgrade.
So you into ham radio as well or is this just for listening stuff? I used to be more into
shortwave and general coverage uses also with Linux and and appropriate software you can go a lot
of places from aircraft listening to weather both forecasts and imagery. Right. I'm a listener
but generally speaking I don't do any transmission but but I would like to be able to explore
the the variety of information out there. Yeah remember as a kid I mean a shortwave radio and
used to troll the air waves to see what was out there but it never really once left school and
started working stuff it never really grabbed me to to go and do anything else. High 51.
So a lot of jumping around the various lime and cheese and rooms at the moment. Tell me
here but this is my first use in mumble so let me know if I'm doing it wrong. You're coming
through live and clear. Have you got pushed it or enabled? That seems to be the preference round
yes I do. It's mad and clear is it too loud or just about right?
Seems fine to me. It wasn't definitely me if that's what you were worried about.
Good enough. So I'll be around all day but I'll be working so I don't know how much I'll be
contributing but where are you D.O.D.? I'm in Louisville, Tucky.
Go. I'm in blackpool in the UK. And this might be interesting to some folks in the crowd but
I work on whiskey roll. Now what's that? It's a famous place for whiskey and Louisville, Tucky.
Like old forester makers mark basically it's a it's kind of like a bar roll for whiskey.
Apparently it's pretty famous. I don't drink whiskey much and I don't drink much but apparently this
is kind of on the on the tourist attractions for bourbon. I think bourbon is the I think that's
I might even get down because I don't really drink much but I think bourbon is the main attraction.
So there's a bit of a connoisseur's kind of tourist place? It's not really touristy but
bourbons here so and the Kentucky Derby so but it doesn't doesn't really count to me as
a tourist place but I guess that would be the tourist attraction. All right cool. So
have I seen your name on HPR episodes? Yeah I've done a couple of of the lower
lower quality episodes. I thought the handle was recognizable. That's probably because
it's funny. Listen to Ken say my my handle but I've been following HPR since before it was HPR
actually since before I think before it was TWAT radio. I remember hearing some discussion
about it when it was being thought about so at least from the pretty much the very beginning.
So in HPR land you were a real old time event. Yeah from the listening I don't
contribute much. I probably my first show was maybe four years ago. Yeah my first show was only
two two three years ago so you know I've been listening for quite some time but didn't
contribute for quite some time. Ken lower the bar made it too easy so I had to.
It's got a habit of nagging you if he knows you, he nags and nags until you give in.
Welcome Archer. It seems the folks lipping into the lounge you're doing so by accident.
It's the default place that everyone goes to first because the channels use first so many
other different things because we record min cast in this server as well. So these different
channels once you get in but everyone goes into the lounge first. Yeah I'm familiar with
the logcast uses a similar system. Of course the lounge is just stacked in a different place.
Yeah I suppose the setup is slightly different depending on the server you've got setup.
Archer can you hear his now? He's got mute on.
Yeah mine now I'm going to just desert you for a few minutes because I need to go and take a
bathroom stop and refresh me coffee but I'll be back in about five or ten.
Well that's that's fine with me I'm just glad somebody's here. Okay I'll be back shortly.
Anyone else join that minder? There's nobody new home right now.
I'm longer. I haven't really seen anything but I've been listening for a while. I'm having lunch
and just sitting around now. Okay and what's this coffee stuff? I thought tea was the thing
of England. Yeah I drink tea or coffee. I had actually just had a cup of tea so it just depends
what I feel like at the time. In case you didn't get it I'm just teasing. Now I guess that we
I think tea's got a bad press because of that little party that I'd embossed in a few hundred
years ago. We're not mad anymore. Probably the best then Boston Harbour is tasted in a while.
Probably. I've had to give up coffee recently because my delicate stomach so I've drank tea now.
Pretty much every day I'd cheat and get coffee about once a week. Yeah I have to be careful
how much caffeine I drink and how much of the acidic kind of coffees that I drink. I have to take
everything with milk these days. Yeah it's the acid. It's my stomach burns for days sometimes.
I can't eat pepperoni anymore that just I'd give up coffee twice to eat a pepperoni pizza.
Well being a vegetarian I won't join you in that one. Isn't pepperoni vegetarian?
No I think he's something to do with the pork we put in it. Oh yeah that doesn't grow in trees does
it? No quite. In that case I guess I don't need any vest. Well for New Year's Eve because I'm
on certain medications I can't celebrate the way most do. I haven't been able to celebrate in
that way for the last 32 years so there's no hardship for me. Well my dad did enough celebrating
for several generations. That sounds like a hard 32 years I don't know what you're talking
mean no hardship. No I actually enjoy being sober. It's been the best part of my life. Well sir
I my head's off to you. You could probably buy a house with what you saved from from drinking.
Well put it this way when I used to drink and smoke if I was doing all that now and probably
be bankrupt I don't know how much your pack of cigarettes are in America these days but they're
about 13 or 14 dollars over it. Yeah I think they're like a hundred and forty dollars here or
something. Well for a pack of twenty. Yeah now I think it's like six or seven eight dollars I
don't really know I don't buy them but they've gotten silly with it either you know if you don't
want people to smoke just make it illegal from smoke and then it'll be like oh you can't smoke
marijuana. Oh okay we won't do that anymore and that'll work just fine otherwise you know as far
as taxing it it just hurts poor people you know that's they only want to tax it too much because
then they wouldn't get the revenue because people really might stop smoking. Yeah smoking rates in
the UK have really plummeted. I don't know well on your side of the pump but over here it's gone
really live compared with what it used to be. Yeah people smoke a lot less but you know they're
their reasoning is kind of crazy because they said that they they justified raising the taxes
on cigarettes and well tobacco products because it would give you it makes you sick and then that
would cost the society money from having to to put you in the hospital and get you you know
treat your cancer and stuff but really if you go ahead just die from your cancer or whatever at
typically around good a good heavy smoker would normally work their 40th odd years retire at 65
and then die and then they wouldn't have to pay themselves to security actually it saves the
government a lot of money if people smoke I don't know why they don't encourage it. That's a very
cynical point. I just don't cynical at all it's just it just shows the lie when they say how
they're doing it to save money in the medical when it's BS when they could take you know that money
money they spend because they're gonna spend it if they're gonna pay for you when you're sick
what's it gonna you know if they pay 25 years of social security and then they pay for your
Alzheimer's care is it better wouldn't it be better just to pay for a little bit of a long problem
care and then bear you when you're 65 or 68 or something I think that'd be better.
I'm not sure about that. I think there's enough money to pay for it all myself
Bezos could pay for half of all of it himself. Yeah slightly different system over here we've got
the national health service so it really does come out of taxpayer's money. What doesn't that
make sense? I suppose in a left-handed way it does make sense but I think there's a lot of money
spent on just just the actual health costs of people who smoke let alone the economic costs of
working days lost etc etc. I think they go ahead and die if they're good if they're good
smokers they'll go ahead and die and won't cost you as much in the long run though. Yeah but before
they get there there'll there'll be economic costs before they actually get there. Well I'm looking
at the long game yes you you remember when they get old the non-smokers get old they get sick too
they just get some a little something different but they cost money to keep them a lot you know
keep them all those years and then they get sick before they die so it's not like it actually
makes fiscal sense to keep people alive longer once people stop working it doesn't make sense
to keep them around. Now I'm not complaining I don't work anymore either but and I'm not
needing big rush to get it on you know but you know as far as people saying that they're doing
it you know they're against people smoking because they want people to be healthier and so fast
that you know or the economics part of it at least and they're lying. Yeah I'm not sure about that
yeah it's it's very complicated economics and the costs of everything and what's what's
going to save money and what's going to cost money. That's the problem with Sintak the government
gets addicted to the SIN as well whether whether you use or not everybody's addicted. Yeah the
latest one's sugar and fat isn't it. Well yeah and if you tax it then your government
depended upon the tax so you can't really stamp it out then. That's where they want to you know
you tax it to the point where it is you got the most income without cutting back too much on the
people actually stop doing it. You don't want to stop people from from the behavior you just want
to maximize the income. Well a lot of people say that that's why prohibition it wasn't because
prohibition wasn't working everybody knew that but the government looked at the fact that they
weren't getting the tax money. Yeah it was also a cost of money to try and enforce the law that
wasn't working. Yeah well once they made it legal they could put the SIN taxes back on and they
made their money that way. Did you know that well in the US at least the I don't know if it's that
way now but at least the way it used to be is that the tax for beer which is the working man's
form of drinking alcohol. The tax is significantly higher for the amount of alcohol than it is for
whiskey which is the sophisticated oh wait the government guys say that's what they drink that's
what the guy in the Senate drinks. So what would you pay for it typical 16 ounce bottle of booze in
America. I pay about nine dollars for a six-pack of beer it's six twelve twelve ounce bottles or
cans. For what about a 16-point bottle of liquor? Oh liquor let's say you would know
me you get that in fifths or leaders. Fifth is a fifth of a gallon which is you know obviously
less than a quart which is less than a liter. So depending on what you're looking at vodka anywhere
from ten bucks to almost thirty. Whiskeys are more like if it's any good at all pretty close to
twenty to as high as you want to spend. Yeah but relative to the alcohol content like you say these
these more out and for your book if you buy the spirits. Well the tax is based on the amount
of alcohol and the type of liquor it is. So if you just want to get drunk you want to go with cheap
stuff like really cheap whiskey or or I think wine I think maybe the really you know the the
four dollar bottle kind of wine might be the way to go if you just want to get the most alcohol
then you not really care or care that much about what it tastes like. You can get cheaper beer
than what I buy and you can although you you can't get much cheaper vodka than I would drink
you because I don't drink good vodka. If I drink whiskey it's it's not real expensive but at
least it's not real cheap but I don't drink I hardly ever drink whiskey I buy I think I bought
one bottle of whiskey last year but I probably bought four or five bottles of vodka.
Yeah similar over here in the UK that these the cheap spirits and then you get into the more
connoisseur stuff and obviously the connoisseur stuff is really expensive but all the people
who want to just drink to get drunk great go from the cheap stuff. Yeah I was a certain amount
of it for wine I usually spend just for just drinking I'll drink oh five dollar six dollar
white wine but if I you know for a decent bottle of wine for drinking with dinner or something
I might buy a red wine that cost somewhere around twelve to fifteen dollars more than that is
just wasting money I came I can kind of tell the difference up to about twenty five dollars
anything more than that it's it's somebody else has to have bought the bottle and then I can't
tell the difference as far as the most expensive alcohol I've ever drunk is the champagne and
I can tell you for me fifteen dollars champagne and a hundred dollars champagne is pretty much
identical they've done loads of customer satisfaction surveys over here and they found that out
that the the cheaper the cheaper champagne if you get a reasonably cheap reasonable cheaper champagne
they can be just as good as the really expensive you know fifty two hundred dollar bottles
that's my opinion I've had several bottles of hundred plus dollar champagne that somebody else
has bought and when I bought it four five dollar champagne is not good but twelve to fifteen
dollars or so is not bad champagne and tastes pretty much like the hundred dollar stuff I've never
bought anything like in you know forty dollars yeah three to such a thing it's it's like I quit
when it gets like oh this is pretty good it tastes pretty much like a hundred dollar stuff
yeah sounds sounds a pretty similar story to over here like I say though it doesn't particularly
worry me because I don't drink the stuff yeah I understand and every now and then I don't drink
for a while but I I tend to drink some I over the years I haven't drunk a lot so I drank a
little more than I'm re now that I'm retired because if I decide to start drinking at eight in the
morning I can't if I want to you know when you work you can't do that so I started drinking a
little bit more but I still not a heavy drinker I've never been a heavy drinker but I like British
beers that's kind of the the Pale Ails or kind of my thing the although I sometimes do the
IPA but that's British too they're originally I think yeah the Indian Pale Ails were originally
manufactured so that they could send them to to the troops in India when they were traveling
during our empire so and it and it kept on the Trump you know traveling wise yeah they're bitter
enough not to lose their bitter I guess yeah you've you've got this craze that we've started in
this country where we get these micro breweries and they just produce enough one or two bars
they just produce one or two why we in this country we've got they they give a tax incentive if
you're not producing a massive amount of beer they don't tax it quite as heavily so we've what's
happened recently is we've got kind of a craze where these micro breweries so they just brew
enough beer to serve the bar or one or two bars most of the time they're actually brewing the beer
on the premises where they're actually selling it yeah those the every state in the U.S. is
different and they're those the other the liquor laws are all local most of it you know some
that the taxing is at federal and I guess there's some federal controls but basically things like
that are done at the state level I think that's probably Texas was some I've been I live in Texas
it was one of the last states to have micro breweries because there's a really big buzzer plant
here in Houston and I can hate to tell you this but you can 30 or 40 thousand dollars used to buy
you an entire just a very significant part of our state legislature and you could purchase them
for for the for a session for a really reasonable fee and so you couldn't you couldn't open
a micro brewery you literally had to the law at one time said that something like in order to sell
beer that was brewed on the premises you had to sell at least some really really really large
amount of you had to make a certain amount of beer and it was it just happened to be the amount
that no brewery in Texas made except that one brewery in in Houston was the only one that
made that much also the that brewery had to be in a city that was at least a million people
or something but only like two places in Texas were big enough to do that so it essentially meant
only one place in Texas could you have a brew pub and that was on the site at the the Budweiser
brewery and that's what it was here for for decades and until most states in the US had a
had micro breweries and eventually it's been 20 years now since they or more since they stopped
that but that that was kind of how it was set up for a very long time because I think that that's
the way it is now but I think that you can still procure a Texas legislator pretty cheaply yeah that's
big corporate muscle intake keeping the small guys out but there's there's there's a lot of nice
low breweries I drink mostly local beers not entirely and when I don't most of the ones I
the other ones are fairly small breweries in other places I like beers from Oregon and Colorado
and every now then I drink beers from from England so what beer would you drink from England then
Newcastle is the most recent one I've I've had but oh guys there's something called speckled
hen that I had recently and I drink lots of different stuff I you know I say hmm because I'll
go in thinking oh I'm gonna buy this and I get there and they don't have any so I said oh
darn why am I going to get and so I just look and see oh I don't think I tried this one so
the description will be something that oh I like this top let me try that and that that's how I
got the speckled hen thing it had an interesting story if you put an interesting story on the
package I'm gonna buy it and that one the it was a some story about an MG automobile that got speckled
from sitting next to where they were spraying paint or bird droppings or something I don't remember
what the the and the hen it was actually a it was a car it wasn't a chicken but uh and that's
so oh this is an interesting story let me try this beer I think I bought a couple of six packs
yeah I'm not sure if the story's true that well for one thing there's at least two separate
stories I was a later guy on the internet and and they admitted they didn't know what was true
on the website for the thing and it told I think it told two different versions of it
on the website so as far but it had something to do with that car it's just they weren't sure exactly
what the story was and but hey you know like I say you got a story I'm gonna stop and read it and
I'm not by your beer yeah good mark he said
whether to the question I do think that the micro breweries had a kind of a bump but I want to
guess it's 10 to 15 years ago just based on I drink about one beer a year so
but based based on the places I've seen I would say maybe 10 to 15 years ago we really went through
that it's my that's how it looks to me yeah I don't have very good dates uh I don't know when they were
I know that um west coast is always the head of everything else uh over here and
California Oregon and I think Oregon's really famous for their micro breweries and that's
the first place I ever uh had a local beer uh he was certainly wasn't detected where I live uh but
I don't know exactly how long ago it was whether it was 20 years ago or or 10 years ago
before that was I was drinking more either English I used to drink fullers um god what is um
ESB and I've and I used to drink German beers um a lot but once I stopped drinking uh uh uh
Budweiser which I can't even I couldn't drink a can now at all and but I've drunk plenty of it
Have you ever had a bustle of the stuff from Czechoslovakia or the Czech Republic as it is now
the original uh budbury you know it's I actually had uh some just not too long ago um
that was a Czech beer um I don't know that it was from the original bud
the brewery of host name of that it came in a four pack 16 ounces of can and each can was
decorate differently but there was it was all the same beer it was a logger I don't drink many
loggers but uh European loggers are usually a little better than the American ones um yeah I know
about the name and or I'd rather I I have been aware of the story about the name I don't recall
well much about it right now but uh yeah I remember that uh it's like the only place in the world
you can't sell American Budweiser because of the name that's what I yeah well they're better off for it
yeah I had a couple of bottles of the old bud before I uh ended my drinking career and it wasn't
the best experience I've ever had uh I've even had warm beer in London uh at a place where they
they used um back about gosh 35 years ago when some place some pubs didn't
refrigerate the beer wasn't cold and it was cool but it wasn't cold and I don't know what it's
like now I um I haven't been to London lightly but uh the first time I went it was
uh well actually the most recent time I've been there the only time I said have I haven't been
there once I think I've only been there once about 35 years ago well traditionally cask
condition Dale was never refrigerated um because it was kept in sellers which were you know a cool
temperature they were you know they were below the temperature in the main bar uh so they were
you know they were cool but they were never refrigerated uh because it was a natural beer
hey and they're designed as such and and they the flavors were probably tweaked for that to be
that's the drinking temperature and they've I had no problem with them uh uh I'm back and drink
warm beer that's not I can drink much it much pretty much anything but uh the I think it was like
I was at that time I was still drinking Budweiser I think and and cold because you sure couldn't
drink it warm and um I go there I go in up open I just get whatever the local beer is and
and it's not even cold I'm going is this right you know I didn't complain about it but I don't
think it would done me any good and I figured it out after I had a couple of beers there over
yeah in different places and said oh they don't it's not cold it's not supposed to be cold
and it was it was good beer too yeah I was good because it had hundreds thousands of years
being made and drunk without refrigeration well well there was a joke with some motorcycle
guys that I used to hang with when I was young that uh British beer is served warm because of
Lucas refrigeration I was going to say that there's a campaign over in this country called the
campaign for real ale and I remember when the first started producing casc the fancy pressurized
beers that kept forever and they started putting them through coolers and they campaigned against
them for the real the real deal for those who may not have followed British motorcycle maintenance
Lucas electrics are known to be well they're not uh the most reliable systems ever invented
right what bike did you use to ride oh I didn't ride but a couple of friends of mine did
I hung around with a whole bunch of people so you never been a Harley man
not really uh although some so my friends were hardly people a buddy of mine was at a big BMW
and which he had to turn away the turn over the valve covers because they were getting a little worn
yeah I used to ride a bike covering this country but uh no longer
always when I was young I always wanted a Norton or and the tramps were were big favors but the
Norton back in the oh the 60 late 60s was just really really what I wanted and it riding
Kawasaki's later on yeah but even those 60s Norton's and Triumphs they were they were leaking
machines it was only when the japs came along and started producing ones that didn't
didn't spill oil all over your garden path that they started to tighten up things oh I didn't know
that I mean it's not like you don't know those things um I actually had a friend that had a Triumph
TR4 automobile and it was just a real problem he said he spent more time under it than in it but
he still loved it yeah I had an old mini 30 odd years ago and he used to drink more oil than
big petrol I had a Mars monitor in his late 60s that was um it was pretty close
the amount of oil I put it in the gasoline it got in excess of 40 miles to the gallon of gas
and I put a pint of oil in it every time I filled up the gas yeah that sounds about right
yeah oh Harley's were all also known to mark their territory back in the day yeah I think a lot
of the early motorcycles were like that it was uh when the uh better quality engineering came in
in the 70s and the 80s that things started to get better you know you mentioned the Japanese
bikes and it could be that they just said hey look we can do it why can't you and they said oh crap
I guess we could too if you wanted to I guess we will yeah you uh you want to hear somebody
curse though uh I think it's what was it ATF or TRW that bought Harley for a while one of those
big conglomerate yeah during the hard times he owns Holly now then it's a publicly held company I
think it's independent okay you know what let me not say that I don't know if it is or not um
I want to say um I just remembered um almost remembered a company that did own it um this
it's stock is still you can buy a Harley stock that doesn't necessarily mean that company is a
totally own subsidiary it um it just means that they allow uh you know it means it's some you know
it could be that you 70% of the stock is owned by some big company and so I don't guess I really
know so whatever I said forget it tankinators just put in that Harley was purchased by Voith
in the 70s did you say Voith yeah VO ITH he just said take that back I should know I worked right
across the street from the headquarters in Milwaukee um for for a couple of years but I I don't know
well I don't ride anymore uh I haven't written in many many years uh and it's probably best
yeah I haven't written for over 10 years now and uh I've just been uh told by my doctor I might
have arthritis in me hip so it looks like my riding days are completely over oh I've got arthritis
almost everywhere but I think I could ride if I want to do I just don't think it's a good idea
anymore um uh tough to hear about I don't guess 10 years ago my wife offered to let me go test drive
of a we were driving by a shop that sold trounce and and I'm longingly looking at the new things
and and I'm stopping and looking and they had besides the new bikes they had a bunch of old
bikes from the 60s and 70s they had some of them were just junkers and parts bikes and some of them
were uh had been totally restored and uh and I just oh man and and she said well you want to test
drive it and I'm going and the the owner of the store was or the yeah I lost owner but you know
the in this the person that's working in the store saying yeah go ahead you get a license I said
yeah take it whichever one you want to drive them all you know I'm going oh man and this
would be so much fun but I didn't because they are innately dangerous yeah I can't uh remember
the number of times I've come off a bike yeah my bike biker friend said that there are two kinds
of bike riders bikers who've gone down and bikers who will go down now these three these those
that deny they've ever been down and they're called liars yeah absolutely uh I remember one time
I was saying I wonder how far I can lean this bike on a I got caught in the rain and I said I
just wonder how far I can lean this thing on this wet road and uh I mean like two seconds later
I'm on the road the the bike is on its side sliding down the road and I'm still holding on the
how bar of being dragged down the road and going oh okay I you can't lean this thing I remember the
first bike I had was a little Honda Cove 90 a little uh I suppose to be classed as a scooter now
but uh I remember sliding that and it went across across the other side of road and hit a car
and uh I got it fixed for the equivalent of about 60 70 dollars your money and I think it
cost about three hundred four hundred dollars to fix the car ready to check over
hi tank glad y'all can hear me MF bought Harley in the late 60s I guess and sold out to a bunch of
investors in the early 80s thanks are you riding yourself or ex rider now won't catch me on
those death machines but I live pretty close to uh the earth pumps me a plant uh I wish I had
been an early investor after the most recent bankruptcy of of Harley because I think that stock
has probably gone up many times since uh has since then you're a time to sell it frankly well I
probably would have sold it just last year at some point yeah the uh first off uh how many uh
thirty thousand dollar motorcycles come to world buy you know yeah there are a bit of a
rolls Royce in this country as well you pay you pay that uh thirty dollars just to get a t-shirt
and second of all is they're really abusing where our workers were threatened to move plants
offshore which is bizarre considering their the primary uh draw is that they're american made
yeah but wouldn't that mean but under uh trumps uh lightest uh trade things that they'd end up
costing uh twice as much I'll probably only twenty five percent extra you know wouldn't mind that would
you either what's what what's funny about that is we've got the tariffs that we haven't
going into effect yet and uh like forward and uh Chevy are trying to blame their their
woes on that which again they haven't going into effect yet cleared uh Nissan BMW all have
plants in our states they haven't had to raise their rates yeah I've been saying that probably the
effect that will be that um it'll drive uh places offshore under the guys of running from the tariffs
and then the tariffs really won't amount too much at all but um but that won't be the result
I think Ford was already in trouble I think they they had already had they already uh if they
hadn't already announced that they were going to stop making cars they'd already figured it out
that they were going to pretty much just stick with trucks and vans and um mustangs
pessimist sources short study decision I can imagine yeah I didn't like seeing them do it I'm a
I've been a Ford stockholder for for many years but and uh I like the dividends all the right now I'm
weighing the whole of the stock price that decision doesn't make any sense to me I mean do they
think the truck market's going to last forever well if you lived in my neighborhood where
80% of the vehicles that drive by are pickup trucks and most of those are forged uh yeah that's
what they think so they're running a big electrification of those things or are they uh still in
the dark ages of uh internal combustion engine yeah I don't know about them doing any electrical
stuff either uh although it would be a good idea um I know a guy's got a Tesla and he boy he really
loves it he's had it for several years then uh um and it kind of makes sense I would I would lie
I think if it's mine I had a major motor problem with my car I might consider doing a conversion
um but uh I I'd like to have an electric car I take that back uh I remember seeing something about
Rangers with a limited rental thing back in the late 90s where they converted Ranger pickup trucks
to all electric but they're all uh rentals they're aren't they they took them all back in
destroy them I wonder if it I wonder if it's easier or quicker now to change tooling and so they're
thinking if they need to swap which then they'll switch later that's what I'm that's what I'm
wondering if that's getting bigger and faster like software development yeah it's going to need
some big manufacturer in America though to uh actually grasp the uh the bullet and uh turn over to
making mass produced electric vehicles to make them popular over there I suppose because at the
moment they're really a premium in price don't they the premium and they're also inconvenient
with the lack of infrastructure in the long charge times I mean even if uh they've got the
hyper speed thing that the Tesla's do still a lot longer than it takes to fill the tank
with their volt uh they didn't push that as hard as they should have that's the best of both
This world really, it's some electric or gas electric, so basically the motor just charges
the battery essentially, which is great vehicle.
BMW has a car like that, it's got a little three, one and a half liter, three cylinder engine
that you can, it's got a plug in electric and you don't have to ever run the engine, but
if you are going along distance, you can fire up the little motor and keep it charged and
going up a hill, it's got plenty of juice to get over the hill and go on the level, probably
that three liter, that one and a half liter engine is probably enough to just cruise
it's, you know, 70 miles an hour and continue to charge the engine a little bit, the battery
a little bit, so that, yeah, that would be great for long distance, but, you know, a pretty
good percentage of the people in this country at least where we have very little public
transportation, have two cars per family or more, and so if one of them could be electric
and for the last 20, last for the last 30 years, my wife and I had two cars and for 28 of
those, I've been within four miles of where I work, an electric car would have been fine
and when we went on a trip, we always take her car, and so my car is very low mileage
and, or the two cars I've had over the last of those years have were very low mileage
and she wore the cars out because she drove further to work, but even now she only works,
she drives probably 20, 22 miles each way, so less than 50 miles a day, so she could do
electric too, even for her job, and, you know, let's say if there's one, and then you
rent a car on the, if you want to go on a trip on the weekend, you go rent one with, it
takes gasoline.
Yeah, I think that's going to be the start of the way forward, it's just for local
journeys that people have electric, and like you say, they rent something that will do
longer journeys, but eventually the technology will catch up and you'll get electric vehicles
that can do 500 miles on a charge and then, and can charge up in less than an hour.
Well, I think the battery swap is probably the way it will go, you won't really charge
your battery, but I don't think we should be too worried or too afraid of the current cost,
it wasn't very long ago that the TV that's $400 at Walmart, the same size was $16,000,
so I don't let the, the earlier Dr. Price scare me too much.
Yeah, I agree.
I was about to say that I think the battery swap is, is kind of the way to go for at least
in a limited way, and how you do that, you might have to do it in a, like a, you're a
member of a AAA club or something, and that gives you the ability to swap your battery
out, they'd have to have some, the engineering would have to be based around the two-minute
battery swap, but which obviously is not now, but yeah, that's, that would be something
that make a lot of sense.
Yeah, I think those standardize, yeah, I think those standardize, and then you'll just
swap them out, like you do gas tanks for, thing to use in your barbecue grill, I'm pretty
sure that's what, whatever we use for power, if it's not some kind of an instantaneous
charge thing, I think that's, that's what it'll go.
Yeah, but it's, it's the infrastructure and having all those swappable batteries in
the place where you need them, isn't it, that's going to be the issue.
Well, it'll be a long major thoroughfares if they, if they do batteries.
The only, they, I mean, they're also looking at capacitors which would charge super fast,
and that's another possibility is that you, there's no battery, it's a, or, it's a battery
capacitor thing, and if they come up with a way to have some type of a device that will
charge really fast and get you 200 miles down the road, then they would, that would probably
be preferable.
But then you, of course, then if there's infrastructure, there would have to be built, but it would
not only, not only infrastructure with that, that, that would be extremely dangerous in
a lot of cases in an accident, imagine dumping several kilowatts of energy out at once.
Man, would that be fun to watch?
Exactly.
From a safe distance, and capacitors can dump that kind of energy quick, I know they don't
know that much power for space, but, yeah, capacitors are really interesting tech, but
they're dangerous.
I understand they are working on it, though.
I think that the safety issue is one of the, one of the engineering problems that they're
trying to work out.
Well, also, has anybody ever thought about simple charging trailers for long range use?
I never thought of that, that's, that's a great idea.
What do you mean you would call a trailer to charge with on your own problem?
I used to have a jumper from the trailer that you're telling to have more battery.
Yeah, just a small trailer that's got about 500 miles worth of battery in it.
That'd be great.
That makes a lot of sense.
You just go, you rent that.
You go and pick that up over it, hurts, rent a battery, and just plug it into your car,
and off you go.
What if I had, what if I had a 5 kilowatt generator on it?
Yeah.
Oh, that's, that's just dirty.
But yeah, then you back, then you back to gas goes away, you know what I mean?
Well, I mean, it's, it's a high amount of energy in small amount of space, I mean, frankly,
actually, there's a couple of problems with, with battery power.
One is your battery efficiency is temperature sensitive.
In cold temperatures, your, your, your capacity is, is much lower than it is in warm temperatures,
which is a problem for those of us in northern-ish climates, or who have northern-ish weather.
I'm saying northern-ish weather because at the moment, everything north of Atlanta is
having a winter like, like, New England.
Yeah, there's lots of different issues at the moment that they've still not taken on
volatile thoughts about, but, you know, give it another 20 years, and a lot of these
kinks will have been ironed out.
Also, the difference between gasoline power for charging, which can be a very highly tuned
system, much higher tunes than it can be when it has to be used as primary power.
That's why I was talking about earlier with the electric, or gas electric systems, so much
more efficient than using them in ships, and then using them in, in, uh, locomotives
for years and years and years.
You can tune a motor to, uh, have a very tight power band, and I have to run it outside
that power band, and it can be tuned to much higher efficiency than your standard, uh,
vehicle engine.
Yeah, it also doesn't have to run that well at lower RPM and higher RPM, which means you
don't have to have all the fancy, um, my car is, you know, yeah, it changes the, the,
the timing has changed instantly, continuously, um, the valve timing is, is adjusted, you
know, a thousand times a minute, and, uh, no, that stuff wouldn't be necessary if you
had, uh, an engine that only runs at 3,500 RPM, or if it's diesel, you know, something
1,500 RPM or whatever, whatever they run at, I don't know.
And yeah, that would, that makes a lot of sense.
It would surprise me if the temperature thing hasn't already been solved, um, or do people
not buy Tesla's that live up north?
They buy Subaru's up north.
Yeah, I don't think they're, uh, you're going to, you're going to really want to have a
Tesla where there's a lot of snow and there's a lot of potential for unclear roads.
But is that because of the battery or is, um, the traction?
Both.
Well, we've got a, oh, eight, four to state hybrid, and, uh, it runs a heater on the
battery.
Subscribers models, they, they eliminated the hybrid models because they could achieve
the equivalent fuel economy that, uh, the hybrid got on a B6, but, uh, tech wise, it
worked well enough, but, uh, it's nothing right, I'm about.
It's just, uh, it's just an ordinary car.
I often wondered why they never really came with more, uh, more tech, like, uh, sterling
motors on the exhausts and that sort of thing.
Well, I like my car, but it's, it's very technical and I don't know if I, you know, it costs
a lot of money to keep it running probably, uh, and I would go electric, um, and something
electric with a, a small motor to fire up when necessary wouldn't be a bad thing.
I'd go electric, but the economics of getting rid of my current car and moving over to an
electric one just don't add up because I do very, very small mileage these days, uh, and
the amount of money I'd lose on the old vehicle and then I'm to buy a new electric vehicle,
it just doesn't work out.
So the internet, it's, uh, about 40 to 50 percent, um, battery, um, efficiency loss, capacity
loss, um, in Chicago.
So there you go.
I guess the thing, I guess it matters a lot.
That's why we don't get good, good efficiency in the UK because it's never warm enough.
You guys have a warmer climate than Chicago does.
Yeah, just a bit of a joke.
Yeah.
If you look at the strolling engines, they're really interesting.
They're room off of heat and air.
Again, no good in the cold, I guess.
No, no, they're finding a cold at the, the room off of a very external combustion engine
essentially.
Uh, but you can run them off of, uh, this small toy ones that you can make in, uh, in
your workshop or whatever, that'll run off the heat in your hand, the differential
between the ambient temperature and your hands temperature.
Guys, I'm going to go because, uh, my legs starting to play me up, so, uh, sitting
in front of the computer is not doing me any favours at the moment, so, uh, it's been
nice talking to you.
It's been nice talking to you.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Hope you're feeling better soon and maybe after a bit of a break, we'll see you again.
Oh, I'll definitely join the chat again at some stage, but it's, uh, it's coming up
to 10 o'clock at night in the UK here, so it'll probably be tomorrow before the close
to the stream down.
Well, it's been nice to meet you.
Take care.
Happy New Year.
Yeah, same, same back.
It's been nice to meet you guys and, uh, have a great time.
I'll step away as well.
Talk to you all later.
Yeah, this looked like a good time to take a break, maybe I will too.
I kind of jumped in there while you guys were talking.
Hello.
Hello.
I'm not sure who was from the UK, but you're talking about short trips, but that seems
like the perfect thing for what, uh, some of these electric or hybrid cars you're designed
for.
Yeah, I was saying earlier how that would have been fine for my household, where we've
got two automobiles at all times and, uh, I worked four miles from home and rarely
probably drove more than 25 miles, you know, it'd be unusual to go over 25 miles and really
unusual to go over 50 miles in a day.
Well, I live right next to a dry cleaning establishment and, uh, the amount of waste energy
that comes off of that place is amazing.
A lot of businesses are, you know, capturing that sort of thing, uh, either the heat or
waste or something, um, but not a local dry cleaner, it cost too much money for the technology.
Well, I'm just remembering when I was at a condo complex and they were using heat pumps
and sometimes the, if I recall correctly, the, the temperature of the working fluid was
only like 70 degrees.
That doesn't sound warm enough.
You're talking about the, the, the refrigerator, the refrigerator used to heat the space.
That's what struck in my mind, although I don't know what scale they were using.
Ah, okay, I'm sorry.
My brain only works Fahrenheit.
Uh, so it's possible that would be just fine and centigrade.
I was assuming a Fahrenheit scale.
I knew that, uh, one of the things that this place did is it converted from electric
rollers, uh, talk about a way to burn money to, um, to city gas.
If you think about it, think about how electric cars work.
You know how that you take your foot off the gas as it slows down, or you take your
foot off accelerator, it slows down and it, uh, the, the motor then acts as a generator
and, uh, recharges the battery so you don't lose any of it.
If you work to take that idea and put it into more things, and I'm sure other factories
and stuff are using, uh, similar ideas to, to, to capture what has been in the past,
waste energy, uh, you know, that'll go a long ways and, uh, I'm sure they're doing that
in a lot of places.
Well, how much heat is being dumped by, uh, air conditioning units in large structures?
Well, if a building is dumping heat from the coolers and making heat somewhere else,
that's something that can be fixed.
Um, and you might also connect something on it that would take that heat and turn into electricity,
I suppose, um, but usually where you've got something as waste is because you actually need it,
but yeah, when you mention the cooling, uh, especially like a place like here in, in Houston,
where we air condition for pretty much the whole year, um, there's always a lot of waste heat,
produced, um, a lot of that could be turned into, you know, something useful.
As you mentioned, the technology for that is too expensive, it'd be great to start seeing that
streamlined.
Yeah, there, um, the place I worked, um, retro their air conditioning systems of, oh,
I'm not sure how long ago, um, somewhere probably around 15 years ago, maybe not quite that long,
where they put a system in because the electricity is cheaper at night because, um, everybody needs
electricity during the daytime when it's hot, they run their air conditioners. So we would, um,
make cold water at night, we'd run refrigeration unit, and we would chill this me and gallon
tank of water, uh, just above freezing, and then, um, during the day when it was hot, you take that
cold water and run it through coils and blow air across it, and that's how you cool the building,
but the air, but there's no refrigeration, refrigeration machines are running during the daytime
when the electric rates go up. So at a certain hour, no electricity is running to power a compressor.
So all it's doing is running water pumps and fans, which are, uh, use a lot less electricity.
And, um, it's more efficient, and we got a kickback from an electric company because that kept
them from having to put in more capacity for, um, um, for power, and we got a kickback from the
government for, for doing something, you know, uh, good for the environment or other. So we end up
getting a significant part of the cost of the system, uh, kickback from the government and from
the electric company. I have noticed that it does seem like, uh, industrial places tend to use
water chillers a whole lot more often here in Opaso. We don't have to use quite the, uh, we don't
have to chill the water at night. We can just evaporate it, and that usually works pretty well for
most air conditioners and, uh, other cooling systems on the, the commercial or industrial level.
Y'all use evaporative cooling and own industrial, uh, top, uh, buildings?
Uh, a lot of times you'll see outdoor water chillers, which are essentially giant evaporative
coolers. They might do a little bit more cooling after that, but for the bulk of the, the heat
removal, uh, will be on some sort of evaporative light, chiller. That's great. Uh, I, I know, uh, well,
I'd used to have friends in, uh, Odessa and pretty much every house had evaporative cooler.
There's very little refrigerant, uh, refrigeration type air conditioners in Odessa seem like
at least back a few years back. Yeah, it's changed a little on the, uh, residential level. A lot of
people like to have, uh, the refrigeration because some of those months it does get a little humid.
I think around late, uh, late June, early July, and then also the refrigeration does get a
little bit cooler, but on the, you know, the industrial level definitely. Yeah, I know they use
the coolers, but the, uh, often those, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, a chiller is associated with other,
other types of equipment that have waste heat. So that's not necessarily, uh, cooling the building.
Uh, uh, I mean, uh, outborked in, uh, hospitals where they had, uh, uh, big chillers,
but they didn't have anything to do with their conditioning system. They were used for cooling
other types of equipment. Well, that is true. There, there is a lot of stuff that, that, that,
that does that, but I have seen like at the local library, I saw where they actually had the water lines,
um, running into, like you said, coils for the, the venting system.
Well, I think it's a great idea in a place where the humidity's low enough for, uh, for the swamp
coolers to work. Uh, that's, uh, I wouldn't mind paying less for, for cooling my house, uh, but you
can't do that here because the humidity's too high most of the year. When does it drop below 100%
humidity over there? I can why it's not that bad. Well, just today. So what, one of the interesting
micro computer projects that I ran across was somebody in, in Vermont had added, um,
atmospheric cooling to his, uh, to his freezer system. That's not a terrible idea if it's a place where,
you know, a couple of months out of the year, you can, uh, it's actually cold enough.
Well, I suspect that, that there's a large chunk of the northern United States that could save
gobs of money from similar systems. My brother was a long haul trucker and he was going through
one of the northern states. I will forget which one. And he said he looked back. He was hauling a
refrigerated trailer, standard refrigerated temperature for solid frozen items is 20 below zero
Fahrenheit. Well, this refrigeration system was saying that it was running the heater to keep things
at 20 below. Yeah, I have a brother-in-law that lives in Alaska. I suspect he's got an entirely
different set of problems than we have down here. Oh, like a, uh, an earthquake a couple of weeks ago.
Yeah, I used to have the earthquake widget in, uh, XFCE running and you'd have the constant
stream of little quakes and quake frequent six. Hey, Paul, hey, net miner. Hey, hockey. Hey, Jeff,
good to see you on here. We were going to come try and hang out with you this evening after
supper with Jackie's family since this is probably our last day in town.
But since we're driving tomorrow, we're not going to do that whole new year thing.
Jackie says hi. Hi, Tyler. Hi. He says hi back. Oh, is Chris going to jump on?
I don't know, but I was interested to hear. I'm sorry. I didn't see who was finished talking
about the earthquakes and refrigeration systems. Yeah, I got, uh, when I, I had the earthquake
widget on XFCE, you know, every little while I get a dialogue, I get a, a lurk box that would say
there's been a numbers of Richter six earthquake at a certain location. They're pretty frequent
a couple of times a day, I think. Yeah, you definitely want to have some sort of refrigerant or
halo and detection system. And that you don't want to suffocate yourself if you have a earthquakes
going on that can rupture the pipes. So all of that 71 30 treating you, Paul. I haven't played too
much more with it. We almost ended up using it to do the live stream for D&D the other day. But
sorry about that. Finally got the computer that was supposed to be doing it working again. So
but I haven't gotten the Wi-Fi working on it yet. And the, the card that I ordered. Yeah,
I ordered a card, but I just found out that it's not supposed to be here until February. Oh,
that's horrible. What are different? I should. I think only paid like $70 for it, so it's not
that expensive. Well, the link I sent you was one for $12 and it's sort of been kind of quick.
The only problem with that one is it was not an M.2. Like the other one is it's a
it was one of the ones that was listed on that web page I sent you. That's why I sent you the link
on it. It was, but it wasn't the the M.2. And so I was looking for M.2. I'll keep that in mind if I
end up ordering one. And then it looks like the processor is faster and it has the same amount of
RAM as the 1.0.2. HA. Did I? Did I? Yeah, so far it performs very well. I've had to the only Wi-Fi
device that I've been able to get working on it though around here has been my phone. I plugged
my phone into it and I've gotten Wi-Fi or data. And you know, I've been doing stuff with that,
but I also have a problem with the on screen on screen keyboard. Doesn't auto
populate when I open up Chrome or Firefox and I can't figure out how to get it to force it.
What I did was I added a quick launch key in the taskbar specifically for just the on-screen
keyboards. I could pop it up real quick and drop it down real quick. And that was also how I
implemented right clicks on a couple of the devices that didn't have it built in. All right,
yeah. The mint and I'll check that out. I'll probably end up doing that. I was about I was going
to ask you about it, but you know, you got to it first. On mint though, it just has a long press,
long press the primary key and it will initiate the secondary key. And that works in some applications.
I know it works really well in Chrome, but sometimes on the desktop itself that has been working
for me. And so the keyboard, if you adjust the keyboard a bit on the styles, you can get this one
that gives you all the different clicks that you can do with a mouse, a double click, a right click,
a center click, and click on that first and then push wherever you want the right click or the
center click. Yeah, the way that the Android app for V&C that I have works is pretty intuitive
with all of that. And I wish that mint would do it something like that where yeah, you can zoom
with it. You actually the way that Ubuntu does it also works too. Well, you can install Ubuntu
if you want, just a mint thing. Well, I mean, I like mint and the ad benefit is that it did
had more of the drivers necessary for things. And that's probably why the tilting work to just
straight out of the box with that. But I do like how if you tap two fingers with that one,
it will do the right key. And then, you know, you can also zoom and if you don't scroll with one
finger, but you can scroll with two fingers. Right. Now, see, some of the devices do have the
two fingers scrolling. But I'll start the two fingers scrolling and I guess I either move my
fingers close together or farther apart as I start scrolling. And so then it'll turn into a zoom
function instead of a scroll function. Don't have that fingers. Yeah, I can't help it. Yeah, I can't
either. So I was gaming the other night. Well, we started a little bit late because the owner of
the store took off with the with some of the things that we needed, but we were able to eventually
get the cameras going and plug everything back to where it go and got all the updates on the computer
running and we're able to do it again. And it was riveting as David's been really good at doing
lately. Have you guys had some audio improvements? I know last time I tried to watch. It was a
little rough. Unfortunately, no. I don't know if you were listening when we had the
wireless lapel mics or if we when we're using the table mic, both have been bad. We're currently
using the table mic because people said it's easier to understand people, though it personally
hurts my ears more. You should, I know that around here, the snowball mic, there's somebody that
was selling one. Thank you. On Facebook marketplace for like 30 bucks. I know I showed you the link.
It was still up last time I looked, but for all around the table, it's actually pretty good.
Okay, you know what? I'll check it right now. That's what I'm using right now. Oh, nice.
I should probably get something like that. I'm pretty sure if I showed up with some equipment
that everyone else will be happy to give it a try. He was currently looking
up. Rather expensive, $130, $150, a shotgun microphone that required us to get another at least
$70, a soundboard with phantom power and it just to use it. And I'm like, can't, isn't there
another tier that we can go to before we go to pro level? Yeah. Well, this one, it's not really,
it is supposed to be directional, but it doesn't do directional all that well. So I will work for
all table. I know you heard the dogs a little while ago and they're off in another room.
That has been one of our biggest problems as well is that there's an SCA group that goes on
right outside that the store owner has pretty much said that if it's the choice between us or
them, that it's going to be us leaving. So, you know, we don't want to. I mean, we, this might
be a table. Yeah. And the idea is actually to get a couple of those not very directional
mics like that, like one per side of the table and use those to try and improve the quality sound.
We're not so concerned of the sound of the dice rolling on the table because kind of
think that's part of the aesthetic of things, but, you know, reducing the other background noise
would be great. And making us in general sound not like where pieces of paper.
Yeah, that first cast that you all did that really sounded bad. Yeah. And we know that we do have
a few people who are actually following us. So we need to start up and up the game on our audio.
That's the first step. The cameras is the second step because we know that is important,
but not nearly as important as people being able to hear us.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomican computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
November. Create a comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
