Episode: 2711
Title: HPR2711: Raspberry Pi 3A+ Review
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2711/hpr2711.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:57:54

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com, get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello folks, K-Wisher here to remind you that it's that time of year again, time for the
Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve show. For those who don't know, on New Year's Eve
December 31, 2018 at 10am UTC, that is 5am Eastern Standard Time, we will have a recording going
on the HBR Mumble server for anyone to come on and say happy New Year and talk about whatever
they want. We will leave the recording going until January 1, 2019 12am UTC, that will be 7am Eastern
Standard Time, or until the conversation stops. Please visit hackerpublicradio.org to find all the
details and links about how to set up the PC Mumble client, your favorite mobile app, the mobile
server connection details. Our Etherpad show notes and the live audio stream if you only prefer to
listen in on the lively banter. So please stop and say hi and maybe join in the conversation with
other HPR listeners and contributors. It's always a good time.
Hello, I'm Yannick, the French guy from Switzerland. And in this episode of HPR, I will do a quick review
of the Raspberry Pi 3 EPLUS, the latest model of the Raspberry Pi Foundation. Let's go.
So a few weeks ago I released a video on YouTube with a quick review of the Raspberry Pi 3 EPLUS
and I thought that an audio version for the benefit of the HPR listeners could be a nice idea.
So it is, I'm recording this review. So the Raspberry Pi 3 EPLUS is the latest release of the
Raspberry Pi Foundation. It has almost the same hardware as its big brother, the Raspberry Pi 3 EPLUS.
So it has the same system on chip, the PC M2837. It's a 64-bit AMV8 running at 1.4GHz
at the core. It has the same wireless capabilities with 2.4 and 5GHz 8.2.11, BYN, AC, whatever,
it's called these days. It also has Bluetooth 4.2 and Bluetooth low energy. It has the same
microSD port to store data and the operating system. It has a full size HDMI connector,
it has a 3.5mm jack for audio output and apparently for composite video outputs too.
It has a micro USB connector for power supply and it has the same 40 pin GPIO as the
all the other Raspberry Pi's with the same pin out. So you can use the same hardware or
anything that's working with the BPLUS is going to work with the APLUS. The differences are
there's only one full size USB 2.0 connector instead of four on the Raspberry Pi 3 BPLUS
and it doesn't have an Ethernet connector. It also has only 512 MB of memory instead of one gigabyte
on the BPLUS. It is 6.7 x 5.6 cm, that's 2.6 x 2.2 inches and it is 11.5 mm high, that's 4.5
tenth of an inch. However if you're using a ribbon those 40 wires rewounds with the connector
then it will use a lot of space on top of the Raspberry Pi 3 APLUS. So it might be a good idea
to unsolder the header and replace it with a right-angle header. That way you have the pins
pointing on the side of the board instead of upwards. And then when you connect the ribbon you
still have a very low profile Raspberry Pi. So that's not very how to do because there's no
component near the GPIO header. So you can use some unsoldering wick and it's not very complicated
and it's easy access to the GPIO. Of course if you plan to use a hat on top of the
Raspberry Pi then you don't have to change the header of course. The 3 APLUS is actually the same size
as a standard hat. So if you have a project that can that have enough space for a hat then you
will be fine with the Raspberry Pi 3 APLUS. And I would say you gain about a centimeter and a half
so that's a three quarter of an inch roughly. So it's always nice to gain some space in an enclosure.
Since the Raspberry Pi 3 APLUS doesn't have an ethernet port I think it would probably not run
any server stuff like mosquito or pi-hole for which you would need a high-speed internet
and possibly plug a mouse and a keyboard from time to time. So only having one in full size USB
port is not really practical for that. So for me the APLUS will probably be a replacement for
the Pi 0W. In case these were I need a little more power than what the 0W can provide.
Since the 3 APLUS has Wi-Fi it can be used in portable projects that is things that I would
put on a shelf or somewhere in my living room. Well that's pretty much it for this quick review of
the Raspberry Pi 3 APLUS. I will probably release a new video in the coming weeks on my channel
over at frenchguy.ch slash youtube comparing the performances of the 3 APLUS and the 0W in some
projects that I have running. So I will catch you on another HPR episode. Until then take care of
yourselves. Ciao ciao. This episode of HPR is released under a Creative Commons non-commercial
biotribution license. The sound used in the opening and closing sequence is speaker X
clash by Daniel H released under a Creative Commons non-commercial biotribution license and
available on Jamendo. You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever
thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated. Today's show is released under a Creative Commons
Attribution share a light 3.0 license.
