Episode: 2640
Title: HPR2640: Another Rambling Drive Into Work
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2640/hpr2640.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:56:29

---

This is HPR episode 2640 entitled Another Rambling Drive-Into Work.
It is hosted by MrX and is about 14 minutes long, and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is, and second attempt at making a show on the way into work.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at AnanasThost.com.
Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video.
Hello and welcome, Hacker Public Radio.
It's my name is MrX, and welcome to this podcast.
But to start by thanking the people at HPR for making this service available to us all.
HPR Hacker Public Radio is a service provided by the community for the community.
It's, what time is it? It's just a six in the morning.
11 degrees outside.
And this is my second attempt at recording our show in the car.
I've actually got anybody here for instance.
And I was learning what this change noise was.
It's a pattern pattern, but I don't realise it's the rain on the window.
It's a pull just for that.
Spice that picks it up.
It's not even that heavy rain.
So I'm trying out a new microphone today, and I did a little recording yesterday when it wasn't raining of course.
And I was really pleasantly surprised with the quality.
So we're my first recording, first show, I'm driving into work.
The show was quite disastrally, it was almost an audible quality, it was just so bad.
And I got a couple of comments back from it, and some day I do apologise if I didn't take your name, I'm sorry.
Some suggested I had a tried some noise removal technique, I didn't know about it.
And that's about all you highlight a piece of an noisy bit of the track, and then it's you know a sample it, and then use a dusted to remove it.
And I did actually try that, but it was just so bad, it just took help at all really.
I guess the point where it's just beyond recovery.
So that was that.
But a useful tip nonetheless.
And the other comment was where Dave Morris.
And he said that he suggested the mic from a bit sensitive and trying alternative from a little mic when it was recommended by John Kelden, in fact.
Well back, and I was next to him, I'm still a member, I was into that.
And of course, you know, microphones are a huge topic.
I don't know, I don't know very little about it, so we're going to watch about that really.
How did these microphones up anyway? The one that Dave gave me a link.
Or there was a link on his show we drove into it.
I've had them really looking forward to listen to that show.
I actually had the chance to hear it.
But I ordered these microphones.
I was surprised to find five in the back, and I thought, what a mistake.
And then of course, I hadn't checked up their order properly.
It was actually five microphones that you get.
So I'm probably going to do five microphones, I don't know.
And when I looked at the microphones, initially they looked almost identical to the one that came with the dicta for which I'm using just now.
Although the diameter was a little bit bigger.
I think John Kelden's talking about $2 microphone and you got five or something like that.
And it cost me about six, maybe seven pounds, something like that.
But when I looked at the recording from the very first show I did,
it was very clear that audio was clipping really badly.
In audacity it really was, so I think Dave was spot on, that was a problem.
And I was quite amazed at what a difference it makes using this microphone.
Because as I say, I had it, it would be trial test yesterday.
And yes, it's transformed the quality.
So that's great.
I thought, what are the good uses of the five microphones for?
I thought I could maybe use one with my machine, which I have in the car.
Because I currently use one of these first microphones.
Well, I very rarely use it to be fair, I just tend to listen really.
But it's, I thought it might be pronounced to be a club one is a little pale and use that.
I went mobile with the amateur radio set I've got in here.
And I thought, well, it's Jimicson Electric and there's a microphone.
Well, I don't actually know very much of it.
Electric is this a microphone.
I know how a standard microphone works.
You've got a coil of wire, you know, a magnet diaphragm.
And with the diaphragm, it's up and down.
It's a plastic piece of metal that moves the coil of the coil and engineers.
A minute voltage that's amplified, I'm actually how a standard microphone works.
It's really an opposite of a loudspeaker.
But I had a wee glance at Wikipedia and the history of condensed microphone goes back quite a long way.
I can't remember the year, but it's essentially like a big capacitor.
And in some way it was headed to change the capacitance of the two plates, more or less.
I don't know exactly the construction of these things, how they work.
That's more or less how they work.
So that was that.
So I had a wee experiment with it and attached it to my amateur radio.
And I found the sensitivity was good enough, really.
And so I need to build an amplifier to make it even more sensitive.
I thought that was a bit of a faff.
But I was also very sure how you make the radio transmit.
I'm still not 100% sure how you do it.
I thought maybe it kind of looks like you almost connect the two grounds on the two sockets on the side of the radio.
But I don't know.
So yeah, I thought well it's just too much hassle.
I'm going to have to build an amplifier for the microphone and an amplifier for the speaker as well.
So it's just too much hassle to give up.
But the homework say if something's...
If something's not worth doing as I always say, is that what it's got?
One of these quotes.
I don't know what's happened here, but we're down to 30 miles per hour.
And it seems to be in a bit of a traffic jam.
I'm guessing something's obviously happened in the city bypass.
That's not a good, especially at the centre of the morning.
Oh yeah, I see some blue flashing lights up way up ahead.
Not good.
Anyway, I like that actually all I had to say.
But these microphones are just for the task.
I can't believe that the difference in quality between the one that was supplied with the addictive phone and this one.
The $2 microphone, as John Kelp said, goes $2.
It's just transformed the recording.
So I guess you could just use it in the house or out walking or in the car.
It's in the $2.
It was back then.
It makes it very easy to record a show.
I'm sure you almost have something on just you can post.
Hopefully next time I'll have a bit more structure to show.
I don't know if I'll regularly do something in a car or a little bit back to recording in the house.
I guess it depends how I feel, I'll see.
But it's certainly quite easy.
This isn't good.
Nothing but two miles never.
Anyway, that's all I have to say.
I hope it wasn't too boring for you.
And as always, if you want to contact me, I could be contacted at MrX at hpr at googlemail.com.
That's MRX ATHPR, the at symbol googlemail.com.
So until next time, thank you and goodbye.
Something like that.
Here's a feeling store button on this thing.
Listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen
to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen to me
listen to me, listen
to me, listen to me, listen to me, listen
