Episode: 2042
Title: HPR2042: My podcast list
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2042/hpr2042.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:37:24

---

This is HPR episode 2042 entitled, My Podcast List, and in part on the series, Podcast
Recommendations.
It is posted by Gainock and is about 17 minutes long.
The summary is just a listing on the podcast I listen to.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi, this is Ken, just a quick reminder not to forget to go and vote for HPR on the Podcast
Awards.com website, thank you.
Hi, Hacker Public Radio, this is Jane Dock, it's been a little while since I recorded
an episode.
I understand that HPR is looking for shows right now, so I thought I would do, I don't
know how long this is going to take, but tell you about the podcast that I listened to.
I own an iPhone, it wasn't really my choice, my husband got it for me as a Christmas present,
and really I don't like iOS very well.
I do use a aviation software on an iPad, and it's kind of hard to use a similar application
on Android, so what I tell people is I only use iOS because it has this particular aviation
application, but anyway, I have an iPhone and I use their default pod catcher, which
is just really terrible, I just can't stand it.
I should just put out a few bucks and get another podcaster from the app store, but I just
haven't really gotten around to that yet.
It seems like with every update with iOS or for the iPhone, anyway, they redo the pod
catcher, and it's just not improving, nonetheless, let me go down my list, I have about 11
podcasts that I listened to.
So first is, wait, wait, don't tell me, it's the NPR news show.
I've been listening to this show since they first started years ago, I think it was about
the year 2000, maybe 1999, even, so I've listened to it from the beginning.
It used to be an in-studio show where they had like four people talking about the news
and closing people, and now it's in front of a live audience, and usually in Chicago,
but they travel around the country, and they do, it's a quiz show about whatever news
happened during the week, and it's funny, I like it.
The next one is the Pi Podcast, and I just started listening to this because I enjoy Linux
Luddites, I like those British guys, and so one of the British guys started doing their
own podcast just for the Raspberry Pi, it comes out every couple of weeks, it's about 30
minutes, and they talk about whatever is new with the Raspberry Pi, they also do interviews
which are interesting.
Next is the NPR Politics Podcast, I do like NPR National Public Radio, and NPR is based
in Washington, D.C., and it's a public radio in the United States, it's kind of a similar
thing to Voice of America, I don't know how much of an overlap there is, when I lived
overseas, I listened to Voice of America, and it seemed to have kind of a similar kind
of style to it.
Anyway, NPR Politics, there are five or six NPR political correspondence, they cover different
parts, and specifically this presidential election year 2016 in the US, people who work
in politics just love this stuff, and so they are putting out this political podcast,
but I think just for 2016, usually it's once a week, but sometimes it's more than once
a week depending on what comes up in the news.
This year's presidential election in the US has become more interesting than it usually
is with Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders, and they like to talk about what happened with
the news with politics.
This is the two Dan Karlin podcasts, I listen to Geek Speak, which is further down in
my line, and you can tell I pick up new podcasts by listening to other podcasts, but Geek
Speak, one of the correspondents on Geek Speak talk about how much she enjoyed listening
to hardcore history, Dan Karlin, he's an American, and he says he's not a historian,
but he really enjoys studying and talking about history, and he's been doing this for
a number of years, I started listening in on his narration of World War I, I never understood
World War I, and I'm a highly educated woman, but whenever I took history classes, we never
quite got around to World War I.
I think part of it is because it was 100 years ago, and it was in Europe, and the US
was a part of it, but wasn't a huge part of it, and it involved a lot of old empires
and old alliances, and Dan Karlin just did a wonderful job of talking about what World
War I was really all about, and he had, I think there were either five or six episodes,
it was called Countdown to Armageddon, and he doesn't really tell you what the Armageddon
stood for until the very last sentence of the fifth or sixth episode.
Each episode was about four and a half hours, the first month of the war he took him for
hours to describe the first month of World War I, absolutely riveting stuff.
He also did, has done podcasts about the fall of the Roman Empire, or I'm sorry, rather
the transition of the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire, which is just incredibly
interesting stuff.
He also did one on the Mongol Empire, which Ginghis Khan, he says Ginghis Khan, instead of
Ginghis Khan.
His latest podcasts are regarding the ancient Persian empires and the kings and their relationships
with ancient Greece, great stuff, I love it.
I was a science major in college, I'm a medical doctor, I took some history when I was in college
and just really for fun more than anything else because I loved it so much, but that when
I take my long walks and my long hikes, you kind of get absorbed in these stories and
the history that Dan Karlin talks about, he has another podcast called Common Sense,
and that's more about his take on what's happening with current events, the current political
situation, what's the deal with delegates and what's the deal with Donald Trump.
It's fun, I don't know how seriously I take it, but it's fun to listen to.
Next on the line is Linux Luddites, I've been listening them pretty much since the first
few months they started playing it, I think I first heard Linux Luddites because it
was on an HPR episode, so thanks, Ken, that was a good idea.
It started out with two British guys from London, I think, and then they just got a third
guiding Jesse.
It's fun to hear people from across the Atlantic Ocean talk about Linux, they kind of introduce
the Raspberry Pi a little bit, they talk about Android a little bit.
I just like their take on things, it's every two weeks and it takes about two hours for
them to get through it, they talk about news, they discuss feedback that they receive.
Next on my list is Hacker Public Radio, that's all I'm going to say about that.
Geekspeak is the next podcast along the line, Geekspeak is produced by Public Radio Station
in Santa Cruz, KUSP, and I was just looking for a podcast one day and I came across it,
and it used to be a call-in show, so these guys would go to their studio in Santa Cruz,
they would take phone calls that people would ask them, and you could just see, people would
ask them, my computer is really slow, what do you think is going on?
You can just see them as their shoulders slow, and oh gosh, well, you know, right now
they do more of a studio recording and then play it on the radio during the, I think,
it's Saturday mornings at 10 o'clock, California time, and then they put out a podcast.
These guys are real geeks, right now actually one works at Facebook and the other one works
at Netflix, and so these guys are really in the industry, they have a good perspective
on things, it's always fun to hear about happenings in the Central Coast of California
because I live in New Mexico, and all I can do is think about, yeah, it would be really
nice to be in Santa Cruz right now.
They're also, they really like Star Wars and Star Trek, and they like to talk a lot about
that sort of thing, which is fun.
Next is Car Talk.
Car Talk's been around for a long time.
One of the guys actually died, gosh, about a year ago, I think, these are two brothers,
Tom and Ray, they ran a mechanic, an auto mechanic shop, and I think it's Cambridge, Massachusetts.
They both have doctorates from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, but they ended up
kind of being auto mechanics, but they did this local radio show in Boston, I don't know,
maybe in the 70s, or just a local thing, and when NPR wanted to kind of expand and do
a wider variety of shows, one of the correspondence heard of their show and asked them to produce it
on NPR, and at first they rebuffed her, like, what's this New Yorker coming and telling
us Bostonians what to do with our radio show, but eventually they came around, one of the
running jokes is that they really like the Dodge Dart, and this correspondent who was
talking to them and trying to convince them, owned a Dodge Dart, and that's how she
convinced them to go on NPR, they're really funny.
It is a call and show, and these are all old shows because one of them is no longer alive,
and it's starting to get to where I'm listening to shows more than once, I hear shows I've heard
way back when, but I still downloaded, I still listen to it.
Next is the AOPA Live, this is an aviation, it's actually a video podcast.
These pilots, the airline owners and pilots association, rather aircraft owners and pilots
association, AOPA, it's about a 15 minute video feed every week, they're really obsessed
with what's happening in Washington DC, and they like to show a lot of videos of airplanes
flying, it's pretty cool, including space stuff, space shuttle stuff, which is kind of neat.
Next on the list is the Linux link tech show, this was really the first Linux based podcast
that I ever listened to, I listened to it back in episode 152, and they are about at 656
now, they say that they're coming up to show 666, the mark of the beast, they have different
people coming on, they like to talk about Linux, they talk about guns, they talk about all
kinds of stuff, they talk about food, it's just fun to listen to these guys.
Now the last podcast I wanted to talk about was actually the main reason I wanted to record
a show, and in fact what got me to do this podcast right now was I was just listening
to this podcast and I thought, boy, I should really say something about this to HPR, Frank
Delaney's Rejoice, and that's R-E, Colin, J-O-Y-C-E, Rejoice.
Frank Delaney is a scholar, I'm not really sure what he's a scholar, I think he's a
Joyceian scholar, but he's from Dublin, and he's written a lot about Ireland, and he just
really loves James Joyce.
He started this podcast five or six years ago, the idea is he's taking the Book of Ulysses
by James Joyce, and he's going through it sentence by sentence, word for word, punctuation
mark by punctuation mark, and he's explaining it, and I'm of the belief that in order to
really be a learned person in this world, you really should know something about Shakespeare,
and you really should know something about James Joyce.
James Joyce is very difficult, I can't imagine trying to read this on my own without someone
explaining what it is that I'm reading.
It's really great.
He's on episode.
He's in the 300s now, it's a weekly podcast.
It used to be about five minutes, and he would do just a few sentences, and then he realized
that he's just not going to live long enough to get through the entire book if he goes
at that page.
Now he's doing a page at a time, and they're more like 30-minute podcasts, and sometimes
he doubles up.
In addition, James Joyce does these Baker Dozens, so every 12 episodes, he puts out something
extra.
There's something extra about James Joyce, the man who lived what 100 years ago.
He was part of the whole Paris scene with Ernest Hemingway and all that.
There was one particular episode that I really wanted to share with the Hacker Public
community, and this is Rejoice Episode 312A, the Dancing Soul.
James Joyce had two children, and one of them was, her name was Lucia, and in her adult
life, she ended up in a, well, what they used to call insane asylum.
She had very severe mental illness, and she lived to be pretty old.
I think she died in the 1980s, living most of her life in this institution that her family
put her in and supported her through.
The Dancing Soul episode was really so beautiful, and very moving.
I wish I could just put that podcast directly on HPR, so you can all listen to it.
I emailed Ken Fallon about this and said, hey, what do you think?
Maybe I should put this Rejoice Episode Frank Delaney's podcast on, and Ken said, well,
you got to be careful because it changed Joyce's state, it really, really protects their
state.
Although Frank Delaney didn't say, he didn't do direct quotes from any of Joyce's works,
I didn't want to get Frank Delaney mad at me, I didn't want him.
I don't know how the copyright works on his podcast, and I didn't really want to get
into that.
But look it up, Rejoice Episode 312A, The Dancing Soul.
That's all that I wanted to talk about today, all of my podcasts.
Maybe this will give you an idea to try out some of these podcasts yourself.
Thanks a lot.
We'll see you next time.
You've been listening to HECKA Public Radio at HECKA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECKA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution,
Share a Like, 3.0 License.
