Episode: 2173
Title: HPR2173: Driving a Blinkt! as an IoT device
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2173/hpr2173.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:17:31

---

This is HPR episode 2,173 entitled Driving a Blinked, and an EOT device.
It is hosted by Dave Morris and is about 39 minutes long.
The summary is, I have a Raspberry Pi nearer with a blinked.
HLEDRA I'm setting up an notification device.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everyone, this is Dave Morris. I've got a project I want to tell you about.
It's a slightly rambly project. It's probably the best way to put it.
I'll be messing around with it for a month or two now and I thought I'd better capture what I've
done so far. Otherwise it's going to just fiddle around with it. I'm going to fiddle around with it
forever and never get around to say anything. So it's based around a Raspberry Pi 0 and I bought one
of these when they first came out in December 2015. And it wasn't easy to get them because they
were very scarce but I managed to get one. I also bought a case at the same time. I like to buy
quite a lot of my Pi stuff from the Pimeroni company. That's how they pronounce it. Not Pi Meroni.
Pimeroni. I do believe. I got some 40 pin headers because there's nothing on the Pi 0 by default.
So you have to solder it yourself. So I got this. Didn't really have a tremendous number of ideas
what to do with it. And I decided to grab a device which came out a bit later called the blinked.
I don't like the name actually. It's B-L-I-N-K-T exclamation mark. It's a very strange thing to say.
But anyway, it's a device which you plug onto the GPIO pins. It's got eight RGB LEDs on it
and which are quite powerful, quite bright. And it costs £5 which is just a little more than
the 0 itself. So the plan was to turn them into some sort of status indicator so I could be alerted
to things that needed my attention. Eight things anyway. So I've called this talk this episode
driving a blinked as an IOT device. So I'm going to come on to the IOT which is internet of things.
It's not really internet of things I'm doing. It's more intranet of thing but because there's only
was only one thing and it's not. And it's just on my local network. But anyway, enough of that.
So let's talk about the setup of the Pi first of all. So I wanted to take the Pi because it's
really, really tiny the the Pi zero. I'm sure you know. I've got a photo in here. Anyway,
if you're not quite clear what it looks like. And I wanted to put the zero into some device where
I could have lights coming up and put labels alongside them to say what they meant.
And I could easily determine how important things were and that type of thing. So what I did was
was in IKEA and I noticed they have a series of picture frames which in the range called
ribber I assume you say same. But anyway, RI double BA. I've linked to it in the notes. I thought
I'd use that because it's quite deep or deep enough. It's I've given the dimensions. It's 12.5
centimeters by 17.4 and it's 3.4 centimeters deep. And it's got an internal size of 10 by 15
centimeters. It has a silver finish to when I picked up which is not the most lovely thing.
It's a bit garish but whatever. It's got glass in it and then behind that there's a piece of
hard board. I realized that hard board is a UK term. It's high density fiber board I think it's
called in the USA. It's sort of thing used for the backings of photos and that type of stuff.
I'd also got a fixture for hanging it and thing for standing it which I took off pretty quickly.
So what I wanted to do was to mount the zero behind the hard board. I drill holes in it so that
the blinked lights would shine through it. And I wanted the zero in its case to be held on
on the back of it. I kept wondering what was the best way of doing this. I had ideas of using a big
chunk of MDF the right size and scooping out a hollow into it to put the pie. But I don't have
the tools to do that really. There's no way I wanted to be chiseling away at MDF. It's horrible
material to use. And so I went with this. Now the pimmerony case that I've got is the early model
and the way they built this was to it's pretty much the same size as the pie zero and the bolts
hold it together go through the board. And as a consequence the bolts that you get with it are
size M2.5 which is quite an unusual size I find. I don't see it very often. Certainly not in the big
box hardware stores around here. Their later case is slightly bigger and the bolts go
through outside the periphery of the case. Outside the periphery of the board I mean and they've
used M3 bolts which are far more easily obtained. Anyway I managed to find a source of M2.5 20
millimeter nylon bolts to do this job. With the help of pimmerony I should say they I was I asked
them questions about what sizes these were and they and said I've had difficulty finding anything
and they pointed out somebody selling them on eBay which I then went and bought. So they're
amazingly helpful people. So what I did was I made a design in ink scape which I could use
first of all as a template for drilling the holes in this board and then I could use the same
thing or a similar thing a fresh piece of paper not the one with the holes drilled in it and I
could put labels on it and the fact that it'd be a sheet of paper over the holes in the hard board
would mean that it would act as a diffuser making it slightly less bright which I thought was a
good idea actually. It also would hide the horrible holes I drilled in this hard board because it's
not nice material to work with and obviously it's got room for the bits of text and so on. I found
that getting everything in the right position in the template under ink scape was quite difficult
because I'm a bit of a newbie with ink scape but I've certainly learnt a lot along the way.
I've shared the SVG file with this show if in case you want to mess around with it or look at it
or anything. Probably not relevant to you unless you've got all the same components that I have
but whatever. So I've got some pictures here of what I came up with. The first one is of the
the pie itself in its case. It's not got all the bolts in because I've taken it out of the frame
to do this picture. It's on and one of the LEDs is on. Number six is on and the camera had some
difficulties with that. Got a little bit upset as to how bright it was. I've shown the pie fixed
to the back of the hard board which has got a glossy black background to it and you'll see
you might be able to see from there that the the blinked LEDs are just held pressed against the
holes. So they're pretty well lined up not perfectly but they're not bad. There's another picture
of it from a better angle. You can see the back of the hard board looks pretty scabby because I
ripped off the hanging attachments but you can see the pie and it's bolted through. Now to the left
of the pie there's a couple of bits of hardwood which I cut off the stand bit that I'd ripped off
and I needed them because the whole face of the pie is not level because it's a it's level
across the case and then the blinked sits on top effectively of the case over the GPIO. So I put
these in a shims to level it all out and that took a little bit of filling around. Since I took
this picture I actually drilled holes in the in the shims so I could line them up with the bolts.
There's a picture of the front face of this hardboard looking messy. I stuck the template on it
and then couldn't get it off again so you can see there's bits of template all over it but
doesn't matter because it's going to be covered up and then there's a picture of the the whole
stuff in the picture frame. I made a little wire holding doodad. I didn't want to use the
little tabs that came as part of the frame because they're so fiddly to open and close so my
little bit of wire a little bit longer than the width of the case holded in effectively enough.
I drilled a hole through the case to do this and drilling through this stuff is a nightmare
because it's it's MDF and it's just it's really hard to get clean holes through it and you see
the bed duct tape stuck over the the tattiness of the hole and I would not have put the hole there
if I'd realized the way I was going to do it but anyway whatever next one will be not much
much nicer. There's ever a next one. Finally then the picture says there's a picture with showing
the front of this thing with all its legends and stuff and a wonderful reflection of the camera
taking it because the light wasn't perfect when I did this. Anyway enough of that that was the setup
of the device so I didn't say that the pie has a wireless dongle in it so all it needs is
a power lead. So this blinked device is quite well documented on the pimmerony site. There's loads of
hints and tips on how to use it and there's a lot of test python code which you can get
from there from by following links on their site and they they point to their GitHub repository
where all the code is so that's pretty good it you can mess around it. I'm not much for python
user. I must admit to being a little bit un-inthusiastic about python because it just with my background
in programming such as it is. Python doesn't feel right to me with all this indentation nonsense
but this is just a sort of fixed stance that my brain has wanted to take so many trying to
stop myself doing this. So pythons are way to go I think with this. So while I was preparing these
notes I remembered that I had been a bit bothered about the way the the pie with rasbian is set up
with regard to security. As you you can figure up your SD card and and so on and so forth you end up
with a username of pypy and it has the default password of raspberry. Well that's all fine and
wonderful but there's a lot of stuff that assumes that you he left this as it is and the way this
account is is set up it's it can run pseudo without a password so it's effectively a root account
to all intents and purposes and the password is well known it's known by everybody's ever touched
or by. So this ain't secure to my mind as somebody who used to work in a university where we were
quite fussy about security because we were being attacked by our students all the time then this
really upsets me. So what I normally do is I disable this account and change its password or something
I haven't actually deleted it in any instance because I'm not sure how many things actually
rely on it but I make sure it's pretty well locked away and I also take it out of the etc. pseudo as
file using a vi pseudo to to edit it and disable its pseudo access then I create an account for myself
which are normally called Dave and I give it a much more complicated password managing them with
key pass x is what I use for my password safe then I give it pseudo access but I have I want a
password to be provided via account's password obviously. So when you use the blinked then the
software assumes that in order to get access to the GPIO to write to it and change the LEDs and
stuff you need to run as a route and this is because the device driver that runs the GPIO works
through the proc file system I don't think it is but it's all devices are mapped to pseudo files and
directories in Linux and when you look at slash sys slash class slash GPIO for example the
directory that that manages all this you find that they're owned by user root and group GPIO.
So I looked for ways in which I could use the GPIO without using pseudo for everything because
it just gets really messy or you take away all the security and let anybody do it which I also
find wrong. I didn't find a clear answer how to do this I looked and looked and looked nobody
seemed to have come up with a very simplest simple and easily implemented way of doing this which
is a bit surprising. When I was tackling a project with a pie a while ago I did a show on this
making a print server, cups print server and scanner driver on a pie. I remember I had to give
the account access to a particular group. I've got what it was now but it's in the documentation.
So I thought I could probably do the same thing here so I gave user Dave access to the GPIO group
which is done through the user mod command, user mod space hyphen capital G space GPIO in
lowercase space then the account name Dave and when I done that I found I could use the GPIO
without any problems. Now I wish this was more clearly document and maybe it is now it was
a month or two that I looked ago that I looked at this maybe it's better now and maybe it's coming
because I think people are generally commenting on this. I've heard other people saying that this
whole business of pie and raspberry is too insecure. Anyway whatever I think people should be made
aware of this and the process of learning use of raspberry pie should include some basic security
practices and so on. People should understand the issues a little bit better than they do. I did
note here in the in the long notes and of course there's long notes here which I usually forget
to say but you probably have worked that out of yourself. The user pie PI also has GPIO membership
and I demonstrated this by using the command id space pie which returns all the all the group
UIDGID and group membership of a given user. I pipe that into a command fold which comes pre-installed
on raspberry and which is a thing which lets you wrap long lines. If I didn't do that then this would
all come out in one very long line and the markdown system I use here would get upset about it
you wouldn't be able to read it. After that digression let's talk about how how I wanted to use this
communications device, this notification device. So here it is sitting on a shelf. I'm sitting at my
workstation here with my main desktop machine and it's an IKEA computer desk which has a sort of
arch thing over the monitor. It's going to go actually. I'm going to chop that and build something
better but for the moment there's a sort of shelfy thing on which this picture frame exists and
there's plugged into it and nearby outlet. So how do I tell it to turn on a light? What's the question?
So I know that there are scripts I can run on the zero that will switch the LED's on and
often change color and so forth but I wanted to communicate with it from other machines. I didn't
want to... I knew I could have written something where I wrote something that listened on a port
and took commands and did things but I didn't really want to be writing my own remote control
infrastructure so I looked around to see what else was possible knowing that there must be tons of
stuff. First thing I came upon having listened to a recent episode of Changelog podcast was a
queuing system called ZeroMQ. I've heard about that before. I looked at it and actually bought
the book because I can see possibilities for using it but it seemed like overkill for this one.
It's a very sort of enterprise level tool and quite complex. So I next looked at MQTT. Now MQTT
I'd heard about at OgCamp 2012 there was a talk and this is a protocol which is being used
in Internet of Things stuff I believe. I don't know of any instances where it is but I'm told
that that's the case. There's an implementation of the MQTT protocol in a system called Mosquito
2Ts MOSQI TTO. There's links to all of this stuff in the notes. I've seen it but it's easy to install
Mosquito server and clients on the Pi Zero and it's just it was just an app getting install Mosquito
and Mosquito hyphen clients. So I got the server and clients. The server was already set up to run
at boot time and there's a service command I think which lets me mess around with it. I haven't
done much messing with it. It just runs. The clients that I got consist of the commands Mosquito
underscore sub and Mosquito underscore pub. So let's talk about what MQTT does. The design
is based around a so-called published subscriber pub sub model. This requires a message broker whose
job it is to take messages from or receive messages from a publisher and pass them to a subscriber.
It knows which messages to send where by filtering them and it bases it's filtering on an attribute
called a topic. So messages have topics. There are things that send them, his message and it's
got this topic. There are things the subscribers that listen to them, listen for them and they say
I'm here to get messages with this particular topic. There's nothing to stop you having
publishers that publish stuff and there's nobody listening. It'll just be thrown away. So it's all
quite simple and lightweight. So a typical case might be a publisher. You might have a
temperature sensor, an intelligent temperature sensor that can send IP messages or you might have
a doorbell which when pressed sends an IP message using this protocol and the subscriber might be
something controlling the heating system which is listening for temperature messages
or you might have an audio or visual alert system receiving the doorbell messages and doing
something with them. So that's you probably hear where all this stuff. That's the sort of model
that the internet of things is using. The only thing it though is that in many cases the intermediary
for all of this, the message transport level, the stuff that's doing the messaging is not
local to you. It's on the internet somewhere. So if you've got a cloud, you've got a nest thermostat
then it's talking to the nest service as far as I'm aware and if you've got a, is it
Philips Hue light, the ones that you can control over the internet, then they're receiving commands
from their base on the internet. So the Mosquito broker then is an MQTT message broker,
the server I was talking about earlier on. And the commands Mosquito Pub and Mosquito Sub are
examples of a publisher and a subscriber. Now at the Python level there's a library called
PAHOMQTT PAHO hyphen MQTT which you can use to write scripts and I've given example how you could
install it using PIP, PIP install PAHOMQTT running under pseudo. So in the Pimironi examples they
provide an example script which they call MQTT.py which demonstrates the use of this library which
is pretty wonderful. So I took this and modified it to make a first version of a listener, a subscriber
script. I renamed it blinked underscore client.py and there's a version available with this show if
you want to look at it. It's a temporary, it's a sort of in development script so don't take it
as definitive in any way. You're welcome to do whatever you want with it, a similar way to the
Pimironi thing I'm sure. Anyway I modified it to connect to localhost because I'm running it on
py0 and that's where the Mosquito broker is running. So it's a subscriber, it's an MQTT subscriber
and it's sitting there listening for messages. I left the topic as it was in the original script and
it was Pimironi slash blinked. I don't know what yeah there's a hierarchy of naming in the topic
with it's a bit like a file path. So Pimironi slash blinked and you can actually specify topics
as Pimironi slash asterisk to get everything which is under the prefix Pimironi I think. But
I've not really delved into this much. You can read up more about this if you want to from the
various links that I've put in the notes. The standard port that's used is 1883 and I've just
continued with that for the moment. So this script runs in the background on thepy0. So I just
simply added a crontab entry which starts it up when the pie is rebooted. I don't know if you
know but in a crontab file there's an entry you can put which starts at sign reboot space and
then the path to the script which in my case is dollar home, capitals in the capital letters slash
blinktie underscore client.py with an ampersand on the end. So at reboot it will fire this thing up
and just leave it running in the background forever. So the script which is this adaptation as I
said uses the same methods as the original Pimironi design and it expects messages which contain
strings which have the form RGB comma and then a number for the pixel then comma then three numbers
separated by commas which represent the RGB color values decimal numbers. So RGB comma 1 comma 255 comma
0 comma 255 is specifying that you want LED number 1 they start from 0 to have a red value of 255
which is full intensity red a green value of 0 no green at all and a blue value of 255. This is
an 8-bit value in each case because it's actually a hex a six digit hex string with the other
way of looking at it. So that will set it to that color combination. There's also a CLR message
which will clear all the LEDs on the blinkt. They've all still carried over the algorithm which if
the pixel value is an asterisk then all pixels are set to that particular color. I'm going to change
this but that's what it's doing at the moment. So I've got a mechanism then on the pie zero where
I can tell it to switch on a light or switch off a light whatever any of the LEDs can be turned
on or off. So I then came up with the first publisher. What I've been doing before this was I've
been running a pair of scripts on my desktop machine and these helped me with the process of
moderating comments on the HPR website. I've taken that job on from Ken to he's got enough on his
plate and so I just need to keep an eye out when a new comment comes in which I either go and
look at the website to see is there anything new or I run this script. So the original one was a
bash script which was run from cron every 15 minutes. I called this cron job underscore comments.
All my cron called scripts I start with cron job just to make it clear what they are. It's included
in the with this episode. It runs a purl script which I called scrape underscore comments which
goes to a particular page on the HPR website and detect if there are any new comments which require
attention. This this page is available to you. I won't share the scrape comments script at the
moment anyway but on this page there's quite a lot of statistics. I haven't actually noted what it
is. I should maybe add this to the to the notes but on it there's a line that says comments
requiring attention or something. It's followed by a number. So I simply look for that and pick up
the number. So it runs this scrape script the purl script. If it finds anything it returns or whatever
it does it returns a number saying how many comments need attention so it can be zero or any any
other number. So if it's non zero then I simply in the bash script call mosquito underscore pub
and I tell it that the topic is pymirony slash blinked and the message is one of these RGB blah blah blah
thing. So you see here it says there's an example of it here RGB comma dollar LED comma 255 comma 255 comma zero.
So that set that switches on the red and the green colors on the LED nominated by whatever the
value of dollar LED is. So that sends a message. So this is running on the pi zero I didn't
to say that and it sends a message to the MQTT broker and causes that LED to show a yellowish color
to yellowish because it's not very clear yellow but then it's a combination of two LEDs. If there's
nothing to do then it does an equivalent mosquito pub command where it sets all the RGB values to zero
and turns the pixel off. So that's what I have at the moment that is a thing that running on the
pi zero it's looking at the website and it's setting LED one actually to this yellow color and that
says there's work to be done I go and do the work it then looks again in 15 minutes and says oh there's
nothing to do now so it turns the light off again so it's pretty simple but it's some it's fun.
So what I want to do with the the listener script so far is to smarten it up quite a lot I
probably change the interface but have something quite similar because it's a nice idea I look
the way it's signed. I'd very much like to be able to blink one of these lights and maybe just
change color briefly and then revert to the previous color or to flash it on and off and so on but
there's quite a lot of issues around that that need some need some further work so I might do
another show about this if I once I once I've got that done at the moment I've got something that
works so I'm happy about that so how else am I using this notification system now that I've got it
I've got another mechanism where when a new HBR show appears then I am alerted and I've mentioned
this before in the context of the blink stick I'm all into indicator lights all of the plays show
number 1971 I talked about building the blink stick and what I'm using it for so I've got a thing
which another crown job script that runs every 30 minutes and it scrapes the the website the main
website that shows the queue and notices if there are any new shows being in the state being processed
and if there are and that particular show number has not yet been processed locally because this
this thing also looks at what I've done as a consequence of noticing these things it will it turns
the blink stick on red but I added a added code to it to also switch on light zero on the blinked
on the pie zero and when I dealt with that particular thing what I do is I grab the show notes
from the shows and process them and turn them into HTML for adding to the show and once I've done
that then the code that's looking at this script notices that I've done the necessary work and
turns the lights off turns the blinked blink stick and the blinked off so that's first thing I
am using but I'm going to phase out the blink stick in this context to think and use the
the nice notification thingy instead so I've recently added a male notification thing to it
I use thunderbird to handle my male on my desktop and I've got a bunch of male accounts
which it connects to and pulls stuff down there's loads of filters in thunderbird to move
incoming male into folders or chuck it into the spam bucket whatever in particular I've got
an add-on a thunderbird add-on called male box alert which can do things to alert me to important
male that needs particular attention so this thing can do various actions when male arrives in a
folder so this is not just male who arrive in the inbox is male being filtered from the inbox into
a folder and so I've got sounds which I've grabbed off the free sound org site and edited
down something more manageable and so on I've got pop-up displays and that type of thing my
box alert tool can also run a script so I've written one just a simple bash script which uses
mosquito pub to make led6 on the pi0 system to engreen and a moment this is just running when I get
messages from my son they get dropped into into the appropriate folder and the light comes on
so so how do I turn the light off again obviously I can turn it off manually remotely as well by
using the mosquito pub come on but I want to be able to do it automatically at the moment I'm
working on a script which goes and checks a mailbox because a male folder a male folder as
you'd say a male folder which is that's a male concept it's actually a file and it's a file
containing male in a standard format called inbox format so I've got tools which which I
which I can pass this with a pulse script so I'm experimenting with this it passes the
mailbox file and it scans it to see if there are any unseen messages in and since when I go and
check see what the message was about it turns from unseen to to read then this can detect it and
if it says that if it finds there's no unread messages in them the mailbox it will turn the
light off and that couldn't be run from cron it's not at the moment and finished it it's also
fairly heavy because if there's a lot of messages in the folder it's going to have to pause them all
to find out which one is which ones are read or unread so if you've got thousands messages that's
not really a very good solution there isn't anything else that I know of it obviously there's an
event in thunderbird which will be triggered when a message goes from unread to read but that doesn't
seem to be hookable in any in any sin if I were running some other male system maybe something
like mutt and maybe there are better ways of writing hooks for these events I've certainly used
male systems in the past where I have written hooks into the the male client to enable me to do
these sorts of things but that was going back two days long ago I think I've got a plan for an
IRC notify but I haven't started on that yet I use wechat to to contact IRC IRC client and it has
got some quite powerful plug-in capabilities so state changes in there can be can cause events
to happen the wechat running on another pie and I'm looking at the possibility of writing a plug-in
which with which I can use a mosquito pub type call and with that switch on my light on the
notification system to say somebody yes just spoken to you in IRC because it would be nice if I
if if I had the ability to blink the light I could you know there would hold dash of these things
coming in and I could flash it according to the number that were there whatever that's some project
for the future so that's nearly all I have to say about this particular project except that
cause I got into muskito a bit I've also installed it on my desktop which obviously I had to
do in order to be able to talk to the pie zero and it occurred to me I could write another listener
on there and use it to interface to the blink stick which is plugged into the the desktop is plugged
into a usb hub connected to the desktop machine so I found some work that had been done on the
blink stick website which I've pointed to it's a moderately old thing it's dated 2013
this protocol has been around for a while I'm using this as a development platform for my
python ideas and also get better into python scripting the original script needed some changes
because the way the python library works and what it's called and stuff have changed in the
interim so what I'm doing here it's just a silly thing really every 30 minutes on the pie zero
a cron job runs which calls muskito pub and sends a message to the desktop assuming dead
up on the desktop it's not on all day not all night anyway not on 24 hours of turn it off
and on in the morning so all it does is every 30 minutes it flashes the blink stick and it
that's just because I want to be sure that the pie zero is up and running and doing everything
it should what I should really do is to have maybe some means of seeing the the on light on the
the thing you can't see it because it's inside this frame but I need some sort of indicated to say
I'm alive and well and this was a solution that I came up with it's really just a temporary hack
that I can use the reason I wanted to do this because I found in the early days the zero would
occasionally vanish from the wi-fi network and I'm not sure if that's an issue with my router or
what it is the moment I'm getting a light flashing every 30 minutes and that's that's working fine
I'm happy with that and it's also give me a chance to play with the the listener on the
workstation and I can try developing blinky things on that and so on and so forth so just to wind up
I don't have a lot of interest in the internet of things when it means paying a lot of money for
special light bulbs and temperatures sensors and all that sort of stuff and it requires internet
access and a remote server etc etc but I'm quite excited about doing this at the level and I've
just been describing things where I have full control over it all I found that this MQTT
protocol in the shape of the Mosquito server is really nice to set up and simple and has great
potential for building into communicating system since the zero is running 24-7 I have to admit
that on the odd occasions I've got up in the middle of the night for whatever reason come down
stairs to find a glowing yellow light it'd be even worse it was flashing probably I see the new
there's a new HPR comment has arrived in while I was asleep it's slightly eerie but it's also
quite cool I should say I don't action at that point I haven't put all these various odds and
ends of code up on the get repository like I normally do what I'll do is once I've got something I
I'm happy with I will share them but to share you know stuff that's in very much in the state of
flux doesn't seem to be entirely a good thing final point was that when I started doing this stuff
and I was messing started messing with Mosquito and MQTT I noticed that Jezra had started something
he mentioned it on Gnosocial and I was asked him about what he was doing and I've indicated
he's I've linked to his project where he built a rather nice looking light which is um
controllable through the MQTT protocol from his phone I think he ended up doing but check it out
for yourself he's a much more experienced Python programmer than I am so if you're interested in
doing any of this stuff yourself you'd be you'd do well to kind of look and see what Jezra has done
so you could learn from from his his stuff as can I of course so thank you Jezra for making it
available so that's it I hope you found that useful and not too long okay bye now
you've been listening to Heka Public Radio at Heka Public Radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments
attribution share a light 3.0 license
