Episode: 2653
Title: HPR2653: Using the EXACT Function in Excel
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2653/hpr2653.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:02:40

---

This is HPR episode 2653 entitled, using the exact function in Excel.
It is hosted by Shane Shannon and in about 3 minutes long and Karina Cleanflag.
The summary is, Shane explains that he just learned a simple and useful Excel function.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello HPR listeners.
This is me eating the sandwich that I cut in the last episode I recorded.
That was a good bite of sandwich.
That was a sandwich that I cut with the pocket knife that I explained in the last episode I did.
That was not Niagara Falls, that was a bus pulling up to near where I am under the tree.
But what exactly am I going to talk about today?
Well, I'm going to talk about exact.
Exact is a function in Excel that I just discovered even though I've been teaching Excel for maybe five or six years,
maybe even nine years.
I forget exactly when I started teaching Excel on my job, but I've been in my position for nine years now.
I never knew about this.
It'll function in Excel called Exact and one of my students actually showed it to me this week.
I put it up on my whiteboard in the classroom so I could memorize it and keep it in my memory.
So the way it's written is its written equal sign, the word exact followed by a round bracket,
followed by the reference of the first cell, followed by comma, followed by the reference of the second cell, followed by a closed round bracket.
And what it does is it compares two cells, the values of two cells, and lets you know, true or false, one of those cells are exact.
So if you look on the office.com page about how this works in Microsoft Excel,
it'll show you examples of how you can compare three words.
Sorry, two words.
It shows you three examples of comparing those words.
And it'll tell you if it's those words are exact or not.
So my student was using it to check that his formula, I mean the results was formula.
He was checking to see if it was correct or not.
So he used something like equal, then the word exact, then an open rounded bracket,
then a1, comma, d1, closed rounded bracket.
And you can see how this would be pretty useful.
And most of you, I assume you know all about this.
But number one, HPR needs episodes.
Number two, maybe it'll remind you of this formula and maybe you can use it today or tomorrow.
If so, let me know in the comments.
And number three, maybe this has new to you, like it was to me, even though I've known about it for a while.
So there we go.
That is exactly all I wanted to say.
Goodbye.
You've been listening to Heca Public Radio at Heca Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heca Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
