Episode: 2654
Title: HPR2654: Making Crepes
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2654/hpr2654.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:03:26

---

This is HPR Episode 2654 entitled Making Crapes and is part of the series cooking.
It is hosted by Shane Shenan and is about 13 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is Shane makes Crapes from a simple recipe.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15 that's HPR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hacker Public Radio listeners. Welcome. This is Shane. I live not too far from Niagara Falls
in Ontario and Canada. And my two previous episodes recently were what a pocket knife
and a bow to an Excel function. But today we're going to be making some Crapes.
So I have all my greedy and settled in front of me. I'm using my blue microphone here
in the kitchen, hooked up to my laptop that's run a new Ubuntu 18.04. And you can hear
my nine month old in the background. Let me just grab her hand full of goldfish crackers.
We'll see if that'll keep her happy for a few minutes. So Crapes are so simple, probably
because I don't need a rise so there's no bacon powder required. So what you need is
one cup of flour, one cup of milk, and apparently a babysitter. In addition to flour in the
milk, you need one egg. So this will be a task to see if I can break an egg, well hold
in that child. Got the bowl positions. Let's try it. Okay. So the top part of the egg
shell fell in. And there's two tiny pieces of eggshell in there. But not too bad. See
if I can get that egg shell over here. The spoon. One more little egg shell piece. Yep, this
would have been a prime time to break the egg into a different bowl. But there we go.
Here's the egg. Here's the one cup of flour. And here is the one cup of milk. Now the recipe
specified, the recipe I got from the internet from one of those websites that try to make you
buying ingredients. It's specified all-purpose flour. So if you have a single-purpose flour,
your flour says only for sugar cookies. I guess you have to get all-purpose flour. Okay,
let's whisk that together. Let's mix that up. Shift the baby to the other arm.
Okay, can I put you on the floor for 10 seconds? Let's try that. She's got a little fabric crinkly book
to play with now. I'm going to mix it a bit more. It's still kind of siliquity now.
Let's still got a little floaty bits of flour. Nice to see that the whiskin is coming through stronger
than my voice. Almost there. Okay, now I'm going to turn on the the elements, the burner
on the stove. I've got a little pan there. I'm going to put some cooking spray in there. This is
canola oil. I realize that not every place has cooking spray. Okay, the baby is once in my arms
again, once again. Staying far away from that burner. When I see that cooking spray kind of
start to bubble a bit. That's when I'll put this, this crepe mix, this crepe batter into the pan.
Now I need to look for a quarter cup. There we go. We've got a measure and scoop here. It's a quarter,
quarter of a cup. I'm just mixing the batter a bit more. Hold on, I wait for the pan to look like it's hot.
The pan is smoking very slightly from the canola oil. Yeah, it's looking. It doesn't
point bubble. It just looks hot. Let us scoop one quarter. Shifting the baby to my left side and
just far away from the burner. My right hand free to scoop one quarter a cup of batter. Yeah, look at this.
There we go, right into the pan. And then I pick the pan up right away and I kind of rotate it so that the batter
goes to all areas of the bottom of the pan. You're spreading the batter out. And almost immediately because the
pan is pre-warmed, it starts to get a little crispy. It starts to cook right away, especially on the edges. And that's what we're looking for.
You can stop rolling the pan around when the batter won't really move anymore. I've stopped already and now I'm going to get something.
Here's a spatula, which I'm going to use in a minute. You just kind of flip up one of the edges. I had the other burner
on the full, but I'm going to turn it down to about half right now. And then, yeah, when I put the spatula underneath this
crepe, it picks it up. I can even see it's still translucent, the crepe is still translucent that I can see the spatula through it.
And then when I flipped it over, it was starting to brown a little bit there. Now I'll leave it there. It's about to turn the burner down about halfway.
Now it's really hot. Now let it sit there for a few seconds. And then we'll do the fun part.
Do you like the fun parts? Okay. So for the fun part, I have prepared melted butter while my case margarine. Got some melted margarine here.
And I also have some cinnamon sugar, which is not in the recipe. The recipe I found online. But my parents made something like this.
They're from South Africa. And they had something in their South African cookbook called South African pancakes. And it used cinnamon sugar.
So what I did is I took an old spice container, put a lot of sugar in it and a little bit of cinnamon sugar. And I kept adjusting the ratio to taste.
So you want to be very sugary and a little cinnamon, a little cinnamon. It's going to look very brown and cinnamon, but you want to be able to see individual bits of sugar in there like grains of sugar.
So the grains of sugar will be brown, but you don't want it so much that it's just cinnamon in there. I would say maybe, maybe it's one to eight proportions. That's my guess.
Eight part sugar or one part cinnamon.
Okay. Let's see. Let's get some of the playlists.
So she's got a goldfish tracker. If the apocalypse happens, at least for parents, the important products will be goldfish crackers. That'll be a currency.
Before I kidded, I didn't realize how important these little goldfish shaped crackers were. Two parents. One another one. Okay. You hold this one.
Okay. Daddy's going to flip this crepe over onto a plate that's waiting because planning is half the battle.
And then, let's get that pre-melted butter.
I melted this and then microwave before I begin. And I'm using kind of a kitchen brush to brush butter onto the crepe.
And then, I'm going to, with one hand, open up the cinnamon sugar container. Well, not to use two because my fingers were buttery.
Now then, I'm going to shake some cinnamon sugar here right down the center of this crepe.
Once I've put a bunch of cinnamon down the center, I'm going to kind of shake the plate so that the cinnamon moves around on the crepe.
So it's not just entirely in the center. And then, I'm going to roll it. And I'm going to roll it so that the line of cinnamon sugar is in the center of the roll.
There we go. Okay. Okay. And I usually use two hands for this.
And we're going to take a little, little bite of this rolled up crepe made with one cup of flour, one cup of milk.
One egg. I actually forgot to put in one pinch of salt I should have put in.
Let's see how it tastes without the one pinch.
Okay. So that's a simple crepe. Goodbye. Thank you for your time.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot org pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
distribution, share a light, free dot org license.
