Episode: 2335
Title: HPR2335: Baofeng UV5R VHF/UHF Handset part 9
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2335/hpr2335.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:26:33

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthaus.com, get 15% discount
on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's
honest and fair at Ananasthaus.com.
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio audience. My name is Mr X. As usual I'd like to start by thanking
the people HBR for making this service available. If we'll contribute to the show with more shows
than we know what to do with, the show is provided by the community for the community. It's actually
very easy. I've gone to a great deal of effort to streamline the whole process and it's really quite
quite easy. The hardest part I find is getting down to writing the show notes. It's just about
picking up a microphone and hitting the record button. We should must have something interesting
that we'd all love to hear. Okay here I'll attempt to cover the menu options of the Bo thing
UV5R and HL Transever. I'll cover some of the options in detail. The more obvious ones are
just briefly covered. I'll highlight any options I don't understand and can't get information on.
The options I know little about will likely be either Bo thing specific options or options that are
not really relevant to the radio amateur. If I remember I'll try to include the radio announcements
of the menu selection. Menu 25 SFT-D Frequency Shift Direction
Available parameters minus plus and zero duplex shift. Set the direction of the transmit offset
relative to the receive frequency. This option is mainly used to work through repeaters.
Plus we'll set the radio to transmit at a higher frequency than the receive frequency. Minus
this will set the radio to transmit at a lower frequency than the receive frequency.
Zero or off will disable transmit offset so that the radio will transmit on the same frequency as it
receives. The amount of frequency offset is set by menu 26. This option is applicable to VFO
mode only and memory mode or channel mode it must be programmed by the computer.
Offset Frequency
Offset Frequency Menu 26 Offset Frequency shift amount value in megahertz
valid parameters are from 0 to 69.990 megahertz.
This option again is mainly used in working through a repeater. It sets a amount of offset
on the transmit frequency relative to the receive frequency. To input an offset frequency
with numeric keypad enter the frequency in megahertz with leading zeros. For example to set
two megahertz shift enter 0 to on the numeric keypad. For a 600 kilohertz shift enter 0 0 6.
Use up and down arrow keys to set offset below 100 kilohertz.
Menu 27 Memory Channel, Story Memory Channel, Available parameters 0 0 0 to 1 2 7.
Stores the current settings in memory to the specific channel number.
Delete Channel, Menu 28, Del-CH, Delete a Memory Channel, Available parameters 0 0 0 to 1 2 7.
Delete a Memory Channel at the specified channel number.
Menu, Backlight Selection, Menu 29, WT-LED, Display Backlight Color and Standby, Available
parameters blue, orange, purple and off. This option sets a display backlight color
when the radio is in standby, i.e. not receiving a signal and not transmitting.
The available colors are blue, orange, purple and off.
Backlight Selection, Menu 30, RX-LED, Display Backlight Color, Receive,
Filter Amputers, Blue, Orange, Purple and off. This option sets a display backlight color
when the radio is in receive, i.e. when a signal is strong enough to open the square
box. This option sets a display backlight color when the radio is in transmit, i.e. when the
PDT push the torque button on the side of the radio is pushed. Again, the available colors are
blue, orange, purple and off. Menu 32, No Voice Prompt, AL-MOD, alarm mode activated when
orange button held. Available parameters, Site, Tone and Code, Site, Cycling Tone, Transmitted
over the air, Tone parameter, emitted from radio speaker only, Code, Transmitted 5.6
of Tone, followed by Morse. Menu 33, Band Selection, Available
parameters, VHF, UHF, Set Second Operating Band. The both thing UV5R covers a VHF
frequency range of 136 to 174 MHz, RX and TX, and UHF frequency range 400 to 480 MHz, RX-TX.
Menu 34, TDR-AB, No Voice Prompt for this menu. Transmitted Selection in dual watch mode,
VHF, A, B and off. If enabled, when the PDT push the torque button is pushed,
this will force the radio to transmit on the selected frequency when in dual watch mode.
Option A will transmit on the frequency displayed in the upper display. Option B will transmit
on the frequency displayed in the lower display. I would imagine, though not confirm,
that option off inhibits transmit when in dual watch mode. Dual watch is set from Menu 7.
Menu 35, STE, Squelch Tail Elimination. Available parameters on, off. There's no voice prompt
for this menu. I don't know much about this option, but found the following interesting information
on Stack Exchange, and if I remember, include the link in my show notes. From Stack Exchange,
test a performed in carrier squelch mode on all radios without any subodible tone or digital
squelch involved. Scenario 1, the both-wing handheld radio keys up. Another both-wing is listening.
When the transmitting both-wing and keys, the received both-wing does not hear any squelch tail,
has a smooth and key. In other words, don't get cuck when the person unkeys the transmitting
both-wing. Scenario 2, the both-wing handheld radio keys up. A different brand radio is used
to receive. When the both-wing and keys, Squelch tail is heard through the speaker of the other
radio. I have tested this on Kinwood Alinco and Icom. So in this case, you have the Squelch tail
elimination set on the both-wing. You transmit, you listen on another radio and it doesn't
eliminate the tail. The Kinwood Alinco and Icom radio is here that cuck when the buttons unkeyed
on the on the both-wing. Scenario 3, a different brand radio keys up. The both-wing is listening.
When the radio unkeys, I hear a squelch tail through the both-wing speaker. So there you go. You
still have the, I would assume you still have the squelch tail elimination turned on on the
both-wing, but you transmit with a different radio, a non-bow-wing radio, unkey, and on the
both-wing ear a cuck. What is it that both-wing uses to eliminate Squelch tails on radio,
where no other brand inhibits this properly? I've confirmed it is not chicken burst,
enabling the PL tone early, or reverse burst, phasing the PL tone 100 degrees, and there is something
special about the both-wing radios end of transmission Squelch tail liminator. So here's some more
information also from Stack Exchange. Menu 35 STE Squelch tail elimination. This function is used
to eliminate Squelch tail noise between the UV 5Rs that are communicating directly, no repeater.
Resetition of a 55 Hz or 134.4 Hz tone burst,
mutes the audio long enough to prevent heating any Squelch tail noise.
Note, when enabled and TDC is set to off, the radio is sent a 55 Hz tone for about one quarter of a
second when the PTT key is released. Note, when enabled and TDC is not set to off, the radio
sends 134.4 Hz for about one quarter of a second when the PTT key is released. Note, set to
off before communicating through a repeater. Note, recommended setting is off. Well, here you go,
I don't know what all that means, I guess it's handy for direct both-wing to both-wing communication,
not going through a repeater, it's a bit of a specialist use I suppose.
Primarily more useful for PMR type use. Passable, you could use it for someplex conversation I suppose
from both-wing to both-wing. Menu 36 RP-STE Squelch tail elimination through a repeater,
available parameters 1 to 10 and off, recommended setting is off for amateur use.
Menu 37 RP-T-RL, delay the Squelch tail of repeater, 1 to 10 and off, again,
recommended setting for amateur use, off. Menu 38 PON MGS, power on message, available parameters
through and message. When enabled, it displays a two-line message on the display.
Message can only be set via a computer. Through will flash entire LCD. Message displays a
two-line message. Note quite sure what that means, through will flash entire LCD. Message displays
a two-line message. What else I'm thinking to experiment with? Menu 39 Roger Beep,
parameters available on, off. Transmits an audible tone after release CPT.
From Wikipedia, radio, a tone or tone added to the end of a broadcast segment to indicate that
the user-slash operator has concluded speaking. It is usually added automatically by a power mic,
CBRDO or Transsever. Initialization, menu 40, reset, reset defaults,
available parameters via 4 and all. This resets the redo to factory defaults with
some exceptions. VFO resets via 4 settings only. All is total reset. Reverse everything with
exception of the power on message, the VIP software band limits and some firmware it may use
it language to Chinese. This concludes all the available 40 menus on the bofing UV5R.
Okay, this concludes the detailed series of the bofing UV5R, VHF, UHF, Transsever. By now,
you'll be completely fed up of it. I was planning originally to do a little bit on the
open software program, CHURP, which allows you to program, among other things, the UV5R,
radio. It'll cater for a wide selection of videos, but it does do the bofing UV5R,
but let me believe that for another day, because that was quite a few episodes of the day,
and I think you'll be completely bored of it. You'll be completely bored of the topic.
Right, okay. If you want to contact me, I can be contacted at MrX at hpr at googlemail.com.
That's MRX, AT, HPR, the At symbol, googlemail.com. So until next time, thank you.
And goodbye.
