Episode: 2331
Title: HPR2331: Liverpool Makefest 2017 Show 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2331/hpr2331.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:24:46

---

This is HBR episode 2,331 entitled Liverpool Makefast 2017 Show One, and is part of the series
Interview.
It is hosted by Tony Huma, Tony H1, 212, and is about 5 minutes long, and carries a clean
flag.
The summer is a short series of interviews that Liverpool Makefast 2017.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair, at An HonestHose.com.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio.
What follows is a couple of interviews from Liverpool Makefast on Saturday, 24th June 2017.
The next couple of shows that I post will be shortened, used with various people that
contributed to the day, and had stalls, and were showing off what they do as far as making
and crafts and technology, etc.
So enjoy the following couple of interviews.
Thanks.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio, I'm here at Liverpool Makefast, and
I've got Jay Raven, the inventor of this island.
Jay, would you like to tell us a little bit about what you're doing here today?
We came along today to show off our young inventors projects, and to just showcase the
kind of things that we do.
We work a lot with younger people and making game projects, really.
I'm studying in front of a game station that you've actually built yourself.
Do you want to tell us a little bit about it?
Yeah, it's Windows-based, main PC inside, and we use zero delay modules for all of the
control systems.
Now, this one's actually our workshop name.
We do the spoke systems for other people, they ask us, we design things that look like
original 70s and 80s, our cable machines with the graphics and everything on them, but
all the features that go into them get tested on this little guy first, and make sure
they actually work before they get shipped out.
Brilliant.
What are the projects that you're running?
We do a lot with artists and craftspeople, we're part of the Funky Arve Network that's
in Chester, so we work with independent artists, and we develop kits for them.
They come with designs, and we sit down, and we work it out, and then we actually produce
them for them, and then Funky Arve, the shopping Chester actually sells them for them.
Oh, right.
It's completely community-interest-based, so it's all not for profit, basically.
So if the listeners would like to find you on the internet, what's your internet address?
Our web address is www.ventersasylum.co.uk.
Thank you very much.
No worries, any time.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes again at Liverpool Make Fest, 2017, and I've got with me.
John Walton and Margaret Walton.
John's here at the Make Fest, displaying what?
Little models that I've made that are hopefully animatronic, which are designed to try to get
youngsters involved in making things, rather than sitting in front of screens, which is always
a good idea.
So what kind of things have you got?
Obviously, we're on the radio, so the listeners can't see them.
Would you like to just describe a couple of the things you've got here?
Yeah, right.
We've got the beetle and the fly, which is based on the carno, but it's got other bits
with it, so that when the button's pressed, the fly gets away from the beetle, the beetle
then comes after the fly, gets the fly, and drags it back again.
So it's on animatronic devices, what they call them, I believe, because it includes mechanical
devices and electronic devices.
Yeah, it's really cool.
I'm just looking at the stalls here, and there's some really cool things these are
skulls of chimps, is that?
Yeah, that was a chimping, it's for my life, and what I do is I hack toys, get a whole
of old toys, and try and revitalize them, give them a new lease of life.
So the chimps, it's lost all its fur, so I call it the naked chimp, but that is just
basically the toy, I've taken off the innards and put another button on it, or three buttons,
to represent the buttons that you would have pressed when it was an original toy.
That's really cool, and over here, these are some of the things that your wife's made,
is it?
That's right, yeah, this is Margaret, and she is into sewing, and I'm afraid with very
sexual stereotypes where my wife's sores, and I play with the mechanical bits and pieces.
So you talk about trying to encourage young people, where have you displayed before today?
We go to lots of make affairs and places like that to go around and try and encourage
young people, and it's really nice, we've had people come back when we've been back at
the following year, and say that they've been away and tried to do things that they wouldn't
have done before.
So that really encourages me, and keeps me going.
Right, well, thank you very much.
Do you have a website where you display any of these things?
No, no, I'm an old crony, I don't have a website, no.
Okay, well that means you're going to have to come to make a fair to see all your work,
so thank you very much again anyway.
Thank you, bye, bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a light, 3.0 license.
