Episode: 2281
Title: HPR2281: HPR Community News for April 2017
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2281/hpr2281.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:52:42

---

This is HBR episode 2,281 entitled HBR Community News for April 2017 and is part of the series
HBR Community News. It is posted by HBR volunteers and is about 92 minutes long and carries an
explicit flag. The summary is HBR volunteers talk about show release and comment posted
in April 2017. This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Hello everybody. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. This is the Community News show for the month
of April. Ken always says problems with this. I can see why there's a lot of months
floating around in front of me here. Anyway, tonight, Ken is not available, so I thought I was
going to have to do this on my own and you will be delighted to know that I don't have to,
because I have two friends to come and help out. We have tonight, Christopher Hobbs. Say hello,
Christopher. Hello, Christopher. And we have JWP. Would you like to go by JWP by the way?
Yes. Hello, JWP here. Thank you very much for joining me and to help out with this fun event.
So the first thing we do is to speak about new hosts this month. And we've had two. We have FTH
and VNAM, I think is the way he pronounced his name. So we'll be getting around to looking at
their shows as we go along. So the genderists will go through all the various shows that have
been broadcast or come out on the feed this past month. And we will be looking at any comments
that have been made to them. Then we'll check any other comments and then we'll look at
email in that period. So the first show for April was the last community news.
And normally we don't say much about the last community news, because it gets very recursive if
we do, but we had some comments on this one. And we had one from JWP. Do you care to read out your
comment to this? If you've got it in front of you, JWP. I have the website in front of me,
Dave, but it says HPR volunteers as the host. And so I'll just click on it to see the comments.
It's okay. It's okay. What I normally do, what can and I normally do, because we've been
doing this for a while now. So it's just sort of a habit more than anything else, is the
the notes that will go out with this show contain links to each of the shows. So you can follow
through to the show. I've got my notebook and another tab so that I can just look at the comments
to it. But if you manage to find where we are, then let me know and I'll hand over to you to
to do a bit of reading if you feel like it. But otherwise I'll just go ahead with these, yeah.
So the comment on the last community news show from JWP was one button submit,
where he asked, how do you upload the voice memo of an iPhone to HPR? I'm a fan of one button
upload. Then the next comment was myself, not relevant to JWP's comment, where I was simply
remarking on the fact that during the show, we spoke of the amateur radio round table.
And I forgot to mention a podcast episode that I'd heard recently. And the podcast is called
Exposing Sudo Astronomy. And the guy was talking about the subject of radiation.
And to my mind, he did a really good job of explaining this subject. And I put a link to it
and the feed if you're interested. So if you don't quite get what radiation means in the sense of,
you know, his x-ray radiation, his cosmic rays radiation, et cetera, he's an astronomer,
and he did a brilliant job of explaining it. I thought the third comment was from Ken Fallon
who was applying to JWP's comment, where he says one button will not fix the steady supply problem.
Hi, JWP. Yes, it would be nice if you could have a one button record function,
but it will only benefit the season contributors like yourself. Most people struggle with having
the perfect show and procrastinate about the hums and ores. The last people to use a one button
stroke dial-in option of the exact people we're trying to target. This will not fix the steady
supply of shows issue. So comment, I think. So pushing on to show 2262, we had Eric Dohanel,
with the show entitled Abstracting Nurse Jesus. So as I understood this, he was largely talking
about his random number generator in the game. I think that he was producing, yes, he's using
pie game to make a game. So he was talking about the random number generator needed to do various
things in it. I talked to Eric pretty regularly, and if you haven't tried his little Python games,
they're a lot of fun. I don't mean to be demeaning to call it little Python games, but
they're very simple and quite enjoyable to play. It's been a lot of fun listening to him,
explain his thought process with building these things. Yeah, it's a pretty good episode, I think.
Yeah, I've seen him mention it on new social, because he's on there as well, but I've not really
followed it up. Sounds worth a check. It's quite fun. It feels like a mix between a dungeon crawler
to some degree and Pac-Man. That's an interesting combination. Okay, let's get on. Sorry.
Sorry. Go ahead, go ahead. I was going to say the name of it is a labyrinth of the dead.
Cool. Okay, I'll check that out. So I was going to push on to show 2 to 6, 3, which is
Freak Does Geek by FTH, one of our new hosts. Now, this was a very unusual and interesting
show where he was talking, he was out with his friend, who's always friend Hugh, I had made a
note of it, and they were on the bus. I think having dropped their kids off and we're talking about
various things, and they had some fascinating things to discuss, and Hugh is visually impaired,
so his insight to these various things were quite amazing. It was a fascinating show, I thought.
Yeah, I really enjoyed this one as well. I used to build interfaces for the blind, and it was
neat to hear their descriptions of his perception of the world around him, especially after
having, I believe he was previously sighted. Yes, I think so, yes. He's lost most of his sight,
I believe, in the failure recent past, but yeah, it was very interesting. They were talking about
tape recorders, cassette tape recorders, the sort of portable one, which was interesting in itself,
and it is quite an interestingly broad discussion of things related to audio matters on the bus,
and you can hear the ambient signs of the bus in the background for the show. I always like to
have these sort of scene-setting noises in the background. Absolutely, and I hope they do
another episode. I especially learned a little bit about MP3. I don't think I knew any of the
history about it, and so it was nice to get that lesson rolled in with the nicer audio escape as
well. Yeah, absolutely. We had one comment on this show, which was from Beezer, who said,
Brilliant Show. I rarely listened to an HBR episode, which I don't find interesting to some extent.
However, this one excelled in that just about everything was new to me. The perspective of a
visually impaired person of how the world looks in quotes was both rare and fascinating.
I would do, it would do all of us good to be reminded that the world's not perceived by everyone
the same way. I do hope that you produced some more shows soon, which I completely agree with.
I thought the comment was really nice. Good, good comment. Yes, indeed, indeed. It's good. Again,
as we've said before, getting some sort of supportive comments on, especially on the first show
that's been so many to HBR is a great thing, and just to say welcome on board or whatever it is.
Yeah, that was a good comment I thought. So, Moving on, show 264 at the Library by Bill
NFMZ1 Miller. So, he was talking about his local library and features that it offers,
and it was really, I personally found this great. I've been a great believer in libraries all my life
really, and the picture that he painted was sounded as if libraries are still going strong,
particularly in his part of the world at least. So, that's good. Well, as an American living in
Germany, the German government in calls were kept one of the American Army libraries open and
active, and so they do everything pretty much that Bill was talking about in his podcast.
But in particularly when it's closed on the weekends, they still keep the stairwell open,
so you can drop off and donate whatever you want, and then they sell it on eBay to sort of keep
the library going at the city. But it's really amazing what you can do, and in particularly a lot
of libraries help with homelessness in the States with internet access, and such things,
so that people can apply for jobs and get off the streets in the States. So, libraries are
still pretty important in today's society. Absolutely, yes, yes, it's good that they still exist
in the sort of traditional way. It got me thinking about using my local library I used to when
my kids were small. They're in their 20s now, so it tend not to be at the library much,
and I went to the local library and made sure my library card was renewed, so I can go and make
use of it when I get a chance. So, yeah, thanks Bill for that. Heads up.
Yeah, it was fantastic, and you mentioned for traditional things, but it's important to note too,
which he underscores that libraries have much more than just traditional things,
and one of my local library's authors, baking sheets and fishing poles for checkout.
So, I'm a huge proponent of libraries, and really enjoyed this episode, for sure.
Yeah, I'd like to hear what other libraries are doing. That would be an interesting thing,
because as you say, there's a lot more to them than they used to be. I think John
cult did a show on going to his library where they had a maker space there that he was using
using the 3D printer or something like that. So, I guess libraries are moving in those sorts
of directions, which is wonderful to see. So, there were three comments on this show. First one
was from Clinton Roy, where he said PODNUTs, and he said PODNUTs podcast was referenced,
and he gave a link to it, and he followed up with a second comment. Great idea. I should definitely
do this in my library, I think he's already meant to be a missed word, but yeah, it's good, very good.
And Windigo said similar experience. While living on the North Coast California, the library was
more than just a repository for paper books. It was essentially a community centre. My partner and
I attended talks and classes, spent time in between appointments reading, using their Wi-Fi,
and borrowed plenty of movies and books from our branch. Libraries are a fantastic resource
and seem to be helping release fortune in our communities. So, yeah. Okay, show 2265,
what OS on Lenovo X61S from Tony Hughes? The eSpeaker calls him Aka, which I found amusing.
Tony H1212, this is also known as name. So, this is Tony with his, I think both John,
JWP and I have met Tony, because he's always busy at org camps, doing all sorts of things
in the background. So, but anyway, he's obviously a guide for a bargain and for obtaining interesting
and useful, smaller machines. And he's talking about his Lenovo and running what OS on it.
Which sounds like a great little machine, I thought. Yeah, you know, that's an addiction to have
those old small things as a Nokia in 700 person and a Azuz 701 person. You know, those can be
quite addictive and they last forever. They just go on and on and on. They never break. They just
continue. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. It's good to see. I'm all for that myself. Yeah, it's one of the
beauties of things like GNU Linux and all of these other lower resource consumption distributions.
I use a lot of old hardware too, so I started looking into what OS after reading this and I made
a bit of shot on a couple of things, but yeah, they're tanks the old ones are. Yeah, they're
pretty robust machines, aren't they? I don't actually know this one personally, but
imagine all of these Lenovo's of that era are pretty good machines. So there were no comments
on that one, so we'll move on to 2266 gamebooks, so sort of sub-series or tabletop gaming,
and the gamebook is Loan Wolf, and this is from Clare 2. So this is about
a particular type of sort of single-person game that you can play with what's effectively a
programmed book from what I understood. I've never seen these. I remember programmed learning
books, which are not really very popular these days, but it sounds quite cool actually that you
can sort of roll a set of dice or something, and then I use some other sort of random source,
and then it tells you how to move forward through the book, and so forth. Any other view guys
into this sort of thing? Well, I'm not very familiar with it, but I downloaded the first one after
I heard about it. It sounded a lot like a choose your adventure book, and I enjoyed this episode
and his subsequent episode on the topic. I don't know that I have time to do this because my leisure
time is spent with other activities, but the 20 or so minutes I spent with Loan Wolf was really
cool. I wish that I had this when I was a lot younger. I probably would have spent a lot of time
playing these. The really neat, especially the one that he mentioned where two people could play
simultaneously, I think he called it like the black knight and the white and mage. Maybe I'm
making that up, but yeah, very interesting. That's pretty close with what you said. That's pretty
close what it was. Somewhere in the neighborhood from that, but yeah, it brought back all kinds of
things from my childhood or dungeons and dragons and things like this, but I'm like you, I just
don't have enough time to really sit down and do that. No, it's understandable. My daughter's
into dungeons and dragons. She's at university now, and she's, she and her friends played D&D when
they get a chance, and I should point to her at least see if there might be something of interest to
her. So she wants to be a dungeon master at some point, so maybe that'll give us some clues of it
to to doing that. That's it. We had one comment from Les Orchard, who said, man, I love these books
back in junior high in the 80s. I would usually read and play these in class, after I got classwork
done, I could sneakily, sneakily drop a pencil on the random government table and not get into
in trouble, I could do a few times for rolling dice, because I was one of those kids who roll dice
in class. That's a nice story. I can certainly relate to that one. Yeah, yeah, that's good.
Okay, let's move on to the next one, 2267 from Sigflop, our digital art, and in this one, she is
talking to a friend, whose name is cis, and they are both... I know Sigflop has schizophrenia,
and she's talked about it quite a lot. I suspect that her friend does this well, but I can't
honestly remember whether that was the case, but they're both... I believe it was mentioned, yeah.
Yes, they both artists, they both produce some very, very amazing looking pictures, which are
available to see on the show, show notes, and they both produce books of their art, which is
quite astonishing, actually. I have, I mean, huge admiration of people who can do this.
Well, in the audio overlay, through... I think all of her episodes is really cool to
she plays some nice music during the interviews and during her discussions, and I think that really
added to their topic, you know, the art of music along with their digital painting.
Yeah, yeah. As you say, the, I think, cis is into photography as well, I understood right,
but yes, it's digital stuff, isn't it? So, that's also very impressive what you can do
with that. I wasn't quite clear how this was done, exactly. Did they say, oh, yeah,
they said Gimp and things. Was that what was said? Somebody used Gimp, I think.
Yeah, I think cis used more traditional tools like Adobe products, but the Gimp was used
by the host, and she even mentions that she uses a mouse instead of a tablet, which I thought was
fantastic, and they also talked a little bit about using iPads to produce art.
Yeah, that's quite astonishing. My daughter is, she's a biology student, but she was in two minds when
she went off to university, whether she wanted to do art instead, so she does do quite a lot of
fur drawing, and she does digital stuff on an iPad, but she's, so she would probably be interested
in some of this stuff. I just find it quite an impressive form of art in this way.
So there were no comments on that one, so we'll move on to 2268, which is again from Bill
in the MZ1 Miller, and I should do that like in the correct ham radio style, but I don't know.
And his show was about fishing. Fish on, he called it, and he was talking about various
resources and hints relating to fishing, to planning a fishing trip and that type of thing.
Yeah, he mentioned a lot of good apps. I tried to leave my phone behind when I'm fishing,
but I think I may have a reason to drag it with me out onto the lake now, but we'll see.
I didn't know about most of these. I mean, Google Maps and Google Weather, of course,
seeing like a lot of people know about, I hadn't considered using them for fishing, but
the app for tying braided lines was especially interesting too, because those knots can be tricky.
Yeah, I've not done much fishing in my life. I've done a little bit of what they call
course fishing, and that British term, I'm not sure you just fish in rivers and that type of
stuff, but only have a the tiniest amount of knowledge in this area, but
sounds like some amazing facilities there for helping you out.
Yeah, with me here in Germany, I hunt and I do a little bit of fishing, but
all of that for me is with a candy bar phone, because the whole idea of it is to be
away from electronics. Yeah, I can understand that.
Okay, let's move on to 2269, which is called chocolate milk.
And this was a show by Venem, that's how he pronounced it, and it was effectively a syndicated
show. The only sort of syndication that we do now is if somebody finds a show or are doing a
show of themselves, they can set up an HPR episode where they talk about it to introduce it,
and so forth, and that's what this was. And the podcast that was being talked about was called
Nixas, and there was a whole bunch of things that were being discussed here on a quite a nice
interview or chat, I suppose, where we talk about buckling spring keyboards and plan 9 operating
system and chocolate milk. That was good. I mean, to me, for me, this is the hacker public radio
right here. When they came up and they started talking about all keyboards, I used to collect
deck keyboards and make them work with PCs and UNIX, and then he started talking about chocolate
milk, which I'm drinking right now. So it was really speaking to you there, JWP. That's cool,
that's very cool. Yeah, the keyboard thing fascinated me. I'm quite keen on different types of
keyboards. My son, who, I don't know how he got into it, is a guy who builds keyboards,
and he, I just happened to have a collection of old keyboards in my house, and he grabbed an IBM
model M type keyboard. Yeah, it's a true IBM. So it's a bit, it's a before the Unicom stuff,
which are clones of the model M, and he completely refurbished it for me. That was my Christmas
present. Yeah, refurbished with an 18 mega clone in it to run the keyboard. And obviously it was
a PS1 originally now. It's a USB keyboard. I've yet to work out what I can do with it. I'm not
using it just at the moment, but I've not got into all of the capabilities of it yet. That's going
to be a project for later. So I really feel what they're talking about there. That was, that was
very cool, I thought. I'm a cherry user myself, and it would be neat to see someone do an expanded
episode about keyboards. They're really catching on now, and also quite enjoyed this episode,
because I was a planned nine user for a long time. I really enjoy the Agni editors, so it was nice
here and then talk about that too. So yeah, somebody out there should probably do an episode on
mechanical keyboards and one on planned nine as well. I would love to learn more about planned nine.
I knew of it, but never experienced it or anything about sort, and that, it sounds, sounds really
good. Was it, who, who did, was Dennis Richie, one of the contributors to planned nine? I can't
remember. Yeah, he was, along with Rob Pike, and that general crew. In fact, I believe Rob Pike
contributed the user interface for it, I think it's called Rio. Right. Yeah, okay, very cool.
Yeah, Dennis Richie used to hang out at the university. I, when he used to visit the university,
I worked at moderately often, so I've never spoken to him, but I never spoke to him, I should say,
but he used to come along to the various Unix user group meetings, and that type of stuff.
Very impressive guy, pretty amazing. So yeah, yeah, I would, yeah, it's hindsight and all that.
It would have been great to have had a chat with him about that too late now. There you go.
But a very interesting episode, I would love to hear, must listen to more of these.
Yeah, as you say, JWP, that sort of content that goes down well on HPR.
So there were comments here. Do you want to read that? Can you see your, your own comment, JWP?
Do you want to read it out? Sure, I have it. I wrote the first thing I said was great.
I really like your talk about Plant 7, the keyboard. I love Log Clicks 2, and of course,
I love chocolate milk. So three gold stars for you at Ken. This is the Ubergeek stuff that
rocks me to the core. And the next one is by a guy named DOD Dummy, and he said, I like to show.
But I enjoyed the show, but I'm curious if its counts as a centricated show, not created for HPR.
I repeat, I like to show, and in fact, I've added to my list. And then Ken came with a really long
or really long thing as per the summary, a sample show of the Mixers podcast.
He's really re-iterating the stuff that I mentioned earlier on about how we do do,
we don't syndicate them as such, but we do offer people a route to tell the community about
other shows, so just save you a bit. It's interesting because, again, in life, because I've got to do
SAP stuff during the day, I only have time for so many. And the HPR, so I have my HPR feed,
and if I'm listening to Jupiter Broadcasting, their feed, that's about all the tech stuff I'm going to
get for the week. And so if they want to mix one of theirs and everyone to them while, especially if
it's that quality, I'm very good with it. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. What we used to do in the past
was we would syndicate shows so that they would run things like Sunday Morning Linux review,
for example, would pop up every week or every couple of weeks, whatever it was, as a syndicated show
on HPR, where we stopped doing that, per se, but a way of just getting shows out there is still
open to anybody who wants to do it, so I think it's great. There is, again, mentions that Hacker Media,
which is a sister site for HPR, does do syndication of stuff, so he's going to look into whether
these sorts of things could be syndicated through that route. Okay, moving on then to show 227O,
which was me doing the final episode talking about managing tags on HPR episodes third in a group.
And it was just really how to do database stuff, but trying to make the point that we need to do
something relating to tags, to make it easier to find related shows on the site or whatever,
really to get some discussion going, was what it was about. I'm glad you took the initiative on
this one. There was a lot of talk in the past on the mailing list about tags, and I don't think
there were a lot of solutions provided, so it was good to see a collection of them spread out,
and this combined with your other database episode was a really nice sort of abstract dive
into some of the capabilities of databases that people might not see often if they use an object
relationship map or something of that nature. That's a good point, actually, I hadn't thought of that.
Yeah, I quite like playing with databases, but I'm just an amateur, really, but I just like it,
yeah, I feel that maybe we should have some shows about the guts of databases, perhaps.
But yeah, you're right, the object relational thing hides lots of it away, and I don't really like
that very much personally, but that's because I'm old and stuck in my ways. So there were a bunch of
comments. Sorry, Jamie. Oh, yeah, yeah. Well, I listened there, but after three or four minutes,
you got over my head really, really quickly, but I listened, it was okay for me, but it was,
it was really really, as someone who doesn't do databases at all, it was really, really hard.
Yeah, I know, I apologize at various points for the fact that this might not be your thing,
if you're not into databases, but I hope it might appeal to some people who were and they
who could make some, give some feedback on the way forward, perhaps some suggestions or just,
some comments to the fact that, yeah, you're not doing too badly or this is the way to do it or
something. So the show got a bunch of comments, some of which remind commenting back to people.
The first one was from Steve who said, make it so, as someone who is also not formally trained
in database administration, but nonetheless does quite a bit of database administration
and development. What you've said, and the conclusion you've drawn sounds exactly right to me,
I say make it so. So I replied to that saying, thanks Steve, I appreciate the comment.
And we're looking at how we can incorporate such features into the database and modify
all the code around it. So this was then followed by a comment by GWS who says, a series is the same
thing as a tag. If you need to distinguish them, put another column in the tag table, then join
across the episode, then the join across the episode tag is the same. I think you put some,
some chevrons in there which got eaten by the comment system. So makes it read a little odd.
But yeah, across the episode tag linkage is probably what that means.
To which I replied, series same as tag question mark, I think you have a point, except that the
series idea was originally designed to have two other significant attributes, a description
and a public private flag. The description is an arbitrarily long text field used to store HTML,
which is displayed in web page for shows that are part of the series. The public private flag
denotes whether the series is open to more contributors or not. Most modern series of public,
but some historical ones private. Changing the tag table to include these attributes to be used
for series tags is not impossible, of course, it needs some thought. Thanks for the suggestion.
And GWS came back and said, variable length columns like bar chart or club, it's not what I know.
Should not balloon the size of your tag table just by adding them, even assuming even a moderately
sane DBMS, those large and sparse objects would be stored in separate data structure.
Think string pool, so you pay for what you use. By the way, my earlier comment was meant to say
episode left arrow, ep tag, right arrow tag, but I used angle brackets and the little bit got
swallowed by HTML, which is a damn nuisance. I hate it when that happens. I've been caught up
by that many times. I think club might be character large object. Oh, thank you. Thank you, yes,
yes. Like I say, I'm not that. I know I'm a sort of a self-taught database person, so my
knowledge is limited. So yeah, but it's a learning experience. I've got a comment from
Brenda J. Butler. I'm new to HPR. Sorry if I make comments that show ignorance of how you do
things. Please point me to resources. I'll be happy to read that. I'm not a big DBX, but either,
but like you have used some DBs and have a little experience, also a bit of experience making a
couple of database backed websites. I like the idea of the third design of tags. I would also change
the HPR episode intake process to make any new tags in the new format format have a cut over date
time after which all the new entries in the database use the new tagging scheme. Populate the new
tags tables and not the old tags fields. In fact, even remove the old tags fields for avoid confusion
about which set of tags is the right set. That way you only have to do you only have to do that
populate the new tags fields from the old tag fields step once at cut over time. You keep the
copy of the old site and update it for a while until confident the new site works properly.
I don't know how the HPR site is served. I got the impression from your series that it's
static pages generated from a DV. Perhaps you generate a new set of pages when a new
episode is added to the database. I think you cannot go this way if you want to use that query you
developed. What other shows have? What other shows have at least one of the tags that this show has?
At least it will be difficult to implement. Can I read somewhere about the way the website is
served, text, stack, etc. Is there a public repo for the code read only acceptable? Thanks for all
your great extensive show notes. Really appreciate it. Wow, that's quite a comment.
I replied to this tags and series. Thanks GWS. It wasn't so much the storage issue I was referring
to, more the logic of the suggested change. I do like what you're proposing though. Sorry,
you got bitten by this crappy comment system. I said to Brenda, thanks Brenda, thanks for your
comments. There's a GitLab instance with a repository which holds some of the public code. I gave a
link to that. Your suggestion of the transition from the old to new tag system is pretty much
what I had in mind. We haven't yet discussed all the issues amongst the admins. Can
there's janitors? The HBR janitors. The site is not static although there have been discussions
about making it so I take your point that there's a conflict between having a static site and
offering tag query features though. So quite a lot of comments on that one. Yeah, the
comments were pretty interesting. We're pretty interesting here and even though I didn't
understand it very much, it appears that there's a lot of people out there that really do get into that.
Yeah, yeah, I think so. I hope that that might be the case. There might be some people who
would find that that was fun and would come in with comments. So I'm very happy that that happened.
That's one of the major benefits of this community. That's for sure. Absolutely, absolutely.
So moving on then, show 227-1 Raspberry Pi 0 W and this was Tony Hughes again and he's talking
about the new Raspberry Pi 0 W single board computer released on the 28th of February and he does a
nice review of it which he was very quick getting this out actually. I think he posted it
just days after the 0 W came out so good for you Tony. Excellent. So yeah, it's good to be
anyway, sorry, go ahead. Yeah, yeah, that he got it and somehow got it powered in that birdhouse
and it's taken pictures of the eggs in the birdhouse and doing our
sending back his sensor data to his house. To his house was pretty interesting on that too.
Now that totally amazing that he was able to do that, I didn't really understand how he got
power out there to that birdhouse. I'm not quite sure how he's done that. No, it's something I'd
like to do. I also have two 0 W's, one of which is currently actually running a camera which is
looking at the window, but I'd like, I've got a bird feeder, I'd like to keep the thing next to
how would you, yeah, power is the issue. You'd need a lithium ion battery or solar power. Yeah,
yeah, that's what I was going to say. Yeah, that would be cool. You think it'd be enough. You
think you could get a big enough panel and keep the battery charged. I don't think they draw very
much. I still haven't bought a single board computer, mostly because there's so many of them in
this episode added to my confusion about which one to get, but when I was looking at the specs,
I think I think you could charge a battery with a solar panel and go pretty easily with that,
even a small one. Yeah, I don't know for certain, but that was the way I was hoping to go.
I would quite like to get some close-up shots of birds feeding or something like that.
I don't get much of any great interest, but still good pictures, it's worth having. It's fun
thing to do. Well, like Ken would say, oh, basement full of the single board computer. So one day,
I'll do a show about them. But the SW, people are making stuff. It's a very exciting one. People
are making stuff from that. I saw something about using an iPhone 5 keyboard and they were making
a PDA out of it and stuff. Fantastic little device. It's a lot of possibilities for that. It's a great
machine for all sorts of things like that. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I think you just volunteered too,
so let's put that on the record. Yeah, yeah, more shows, please, more shows.
So we had one comment on this show from Drupes who said, very cool. I'm really excited to find
to get my hands on one of these little ones. My kids and I built several projects with my full-sized
ones. I want to teach a class next year using Raspberry Pi's. So that's very cool. I'd like to see
what he produces. Drupes is a teacher. I think he changed jobs recently. He's certainly done
shows Raspberry Pi about some of the projects he and his class has done. Okay, next one, then
is 2272. This is from only half the time. We haven't heard from for a while, I think. It's
entitled, in which our hero takes four hours to install Hyper-V Server 2012. It's a tale of woe
which boils down to using the wrong sort of raid on a server, a key server, as far as I can
gather. It was a very detailed episode. It's some amazingly detailed notes, which is wonderful,
and it was very well presented, I thought. Yeah, the delivery here was fantastic, and I've
got to admit, when he first led into the bit about raid zero early in the episode, my stomach dropped
definitely gave me a little anxiety listening to him initially. This is fantastic. If the other
episode about plan nine and whatnot is the embodiment of what we ought to have, I think this one is
a continuation of that. The hacker topics, the technical topics, with this wonderful
delivery, dramatic delivery was just fantastic. In fact, when I was listening to it, I was
in my lodge. We're having an open house, and I was sort of sitting in the corner, laughing to
myself, and I'm afraid I may have ran some people off, laughing at his commentary, but yeah,
it was a lot of fun. Yeah, he did it really well. You really felt you were there with him,
so he was dealing with all these issues. Yeah. Well, I really, next to the plan seven one,
I mean, this one was for me the month, and it goes right into what I do at work and stuff,
and you'd be surprised. People really do make that mistake with the zero a lot, and then you have
to go and have the fix it and his delivery got me three gold stars for delivery. That was so,
he must have prepped that thing for a really long time. Yes. Yeah, he did a fantastic job there.
We used to run raid zero at the university. I worked on a box that ran the use net new service,
because it's a striped set thing, isn't it? I think the, because use net and use is very,
very heavy on disk, and I think it was done for that. But isn't there a raid level that when you
do a raid one on top of that? Is that raid 10 or something like that? I think it is, isn't it?
But yeah, yeah, still, it's a sort of mistake that you can imagine somebody making.
There was one comment on this show from Steve, who said, being there entertaining episode,
I have so been in situation similar to what you've faced. Thanks for sharing.
So the next show was from Mirror Shades, who's handled the, he speak, cannot deal with the
tour, and he was talking about fountain pens. I know that Mirror Shades is into fountain pens,
so it was great to hear his review of pens paper ink and so forth. I'd really like to hear more
on this subject than from him if he cares to do more. It's classical tech. That's what it is,
it's old tech. Yeah, yeah. I think so. I think so. It's becoming more popular. It's quite cool
in certain circles now, I think. Interesting, interesting, Dave. I went to
Berbugan the other day and had a presentation with the young people when they started going back
to mole skins and carrying books and lying stuff down. It's really, really coming back.
I know. Must admit, I use a paper agenda, so I'm one of the ones stuck in the past.
There's nothing wrong with that though. My kids have both, like I said, in their 20s,
but they're both nuts about pens and stationery stuff. My son's fountain pens my daughter,
not so much, but yeah, I think fair number of their friends too are into this sort of thing.
I think it's just cycles of whatever it is, fashion or something.
So we had two comments on this one. One was from Drupes, who has done a show on fountain pens.
And he says fountain pens. Awesome. Just a great comment. I commented pretty much as I've already
said, great show. We need more on this subject. I enjoyed this show a lot. Thanks for talking
about pens, ink and paper. I think we need more shows on these subjects. Maybe they're more
there are more enthusiasts in the HPI community you'd like to contribute. So I don't know if that's
the case, but it'd be good if there is. So the next one was 2274 from JWP. First Microsoft
service surface pro Ubuntu 1604 dual boot. So you recorded this from the car, I think you said,
didn't you, JWP? It was good for you. Going up to answer Dan and the so I was in the car for
a long time and I just figured out how to do it on the iPhone. But yeah, I'm actually using the
mumble now on the very on that very laptop. But now that that's surface with Ubuntu and the mumble.
So I'm doing it now. It's happening. I can't remember the last time I booted into Windows with it.
So that's amazing. That's really interesting. I certainly heard good things about this device,
but I've not been driven to to get one myself. But yeah, you said it was good for watching
movies and stuff, which I thought was intriguing. The surface has a great screen. A great screen.
I got the idea from that guy Noah at Jupyter Broadcasting. He had done one and so I went and bought
the original surface pro and it wasn't an issue at all. I just had to use some UEFI stuff and it
booted. It's just like a normal x86 thing. And the pen works and everything works with 1604. No special
anything. Very good. Yeah, that's quite impressive. There was one comment from Windergo who said
very interesting possibility. I didn't realize that installing any kind of Linux on a surface
was a possibility. Whole new category of hardware to repurpose. Thanks for another great episode.
And did I hear you say you were recording this with the Bluetooth interface in your car?
Yes, on my Apple, yeah. So I pressed the voice memo. I told Siri to go to the voice memo and she said,
yeah, and then I started talking through my car speaker and it worked. It sounded really good in
the car. It had a little bit of wind sound when I uploaded it and everything. But it worked off
the Bluetooth speaker in the car or microphone in the car. I think that's great. I think it really
goes to show that you can record episodes just about anywhere. I use a little rock box to record
mine, little sands eclipse it. And I had never thought about releasing you Christopher. You've
gone off. Yeah, it's interesting that you said rock box. I'd really like to see more rock box
stuff, you know, because you can get $6 or $3 or $4 MP3 players now if I Amazon. I really wish
someone would manufacture one with rock box on it, you know. I did it right there for $6.
Yeah, I really agree with that. I've got a bunch of sands eclipse and
eclipse and sands of fuses and stuff which I bought second hand just so I can run rock box
on them and keep them going. But a lot of them, more recent devices, nobody's pulled a rock box
to it. So that's a great shame. I could do with more of it. I think you're very right.
I just got a message from Christopher saying he's got up to me.
Actually, mumble talked to me. Yeah, Christopher has got it lost power. So now that reusable
battery would really come in. Absolutely. Yeah, what a shame. When we started, he was
suffering from a really heavy storm in his part of the world. So maybe that's the consequence of it.
From his accent, I think he's from North Carolina or somewhere around there. Not for sure.
I forgot to ask him where he's based, but yeah, yeah, it's about your knowledge in that one.
He said, he said large. So he, large is something that, large is something that you would do
maybe out west. I don't think you do lodges out east, east anywhere. So maybe he's out west
somewhere, you know, with a lot at a large. How you can hear it anywhere? Arkansas, he says.
Arkansas, Arkansas. Okay. I have lodges in Arkansas, really.
Anyway, thanks Christopher for joining us. It's been really cool. So yeah.
Anyway, let's press on then show you JWB. We're up to 2275. And this is called
entitled Pangukon 2017. It's from Ahuka. And this is Ahuka who is the, who runs the technical
track at this conference. And he's talking about the content of the conference and so forth, which
is, I think it's just finished. Has it? Or maybe it's ongoing right now?
28th of April, I think, was it started? It might still be ongoing at the moment, actually. But,
yeah, he, he's been involved in this for a while, but he said this is his last time running the
the technical track. So, but it sounds really cool. Cory Dupter was one of the speakers. I heard him say
and some amazing and interesting stuff in the lineup.
Yeah, it's always good. You know, you know, you know, me, Dave, I'll take off and I'll drive
anywhere to get updated on any kind of tech. But the, the, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, who, uh,
he really, I mean, he had that labor office series. And now he's technical lead. And one
of these conversations, he's really getting out there and doing some stuff. Oh, he is. Yeah, he's
Yeah, he's an impressive guy. He's doing a lot of stuff. And yeah, we've thanked him over
and over for his live or office series. It's been brilliant. So yeah, yeah.
That was good. It was interesting to hear about. And it's one of these things I listened
to and think, wow, I'd love to be able to go to something like that. But it was a hooker
that really mishaila on wife. So I had, I was on the Bluetooth speaker at the house
and he was talking about Libra office. So he went into this really long talk about how
to do PowerPoint on Libra office. And we were, you know, we were always trying to find
a computer that would run office so she could do like a PowerPoint or an Excel or whatever.
Actually, she heard him talk about it. She completely switched right there and downloaded
it and we didn't do the Microsoft thing anymore. That's very cool. That's a great story.
Sure, he'd be delighted to hear that. Yeah, well done. Okay, let's move on to 2276 tunnels
and trolls and dungeon delvas from Cloud 2. And he's again talking about another gamebook
series. I can't say it. Tunnels and trolls is, I think he said, is a more accessible alternative
to dungeons and dragons. And dungeon delvas is a more simplified version of D&D, but
these are gamebook type things that sound very cool. Well, I mean, the first series was
about the single player one, right? And I was, you know, being, you know, having been
all over the world and the single player one was really interesting. And this was a
little harder for me to follow, but I sort of got it. It was sort of like if you didn't
want the detail of dungeons and dragons. And you could still sort of play by yourself
because it was a book and you could read it and take turns with it. So it seemed it seemed
pretty interesting, same pretty interesting. I wish children would play this instead of
a playstation. Well, I know it's interesting. You say that. Like I said earlier on, my daughter's
in into D&D. She's heading off to Canada next month to help out with some work there.
And she was saying to me early, what should I take to read? I need something to sort of
entertain myself. I don't know whether something like this would suit her. As you say, it's a good
thing to get youngsters into. Yeah, you might want to look on eBay and see if somebody's selling
that for a pound or two. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. It's something to be researched, I think.
You cut out a little bit a day, but yeah, I don't know if you heard me, but maybe you should,
maybe before she goes to Canada, look on eBay and see if you can get her a little game for a pound
or so. Yes, yes, indeed. I did get most of that, actually, but we have in a few problems with this
with mumble, I wonder. I don't know. Hopefully not. But anyway, let's press on.
I mean, you sound crystal clear, buddy. Crystal clear. Like you're right here in my room.
You sound very good, actually. Just been one or two little hiccups, but I don't know. I think we're
doing good. So let's go on to show 2277, which is from Mirror Shades again, and he's talking about
Outernet and other projects. The gist of this is systems or facilities that provide free internet
access by alternative methods. He's talking about Project Loom, which is a Google project, which
I've heard about, which sounds most intriguing. There's Facebook's internet.org, which is
which is coming from some criticism, I believe. I don't know the details. There's Outernet, which I'd
never heard of, which sounds most interesting. So it, yes, it's an interesting subject. I'm
definitely going to learn more about it. Well, I don't know about the free internet, but
there's this company called Endless now, and I looked at some of their PCs, and what they do is
they build PCs, and one of the things that they do is sell these cheap little ARM PCs to Texas
prisons and Texas. I have a lot of offline content, wiki, pdf, and custom content. So it's
sort of an alternate internet, and Endless, they make very, very inexpensive PCs. General Bacon
is advising them now. So it's sort of an alternate internet kind of thing. Well, that's again
another intriguing idea. Oh wow. Yeah, yeah. I remember there, there's been various comments about
this type of thing in the past, but I've not really followed it in great detail, but yeah,
I must follow some of these links and see, see if I can learn more about it. Subjects in general.
There were two, two comments on this one. Low-tech Morgane commented, Outernet user said,
hi, enjoyed your episode. I've had an alternate receiver up and running for a few months now.
It's definitely a neat project. My biggest issue is with the $9 chip. It's always locking up or
powering off. I'm planning to switch back to the old OS, and a Raspberry Pi for stability.
The $9 chips are now impossible to find, so the internet guys are working on their own dedicated
hardware that includes the processor, an SDR or on one board. It's currently cold-named
Dreamcatcher. I'll transit down to night when I get home and record a compare into your episode
and give a full review of my experience with the Outernet. Well, look forward to hearing that.
Though the chip, the Outernet devices is built around the chip as I understand it. And Mirror Shades
replies to that saying, sounds awesome. And I recorded this. I was hoping someone out there
who had more experience with any of these could shed some more light on them for the rest of us.
I've been considering getting one of the kits, but I've too much going on right now,
looking forward to your episode. So, next was me again, 2278, some supplementary bash tips.
I got some fans. You got some fans from the first man. You read the comments, you got fans.
I know. I started doing this silly thing where I called these things some then a word,
bash tips. And I thought, oh, have something like more or some synonym of more. So I've
nearly run out of them. I've got reached supplementary. I really regret doing that, but never mind.
Yeah, so more about bash. And this one's about the expanding expansion of path names. So
it hopefully was useful to some people. Yeah, going on to the comments then, I had
comment from somebody whose side is unverified who said, you rock. I mean, you need to comment
somewhere on the site about how great a resource the site is. But if I were nothing,
but if it were nothing, but Dave Morris reads the man pages, I'd gladly listen. Your attention
to detail and calm mannerism is very pleasant and that it happens that you cover the good stuff.
Any nix user needs to get a handle on is just perfect. When there is a lull, I'll go through
them all again and again. Thanks for holding up more than your end of the podcast. I'll try to
break past the public speaking phobias and help and help with the tags too. Well, thank you very
much. That's a wonderful comment. It's I have said in the past, it's just basically me reading
the man pages. But the real answer is I'm trying to understand them and pass on what I've tried to
understand, which I said more or less in my comment. So I said, thanks. That's a great comment. Thank
you. My principal is to find stuff I don't understand or didn't in the past and share what I've
learned to help anyone who wants to grasp whatever it is. I've just uploaded part two of this
two part, so there's more to come. Smiley face. So not sure if that's a warning or what. I hope you
managed to make episodes of your own. For my first one, I wrote notes for HBO, but also made
this up a list of the points I wanted to cover and rehearsed the episode before the final recording.
Whatever gives you enough competence to do it. So I hope you get some shows from unverified.
So next is JWP again. So we're competing on the number of shows we're doing this month, JWP.
You know, it was supposed to be the first in November. It was supposed to be the first in November.
And I did it. But yeah, can I carry this intel stick with me around everywhere I go now?
It lives with me in my backpack. And I mean, they couldn't have made a more awful device with
the canonical logo on it. Really, really. It's got eight gigabytes of storage and one gig about a
ram. And it's got you a fire on it. And oh, man, it's just been a real pain. But it does
this you mix them or you act him. He has all kinds of flavors for these things. And I downloaded
the Ubuntu one and now I got it to work. And yeah, I was intrigued that you were talking about
Paul's audio and this Paul's audio volume thingy control, pavu control to get it to work. That's
that's quite quite useful advice in general, actually, about how to deal with sound issues.
And in fact, this very day, I've run this to try and make sure my sound was working for
for this recording and found it to be really cool.
Paul's audio, that right click on the speaker brings all that stuff up. But if you don't have it,
and then you're trying to use a looser mixer thing, then that it doesn't work out so well.
And of course, if I do a show and I've got a computer, I got to do a Dacity because that's
just the easiest way for me to do it because that's where I learned how to do these things on. So
I figured it out. So now it can be a desktop too.
That's very cool, actually. Yeah. Yeah. So you've got another show coming up which introduces
this device, I guess, is it? And this one was really meant to be a follow-on to the first,
and they've now gone in the wrong order. Exactly. But Ken grabbed my, you know, because I really
wanted to, you know, I sort of, I didn't see you at the, at Fast Down this year, but I saw Ken
and I was like, well, you know, I've got to take 15 minutes for hacker public radio,
at least once a month and get this going. It gets, get this going. So I try to do the first
Monday of every month, put a show into the queue for the rest of the year and then Ken ran out of
the shows and he grabbed my one for November. That's a shame. Anyway, I don't think it's spoiled
anything. I'm sure little, it'll be looking forward to hearing more about this,
Compute Stick device. So shall we move on to the last show and the last two, two, eight, zero?
Yeah, sure, we'll move on. Michelle Elyard just came home from the play.
Yeah, you're okay to stay here, then JWP, you're going to move on.
No, no, no. She just came home. A precious fluffy came home from the musical and stew guard.
So I'm still here. Let's do the last one. Well, the Novo X61, part two. That's a great show,
by the way. Yes, this is again, Tony. And this time he's telling us his, the whole process of
buying these things and getting, he goes to an auction place where he gets this sort of kit,
which I think is very impressive. I don't know if anywhere like that newer I live, but he's doing
amazing. I mean, I mean, the key, if you're going to do this, people really, really, it's exactly
what he did, right? Go and get an SSD. Just trust me, believe me, go get an SSD and then check
the battery and then get on eBay and get a replacement battery and you'll be beautiful with
any of these things. Yeah, he just seemed to have really worked it out very well.
And got something quite, quite desirable. He says he's using it as his sort of main,
main driver after reconfiguring it and so forth. The only thing was he needed to put Linux light
on it to get the best out of it, which is interesting. Again, I'd like to, so you put it as an
SSD on it, you put an SSD on something that changes everything. Yeah, yeah. I've got EEPC
in the cupboard, which I'd really like to, used to run crunch bang on it, but I'd really like
to get something else on it and make it, make it usable again. So, yeah, something useful point
to see. It's only common with SATA though. You have to have a SATA port in there and your laptop
somewhere. So a lot of those older ones, they have a PTA. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm not sure,
I'll have to go and look at it. It might be too old to get a SATA connector. Yeah, hadn't
bought that. But yes, well, whatever, it's good to, that this is a route that you could take if you
want a portable lightweight cheap machine. Tony himself commented on this show saying just an update,
I needed a replacement non OEM battery for one of the X61s, I have 61s, I have with the total
dead, totally dead battery. And it's something you have to factor in when you're buying stuff
from auction. Yeah, that's why I said SSD and a new battery. Yeah, so just just go ahead and do it
from the very, from the get go and it'll be, it'll be much, much better. And that and you,
you can get, for instance, I don't carry a power supply in my backpack anymore. I have one
in home and one at work. And that's it. That's it because I bought one on eBay for four
euros and put it at the office. Yeah, that's good. That's a great way to do things. Anyway, Tony's
saying that he managed to get a, I won't read this in detail because he's basically saying that he's
got a replacement battery. And he's saying pretty much what you were saying that it's given
new life, new SSD and battery. And it costs him 93 pounds to do all of this. They might be able
to get it cheaper. And he's got a very, very functional machines consequence. So that's very
cool. I don't know if you've heard of the pine day, the pine 64 laptop, 89 dollar one that's
just out there. So I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I would, I would, I would almost want to get Tony
a pine 64 and have him compare that old IBM with the pine 64 thing and tell me which is better.
Yeah, I know. I know it's, it's interesting what's happening in this sort of area, isn't it?
Things are, things are sort of shrinking and being becoming light to weight and everything. So
yeah, it's, it's intriguing. Very, very, very much so, very much so. Well, that, that looks like
the last episode. So this is my first time doing the news. And I really appreciate Christopher
from Arkansas coming on too. And he sounds like he's, he's super, super smart. Yeah, he's done
some great shows for us and stuff. I know he's a very knowledgeable guy. We, we do have a few more
comments that we need to to look at. You're going to be able to stay around for them. Because
what happens is people comment, they commented, go on. I just don't know where they are.
Yeah. Okay, I'll tell you in a moment. What we, what we need to do is they've been various
extra comments added to shows that were, that were released earlier on in the year. And
the comments are added during April. So we need to go and just look through them. You'll find them
in the, in the, the notes that I pointed you at there. There's a list of comments this month
in the, the show notes for this particular episode. Okay, so I'm at the HBR 2281 community news
for April 2017. That's right. Scroll down past the table of shows and you'll see a list of comments.
We've dealt with the second block, but we need to just check out the first block. Okay, so it says
14 comments on eight previous shows. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So we had an extra comment on
2178, which was called Dice Mixer, and it was Class II himself who replied to 5150,
who'd made the comment about Tinhorn. I don't know what the expression Tinhorn
come from, that it referred to a gambler, but Class II says, I'd never heard of that one, 5150.
I like it. That's for me being a good salesperson. I think no one has ever accused me of that before.
We have show 212, Meandering's cyberpunk and the Minidus by Kuvmo.
We had a comment from somebody called One F, Anti-Hacker. Thanks the episode. I loved it.
I consider, oh, they're talking about a Manufacturer. Yes, they don't remember
Minidus, but it was S-Asterisk I was puzzling over. They're talking about the Manufacturer,
Initial Letters S. It's hostile towards hackers. So while some of their innovations are interesting,
I'm done with anything carrying the S-Asterisk name. I still have a PS3 collecting dust,
and that was my final straw. When they take hackers and makers to court, just for trying to do
cool and interesting stuff, they show just how anti-maker they are. They have the track record
to prove how poor that the user community is. Remember Beta versus VHS? Remember memory stick?
Long history of failed cool stuff. Sometimes it's difficult to put these things down. It's
so cool. When I'm principal, I put them down now. I don't know if I totally agree with that,
because you don't have to understand the last 15 to 17 years Japan went through a depression
that was very similar to what America went through in the 40s. So the Japanese companies,
really after to protect their IP, and the things are really, really tough in Japan right now.
Yeah, I guess so, but it just seems so restrictive. Some of these practices,
because I think, what was it, things like the PlayStation that you could run Linux on at one point?
That was a good reason. But if you could run Linux on it, that meant that you could get
into that PlayStation network. They didn't have any control of view it updated,
your Linux image or not, and then they could get sued because you were on their PlayStation
network with a hacked Linux box. But weren't people buying them by the hundreds in order?
Was this the device that you could then network and make a really powerful cluster?
Was that the PlayStation? Yeah, exactly. And the universe is being this.
Well, exactly. My son, we sold his, the guy in Greece bought his, and the guy was like,
has it ever been connected to the internet? And we said we didn't know,
and the guy was like needed for desktop. So he needed a 20-Euro desktop. And it had been
connected to the internet, so it didn't work out for him. And we gave him his money back,
and I didn't keep the device. But people use ones that have not been connected to the internet
for desktops down and developing places. Yeah, yeah. Anyway, we'll leave that, I think.
Skip on to the next one. So the next was 2, 2, 3, 6, which was
the easy show on hoarding Raspberry Pi, so he was talking about what he was doing with a bunch
of Raspberry Pi, he had. And there was some humor around the fact that the speech synthesizer
pronounced P-I-S, the plural of Pi, as piss. So I said, I mean, he's got an addiction that everybody,
quite a few of us had. It's, I'd have added an apostrophe, I said, to the plural of Pi, but it's
generally thought to be wrong, even though he then pronounced in the non-urinary way, I've seen
someone suggest it'd be Raspberry's Pi, but that seems silly. Mike Ray comes back and says,
the apostrophe is definitely wrong, but as a screen reader user, this is the thing I struggle
with constantly writing pages and blog posts. Writing P-I-S definitely gives the pronunciation
that is undesirable. Maybe it would have been easier if Evan Upton hadn't made the mistake
of calling it a Pi, P-I instead of a P-Y. The Pi part was supposed to be short for Pi,
but hard to believe he got it wrong. That's interesting, yes, yes. Anyway, I think that,
it's good, that comment thread is pretty, pretty much dead now. Then we have 2249, which was
new year episode three, and there was comment three from God Dummy, who Variety writes his name
with four or three Ds in it. New episode title, Conspiracy Gate, it's just commenting that this
show was something else. I didn't realise there were so many conspiracy wanks in the group.
Regarding the 100% figure on Scotland voting to remain, I think it was, he was referring to
100% of the areas, not actual voters. I assume Ken's quote with all 32 council areas remain,
confirms that. Frank comments, Windows actually supports the always on top function. It just has
no gooey means of activating it, but some programs use it most prominently media players.
There are third party tools that make it available globally, such as Activate, written by the
staff of the German Computer Magazine, C-Hitent T, C-Postive T. A quick installation guide,
English installation guide is at, and there's a URL. Activate also brings other Linux goodies,
such as Dragon Window with Alt plus LMB. So this was a lot of discussion about all manner of things
on this particular show, and these are a couple of things that have been picked out.
It seems like a long time ago. Yes, definitely. So we have 2253, how to make and use a stencil
by Ainabina. We pronounce that right. Yeah, not German speaking. I think so, I think so.
Yep. Hold on, I'm just finding the comment nine. So this was her first show,
which, no, I'm lost myself here. Yeah, Michael says, thank you, nice episode of Bina,
and congratulations to your first HBR contribution, and she replies at all. Thank you all for your
comments. This is really encouraging. And RTSN says, good show. I just want to say, I really enjoyed
this episode. We'll try to make my own someday. Good episode, and I hope to hear more from you
in the future, which I echo. I thought it was a great first show. She obviously got a lot of
interesting things to say. I thought it was a really good show. It was just one of the first ones
that I got after getting my iPhone and starting to listen to the shows again.
Yeah, it just goes to show that HBR is good for all manner of stuff,
you know, making a stencil. What's they got to do with hackers? Wow, you know, it does. It
depends on your definition, but certainly of great interest, I think.
Well, I really think with the show, Dave, that in the last three or four years, especially with
the PI, that it's really turned into a maker's kind of thing. So if it doesn't matter, if you,
you know, like the, it doesn't matter. So any kind of tech maker or philanthropy kind of thing,
libraries, charitable things, you get all kinds of things. I don't know if you remember, I did
one on the founders of PayPal also do a charitable thing where you can donate to like small businesses
and an India or someplace and they'll just own your $5 loan for seven years.
I don't remember that. So it's really interesting. I did a show about that, I don't
three or four years ago, maybe. But it's interesting. I think that it's really taken off because,
mostly because of what that's gone on in the PI because it's really turned the world into a maker
kind of thing. So stencil is a maker thing that you would, that goes right along with, you know,
whatever you would do with the PI, same mindset, same thing with the fishing thing, you know, it's
sort of a maker kind of thing. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I love about HBR personally. I
don't think there should be any thought of restricting what comes out, whatever you feel is proper.
Yeah. That's why I say it's sort of a maker community. We were making, it's on the Raspberry
PI sort of thing, sort of mindset to make, we always make something. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah.
Yeah. That's good. So we're nearly at the end of this block 2254, which was an introduction
to model rocketry by Steve Sainer. We read one of these comments last time because we last
recorded on the April 1st. So let's move on to comment two. Comment two was from Rowan. Are the
memories? Hi, I was thinking about your show last night and the memories of building model rockets
as a kid. There was a hobby shop near my home and at one point it had a row of model rockets,
motors, starter kits, etc. One of the most exciting times building a two-stage rocket that
used either COD motors. I remember the thrill of watching the two stages go off and then chasing it
across the fields as the wind caught the parachute, honest return to earth. Thanks for a great
episode. That's great. That's a nice idea. That's a really nice memory. It was a cool show too.
And I think that that show was probably the best of it. It may be, it's a long time to the end of
the year, but I'm willing to bet when we do the yearly review that that's going to be a top three
show. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a gem, a real gem. Do you want to do any of these comments?
J.W.P. I've been sort of hooking them. You want to step in and do any of your very welcome?
Sure. Hold on just a second. Just a second. Let me go back to the main screen. So it's
so after Rowan commented, there was a one called N-S-N-S-T-R, and he did an exclamation point.
And then he said, thanks for a wonderful show on a subject I had no idea could be so interesting.
I hope to hear more of this. Keep it up.
Cool. Yeah, absolutely. I think we all agree with that.
I'm hoping between tabs here. So the next one was 2255, which was me.
Me too. Me too. Hold on. Hold on. I'm using the pen. So it's just a little slower from here on the
surface. So it's a little bit. Yeah, yeah. We're talking here about 2555, The Goodship HPR,
which was my show, and there was a seventh comment added to it.
Scroll. So the seventh comment was from Dodd dummy.
From Dodd dummy. He said, and he said Dodd, it's a D-O-D dummy, not Dodd dummy. It's the D-D department.
He's a Department of Defense dummy. That's what he is, the D-O-D dummy, Department of Defense.
So I'm thinking the episode should be, I'm thinking this episode should be something like
sticking notes that forms keep at the top for reference. Yeah, so I'm thinking that he listens
to that in some military office somewhere in the world. He listens to hacker, public radio somewhere.
The fact that his last name is Dodd. It could be a clue, but I may be wrong. I may be wrong.
It's a good thought though. It's a good thought though. So the last one was 2259 mini-discs,
a response to HBR2212 from John Culp. We're looking here at comment four, and comment four was
from Kuvmo. I think did the first episode. You said mini-disc, John, great episode. Perhaps we
can get the powers to be, link what? These are series, oh yeah, yeah, okay. He's asking if we can
link these as a series to entice others to produce more. As I failed like, we all
mechanic, I love the truck episodes. He's saying to John who he does. I have a mini-disc too,
so I can do a mini-disc show maybe. So maybe there'll be a third mini-disc thing we can do a series.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that would be cool. It's a fascinating subject. There's a great devices,
I think. So yeah, very good. But remember Sony did it, and that guy didn't love the guy didn't like
Sony, but I really love that particular dignity. Yeah, yeah, okay, fair enough. So we traditionally
zoom through the mail to the mailing list at this stage in the game. So we can do that fairly
quickly, I think. Let me find the tab. So the mailing list is linked off the notes. It's actually
before the comments, sorry, I took my finger off my press to talk there. And we had a series on
HPR promos, thread on HPR promos where Ken said, hi all in today's community news, there was a
discussion on getting more hosts to the network. And there's a need for new promos. I'll zoom
for these very quickly. He's asking if anybody can help prepare an HPR promotional video,
this is HPR. And we got a reply from troops who said, I'm game to help. And then he followed up
while later with a long message where he says, here's a suggested script for such a thing. He's
suggesting that if we made a video with different people telling one story with each person only
saying one of the sentences. And he's he's got a list of things. It's a great idea actually. I'm
not quite sure how that would work because everybody then needs to have some sort of video
capability, don't they? But being being old and stuck in my ways, it doesn't immediately appeal to
me, but I'm sure others will see it very differently. And there was a comment which seemed to be a
little bit out of sequence. David Teeth was asking about a podcast that ended with guided hack
and meditations, which doesn't ring any bells. Yeah, I saw that. I didn't get that. I didn't get
what that was really. I saw it. I didn't get what it was. No, no. Hopefully we'll come back and
explain what he was asking. And we had a comment. I hope so. We had a comment from an email from
Kuvmo in this thread where he says about this business for doing a show. I love this idea.
We'll be willing to submit something. And he says on a related note, I noticed one of my fellow victims
on the tank game BZ flag had his motto set to his devin art site and made me look. I immediately
set my motto to hyperbubbicradio.org. I hope to drive some views, which is an interesting idea,
just sort of, you know, wear an HBRT shirt or a badge or something or those sorts of things
is a way of getting the word out, I guess. I think I think one of the things in relation to that,
I think that that Ken that somehow either either we ought to do a crowdfunding for Ken so that
he can go to an event one time and not have to have a microphone in front of him in front of him
and just be the hacker public radio guy. I talk to people about it. I talk to people about
hacker public radio and stuff instead of always recording and stuff that he could sort of be
the hacker public radio ambassador. Well, there's a lot to be said for that. I mean, we have done that
to some extent to Alcamp, you know, where we set up a table. As you know, I feather this year.
Actually, I have to get my ticket and see if I can still get a ticket to get in and I don't know
if you can still get into Alcamp or not. I know that it's happening, but I'm a little late on all
preparations for it. I would imagine it was still open and they don't tend to sell out that quickly,
but yeah, it's too far for me to get too early. It's a big hassle of a place to get too from
Scotland, so I'm not going to go. I'm afraid. But yeah, it would be nice. That's two events on a
row, Dave, that you missed. That you missed, man. One thing I have to do this, how hard is it, Dave?
I'm going to date myself here, man, but back in the 80s, I opened up a thing in a bank called
NatWest, and how hard is it to go and get your money back that's closed your account with them?
I haven't been there since the 80s. I'm not sure what the status of NatWest is. I think it's been
bought out by somebody else. I'm sure you could find out if you did a search for it, but it's
probably been gone out by another bank and you still have... Well, I think the credentials you could
do. I think it's in Kent as close to Peterborough, and I opened the account in Peterborough,
so I can go on the high street in Peterborough, go back to where the bank was, and I'm sure it'll
probably work out. Well, good luck, because all the banks run, do I live, they're all closing,
because you know, who wants bank branches anymore when there's the internet? So...
Anyway. Okay, anyway. So... Should we just hop through these fairly quickly? We've got...
Yes, please. I can't see them, though. Are they at the very bottom of the screen?
They're very bottom of the notes, sir. If you look in the 2281, there's a link
under the heading mailing list discussions, and it's just after the table of shows,
and it takes you to Mailman on the Hack-A-Public Radio site.
ackabilityreaders.org-pipermail, etc, etc.
Okay, I'm down at the bottom, where it says RSS feed, just grab to the comments and the RSS
because I need to go back up. You need to be still further down.
No, you need to be further down.
Now, after the table of shows, right near the top.
Okay, let me go back up to the top. It's not in chronological order, I'm afraid.
Well, you're looking, I'll just mention that the next thread is about the amateur round table,
second try, and Michael, who's merely in Germany, I think, is trying to organize
setting everything up for another one of these round table talks. I won't read these out,
because really they're quite long. We have a reply from Steve Sayner, who is keen to do this as well,
but it seems to have stalled a bit. April the 4th was this message, so hopefully I didn't say
any since I started to subscribe me to the mailing list. So I'm up at the very top and I'm
with the header now and I'm at 2281 Community News for April 27th, so where do I look with my pen?
Scroll down to mailing list discussions underneath that table. You'll see there's a link at the end
of those paragraphs just before comments this month. That takes you to the mail. I see it now.
I see it now. I see it now. So I click on the mail, man. Just click on that link there and it'll take
you to the threaded discussions for the link right at the bottom. The one that says HTTP
hackabobbyreader.org slash PiperMail. So it says HPR archives when I clicked on it,
and I've got a bunch of HPR archives starting back at April 2017, so I would get the,
just click on the thread thing. Yep. Yep. I'm just walking through the message threads here. That's
all I'm doing. I think we can zoom through this pretty quickly. Okay. Yeah. So it's amateur
around table, how to proceed, and then the second try. And then HPR Penguin series by Kevin O'Brien
is next. Yep. Kevin O'Brien says, can we have a series for PenguinCon? He has done the loads of
shows on this subject, and the answer was yes indeed, and it was created. Then we had the next
community news stuff, and basically I was asking if anybody would be prepared to help. And a bunch of
people commented, including yourself, JWP, and Christopher did, and we had problems with
later on with the fact that the mumble server that I put in these messages has apparently gone
away, temporarily, but maybe permanently. So we're actually using honky magu's mumble server today.
She kindly mentioned and let us access, and it's been fine. Everything's been going well. So
anyway, I'll, you can read it please. There's not much to be doing. It's great, great.
Okay. So I think we'll just come to the end, I guess now. I think we've done it. Yep. Yep.
We'll call it quits. Okay. So with the mumble, I just have to press stop, right? And then it stops,
and it'll tell me to save it, and then my dropbox and get it, right? That's it. That's it. You don't
need to send it to me. I will just ask for it if I need it. So if you can just stop it and make
sure you have a copy of it somewhere available if I need it, then that would be fantastic. So
thanks. Thank you. Stop it. Hey, no problem, man. Thank you. If you're not talking with you, bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is. Hecker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have
comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website,
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
re-creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
