Episode: 2662
Title: HPR2662: Repairing a motherboard
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2662/hpr2662.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:09:34

---

This in HPR episode 2662 entitled Repairing a Motherboard.
It is hosted by Archers 72 and is about 3 minutes long and Karima next visit flag.
The summer is.
I repair a Motherboard and get old tower working again.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello HPR listeners, this is Archers 72 and I am doing an episode that pretty much is continuing on HPR 2549 about using old hardware to rip DVDs.
This new episode starts with the power supply causing a fireworks display inside the apartment and all the capacitors are blown on certain sections of it.
I was just going to replace the power supply and leave it at that.
But my neighbor had a tower and the only stipulation that I use it is that I either destroy or wipe the hard drive.
So I did wipe the hard drive with the thread command which I'll put in the show notes.
So the tower worked for a couple days after I had shredded that drive.
Then the next time I went to start it it didn't start up and so I had to inspect the Motherboard and it had blown caps to the power bus on the CPU.
I put the project on hold for about three or four months until I got iron from Amazon, Weller, WLC, 140 watt soldering station.
I'll list that in the show notes also.
And then here is going to be when I first started for the new time after replacing the capacitors.
I replaced the blown capacitors on the power bus and this is the first time to see if it boots up again.
So it didn't boot up but it was just because I forgot to set the USB to be the first boot device.
It at least got to the bio screen.
It's been off for a while so that's why it's going to set up.
I just set the BIOS time and now we have to hit F10 and see if it boots to stockware.
Weller booted successfully. Thank you for listening.
You've been listening to heckaPublicRadio at heckaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HeckaPublicRadio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
