Episode: 2647
Title: HPR2647: More Quick Tips
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2647/hpr2647.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:59:18

---

This is HPR episode 2647 entitled More Quick Tips.
It is hosted by Operator and in about 17 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is More Quick Tips for you are only key and earthguns.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
This counts around toys rest closing.
I don't know when they're actually closing but I'm just going to go over that.
So it all started when I was at Suntrust, my former employer and I had six employees.
I was managing and I thought buying a few nerf guns is the classic thing to do for a bunch of geeks.
So I had purchased these three shot ones.
It's a three shot like handgun thing.
And I'll say by far those are the best because they're small.
So I will say by far that's part of the in-strength series or whatever.
I will say by far those are the best bang for your butt.
They're small and people it's not overwhelming and it's not this giant huge massive thing.
The second one I'll say is overall the best.
It's like a little gatlin gun thing.
And there's other manufacturers besides nerf obviously that manufacture these dark weapons.
And there's also balls and large darts and arrows and all kinds of other projectiles.
But we're going to focus more on the darts because that's what I purchased a million of them and I'll go over that.
So the second one's like a little gatlin gun thing.
And it's a handgun basically a revolver of sorts.
But the revolver part has about eights or six starts in it, eight darts, something like that.
And it's overall by far the best.
You talk the thing back and then I think you push it forward.
And then you fire the gun and then in that effort when you pull the trigger it kind of helps it spin the barrel for the next round.
And you can pretty much rapid fire pretty quickly with that and it's got good speed and decent accuracy.
That was one that I had purchased originally with the three shot ones.
So I apologize for the random phone interruptions here in the audio.
Anyways, also driving in the car.
The next next one I'll say from that is really coworker at my current job.
I purchased a couple of guns and the revolver I purchased actually with this current position.
So I didn't have the revolver at the other job.
I just bought a bunch of random one, the three shot ones like four three shot ones.
And then there was a Star Wars one on sale that was actually pretty slick.
It shot it was a one shot.
I think one shot dark deal or no, it also shot more than one.
So I think it was the same kind of revolver setup if I remember correctly.
I know you could shoot more than one with this but the Star Wars one.
And it was like a revolver thing to pretty sure.
Anyways, so that the last one that I recently purchased was that toys rust.
Toys rust is everybody knows it's going out of business and they're marking everything down and putting everything on sale.
We went down there.
Most things were 50% off and this is as of June 2nd.
Everything was kind of marked down to 50%.
I kind of figured you know everything I was looking at was kind of 50% off.
The Legos were still obviously not 50% off.
But anyways, I figured I was going to get at least 50% on whatever I was buying.
But again with Toys rust and that's always been the case.
And I knew better that you have to be very careful what you purchased and what is on sale.
What's not on sale and they have specific items.
And it's like anywhere else like an apartment store will say something's 50% off except for these brand items.
Which is just kind of a thing something you have to watch out for.
So went there and there was a big huge Star Wars gun thing that spun around and it was like air driven.
I thought it was air driven at first because when you pull the trigger it made like a wind sound like something was like a fan was spinning.
So I was like oh this is cool. It's like wind driven and then I guess somehow the round gets it.
The air dart gets in there and it shoots it.
But it was it's actually too little too little heavy almost rock or I think they're heavy rubber rollers that spin.
Now you don't want to get one of these weapons for accuracy reasons because from what I can understand and tell it doesn't shoot accurately at all.
It throws the it catches the dart throws it down the barrel which is it ridiculously long for for what it is.
And I guess that kind of helps it kind of get straight but it's actually bored believe it or not.
The barrels is got the spiral board to it.
I don't know the name of any of these guns but it's not really super important.
But the idea there is that you want to stay away from the roller ones you want to stay closer to the air based ones.
I haven't tested any of the non nerf ones.
But there was also another one of the co-worker brought in that was the little balls like many golf balls.
And the idea with those is that the golf ball ones are designed to obviously move through the air better just like a golf ball would and be more accurate.
And they were pretty accurate. They were almost deadly accurate and they were very fast.
Probably hit you a little harder than the darts did with any of the other guns.
So they had the big huge you know competition style guns you know a red versus blue type of gun for those.
And I think that's part of the end strike series or whatever.
But the little balls I didn't get one of those because I already had a bunch of darts and I'll go into the darts.
I'm talking about it. The darts of course you purchase darts and it's like $7 for like a pack of 12 or something ridiculous.
And then if you wander around the story you'll find at least the toys arise you'll find like a box of $200 for you know $15 or whatever it is.
What you want to do is actually order them online through a third party that kind of makes them if you want a huge massive amount for a low price.
I think I got like 100 for I don't know how much or 200 for I don't know how much it was basically had the price of whatever toys or s's cheap darts were.
And you know you had your one out of you know one out of 20 was kind of goobered up and you had to you know pick some glue off of it.
But they're pretty cheap. The ones I searched for were called kush. They were kush darts. I don't know where I got them. I obviously think I got them on eBay.
But the kush darts pretty good. They're like all the darts you roll over them or you squish them and they're kind of done.
They're kind of you have to kind of still be careful with them just like you would any of the other darts.
The ball is not so much you know you can shoot the balls and then step on them. They're kind of roll over them and they kind of maintain their shape.
Whereas the darts are made out of foam and they get squished or when they get squished or rolled over with the office chair or whatever they'll take damage.
But they're not as violent and they don't they don't bounce around like the balls do.
So if you're just in the office you probably want to use darts for the office because you don't want to like have it bounce off and almost hit somebody's face which is what I've done.
So the darts kind of hit the target and then they fall generally fall down from there. They'll ricochet out something.
Anyways I'll just leave it at that. You know my experiences you know you want to do the gallon gun things the best.
They have these huge ridiculous guns that are all driven by the same core principles air or these little roller things.
And there's also like a little bungee cord based ones where you can actually modify the tension on the bungee cord cable right and make it shoot faster.
The thing I did with this stupid Star Wars one is a giant Star Wars weapon thing.
It was really slow. It was two or four double A's and I just got the drill tool out and stuck an eyeball battery in there.
It seemed like it was going to make it better and it seemed like it was shooting faster but it's not any more accurate at all.
It's pretty much all over the place as far as accuracy gives.
And I haven't been super happy with that purchase and it ended up being like 40% off instead of the 50% off obviously because anything you actually want is not going to be on the sale of what you think it is
because that's how they design sales obviously.
Anyways that was a little longer than I wanted to run but I kind of ran along a little bit in that regard.
But anyways that one will help you out with your inner office nerf shenanigans.
Hello this is operator with another episode of Hecker Public Radio. This one can be pretty short.
I actually recorded this and then realized how the software kind of works from what I can understand.
So we have this only key thing. The problem with the linky is that if you copy and pasting your password until you get a new key.
You can also alternatively somehow manually back up your passwords and a third party piece of application which is also kind of annoying.
I also saw some CSV stuff related into some of the videos of people dumping in CSVs and I guess that's how they did it before.
And it looks like the method they prefer here is to use a backup team.
So you can go online and generate a key or whatever.
And I will create a new key just because for this assessment.
So you generate a key and it wants to be in the ptp even though it says pin format which I don't really understand because pin format is looks different than this pn.bm file.
You want to basically what you're doing is you're creating a backup certificate for the only key to use when it restores and creates backups.
So you've created this key. You can say save to so you go to the keys that I'm trying to be more verbose because this is a audio podcast.
So once you open up the only key application you unlock the device down through the stupid wizard and you're ready to dump or backup your keys.
You go to the keys that in first you want to create a backup key to store to your device and that's what the set is backup key.
So you can save to only key. I'm yet to provide a password passphrase so you can't not provide a passphrase.
I don't know what happened there. I think you have to be in config mode for that.
So first you got to get into config mode says hold button six four or five seconds.
So first thing we do is unlock that device. We hold the button for six seconds.
And it will turn off and we unlock the device.
We're going to add key in the flashing red.
So once we're in the flashing red state we can take our PGP key and dump it to the device.
So saved only key.
Primary key, which I don't know the different primary key and so key.
So successfully set our say key. So I guess you can save up to four keys in here, one of which is our backup key.
So we set our backup key. So at this point of time, I can basically paste in.
By getting out of config mode, I can hold down.
I don't really get the point of this whole backup data button.
I don't really understand why I want you to do this because you can do this anyway, right?
So what we've done now is we've dumped our key, our private key, our PGP key and into the only key that's stored in there.
So now it knows what to use to back it up and restore.
What we can do now is we can just open up an opad and do this in really anywhere.
By unplugging the device, plug it back in.
And then we're going to hold down this one key or actually once we unlock the device first, obviously.
So we're going to unlock the device, it's red, so hold down the one key and it's going to dump out this backup file.
So now we're actually dumping out our backup key.
And you know, say we go through that whole process and we're done.
So what we do after that is we go back and so say we have our backup team.
We go back into another device and go back into config mode, which allows you to read and write keys just basically.
And to get into config mode, yes, I'm not the device hold on the six button.
Let it go.
Three, four, five, six, then I'm not the device yet again.
And then we should be blinking red, which we're not.
One, two, three, four.
Now we're blinking red.
So now we're at the point where we're back into config mode and we want to restore.
So the way we restore our data is we put our key.
We paste our key in here that we generated, right?
And say set as backup key.
I don't even know if you have to do that.
Put in your past phrase.
Then make sure you're blinking red. You're in the config mode, right?
And then you want to obviously load the backup backup file that will you had saved or I guess you could paste it in here.
So it wants to restore by by file.
And then you click the restore key and it will blink yellow.
It's blinking red and then we hit the restore key.
Back of file sent to only key, which didn't look like it did anything.
Okay, now it's gone.
So it starts out takes a second then starts blinking yellow.
Then it will blink red green and that means it's done.
And at that point you can pull the device out.
Pull the device back in.
And then obviously I'm left in a vice.
So at this point I've restored my keys and I said to me.
It's a little.
Process.
The cool part about that is the way it's set up is that whenever you want to do backups, you can just hold down the one key and paste that in your key file.
So as you're as your encryption key stays the same, you can restore your backup using a different calendar.
You can restore your backup a lot easier or you can do backups a lot easier by just holding down that one key.
So every time you change your password, you don't have to redo this whole keys, pasting process, whatever they're doing there.
So when it's when you change it fast, where do you just hold down that one key for six seconds to let go and it'll start typing out your backup file and you can keep your backup file up to date.
So I get it. That's see how it makes sense to he makes it easier to backup.
Because you can just hold down that one button and arbitrarily back up your stuff.
And then when you need to restore on another device or whatever you have the latest and greatest backup.
Anyways, I hope that helps somebody out on getting the key. They're relatively cheap, like 40 bucks, but you will never your password will ever be cracked ever again.
And that's that's the whole idea of it.
It can get a little bit a little bit frustrating to get used to, but it's a lot easier than remembering past phrases and typing them out every time.
Google, everyone has a good day and I hope you're using it.
You've been listening to Hecropublic Radio at HecropublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecropublic Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons' Attribution, ShareAlive 3.0 license.
