Episode: 2883
Title: HPR2883: Pass the pigs
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2883/hpr2883.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:41:28

---

This is HPR Episode 2008-183 entitled, Pastna Biggs, and in part on the series, Tabletop
Gaming, it is hosted by Tuku Toroto, and in about 5 minutes long, and Karima Clean Flag.
The summary is, Tuku Toroto talks about their childhood game Pastna Biggs.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, welcome to the Hacker Public Radio, and this is to do the talking about the game called
Pastna Biggs. This is a, I used to play this as a kid a lot. This was the go-to game in our
summer cottage when it was raining and you could be doing anything outside.
So, this is a simple game, you basically, and well, basically this is a no-up limit of the players,
who can be playing, but more than four or six tends to lead into long-wading times.
The goal of the game is to gather a very different amount of points.
We often play to the 100 points, but you can, you can play to any point you agree.
And the tools or pieces of the game are simple testers.
Then paper for giving track of scores and two small rubbers of plastic pigs.
And these pigs are marked on the one side, so you can easily tell which one is the left side,
and which is the right side. The game course in turns, the player who starts takes the two
pigs, throws them on the table, and based on the position they land, they get some amount of points.
Then they can decide if they throw again, and if they catch in the points, if they catch in the
points, then the points are recorded on the notebook and the term passes to the next one.
If they decide to continue, they craft the pigs throw them again, and based on the position they
land, they get more points. The catch is that there's some positions where they are actually
lose all the points, they have collected, and the term moves to the next player, or they can even
lose all the points that they have collected during the whole game. So the very little strategy
you have in this game is deciding when to stop and when to continue.
So, positions of the pigs are kind of, they are funnily named, in Finnish, they are called
the valinesika, Sianselkä, Siansylty, etupotka, and then they start to collect their peconia
and kinkukoholtas. In English they are called side, meaning that the pigs are lying on the side,
but they have to be lying on the different sides, then they get one point.
And the laser pack is when the pig is lying on its back, it's five points,
it's one point, the laser pack is five points. The rotor is when the pig is standing upright,
that's five points again, the snouter is when it's leaning on its front legs, and the snout
is touching the paper, that's ten points, and leaning roller is the similar, but it's leaning on
against the snout and the ear, that's fifteen points. And if you get double ones, like a laser pack
is then five points, but double laser pack is twenty points, double rotor is twenty points.
Snouty is ten, but double snouty is forty. So you can get quite a lot of points, and if you get a
for example laser pack, there is five points and another high point, that's ten points together.
So you basically just throw the pigs, see what now, in what position they are, and get the points.
If they are touching, if they are leaning on their sides, so both are leaning on the same side,
that's a big out, that means that you forfeit all the points that you collected on that turn,
and turn this to the next player, or if you get making bacon, that is they are touching in any position,
they are touching, that's the same thing. The total score is zero, and that turns to the next
player, so you are trying to throw them always in a way that they don't touch other. And then
this piggyback is one big standing on another one, standing on each pack, then it's a clear sign
that somebody is cheating, and you are kicked out of the game completely. And that's basically the game,
it's really, very silly, it's not very complicated, it's easy to explain, it's easy to play, and it's
perfect for passing time for a bit. Okay, that's all I have to say about this game, catch you next time, bye bye.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Heka Public Radio was founded
by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary
revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
