Episode: 2258
Title: HPR2258: Killer Keilbasa
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2258/hpr2258.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:28:54

---

This in HPR episode 2258 entitled Killer Kale Barcer, it is hosted by Will,
MFMED1, Miller and in about 4 minutes long and Karimaklin flag,
the summer is, with recipe for that last minute party.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hey, how's everybody doing today?
My next podcast here, I've figured that I would do a short one, nothing super fancy.
I've noticed that a lot of people have put up recipes out here.
And I know it doesn't deal a lot with tech, but everybody needs to eat even tech people
or nerds or geeks, whatever you want to call yourself.
So I figured I would put out my favorite snack or appetizer recipe that we do here all
the time.
I mean, it seems like at least one or two holidays a year we do it, super bowl we do it.
Anytime we need to put something out that's easy to make and people really like, I never
get to bring any of this home.
I love the taste of it and it never gets to come home with me.
So it's kind of irritating that I don't get to eat any of my own cooking, but it's one
of the things that's really as successful when you take it to a party.
So the recipe involves killbossy.
For every pound of killbossy you have, you're going to need three ingredients for this.
Now you can either cook it in a saucepan, slow and low heat, or you can do what I do,
which is I put it in a crock pot.
So it's really up to you how you want to do it, but you take for every pound of killbossy
you slice them up into a little half, you know, half inch pieces, you know, like little
around pieces, put them in the dish and you're going to add three ingredients and it's two
tablespoons for each ingredient for every pound of killbossy you use.
The items are brown sugar, so you need two tablespoons of brown sugar, ketchup, two
tablespoons of ketchup, and two tablespoons of some kind of jelly you like.
Now I've used orange marmalade is what originally it called for it and I don't like the flavor
of orange marmalade.
It leaves kind of a weird aftertaste I didn't particularly care for it.
I did use grape jelly, which sounds really weird, but it works really well with the cobossy.
It's got a nice flavor to it.
It is not overpowering, you don't really taste grape jelly in it.
It just adds a sweetness to it.
The other one I use a lot is I use a hot pepper jelly, which we have a lot of Amish
farms out here who can their own jellies and I usually get a hot pepper jelly from them.
It can be flavored, I get usually just a plain one, but hot pepper jelly really works
well with it, so that's my favorite.
So for every pound you take two tablespoons of each, cut your killbossy up, put it inside
your crock pot, set it on medium heat, two tablespoons of ketchup, two tablespoons of
jelly, two tablespoons of brown sugar, mix it a little bit, it's going to be gritty, don't
worry about it.
That happens when it first starts, once it heats up and it starts to get hot, it will solidify,
and it will start to cook.
Within two hours of being in a crock pot, you're going to look at the cobossy, it's going
to kind of look cooked, you'll know it.
It doesn't look like it's original state anymore, it can be a little rounded on the edges,
a little darker.
At that point, you're good to go.
You're really just heating the kebossy up, it's really I think already cooked.
So within two hours of being in a crock pot, probably 20 minutes in a sauce pan, you're
good to go and it's ready for serving, and it's really good.
We've had it over rice, over white rice, had it by itself, people use it with toothpicks
on a plate as an order, and it works really well.
So if you need something quick, something really cheap, this kebossy dish works really well
in Amtonia, if you look over something that's a hit and it's different, every time we put
this out, it goes and we cook probably five to seven pounds at a time of kebossy and
we never get to bring any home.
Trust me, I know, it hurts me every time I bring that empty dish home.
So let me know what you think, send me an email, tech warriors at gmail.com with a Z on
the end of tech warriors, the infamous one at gmail.com, you can use that one as well,
hit me up on g plus, I'm not here all the time, Facebook, and let me know what you think.
If you have a recipe in the same vein of some type of appetizer, hit me up on that too,
I'd love to learn some new ones.
Thank you for listening and we'll see you out here in cyberspace.
You've been listening to Hekka Public Radio at Hekka Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is, Hekka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at gmail.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
ShareLife, 3.0 license.
