Episode: 2181
Title: HPR2181: Install OpenBSD from Linux using Grub
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2181/hpr2181.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 15:24:32

---

This is HPR episode 2,181 entitled Install Open PSD from Linux Using Blub.
It is hosted by Norrist and in about 8 minutes long.
The summary is Install Open PSD from Linux Using Blub.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
It's about a record something real quick about how I install Open PSD using Grub, starting
with a Linux distribution loading the Open PSD installer using Grub.
Why would you want to do that?
I think I'm going to save why to use Open PSD kind of an overview of what Open PSD is.
Why you may want to use it and how it's similar to some advantages and disadvantages.
I'm going to save that for another episode, but why would you want to install an existing?
Usually you start to install Open PSD from CD or whatever, but normally install Open
PSD using Grub.
It's because I'm doing that in another way, or I do this a lot, like Rackspace or Digital
Ocean where they give you like a base and they've got several.
They don't normally have Open PSD and I know some VPSes may ISO to do installation.
If you can't do that, as long as you can get to the Grub menu, you can use Grub and
start that.
This is what I do.
So to load the Open PSD installer using Grub, it has to be the newer version of Grub
Grub2, sort of the Grub Legacy or the Grub0.
That doesn't work, so whenever you're going to do this, start includes Grub2.
I am most familiar, I'm Red Hat and SintoS, and so I normally start with SintoS7 because
it comes with Grub2 by the final legacy.
Grub2 can load Open PSD kernels, so whenever you're machine boots, Grub, most of the time
when you're using Grub, it'll load the RAM disk or something like that, but it can also
load an Open PSD kernels, and the Open PSD installer in its most minimal form is just
the Open PSD with a few extra bits, just enough to do the installation.
First, you want to make sure that whenever you're going to do this with, you actually
have access to the Grub menu.
So I know sometimes with VPSes when you remove the VPS, they don't have like an HTML 5 or
flash console available, so boot up, interact with the Grub, and if you can't do that, then
you can't install it if you can't use the Grub.
So step one is make sure you have access to the console from step two.
Take note of any network information, you'll need that during the installation.
If it's on a network, which uses, if it's on a network that's using DHCP, then it's easy,
but if it's not, you need to know IP address, the net mask, default route, and at least,
so normally whenever I do this, I grab the Open PSD installation kernel image,
I save it to slash booleanics, am I running running?
And that's because typically slash boot is like an unencrypted partition in the front of the
disk.
If it's a separate partition at all, typically with VPSes, it is a separate partition
used, LVM encryption, or something like that, but slash boot is always just kind of an
EXT partition encrypted, not part of LVM.
It's always saved with the slash boot, so just, I've got notes in here, just for the
steps, the CD to slash boot, and then WGIT, the BSD installer, I'm not going to read off
the URL, but if you go to the Open BSD website and you look for the GIT Open BSD page,
there's a bunch of mirrors, and you can navigate the mirrors and image you want.
So what you'll want to find, the latest version, right now at six point, and then I normally
use the AMD 64 architecture installer, but there's other one on three days.
And then the file you're looking for is called BSD.rd.
There's a file called BSD with no extension, that's the idle kernel, and then there's a file
called BSD.rd, the RD stands for RAM disk, the BSD.rd.
So once you have a copy of BSD.rd saved somewhere that you can get to slash boot or is where
I do it.
Once you get that done, you can reboot, and then during the reboot process you'll see the
grub menu.
And inside grub you want to enter the command prompt, so normally when you see grub it's
just a menu that you can arrow up and down.
Options, but if you press C, you get a prompt where you can actually type some commands.
Normally the first command I type is LS.
If you haven't set a root for grub yet and you type LS, it will show you the available
disks.
So I type LS, it shows me what disks are available.
I set the root by typing set space root equals then in parentheses the disk.
And it'll be in the show notes too, if you want.
Then after you set the root, if you want to again you can type LS.
And this time since you have a root set it will show you the files that are available.
And that's handy just so you can see, you know, did you set the right disk?
Type LS and you don't see BSD.rd, maybe you didn't set the right disk and you start over.
So the grub command to load a BSD, open BSD kernel is K, open BSD, and then the name of the
disk.
So in this case it's just K, open BSD, space slash BSD.rd.
And then type boot and that will boot the BSD installer.
So I'm not going to walk through the installation process.
It's one, it's really straightforward.
Not a GUI like you might be used to.
It's all text, but ask your questions and you answer.
Even though it's not point and click and you have to do a little bit of thinking.
It's probably one of the most straightforward and most of the question, there's the default
answer and you can just press 90% of the open BSD installation to just present it.
The installation process is documented on BSD FAQ.
It's not hard to find, so if you go to the open BSD website, one thing you will have to enter
is the network settings.
Again, the default, when I ask you about your network, the default is DHCPs.
That's one spot where if you're using DHCP, you can just press enter.
If you're not, you have to type some stuff in.
And then one final thing you'll need to do that may not be obvious is the open BSD installer
uses something called Sets and Sets are the groups of files,
binaries and libraries, man-paid and all that stuff.
But the open BSD installation is divided up into eight or so what's called Sets.
And it's going to ask you where the location of your set and I think the default is to use
a CD or something like that and obviously a CD is not available.
If you have a CD available, you would just press enter.
If you're booting from a CD, you would just press enter and that would be the default,
would be the right answer.
But in this case, what you want to do is you want to get installation sets off the network,
off the internet.
So I'm going to ask you for the location of the sets, just type in HTTP.
And I feel like it, you know, says which one do you want to use in a list.
So it's not like you have to remember, oh yeah, with the HTTP.
So it's HTTP.
And then it will, it will say, do you want to use this URL?
And it'll have something in there already.
So you don't, I know I've done installations before, manner, where you had to like the installation URL
and type the whole, and that, that kind of terrible.
But at least in this case, it has, I guess, a set of mirrors.
So once you type HTTP, it'll ask you if you want to proxy, you just hit enter.
And then it'll say, you want to use this URL and you just hit enter.
And then it'll ask you which sets you want to install.
And it's, it doesn't hurt to just install everything.
It's very big.
And even there's some packages, some packages that are associated with X.
And it's safe to install those.
So I think that's it for now.
Hopefully, if I have some time, I'll do another episode or I feel like it.
And I know enough about to do some shows.
Maybe not.
Maybe a good topic.
We'll see if I do something.
You guys have an awesome day.
You've been listening to Heccopublic Radio at HeccopublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heccopublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
