Episode: 2301
Title: HPR2301: Baofeng UV5R VHF/UHF Handset part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2301/hpr2301.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 01:01:27

---

This in HPR episode 2,301 entitled, May of NUV5 RVHF-SUHF handset part 3, and in part
of the series, QSK, HAM radio, it is hosted by MrX, and in about 13 minutes long, and
clean flood. The summary is, a in-bep series about the May of NUV5 RVHF-SUHF-HAM radio transceiver.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15. Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Welcome Hacker Public Radio Audience. My name is MrX, and as usual I'd like to start by thanking
the people HPR for making this service available. If we'll contribute to the show with more shows
than we know to do with, the show is provided by the community for the community. It's actually
very easy. I've gone to a great deal of effort to streamline the whole process, and it's
really quite, quite easy. The hardest part I find is getting down to writing the show notes.
It's just about picking up a microphone and hitting the record button. We should must have
something interesting that we'd all love to hear. Okay, so this is part three about the
BoFing UV5, VHF-UHF, handheld transceiver, and remember it's all kind of foul and spelt.
I've heard this one's a bit rambly when I was sent back to it. In it I cover the spectrum of
VHF and UHF spectrum, what frequency range that covers, what frequency actually is, what wavelength is,
discuss the rubber area that comes with a handset, explain what on the directional means.
I think that's about it. So sit back and enjoy.
Okay, so it's called a transceiver, here we go down the rabbit hole. It's called a transceiver
so-called because it can both transmit and receive radio waves. It's a VHF-UHF radio, VHF stands
for very high frequency and that covers the radio spectrum from 30 megahertz to 300 megahertz.
It's also a UHF radio and so that covers the spectrum from 300 megahertz to 3 gigahertz.
According to Wikipedia, frequency is the number of occurrences of repeating event per unit of time.
The period is a duration of time of one cycle and a repeating event.
So the period is the reciprocal of the frequency. For example, if a newborn baby's heart beats at
a frequency of 120 times a minute, it's period the time interval between beats is half a second.
That is 60 seconds divided by 120 beats. Frequency is an important parameter used in science and
engineering to specify the rate of oscillatory or vibratory phenomena such as mechanical
vibrations, audio sound signals, radio waves and light. I hope that was all clear to you.
So yes, frequency, you can measure the frequency of occurrences of anything that happened over
a repeating cycle. So the number of skips if you were skipping per minute or whatever or you could
burp it and fart it once, one burp or fart a second if you so choose but I wouldn't really recommend
it. The one that you'll be familiar with here in the UK, our electricity as a means frequency of
50 hertz or 50 cycles. So the voltage swings from a peak voltage through to zero and the
alternative voltage and back the same point again, that's the whole point you come back to the
returning point. It does at 50 times a second so it's 50 hertz. So you've probably seen
a wave form on a TV, many times on a cell scope on some science fiction program or some you see a
wavy line on this on the scope. So if you look at that wavy line, it's a repeating pattern and if
you look at the top part of the wave and you move along to the next top part or wave, that's one
cycle. And if you were doing that with a mains voltage, you would see that time is measured across
the from left to right. So between one peak and the next would be a time interval of 50,
50 of those every every second basically, that's right. 50 of those peaks every second of that
makes sense. Interestingly enough, I don't know if I mentioned one of my previous podcasts but
I was using an article in New Science magazine, I'm imagining it here in the UK, I don't know if
it's international or maybe I'll be. And then powers at B, so we say, the powers at B are recording
the main term from the National Grid 24 hours a day because the frequency of the mains is
there's a guarantee that the frequency will stay within a certain range but it's never exactly the same.
It's always varying slightly. So if you imagine you've got a power station that's
generating electricity with a big turbine, could be from power or from water or from coal or whatever,
when you apply a load to that then it will slow down it ever so slightly and then so the frequency
will slow down that little bit and they need to throw more power into the grid to bring it back
and to line again. So it's constantly varying very slightly, a bit higher, a bit lower and it
produces a fingerprint no two bits in time or the same. So if they happened, let's say they were
picked up a recording from some source and they could pick up some background hum on that recording
then they can feed that to the computer and say okay, where is that pattern in time?
and they can timestamp it precisely so they can say oh why that bit of recording
looking at our records of the National Grid over that over a given period of time,
we can match that to I don't know the 23rd of June 2016. So it's very very powerful,
a clever way of timestamping any recording that they get their hands on basically if there
is any main time on it. Anyway, I thought you'd find that interesting. So where are we? Yeah,
frequency. That was frequency. Hope that's clear. So what do we have? What kind of supplied
the accessories do we have for the serial? Well, it comes with a dual band rubber aerial,
a helically wound. In other words, there's a wire run round. There's a kind of soft bendy
centre to it and there's a wire running like a spiral almost like I am like a coil
round and round up to the top. It's almost a bit like a springy use. You put in a pummel
reduced to bend pipes, you know, that sort of thing. And it was helically wound and this is
what they call an omni-directional antenna. So you can think of a omni-directional antenna.
If you imagine dropping a pebble on the surface of a pond and you get circular patterns
emitting out from the point at the impact when it reaches where it touches the pond,
ripples out from that that that stone that was dropped. But it travels in all directions on
360 degrees all the way round from that stone. But not up from the stone and not down from the
stone. What's the same with one of these antennas? If you've got an antenna sitting vertical,
then imagine that's the the stone being dropped vertically onto the pond and the radio waves
emanate rounder and an outward from that antenna. But not from the tip and not from the base.
That's on the on the on the directional antenna. So you'll notice if you look at the rubber antenna
that there's a kind of lumpy bit at the bottom. And that's used for the UHF part of the band.
Remember the UHF designation is from 300 megahertz to 3 gigahertz. Of course, the radio itself
can't do that frequency range. That's UHF. And the UHF part of the frequency is higher.
So the wave length is shorter. So the antenna itself has to be shorter. So the stumpy bit at the
bottom, that's why the antennas small at the base because the small bit at the lumpy bit at the
base is for the UHF part of the band. And the top part of the antenna, which is
most of its length really, is for the UHF part of the band, a very high frequency part of the band.
It has a longer wave length and needs a longer antenna. Think of it a bit like if you're
waving a skipping rope up and down and you get a kind of wavy pattern. If you wave up and down
quicker, and that's the frequency is higher, you're moving that skipping rope up and down,
up and down more quickly, then the distance between each wiggle as it travels across the rope
is closer together, they're bunched up. But if you wiggle your arm up and down slower,
then the bunching spreads out and the wave length gets wider. So hopefully that makes sense.
So how do you calculate wave length? Well, wave length is speed of the radio frequency signal
divided by the frequency of the radio signal. So speed of the radio signal itself,
speed of electromagnetic waves are 300 million meters per second, speed of light in fact.
So for example, our radio, it's got a VHF section and a UHF section. So for the VHF section,
the amateurs use typically at the 145 megahertz part of the band. So 145, so I heard one
is same as one cycle. So that would be one cycle per second. Well, this is 145 million
cycles per second or 145 megahertz. So in that case, it would be the figure would be 300 million,
so 300 million meters per second, that's 3 with 8 zeros after it. So it's 300 million divided
by 145 million. And if you do that, you can just knock off the zeros. So that would just be
300 divided by 145 if you like. Then that comes out at just a tiny fraction over two. So that's
right because the 145 megahertz section of the amateur band is known as a two meter band.
So that's how you measure wavelength. Hope that all makes sense.
Okay, so that's about it for this podcast. I hope you've enjoyed it. If you want to contact me,
I can be contacted at MrX at hpr at googlemail.com. That's MRX ATHPR, the at symbol googlemail.com. So
until next time, thank you and goodbye.
Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen
to me.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
