Episode: 2616
Title: HPR2616: Liverpool Makefest 2018 - interview with Josh - A.K.A - All About Code
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2616/hpr2616.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 06:36:30

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio. This is an interview I did in Liverpool
last time I interviewed him was 2006 but Joshua soon put me right on that. Enjoy the interview.
Hello, this is Tony Hughes again for Hacker Public Radio. I'm at Liverpool Maker Fest and I've got a young man that I last interviewed a couple of years ago.
Hello, he's going to introduce himself and what he's doing here at Liverpool Maker Fest.
Hi, my name is Josh and today I am exhibiting my project Edgey Blocks which I hope to tell you a bit more about in this interview.
So since I last interviewed you were in 2006, what's happened?
So back in 2016 I was running a project called Edgey Pyson which was a project which allowed children to interface with LEDs and buzzes and physical computing.
Since that I've created my own block based program language called Edgey Blocks which is a block based version of Pyson 3 which allows makers, teachers and students to build simple and complex programs with Pyson.
The aim of Edgey Blocks is to make the transition from scratch to Pyson easier so scratch is a block based program language and then in schools in the UK the next step is Pyson but it's quite a big jump from one to the other so Edgey Blocks is kind of that middle gap between the two.
That sounds really cool. I believe you've just had a little excursion to the United States would you tell us a little bit about that?
So I got invited to do a keynote at the Education Summit at Pyson US in Cleveland so I got to talk to over a hundred teachers in the Education Summit who work in schools in the US.
I got to show them Edgey Blocks and also find out how schools are different in the US to the R and the UK so it was really good to kind of hear different experiences from people I wouldn't normally meet.
I also got to do a lightning talk to the whole conference which was about 3,500 people so that was a five minute lightning talk which I really enjoyed and gained a good experience from that.
I also heard you met someone quite significant in the Pyson world.
Yes, I met Gido Van Russell who created Pyson and I spent about 40 minutes with him telling him about Edgey Blocks and we talked about Pyson in schools and education so it was a really good chat with him.
We also went with Les who are Les Pounder who managed to get an interview so that's in Linux format in a few months so look out for that as well.
Good plug for Linux format there and Les, what exactly are you doing to demonstrate Edgey Blocks today?
So we're demonstrating the Raspberry Pi and Mac of it so we've got different demos, flashing lights, building robots so all sorts of different things that you can do is a Mac of it and Raspberry Pi.
But they're all programmed in Edgey Blocks so kind of just giving people a taste of what they can do with it really.
I also believe you've got a few kits.
Yes, I have got a Raspberry Pi add-on board which I'm selling which is a Pelican hat and also a GPIO starter kit for people to get started with Edgey Blocks and physical computing with the Raspberry Pi and Mac of it so hopefully they'll go down well and get some more people interested in technology.
So where have these kits come from?
So these kits I designed the PCB myself so they were made in China and they have finally arrived and we've got them in kits and the GPIO starter kit I made with a little worksheet and some bits and pieces of physical computing components.
So in the last two years since I last interviewed you've gone from just having a small software project to branching out into hardware as well?
Yes, so Edgey Blocks is now in over 72 countries. It's come quite a long way in under two years so it's quite nice to see that people believe in the project and it's having a positive effect on people and scores so that's kind of the main aim of the project and it's finally taken off which is really good to see.
Thank you very much Josh and next time I interview you in a few years time I expect you to be CEO of your own massive company.
Thank you.
Okay cheers I'll let you go.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
