Episode: 2984
Title: HPR2984: RHEL 8 Workstation first looks 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2984/hpr2984.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:18:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 2984 for Thursday 9 January 2020.
Today's show is entitled, RHEL 8 Workstation First Looks.
It is hosted by JWP
and is about nine minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summer is
running RHEL 8 Workstation on an HP Stream Laptop.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge
by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Music
Good day. My name is JWP
and I'd like to talk to you about my rail enterprise 8 Workstation development instance
that we've had running on my HP Stream Laptop for a while.
So I had a podcast before where I talked about running Mint on there
and on the stream and it was great.
I did something to make the real tech driver work and it worked for a while
and then I switched to mate and I couldn't get it to work anymore after that
and finally it was just really frustrating to put an external doggle on a two port
and it only had two USB ports.
So I reinstalled Windows 10 and a few years later
and now if you don't really don't have a 64 gigabyte EMC or SSD on your HP Stream
it gets really, really complicated with two USB sticks and stuff like this.
And so I had signed up for the Red Hat developer program to help me do containers,
learn about containers and what they're doing with pod man and stuff.
And so I downloaded a copy of rail and then I told them that I wanted to install Rail 8
just the basics with the browser.
And bone behold to my surprise that networking problem with that driver went away.
I'm talking to you now from very far away from my router and I've got full steam.
And so I installed it.
It was, you know, to be very honest, it's very plain.
I did install the OPL repository and it comes with the Git and Flatpack built in.
I tried some snaps with it but it's quite,
because of the SC Linux that's installed, it's quite interesting with the snap.
Some of the snaps work, some of the snaps don't work.
It just depends on the SC Linux. I couldn't get a Dacity work.
And so I went through this journey and now I have GNOME Sound Recorder installed.
And the other thing is this lap top.
It only has two gigabytes of memory and 32 gigabytes of EMC storage on the thing.
And surprisingly GNOME is coming up, you know, it's coming up with 1.6 usable.
And it runs with, you know, four or five browser tabs, no problem.
It was a chore for me to get software because I'm mostly coming from a dev world.
Right? I opened two worlds, a devian world and as far as my things.
And so I'm trying to get a little more into Red Hat, doing Red Hat a little more work.
And so it's interesting.
But so the lowest I've had it is about 800 MB.
So just to do this when I'm talking to you now, it's about at 800 MB total.
And it's okay. The thing is, is it never, ever, ever crashes or exchange with the memory.
It's just really, really low key.
And I can use DNF for yum to keep the thing updated.
And it's really, really stable.
And of course, it has the Red Hat on it with the enterprise Linux and stuff.
And so I would say that if you need something, you know, what was the goal of this thing?
Well, the goal of this thing was to get around the problem that I was having with the keeping the windows updated on it.
And of course, windows was very slow and very unpredictable with only two gigabytes of RAM.
And it did run Skype, so I could work.
But this came out, this came out.
And again, it's sort of memory thing.
But this team's application came out the other day for Linux.
And so what I'm able to do is I was able to use this team's application, installing on this, this real eight instance.
And it shows it as a repository and everything.
And it comes up in the GNOME software thing as well.
So the, this team, it acts like a Skype client.
So I can make all of my meetings and do all my stuff.
I have my Skype headset on now talking to you.
So it's, it's really, it's really quite OK.
Now, the thing with the team, though, on this small HP stream laptop is that that's all you're going to do.
So you're going to go to your meeting, you're going to need a notebook to write your notes.
It may let you bring up like a text editor or a terminal or something, if you want to type some notes or something.
But you're not going to get much more because it's tapping out about 1.8 or 1.85 as far as that goes.
And so I was able to do the meetings that they didn't have any audio or presentation problems.
But, but it's going to hit the cat, the swamp, and it's going to be about 1.8 if you use a team.
So Microsoft, they did do us a great favor in the Linux world by having this team staying there.
Because it, once and for all, solves the Skype and the meeting problem as far as work goes.
And the, and I find that the real eight is really, really stable.
Hey guys, I saw a bunch of emails from Ken Fallon about us not being nice to one another and the hacker public radio community.
And I would just ask everyone, you know, really think about, you know, being kind to one another.
The world is rough enough out there without us beating up on one another about some opinion or some view that we put in a podcast.
Now, I can understand if it, you know, you're making something political or whatever.
But in large, most people are just talking about stuff they're passionate about.
I heard, I listened to a, a polo tie and a bow tie podcast the other day.
And I thought it was quite amazing.
So let's please remember to be as kind as possible to each other in our endeavors.
And, you know, if you really don't like a podcast, hit the next button.
You know, it just goes away or deleted from your phone real quick.
It's just completely okay.
All right. Hey, you all have a nice day.
And if you need to get in touch, I'm at JWP5 at hotmail.com.
Thank you so much.
Bye now.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative commons,
attribution, share light, free.or license.
