Episode: 2117
Title: HPR2117: What's in my bag for Podcrawl?
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2117/hpr2117.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 14:32:32

---

This in HPR episode 2,117 entitled, What's in My Man for Podcroll.
And in part on the series, What's in My Toolkit.
It is hosted by fellow member and in about 13 minutes long.
The summary is, may show us what is in the man he's taking to the London Podcroll.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hiya, this is Dave the love book and what you're about to hear next is an audio recording
from a Periscope video that I recorded on the 19th of August.
The audio quality isn't great because it was recorded on my smartphone.
Basically, what it is, the 20th of August was the London Podcroll.
And a couple of my colleagues, my podcasting colleagues, did a What's in My Bag for Podcroll.
So I thought I'd do the same, but rather than just doing it for Periscope, I thought I'd
double up dual purpose it for Podcroll and also for Hacker Public Radio.
So what you're going to hear next is the audio rip of that video recording.
It's important to remember that because this was originally a video recording, there
are a number of visual gags and jokes and references that don't really make sense in
an audio recording.
So I will be putting a link to the original Periscope video and also to my media goblin
instance in case the Periscope removed the video because I think they only stay out
there for a short period of time.
So you can enjoy the video and know what it's glory, should you wish to.
So enjoy.
Hello.
That's quite dirty.
I'll tidy that up a little bit.
No, because the fountain is on light in its face, that's what I'm going to be about to.
Anyway, hello.
Hello, Ro.
Right.
So, so far, Rowley, Stuart and her Caroline have done a What's in my bag for Podcroll
as Podcroll is tomorrow.
Straighten that up a bit.
So for Podcroll and also for Hacker Public Radio where I'll be taking the audio from
this and making it into an audio show for Hacker Public Radio, here is What's in my
bag for Podcroll.
So here's my bag.
It's incredibly manly, you can see.
It's a mountain warehouse bag that we bought last week.
Last weekend, we came before.
In lovely bright orange and turquoise, definitely in my colour, so I'm sure you agree.
And his little backpack so I'll be able to carry it quite light.
It's actually, it looks big because it's in my face, all hearts, lovely, but it's actually
not that big, but it is just big enough to fit in all the crap that I want to bring.
To Podcroll tomorrow.
So let's have a look inside.
Sorry about the zippy noise.
So we'll go with the big stuff first.
I have got my trusty Pixel C, my beautiful Pixel C tablet, which I bought last February
I think it was.
I had an X of 7 and it was starting to play up and I thought to myself, what am I going
to buy to replace it?
And I wanted to make sure I was kind of at the 400 technology.
So I went with Google's flagship thingy.
So that will be servicing my needs, said it's big, tomorrow.
And then, can we get the booze and hisses out of the way now please, people.
I have this, which is a Microsoft Bluetooth keyboard, which is absolutely really.
Which is absolutely beautiful and very nice to use on a lot less clap.
So I thought you could lift that up.
No, I wouldn't.
Which I was going to get lol, so let's get wrong, which the tablet fits really
nicely into here and turns it into a laptop, more to follow.
Yeah, you remind me when you get out of my way.
Right, that's in the small package.
In the big package, package section.
Lonely.
Package is on the brain.
I have a smaller.
Bad bag.
I have two bags.
It's a man bag.
It's actually a tablet case.
A 7 inch tablet case.
I do have a bigger one than 7 inch.
In here, there's a 10 inch one in there.
Yeah.
In fact, I'm going to do this one in a minute.
Let me get the bigger one out of the way first, because that's got more.
It's the content, absolutely.
So in here is my trusty Samsung Q2U microphone.
This is actually the exact microphone.
The actual microphone that I use for podcasting generally.
Oh yes, thank you for those.
No one's on.
No one's on.
There are issues for podcasting, and he's absolutely brilliant.
I used it earlier on today with that little gizmo, which I'll talk about in a minute.
And the audio quality, even on a phone, is really, really good.
So, a microphone.
Also in here, we have this.
Where do we get this from?
We're in the award.
European podcast award 2012 UK personality.
Last time in Lakewood, Alec?
You were in Lakewood, Alec.
That was the gift.
It's an Olympus DM3 audio recorder, which will definitely be coming in useful tomorrow.
Whether anything actually gets said that is intelligible.
Audio plus beer equals.
I don't know.
And I wasn't going to bring these except Rose started talking, doing his Sennheiser porn bit.
So I thought I'd put my headphones in here as well.
These are my Marshall majors.
Marshall.
And that's official Marshall, not crap.
Really, really nice.
We use these as studio headphones when we're recording the podcast.
That is the 10 inch bag.
I've got to pack all this back up again, didn't I?
Can you stop wotting your boobs in everybody's face?
So in here is the bits bag.
This is the little bits.
And in here I have,
get the hissing out of the way now, please.
A Microsoft Bluetooth mouse,
which effectively turns with that keyboard.
Oh, blesses.
She's packing the stuff away.
Train it well.
Turns my tablet into a very wonderful laptop.
What else have I got in here?
So I have got, it's not all over crap, it's very useful crap.
I have got in here two audio splisses for smartphone.
So smartphone thingy goes in there,
and then you've got microphone and headphone outputs.
These are two of them in case one goes good blue.
And the reason I have that is for this.
If you listen to my, I was going to say my previous,
my first and only HDR episode,
I was speaking about the NUEA 1.50 lapel mic,
which is an amazing piece of kit,
which I may be using for tomorrow.
It kind of goes without saying,
that I have a huge collection of USB cables,
Type A to micro USB,
and a couple of mini USBs for the microphone
and also the recorder, I need to charge that.
So it's not just these, there's all the ones over there as well.
The lighting here isn't good.
What else have I got? I've also got little pair of earbuds.
I've also got an SD card reader
to USB storage devices.
That, which is a USB C to micro,
no micro to C,
so I can charge my tablet on the go,
so I'm going to have to have my separate tablet charger.
And finally, this little badge here,
which is an OTG adapter for my smartphone,
to go from micro USB to USB Type A.
And that's where I plug my microphone into,
so I can use my...
Did you know my microphone?
Oh, miss my phone.
And apart from that,
get another thing I've got.
Now, Road brought a whole bunch of rechargeable battery packs.
Now, we went out to Boa,
or Caroline went out this morning,
with the full intention of buying
some chargeable battery packs for us.
Unfortunately, the company we were going to buy them from,
class Olsen, decided to shut down their donk has to store.
So they had no stock.
So instead, we've got a couple of these,
which are USB charges,
but they're powered by AA batteries.
There's four AA batteries in each of these.
We've got four of these in total.
They only charge one device at a time,
so we can actually charge up to four devices
and we can't get mates.
They charge half a device.
They charge half a device,
but the likelihood of us completely draining a device is low.
So in order to fuel these,
and Caroline has another one of these,
we have not one,
not two,
but three packs of 10 AA batteries,
plus the 16 we've already got in these badges here.
So I really don't think we're going to run out of battery power all that quickly.
And of course, I'm sure there'll be various pubs and bars
around that will be willing to allow us to steal their electricity for free,
as long as we drink lots of beer,
and I'm sure we'll be drinking lots of beer.
And you want to,
I do not play Pokemon Go.
No.
I refuse to play Pokemon Go because I enjoy my life.
I forgot to say something that was in my bag,
because Roke keeps telling that it's going to rain.
I have my handy waterproof,
and you'll be able to see me cause it's the mixture of snowloat.
I have a brolly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I will light up the way you go.
And of course,
apart from my trusty smartphone,
which I'm actually recording on this thing here,
so I can't show it to you.
You can't watch.
My trusty smartphone,
you can now see there.
I've also got,
probably the most important item
that you ever bring to a pod crawl.
So important, in fact,
the carol I forgot to bring hers.
What?
Do you have a laptop?
An app.
Roke, have you got an app?
That it's not a Yorkshire flat cap.
I bet it's not a Yorkshire flat cap.
Cause I'm from a Yorkshire, you know.
Vanoles.
Right.
That's actually a southern softy
that's invaded Yorkshire.
I am an honorary Yorkshire man.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
I've got my own,
I love watching the dramas on tonight, so.
We're giving up for it.
Like you wanted to know.
Yes, of course you wanted to know.
Right.
So anyway,
it is pod crawl tomorrow.
Yes.
So we're starting the arc.
We're going to the Agile Arms,
in Agile Street, in London W1.
Tomorrow, the 20th of August,
Saturday at midday.
That's where we're going to be starting.
If you want to follow where we are,
in case you want to join us later on,
then look out for hashtag pod crawl
on Facebook and Twitter,
and possibly some other stuff as well.
Well,
and yeah, to find out where we are,
we'll be around somewhere,
somewhere in London ish.
It's on this small place.
Oh, and hashtag pod crawl says row.
Yes.
I did say that,
but putting it there,
putting it there,
in writing,
is perfect.
So, Brim,
if you're listening to this on
HackerPublic Radio,
go to the show notes,
and there will be links to the various things
we're spoken about, including this video,
so that you can go and see the video itself.
This video here, yes.
Never work with children, animals,
and Caroline.
To the pip.
So I hope you enjoyed that.
As I said,
you will find the links to all the products and things
that I mentioned in the show notes
over at HackerPublicRadio.org.
If you'd like to get in contact with me,
if you've got any comments about
anything that was spoken about,
then of course you can leave a comment on the show notes.
Or if you want to get in contact with me personally
or on social media,
then if you go over to the bug,
no, the lovebug.org slash contact,
you'll find all of my contact information
over there.
Love to hear from you.
So yeah,
and tomorrow for another exciting episode
of HackerPublicRadio.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded
by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the
Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLike,
3.0 License.
