Episode: 2519
Title: HPR2519: the_remora Builds a character in Edge of the Empire
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2519/hpr2519.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:38:04

---

This is HBR episode 2,519 entitled, The Remora Builds a Character in Edge of the Empire,
and is part of the series, tabletop gaming.
It is posted by first time post The Remora, and is about 22 minutes long, and carries an
explicit flag.
The summary is, I sit down, and build a character for Edge of the Empire, using Oggyood's character
generator.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code, HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair, at An Honesthost.com.
Hello Hacker Public Radio, I'm The Remora, and taking some inspiration from Clatu, I'm going
to go through and build a character for the Fantasy Flight Star Wars Edge of the Empire
game.
I also wanted to do this because I've got a couple of shows that I'm also planning
on uploading that are my Star Wars role playing group where we play Fantasy Flight's
Force and Destiny, which is the same game as just that particular book is keyed around.
Jedi in Edge of the Empire, the system started with Smugglers and Bounty Hunters and all
of those.
So today I'm going to sit down, and I'm going to build a Bounty Hunter by the name of
Cumbar Connell.
He is 27, he's about 1.8 meters with average build, dark hair, and green eyes.
So for his beginnings, let's say he comes from some of the lower levels of course on,
so he's going to be comfortable with tech, but he's not quite foreign-hungry.
He's middle levels, not the worst, but not the best.
We see the upper levels in episode 1, 2, and 3.
Because of the time period we're placing this character in, he's going to have no attitude
towards the Force because he's grown up hearing everything from the Empire.
This is going to be taking place before episode 4, this character, I mean.
This reason for adventure, let's go with Opportunity Nox.
He was given the opportunity to become a Bounty Hunter, which I am typing.
So he decided to take the opportunity.
There's an obligation, let's say he has a betrayal.
I'm going to say the betrayal he's got is going to be his Bounty Hunter trainer, has betrayed
him, and essentially abandoned him.
So while he is trained as a Bounty Hunter, he's not going to have a Bounty Hunter's license.
He's a human.
So I'm thinking for his skills, his career skills, he gets to additional career skills
for being human.
He's going to get one additional career skill that's going to be cool, because that's
always a very important stat to have, and looking through, he's going to have some knowledge
about the underwater world, both from his training as a Bounty Hunter and his time spent
on the middle level, of course.
First career skills, giving him some ranks, going to need some ranks in athletics, perception,
streetwise, and vigilance, always vigil, if you get a ranking vigil.
Your primary initiative skill, so it's always good to have an extra rank in that.
So he is going to be a specialized as a Bounty Hunter, as an assassin, although he's going
to get a rank in range heavy, which is your blasters, or blaster rifles specifically, and
a rank in Skull Duggery, and now we're going to move on to his career characteristics.
So as a human, he starts off with two and everything, that's average.
If you hear somebody talking about average difficulty in this, that is two purple die.
So having two ranks will always mean that you're rolling at least to bring down.
I'll explain the dice here in a minute once I finish building his character.
So as a human, he starts with 110 XP.
I'm going to spend some XP, now I'm going to bring up his brawn, bring him his agility,
and he's going to take 10 extra obligation to add 10 XP.
So if he has 60 unused XP right now, I'm going to leave his other stats where they are
and just buy some stuff out of his character tree.
And I will be including his character sheet for people to view in the show notes, or
at least a link to it.
So we're going to buy a rank in grit, and a rank in lethal blows, so a rank in dodge.
Well, a rank of precise aim, jump up, quick draws, always really good to grab, quick strike,
and so we've got the first two entire rows of his skill tree, and we could have purchased
more, but for now, in simplicity, we're going to stay in the assassin.
His motivation, he would say he left, because he was ambitious, he wanted to become a bounty hunter.
That was his ambition, and he did it because he wanted to be static skills.
We can't buy up any of our skills, because we spent all our experience on talent.
Now we've got 500 credits with which to buy out his starting equipment.
So we're going to give him a strangle blaster, because what self-respecting bounty hunter's
not going to have at least one blaster pistol.
Blaster pistols key off of range light, which he only has his agility in, which is three.
So he has no ranks, but he still has a good, good chance of hitting somebody.
I'm going to give him a model Q4 quick fire blaster.
It's fairly cheap, it's 250 credits, but that's going to take up a good bit of his starting
grip.
I'm going to purchase that.
For his armor, not going to have, we only have 250 credits to work with, so give him
some heavy clothing, which I'll add one, two, so it's not great, but it's better than
nothing.
I think he's going to have a hand-held holocon, or a comlink.
We've got 200 XP still, sorry, not XP credits, still to spend.
By a data pad, I've always needed that pad.
I'm going to purchase some stem pack, five credits a piece, I've got 125, so we'll go
ahead and buy five.
And as a starting character, he's got, you know, he's pretty decent, well off, he's got
a pretty decent blaster, it's got, you know, base damage of five, it's on the short range,
but now that we've spent all this, we're going to turn him into a night double character,
which means we're going to give him 9,000 credits because he is not a Jedi, not getting
a lightsaber, and another 150 XP to spend.
So he's got, let's go and buy up some of our skill, range light, and we're going to spend,
put two points into range light, spend 25 XP, because range light is not a career skill.
I don't buy another two ranks in range heavy, I give him three yellow dice for his range
heavy, which is really, really good.
We want to buy his vigilance, buy another rank in vigilance, give him two yellow dice
for that, and I think in some street wise to help him hunt down his target.
Now it's always a good idea if you've got somebody who's going to need to be getting
into computers to buy another rank in computers, and we still have 70 XP bar.
So let's go in and pick up any other career skill, let's pick up the Gadgeteer career skill
or specialization, not politics.
So buy him a rank of toughened, which I'll give him two more wounds, let him buy the
defensive rank stance talent, which will let him take a defensive stance and make him
intimidating.
So he will now be able to supplementarily suffer strain to downgrade difficulty of coercion
checks.
Also, give him jury rigged, to let him improve a weapon, spare clips, so the gene will not
be able to spend a despair role to force him to run out of ammunition.
And for our last 15 XP, we're going to buy armor master, which will increase his sub-value
by one while he's wearing armor.
That is awesome.
So now, let's go back and spend some of this 9000 credits he's earned over his time as
a bounty hunter.
I'm going to be picking up a blaster rifle, and the blaster pistol we have shoots short
range.
So let's pick up something that can shoot a long range, pick up a pretty basic standard
blaster rifle, like what your stormtroopers would carry, it's been 900 credit that.
And we're going to upgrade his heavy clothing now, let's see what we can, let's go all out
and just buy him a set of laminated armor, this is the type of armor that stormtroopers
are wearing.
And now we've still, that's bison, so he doesn't have any kind of close combat weapon
right now, so let's do that, let's buy some shot gloves, because he doesn't love to
walk up to somebody and just knock them.
All right, now he's, he's still got 5,000 credits, what fun stuff.
So as a new character, he gets access to a starting vehicle.
So we're going to give him a Wayfair medium trend, the other options are the fire spray,
which everybody knows is Slayhorn and the YT-1300 for the Millennium thought.
And we'll name this second handship that he's picked up, the Opal Staw, save him out.
That is about everything as far as character creation goes, and let me explain some of the
basics on how this system works.
In the episode class you did on Pathfinder and slash D&D, he talked about using a 20-studded
die, which is not what Star Wars by fantasy flight uses, this is also a similar system
to what the new Genesis game uses.
It's essentially the Star Wars rules that have been modified, well, had all the Star Wars
taken out.
And it can be used for just about anything.
So Campbell are here, has several skills, several ranks and many skills, such as education,
athletics.
There's a lot, a lot of very nice skills that he has accessed, and you can use just about
any skill for just about any depending.
So the way skills work in this as far as building your dice pool is your GM's going to set
your difficulty.
If it's an average difficulty, that means it's going to be opposed by two purple die.
Let's say this is a computer's check, average computers, he's just trying to get in to
access the computer for names of passengers who have come through recently.
He's going to be an average check, so two purple die, and then his computer skills, he computers
is based on his intellect, which is a two.
He has one ranking computer, so he's going to take one of those, green dice, and upgrade
it to a yellow dice.
And I actually have a dice at my hand, I'm going to roll this check and see how it turns
out.
He has not succeeded, but he has one advantage.
The end result of the pool was to advantage in one Peret symbol, and one of the advantage
is going to be canceled out by one of the threats.
So he doesn't find the information that he wanted, but he is able to get into the system
at some point later, and it'll be easier for him.
And I mean, this works all the way through.
So let's say I had bought one more rank and ranged heavy, as I was building him.
So he would have four ranks.
Well, ranged heavy is keyed off of the agility stat, and he has three ranks in the agility
and three ranks right now in ranged heavy, which means all of his green die are yellow
die.
If he had bought that fourth rank of ranged heavy, he would have three yellow dice and
one green dice, because you take the larger number, be it the rank or the characteristic,
and you upgrade the number of dice by the smaller number.
There are, I really should have explained this sooner.
In the Star Wars system, there are seven types of die.
With Genesis, you remove one type of those die.
You don't use the fourth die, and if you have your ability die, which are the green dice,
your proficiency die, which are the yellow dice, difficulty die, which are the purple die,
challenge die, which are the red dice, and then you've got boost die, which are light blue
and seback die, which are black die.
You also have a white dice, which is the fourth die.
Now your proficiency and challenge dice are 12 side of dice.
They both each have one special symbol on each of them that being trioph on the proficiency
die and despair on the challenge die.
The closest analog would be like rolling a critical success or a critical fail, but it
allows the player to introduce something that they would like in the world.
Your ability and difficulty die are eight side of dice, and your boost and setback die
are six side of dice.
The fourth die is a 12 side of die, and it has a set of black and white hips on each of
the faces.
Three faces with two light side hips and one face with two dark side hips, and then more
dark side hips, then more single dark side hips and single light side hips.
And that is how you fuel your force powers if you have this.
One other thing that is different about this system is opposed to D and D. I know that
there are some other systems that have similar concepts in them, is the destiny pool.
The beginning of the game, every player, but not the GM, rolls a four star, and whatever
face comes up, is the number of light side or dark side destiny points that are added
to the pool.
In the last game I play, it started off with four dark side points, which as the GM was
kind of not fun for me.
It's always nice, but it means the characters, the players are all locked down and can't
use them to add stuff to the world that they would like to add.
The only other dice that are needed are a set of percentile dice, because there is
a critical table that has to be rolled on some time.
This was a character creation in a brief explanation of how the age of the empire, age of
rebellion, force and destiny, and genesis system character creation works, though this
doesn't really apply to genesis.
Thank you.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a life, 3.0 license.
