Episode: 2674
Title: HPR2674: Raspberry pi3 open media server
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2674/hpr2674.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 07:19:51

---

This is HPR episode 2674 entitled Raspberry Pi Free Open Media Server.
It is hosted by A.W.P and in about 10 minutes long, and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is A.W.P email in this episode.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good day.
My name is JWP and I'd like to talk to you today about my Open Media Server.
So I think I did a podcast a few years ago about how the Open Media Server had been working
with my old Android C1 model.
I'd always had a little bit of thought that maybe something was going on with the SD card
or something was going on.
I did it typically happened after almost every time I did an app get update that something
would be going on.
And then I went to the Open Media site and checked it out, and I found that we used
an Armbian and I was like, okay, and it wasn't working right.
And then I noticed that Armbian had a complete Raspberry Pi 2 or 3 or even 3 plus Open Media
Server thing.
So I was like, okay, it was not an issue.
And so I decommissioned the old Android for further research.
For further research, it's got great specs, but I just don't know what's going on with
that SD interface.
I can put an EMC in there and see if maybe that's going on or if it just got too hot or
I'm not for sure.
Now I've had a new Raspberry 3B, it's not the plus version, but the 3B work in the Open
Media Server.
And it was relatively simple.
You download the Armbian image and the difference between the old Android and the Raspberry
Pi was that it was Open Media Vault 4.
And so there were some different applications and Open Media Vault is pretty much all done
by the web.
I mean, they even have a PXE server plug-in if you want to give that a try.
But I figured since it was on a Raspberry and they said, warning, this may be slow, I
said, well, just let me see.
So I plug in my 4TB drive into it and what I got was some pretty good streaming.
I mean, every once in a while it hickups a little bit, there's some verbs in the sound.
But that just could be my home Wi-Fi as well.
What really caught my attention was that you can take a snapshot, monitor the external
drive's health extensively during the week.
And so I'm like, well, I'm never doing anything at 4 in the morning.
And so every day at 4 in the morning, it takes a look at the health of it and then once
a week it does an updated update and get upgrade in a reboot once a week.
And that's all scheduled now.
So I know that Kim Fallon did an Ansible class.
I haven't got around to answering everything yet, but it's definitely a thing to get
my Ansible servers done.
And what I really like about the Raspberry thing is there's just so much more plug-in
stuff.
So for the first time, I'm using a DAAP server for my iTunes collection and that iTunes
collection.
Boy, man, I paid top dollar for that, I don't know, maybe six or seven years ago for most
of it.
And then my viewing and listening habits change just like everybody else is on a planet
too, streaming everything in the last seven or eight years.
And so I have this, this library, and I ever use it and I do have an iPhone.
It's my only Apple device at that and Apple TV.
And I have everything on a Windows box that I never turn on except to patch that thing
and to back it up.
And so I was like, well, you know, how can I get to my media?
And one of the ways was to take the OpenMedia server down, go upstairs to the Windows server,
back the iTunes folder up and then put the, then put that on to the external four terabyte
disk, the iTunes backup, then enable the DAAP.
And so when I'm home, I can DAAP or the Apple tune streaming service media plug into my
phone when I'm at home.
And yeah, it's pretty, it's a pretty neat little little thing.
The other thing I do is, is a pure NFS server.
So all of my other Linux things are connected to it.
And I can download, it's a central download point for all of the Linux stuff.
And then it also covers all the pictures and all that stuff.
But there's no, there's no real picture plug in for it.
It does a S&P, C, I, F, S for all the Android stuff.
And I'm telling you, on any of those kindles that I own, Kindle Fire tablets, it streams
like a champ, I mean, no flicker, no nothing, no anything.
And so really with the tablet format.
And I've been finding more and more that streaming off of NFS via VLC or even Cody in a non-arm
environment is really tough.
And because if you get a, most of my laptops are, I don't know, five or six years old and
I get a lot of hiccups with, with the buffering and the, whereas the Android tablet, somehow
they just naturally know what to do and with the, you know, HG64 files or whatever.
And it's just real, real smooth.
So if you're looking for a project that'll take you not too long, oh wait, before I kick
off.
So how to do it?
I've been using Etcher and Etcher from Ryzen I-O to make the card.
So if you go to RMEAN, you, well, actually you go to Open Media, Open Media Vault and
to Google and then you click on their Raspberry Pi image, it's an RMEAN version of it.
And you can install the RMEAN first and then go get the RPM, if you'd like, then I get
G-Parted and take whatever's on the old SD card completely off via Ubuntu 1604, just plug
into SD card, G-Parted, go to the partition, wipe everything, put Fat32, then get Etcher,
which is a app image.
And then you download it and extract it, you have to use your administrator password and
then it takes the ISO image and puts it onto the SD card and I find that that is absolutely
the best way to go.
No roofless, no you yet, no booting, no complicated things, just do that.
And then you boot it up and you go and the first thing you probably want to do is change
the administrator password.
The second thing you want to do is probably go to RMEAN Comfig and enable everything that
you want to enable on it.
Again, it's not old-roids so it's not the most powerful thing with the Raspberry Pi.
So you probably just want it this to be a one-purpose device with no XFCE installed and
all of the other stuff.
Interesting note, you can get a download manager now that you can use via the GUI.
So that means any device that you're on in the house, you can just simply cut and paste
the YouTube link that you want to download or the ISO that you want to download or some
video from some site somewhere that you want to download, any download and go to the
go into the console and your open media vault and just paste it and then paste it to the
share.
Alright, well hey, I hope you like this podcast about the open media vault and the Raspberry
Pi 3.
If you want to contact me, it's JWP5 at hotmail.com.
Thank you very much.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share
