Episode: 2953
Title: HPR2953: How I got started in Linux
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2953/hpr2953.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 13:47:52

---

This is HPR episode 2953 for Wednesday the 27th of November 2019.
Today's show is entitled How I Got Started in Linux
and it's part of the series How I Found Linux.
It's hosted by Archer72, it's 5 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is How I Started in Linux, Computing and Free Software.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
All right, this is Archer72 and this podcast is brought to you by the fine people at Hacker Public Radio.
I wanted to talk a little bit about my journey in computers in Linux.
I began about mid-80s with an Apple II and I remember briefly programming on that.
It was in junior high and it didn't have another experience with computers until around 92.
Somebody introduced me to Netscape which was how I got to see what the internet was like.
I passed forward to around 2000.
I was in school for a couple of years and after that I got my first computer and it was running Windows Millennium.
It was kind of slow and it didn't quite suit my needs.
So I built a computer with an ether on probably 2G or its processor and ran XP on it.
A couple of years later somebody introduced me around 2002 to Mandric.
I was kind of curious so I put it on my computer and he also gave me quite a bit of paperwork to read as far as the manual.
I worked my way through learning KDE and Mandric for a few years and came across Ubuntu.
Probably 702 was the first version.
I ran that for a couple of years and the point when I really think I liked it a lot as far as not a Ubuntu but Linux in general was when I got it to import video which I couldn't even do on my Windows machine which I was doing at the time.
So that kind of got me hooked.
After that I tried Fedora when I was originally Fedora Corb 3 or 4.
It's hard to remember that far back but I delved in that a little bit and then distra hopped a little bit and as a place called I used to get disks at a place called OS disk because it took so long to download things that it was easier just to buy it online.
Years so after that I discovered Arch Linux and I was using that for about maybe 6 years.
And then a couple of years ago I noticed that KDE2 talked a lot about Slackware and I had a little time on my hands because unfortunately I was out of work at the time and I ended up putting Slackware on my laptop.
It was a little older laptop but it still worked really well and the install process was surprisingly easy after I had had enough experience over the years.
And at some time this year Claudia of M introduced me to free at VSD and I had seen him talking unmansited on about it and they kind of conversed back and forth with him.
And it sounded like something interesting so I put it on a flash drive and put it on an old tower ahead that I acquired from a friend.
In between all that I had been an experimenter with different distros on Raspberry Pi's.
I've tried the dubbians and I was running Arch on a server on a Pi server for a little bit and then I was trying VSD and that seemed pretty nice so I kept keeping that on for the time being.
That's all for now. Thank you for listening. This has been Archers 72. I've enjoyed using free software and I don't think I could ever go back to Windows again.
Again, remember to use free software it just makes things a whole lot easier. Thank you for your time.
You've been listening to Hecropublic Radio at HecropublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecropublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a light, free.or license.
