Episode: 2274
Title: HPR2274: First Microsoft Surface Pro Ubuntu 16.04 Dual boot
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2274/hpr2274.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 00:42:58

---

This is HBR episode 2,274 entitled First Microsoft Surface Pro Ubuntu 16.0.4 dual-mute.
It is hosted by AWS Ubuntu and is about 9 minutes long and can remain a explicit flag.
The summary is a short talk about converting MS Surface Pro from Windows to Ubuntu.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good day, my name is GWP and I have a
new project to be coming to the Bluetooth.
So I've had so many projects going on this year with so many different things and Ken was
like, ah, just any one of those would be a good one.
So let's start the last August or August of the year ago.
I purchased an original Microsoft Surface Pro.
I had heard about the Surface Pro and the project from the Linux Actorshow,
a dude named Noah, was talking about how he really liked the Surface Pro with 14.0.4.
And I was like, okay, and I went and I bought it.
It was 300 bucks and it came with a keyboard and a case and I mean, it was all dolled out.
I got it.
And of course, the display on that, you know, when I want to stream movies or something,
you know, from Amazon or Netflix or watch on my codey, that screen is just absolutely perfect.
And it is absolutely the perfect plane, plane train kind of device.
So if you do a lot of planes or a lot of trains, this is the thing for you.
And so it was 300 bucks with everything and I picked it up in the States and I mean,
first thing I did was it had Windows 8 on it and Windows 8 professional and I think
that got boosted to Windows 8.1 or something.
I had to go through all the other dates and it took forever.
And my employer had an employee Microsoft thing so I got the full office suite.
So just in case I actually couldn't do something with this image that I was going to put on,
I had a backup.
I can announce now that I loaded it one time in December and it loaded with, to do the
updates.
I've never used it for work.
My employer got a thing called Office 365 or Microsoft online and I can use any browser
and do 90% of my work, everything except for Skype.
I can do with just a web browser now.
And so I got the box and originally there was all kinds of special kernels that you
had to have and all this other stuff and I installed it and it got a little junky and
I was like, I don't know.
So then I finally just said, you know what, I'm just going to get the 1604.1, I'm just
going to put it on and it worked like a champ on that original Microsoft Service Pro with
the 4GB to 128GB of hard drive and it worked.
It just worked perfectly and so and I really like to, mostly all that know me, I know that
I'm a big mint follower and so I followed a mint pretty closely but that touch screen
with the pen or with your finger, it works really, really well with the boom too.
It works really well with the boom too and so I had a really good luck with it.
I installed all of the things that I needed on there.
I got the Mozilla PPA, I got the XBMC or Cody thing and then I put the add-ons and
I needed to do what I needed to do with Cody and so it works out pretty fine.
The only knock that I'll have is that the power program, unlike with Mint or with the
boom too made, it's not automatically installed in a boom too 1604.1.
So you have to go do the settings yourself and then adjust the brightness on it or you're
only going to get, I mean it's a little older now so you're only going to get about one
movie off of it, unplugged, unplugged, maybe a movie and a half if you turn on the power
management from the console and stuff and so it's okay, I mean I do it around the living
room or most of the time I just keep it plugged in and put it on the nightstand at the hotel
room or plug it in on the train or so it's still ultra portable and the display is absolutely
fantastic.
And my code set up, I went ahead and added there's this Joker theme so you can find if you need
your Cody, you get the Joker theme and it provides all sorts of things that sometimes work
and sometimes don't but there's an awful lot of free legal content and there's an awful lot
of illegal content depending on where you live and stuff but remember that you're not
sharing, you're only streaming and so depending on which country you live in that has to which
and that particular thing would be, it works pretty flawlessly with YouTube not inside the
Cody but from the browser, if I use a fellow Chrome or a Chromium and no problem it brings up
everything that I needed to bring up and I can watch everything and the image overall it's
about 16 gigabytes or so and it's been a really good thing, I've installed this thing called
Telegram, I heard about Telegram and I have a message with my brothers a lot and I use hangouts
at the whole thing works, even recently I got figured out how to make Netflix work or Netflix became
available and I was able to get into work recently on it. Well like I said I got the information from
Love, it's got Noah the Linux action show that he had on it, he liked it and so I found it and I
got it and I sort of did the project, it may or may not be, it may or may not be interesting for
y'all but it is definitely doable with the original Microsoft Surface Pro and stock addiction with no
special downloads or anything like that from anywhere and it works pretty falsely.
All right hey y'all have a great day and may the force be with you.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
