Episode: 2872
Title: HPR2872: Shoe Lace Tips
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2872/hpr2872.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 12:33:28

---

This is HPR episode 2008-172 entitled Shurey Stipps, it is hosted by Mr. X and in about 8 minutes long, and Karim an exquisite flag.
The summary is in this episode I give some Shurey Stipps.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR-15, that's HPR-15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio audience. Welcome to this podcast.
I'd like to start as usual by thanking the people at HPR for making this service available to us all.
HPR is a community-led podcast provided by the community for the community.
That means you can contribute too.
Just pick up a microphone and record something.
I'm sure you must have something interesting with all the like to hear.
So not too bad by Ken Fallon.
I thought I'd just share this little tip with you.
I came across a video a while ago on TED Talks.
It was a stand for technology.
Something something I can't even remember what TED stands for.
But it's a whole variety of topics.
I'm sure enough a lot of you will be quite familiar with TED Talks.
It's a tip about tying your shoes.
I think part of the problem from my point of view is part of the stems from your partner problem.
I think when I was younger, I kind of struggled with tying shoe laces.
And part of that stems from the fact that I'm left-handed.
And of course, trying to explain to people, try to show a left-handed person how to tie a knot could be difficult.
I remember being in the cubs and really struggled.
I think I managed to achieve the reef knot.
That was as much as I've ever managed.
I always had to reverse everything that they were doing and I really struggled.
So when I'm tying my laces, I think even to this day, I tend to,
because I've watched my parents tying laces.
I kind of tie the first bit of the knot.
I think I've got it the wrong way around.
And I had to swap my hands over to correct it.
So that's the first problem I have now.
That's fine. That doesn't solve the problem and that's absolutely okay.
But the next point where you're forming the loops, when you're tying your laces,
it turns out that I was tying them incorrectly.
But it turns out that this TED talk shows that a great deal of people are also tying it incorrectly.
And if you do that, then your laces are liable to come out and they just drive you nuts.
And particularly if you've got kind of round laces, I think they just don't hold.
One of the ways you can tell if you're tying it incorrectly is once you've tied the knot,
you can tie it on a shoe without your foot in it.
And if you pull the shoe up out in a part, as if you've got a foot in it,
it basically pull it out the way, basically, either side.
And the knot will tend to, the loops of the knot will tend to,
if it's tied incorrectly, the loops of the knot will tend to face the front of the shoe and the back of the shoe.
The sharp ends of the, the ends of the loop will be front and back.
That's an indication you're tying it incorrectly.
So if you, so when you form the, the loop, basically what I was doing wrong,
it was only a small number of years ago that I discovered this.
If you make the, if you go over the, over the loop, and so over the top of the loop,
and then through it, if you do that, then that's, that's what I tended to do.
And as I say, the loops face forward and back.
Now, if you do that again, and then you form the loop, rather than going over the top,
if you go under, if you go in the opposite direction, round, round, and then through,
and make the two loops, I'm just trying to do that right now.
If you apply pressure to the, to the shoe, outwards, then the, the two loops ends,
point to the sides of the shoe, rather than, to the front and the back, basically.
And if you do that, then they, they stay, they, they tend to stay in place.
It makes a huge difference.
Probably the best thing to do is to watch the, the video, which I'll link in the show notes.
It's an excellent video. It's only a few minutes long.
And over six, to date, over six and a half million people have viewed that video.
It's, it's a smashing cracking video. It really is.
Of course, sometimes even that isn't good enough, or convenient enough, because when we,
we got a dog, a few years back, you tend to find, you're always taking shoes off and on,
and it could be terrible weather, and you're kind of in a hurry to get them on and off,
and they'll come loose and all this stuff, and it's, it, it can be right, fast.
It's more for speed, actually. So what you can get is, you can get a, a lace,
which, you just push the button and slide it up, and it just stays put.
Now, I think there's, I'm team companies do them.
And, they don't, maybe don't lend themselves to every shoe style.
But if you're, if you've got a pair of shoes that you, you're always taking off and on,
then I would highly recommend them.
They certainly work very well for me.
Some work shoes, I just, you know, use normal laces, but for most mothers shoes,
I do wear these, these slip, last to get to type by laces.
So I think that's about it.
All you ever wanted to know about laces, but we're afraid to ask.
Okay, if I hope you enjoyed that and wasn't too boring,
if you want to contact me, I can be contacted at MrX, at hpr.agoglmail.com.
That's mrx, athpr.agoglmail.com.
So until next time, thank you and goodbye.
Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen to me.
Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, what I'm about to say is,
I'm about to say, I'm about to say, I'm about to say, I'm about to say, I'm about to say, I'm about to say, I'm about to say, I'm about to say.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an hpr listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Light, 3.0 license.
