Episode: 2056
Title: HPR2056: Interview with a young hacker
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2056/hpr2056.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:47:45

---

This is an HPR episode 2056 entitled, Interview With A Young Hacker, and in part on the series, Interviews.
It is hosted by Tony Humeh, Tony H1212, and in about 5 minutes long, the summer is.
This is a short interview with a young member of my Macapace and local Raspberry Jam.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi, this is Tony Humeh for Hacker Public Radio.
The following audio is an interview with Joshua Lowe, who is a young lad who is heavily involved in the Macerspace and Raspberry Pi Community in Blackpool in the Northwest of the United Kingdom, where I come from.
So enough said, I'm just going to go straight into the recording.
Thank you.
Okay, this is Tony Humeh for Hacker Public Radio, and I'm at the Blackpool Raspberry Jam, and I've got, well, I'll let Josh in to use himself.
So I'm Josh, and I'm 12 years old, and I attend Blackpool Maker Space weekly.
Okay, do you want to tell us a little bit about what you're like doing at the Macerspace and what brought you to the Macerspace?
So at the Macerspace, it's really good because there's lots of geeky people who can help you out with lots of different things, ranging from soldering electronics to hacking with the Raspberry Pi.
And it's just a great event to come to, and it's nice to be around different sort of people who can help you with different things.
So at the Macerspace, I sit with Les, and he helps me do different things, like my latest Python library at Dubai, and lots of different things.
Well, we're here today at the Blackpool Raspberry Jam as well, and obviously that's revolving around Raspberry Pi.
So would you like to tell us a little bit about what you do with the Raspberry Pi?
So I started off with the Raspberry Pi at Preston Raspberry Jam, I think it was about two years ago.
And since then, I didn't have a Pi, and I became more enthusiastic, and I got the Model B.
So then we found Blackpool Raspberry Jam, so we kept coming monthly, and it's just a really good place to come, because there's lots of different projects that people are doing with the Pi, and it's really good, because it's like seeing what the community can do with the Raspberry Pi.
What kind of things have you done with the Raspberry Pi so far?
So with the Raspberry Pi, I developed my Python library for it. I've made a media cast device, so a bit like the Chromecast, and I built various robots that you can play with, and I made one for Halloween that delivered sweets to the door for children.
Well, that's really cool. Anything else that you've done with the Raspberry Pi?
I have started making my own Linux distro, which was the new Raspberry Pi 3, and hopefully going to slowly bring that into the Raspberry Pi, which I'm quite excited about.
That space on OpenSusy, so it's a well-known distro, and it's easy to use.
So you're going to be porting over OpenSusy to the Raspberry Pi?
Hopefully as I gain more knowledge of how Linux works, and around that, yes.
So when you've done that, are you going to put the ISO somewhere, or the image so that other people can get it?
So I have my own website, and there's lots of things for people to look at on my website, and there is a version for the PC out there at the minute that you can download, so you would be able to find it on my website.
Do you like to give us the website address?
So it's all about code.wix.com forward slash home.
Well, thank you Josh, and thanks for agreeing to be interviewed for Hector Public Radio. Thanks very much.
Thanks to Josh for doing that recording for us, and I'll be back with more recordings from the Raspberry Jam in Blackpool, and from the makerspace in Blackpool in future episodes.
Thanks very much, signing off for now.
You've been listening to Hector Public Radio at HectorPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hector Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Light, 3.0 license.
