Episode: 2046
Title: HPR2046: HPR Community News for May 2016
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2046/hpr2046.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:43:39

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hi, this is Ken Remindy, new to go over to podcastawards.com and vote for Hacker Public Radio.
Every day this week, right up until Sunday, every vote counts.
Thank you very much.
Hi everybody, this is HBR Community News from May 2016.
My name is Ken and I'm on my own tonight unless somebody decides to drop in.
First of all, HBR Community News is a monthly look at what's been going on in the HBR community.
So it's a regular show and it's scheduled to be released the first of the first Monday of the
month which means we record on the Saturday at 1800 UTC. Right now, Dave was unable to join me
and nobody else has joined in yet. So we'll see what happens as the day goes on.
This show is just a quick introduction to what's been going on in the last month and most
important thing has been new hosts. We've had Bitbox, End Julian, Schism Pope 523, Steve Sainer,
Matthew and Lyle Lastinger. All of you have submitted your first show and thank you very
much for doing that. We really do appreciate it. Another important thing that has happened in the
last month has been that we've been nominated for a podcast award. So I'm guessing there's
quite a lot of new people who are coming to HPR for the first time after getting our link over
there. The voting is still open until June 12th at 2300 hours EST and this is the 11th podcast
award ceremony will be held on the 26th of June at 8 p.m. Eastern. So as of the 6th
6th, I'm not sure what sort of month that is, but only over 3 million votes have been cast
by 348,932 unique voters. So you can help us out if you go over every day to
podcast awards and there's a link to that website on our own website, Hacker Public Radio.
If you go over there and please vote for us every single day and the reason for that is to
allow smaller podcasts like ourselves to have a chance against the bigger ones that are
that are up for votes. And if you do please spread the word using the hashtag pca16. So pca16
that would be awesome. Okay, before we go any further, yes, I'm going to have to do it,
I'm going to have to do the about hpr thing. So hpr itself has been running as a project since
let me see. So it's been 10 years, eight months, 10 years and eight months to the day,
today with a techie starter, which was our predecessor podcast. And they show
are basically unlike your regular podcasts who have a regular host every every week or regular line
up every week. Hpr shows are contributed by listeners themselves. So if you imagine it as like a
bar camp where people walk in, put a posted note on the board and then volunteer to do a talk,
that's kind of where we're coming from. And so if you enjoy listening to podcasts, which you
probably do, if you've come from podcast awards, and you have never done a podcast yourself,
our goal here is to help you do that. So you can simply go to the hpr webpage and click on
give shows. And that will step walk you through all the steps that you need to know. The most
simple one is just record something and upload it and we'll do the rest. If you want to do more,
there's a lot more that you can do. So that's about the community. So sometimes the only
requirement we have for shows is that they are of interest to hackers and what's a hacker I ask you.
So we have the link to hacker culture. So that is hacker as a hobbyist. So somebody who enjoys
the intellectual challenge of circumventing with a novel and clever outcomes. Now,
they could be arguing all day about how the hacker is and affect several people have.
So that's what we are. So if it's of interest to hackers and go to our archive page and see lots and
lots of shows that have been deemed of interest to hackers. If you don't know what to record,
there's a list of requested topics. And usually the first thing we like to hear is a little bit
about yourself. How you got here, how you got into technology, how you got to be listening to
podcasts. You could always share your podcasts with us as well. That's really interesting. We tend
to be dedicated to HPR is dedicated to sharing knowledge and which would please us know more than
anything else. If somebody comes on here and decided to do their own show, we're more than
happy to help you out with that. And there on the about page, you'll find out about policy
decisions are proposed and discussed on the mailing list, which is open to anyone to join.
And the mailing list discussions are brought to the attention of the listening community
through this show and anyone can participate in. So that is pretty much that. Welcome to all our
new listeners. And what we do is we would like to go through the various different shows and make
sure that we discuss each one so that at least you get some feedback on your shows because quite a
lot of times people, even though they might enjoy your show, don't necessarily give feedback.
So that's what we like to do here every month. There's many ways that you can give feedback on
the show. Every single show has got an email address. Your email address posted on it. If you don't
want to use your email address, you can use a throw away email address from Gmail or something
and forward that to your own account. Or you can contact us here, admin at hackerpublicradio.org
and we'll set you up an alias that you can use. Okay, the first show was the community news.
And also you can give comments to shows by clicking on the comments for the page.
So big, this is GeekDad says a big thanks to John and Dave for doing the community news this
month, your review of my show 2019. Give me good ideas for future shows, most specifically a show
on how I use own cloud would probably come next. Love HBR, thanks to the hosts and bins. Yes,
Dave Morris says great. Glad the show was useful. If the result of what we do is more shows
than the Q, then it seems worthwhile. Yes, Dave. And I see Dave is going to do my trick from last
month. I was away last month and Dave and John did a fantastic job going through the shows. It was
very refreshing to hear this show. I'm normally on it, but somebody else step up to the plate and
doing it for a month. Now they're paying me back, but making me do it all by myself this month,
but how and ever, how and ever. No. So the next day we had Bitbox with what's in my bag, what I
carry in my bag when I hit the road to Swiss gear messenger bag, satellite, Toshiba satellite,
HPE Pavilion, and a welcome touch tablet. High gain and tenors, well, an awful lot of kit.
And I was thinking listening to the what the overall weight must have been. So he says at the end
he owes me some shows. Nobody owes me shows. So what's in your cab? This was John, of course,
referring to the fact that this, well, daily toolkit is that Bitbox is a long distance
trucker and carries all this kit around with them while he's on the road. And excellent show.
Thanks so much for taking the time to record and also to put together such detailed notes.
A couple of follow-up topics occurred to me. Thanks, John. What's in my cab? Always interesting to
hear what kind of things people consider must have when they have to live in small places for a long
period of time. How to back up an 18 wheeler into a loading area? Yeah, very good. And I always
amazed at how professional truck drivers can back those giant things into the awkward places,
much respect. Very much like to hear those shows as well. JWP says great podcast. Really like your
podcast. Thank you for being so clear about what's in your bag. I like the simple approach to your
items. The Wi-Fi whips. You got to do a show about that stuff for sure. Please build on what you
shared. I like the recorded part a lot as a drive a lot to as I drive a lot to. Okay. And Christopher
Emma Homs says tell us about trucking. Hey, wonderful episode. Had a lot of great tips about durable kit.
I'm going to look into a few of them. Would you consider doing an episode about truck driving?
People see truck drivers every day and don't know much about the world you're living in.
Thanks for submitting shows. Welcome to HGPR. I couldn't agree more with all of those. And you see
all those people now have been trained to trigger other people to think of more shows.
So one way to get people out if you don't know what show to to do, you can always go to
irsafereno.net and go to our cast planet and ask a question there. And the guaranteed if you do
your what's in my bag or how I got into Linux slash podcasting, then we will come back with you
for some good ideas on how to do what else to do. Setting up Raspberry Pi 3 by Dave Demand Morris,
bought a Raspberry Pi case, think he'd think an SSD. And I have actually done the very same thing
here with this pie bowl. Thanks to Dave's recommendation. And Mike Ray says,
Pi in the metal box. And this is in relation to the fact that Dave was saying that there's a
metal aluminium cage and that the Pi has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. So Mike says,
Pi 3 in a metal box. If you put a Pi 3 in a metal box, it acts as a good Friday cage on Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth, RF can I get in or out? Good episode. I brought one of the pie bowl cases
recently. And the layer pieces snapped apart in several places. Very poor quality, in my opinion.
Oh gosh, I don't know. I thought there were quite quite quite good myself. Okay.
JWP, GNU NanoEditor. The GNU NanoEditor is a real hardcore editor for people who do not want
to hurt themselves with another editor. Yes, but the JWP got to remember that Dave was just
poking in with a stick. So he's admitted to show. And Dave replies, of course. Pi bowl,
Friday cage, Pi bowl, and Nano. Hi, Mike. Thanks for confirming. Yes. I thought a metal case would
block Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, as you say. However, these are being sold as suitable for the Pi 3.
Although I imagine this is more to do with the size. Seems odd though. Pi cases are made from
quite firm acrylic. 2.8mm take according to the digital culpers.
Some layers have quite narrow pieces which wrap around items on the USB connectors. Also,
you have to remove a protective film from each layer, which can put strain on the narrow parts
as you peel them off. If you have neatly snapped them on a... I have neatly snapped them on occasion,
but the trick is to be slow, steady as you peel, sport the weaker pieces. Once assembled, the layers
of both and below keep everything nice and firm. To JWP, he replies, there is nothing inherently wrong
with Nano. It's simple to use. Does the job. I use Pico on a Vax cluster ruling VMS,
where it was the editor for applying email client for many years. However, I was a tremendous
relief to move away to a more powerful editor like EDT and TPU on the Vax, then Emax,
VI and VIM on Unix. Find myself presented with Nano was a shock when I put my fingers
and brain are trying to operate in VI mode, so I want to install VIM as soon as possible
preferably with my own VIM RC and all the plugins I normally use. Microplies, metal boxes and Emax,
I suppose there are enough holes in the metal pie case to let some RF out, but as the antennas
are on the PCB, they will be very inefficient compared to being put in the plastic case.
Editors, question mark. Emax, of course, the only true editor, Emax, speak W. So,
oh dear, we all know Kate is the only true editor. Biza says, alternative pie server setup
pie date, thanks for a very interesting show. I'm using the pie 2 as a server, but avoided a lot
of complexity by using SSHFS. I can connect the client to the real server with one line typed
in the terminal window. From then on, I can access the server as if it were a real local folder on
a client. Very simple, very reliable. I'm not sure I follow the rationale of booting from the
attached SSD given that you have a micro SD card in the pie. Whenever, whichever you want to connect
to the pie or SSD is a great low cost server solution, I'm staggered that small businesses
aren't buying them in huge numbers. Always enjoy shows, keep them coming. Dave replies,
SSHFSSD, thanks for the comments. I tend to use NFS out of habit. I spent many years setting up
NFS between unique systems and all those of my work, so it's what I do. I have used SSHFS
briefly, but it's not a permanent thing. I will consider using it more. My thinking about using
SSD was to build a long term repeated use, whereas micro SD is not engineered to the same standards.
I have heard of SD cards failing in the past. I don't want that to happen on the server. I noticed
that the micro SSD will get very light use and configuration, so it would last longer. My
information may be out of date, though. That was the comments for that show. I wonder if we'll say
is that SSHFS, while convenient, is definitely a lot slower. You would also need to put in a
heartbeat into your SSH config file, so that the SSH connection stays up. What I've seen happen
is if the underlying SSH connection is terminated for any reason, then your open files remain open
and it's virtually impossible to unmount them. That is why NFS suffers from the other problem
in that they client continually tries to connect back to tell the now nonexistent server that it has
gone away, but I'm not sure about that. Maybe people can do some shows about the benefits of both.
John Culp, remapping keys with xmod map, and in this, John was wanting to,
anytime the spacebar was put in a file name, that you would have replaced with underscores,
and he wanted to know if there was a way to do that using the identifying the file open dialogue.
And Tlatu has a long term question out there about every application should use a file open
dialogue of choice, so there should be an option that if you're on KDE, it would open a KDE
file dialogue, and Firefox has its own file dialogue, and that it should be a configurable item
like editor or file dialogue in which you could modify your own, you could pick the file dialogue
chooser of your choice. Comments on this be easy says, interesting approach to prevent creating
new files with bad names you should all, so consider the command line to called Detox. This tool
is specifically useful when dealing with entire directories of existing files with bad file names.
Dale Morris says, nice idea, I've been bitten by this over the years with Unix and Linux,
and this is a quite original solution. Personally, I've gotten into the habit of using either
tab while typing in existing file names, so that the shell formats get from me with adding back
spaces before the backslashes before the spaces, etc. Or by enclosing such names in quotes, however
the strategy of voiding them file names in the first place will be a good one.
Yeah, the command I use in Detox, I've never heard of, to be honest, but I have used P-Rename,
which is a pearl script, and it's one of the things I don't know on every install, and you can use
pearls, regular expressions to rename files, all of them, even as part of the HBR or shell processing,
I use that as well. Using a smartphone as a microphone, and Julian come in here with a very,
very simple thing. If you need a microphone for your computer, you can use this app.
Absolutely brilliant idea, and it's even in the F-Droid repositories, so I'm storing it
as a short shell, can't argue with that, but there is no limit on the size, folks, of the show.
If you want to run it on, that's perfectly acceptable, and if you can do a short quick tip like
this, that is also awesome, so links for those are in the show notes. The following day, we had
Christopher M. Hobbs with a show on what's in my bag, and these are great episodes, again,
if you want to, he already had one before, and now this is an update, which is an excellent idea,
thanks Christopher, and this one he's got a link to a 16 ounce thermos, which he mentioned in the show.
So great idea, tell us what's in your bag, or what's in your toolkit. So the following day,
we had old engineers and new engineers, and this was by Gabriel, even fire, and basically he got one
of those, a simple puzzle, in a real world's handcrafted puzzle, made out of a block of word,
with two ball bearings in it, and you need to get the ball bearings to either side at the same time,
obviously. And he worked through various different approaches, and the approaches that his kids
used, I thought this was fascinating episode, because I'm like the pearl, there's many way of doing
type, type approaches, and it's always good to kind of think outside the box and have more opinions,
so I really, I really enjoy that. Steve Sainter said, well done, on the audio description of the
puzzle, I had almost a perfect picture in my head before seeing they embedded photos, not an easy
thing to do, I will agree there. The story itself is also great, one of the more fun, one of the
most fun shows to listen to, and if all of you professional podcasters that are hearing,
my job here on HPR is to lower the bar, so that new entrance can come in and feel, you know,
produce better shows, and that's my story, and I'm sticking to it. Gabriel replied saying,
glad you liked it, glad to hear the puzzle description was clear, that's my biggest worry about the
bug cast, that it's hard to imagine what's happening, thanks for the feedback, good to give,
Dave who can't be here with us, supposed to do my trick from last month, most interesting
shows, thanks for this, it really made me send it up and think, I arrived at the true answer just
before you mentioned it, which is probably more coincidence than anything else, I'm usually
poorer at those sorts of things, I hadn't even considered any of the three options myself,
so it was fantastic to do that, I'd never seen that one as well. Now we had another one,
some basic alarm information, this burglar alarm information from Schism, excellent show,
lots of comments, going through the alarm system, one thing that I had in my mind was when he was
doing the read switches, was there a current going through it or not, because if there was a
current going through it, how much of a current, how do you control that, how do you backup battery,
if the current goes off, that sort of thing, that was one of the things, and I really have
a lot of interesting questions for this, I would like to have use something like this to scare
a cat's out of our garden, so to put on the garden holes, that sort of thing, I imagine it would
all be on the same thing, I like the idea of sensors, laser pointers, using those as sensors
higher receivers, so this is definitely a topic that I could like to see a lot more stuff
in this, hopefully we can do a series on this. For those people who don't know about HBR,
we also run series, so if you want to submit a show, which we encourage you to do, it should
become obvious by now, and if you think, hey, this is too much, and I want to break it up in
a little bit of different chunks, you can always do that, submit a show, there's several,
if you go to the page, you see in-depth series, get shows in-depth series, you see the various
different shows that are there, some of them are open, some of them are closed, so if you want to
do your own series, if you're free, if you want to join another person's series, you can also do
that there as well. So Frank says, I found it very fascinating, used to do training and support
for accompanying manufacturer security sensors systems, we made the boards, the door contacts,
PRIs and the like connect to, but we didn't make the peripheral hardware, other than the
card readers, I really enjoyed doing the do-hickory on the other side and of the wireworked. Bill says,
glad you liked it, maybe you could do one from the other and we could do a competing podcast.
Frank says, I haven't been in the industry for almost 10 years, can't remember enough to talk
coherently about it. Todd says, yes, it's very interesting, please do more. Des, Dave says,
interesting subject, there's a lot I don't know here, I'm looking forward to more, I couldn't agree
with you more. Bill says, anything particular you guys would like to know about and Frank says,
I would think that some person will be interested in knowing about proxy readers, card and
cards work, I encountered lots of things, conceptions about proxy readers, such as they signal to
their own, all on their own sums. Yeah, so in motion detectors, smoke alarms, that sort of
stuff, how all that stuff works, where's the best place to put them, tips about installing them,
what do you do when you power cut them, what's your recommendation on wireless cameras,
would you recommend getting IP cameras, camera, do you do anything with cameras at all?
Lots of questions. And the following day, we had NY Bill, yes, with a DSO-138, a skillscope kit,
and he describes, he describes basically a small affordable skillscope kit that he purchased,
and he caught them for about, so it's basically a counterfeit kit, but he basically
assaulted all the parts, put it together and it kind of worked. And I've seen another YouTube
that I subscribed, channel that I subscribed to, did more or less the same thing with another one,
and it seems like a awful lot of soldering, but I get skies if you wanted to do soldering,
then this is something, this is something that if you have built this, you would definitely
consider yourself a capable of soldering. One of our most interesting about this was
NY Bill's approach to it. As always, he has given me lots of tips in the past about just how
you approach us doing a project, and this one was no less enjoyable insofar as that he didn't work,
and it's still to some work. We don't know if he if he was fixed it or not, but when he finished
it, he was saying his, the fun that he was getting out of it, and the pleasure he was getting out
of it was tracking down the issues in the, in the build. So when I heard he hasn't built it,
then I thought to myself, that chance of me being able to build one. Dave says,
very tempted to get one of these, there's one of these things, build an installer and a
laser code plywood case when I was in Edinburgh's mini-makerfare recently. I was tempted to buy one,
bought it and because I wasn't sure what I'd use it for, there were selling them for around 30 pounds,
great subject for a show, couldn't agree more. And my build replies, it was like, if it was a color
screen, I might it might be the same case. There are a few other DSOs kits out there with non-color
screens. I'm sure these things can be brought cheaply and bulk, looks like someone might be making
a bit of them selling them with custom made plywood case, good on them, very entrepreneurial.
Next show was a book review, and why? Why haven't we thought of this before as a series?
And it was by Merroshade's, whose name gets butchered by the text to speech. This is a book that I
would really love to be able to leaf through to see if it was useful or not. And I think it was
a brilliant idea for a show. And just then I was looking up at my bookshelf thinking, yeah,
a lot of these books I would like to recommend. I would like to review because some of them I really
want to recommend and some of them I want to say, no, never buy them. So that is something that
you should folks should consider doing as well. If there are some good books out there on various
different topics, please, please submit that because as Frank says in the comments, sometimes nothing
beats a book and you can't go far around there. I think, I was listening to this, I was thinking
is that a Lisa project where you have a Raspberry Pi with a 64 gig SD card and you know
the whole art civilization has gone and there's a Parker ref book and a Raspberry Pi and an SD card
with a little screen and enough batteries to get it going and you can reboot society. It seems
like an awesome awesome awesome idea. The following day was episode 2031 and it was a quick intro to
all BD2 with Android and this was an excellent show about connecting up Bluetooth devices to
the all BD2 interface on automobiles or cars as we call them over on this side of the pond. Well,
auto is actually we call them over here as a where I am. For those of you wondering, new I'm Irish
and I live in the Netherlands, that explains the accent and that sort of thing. Yes, love this
and I actually recommended this to a few guys in work who were inquiring about it so there you go
always interesting and this is the thing about HPR. It's not about popular shows, it's about
doing shows that are useful to somebody even if that somebody is only one person not saying that
this is but because this is interesting. I don't actually own a car but I was very tempted to go out
and just get one of these anyway to see what sort of information you would be able to get from
your car. Steve Sainer tells us about how he came to Linux and he's been using Linux for 20 years now
and it's been slackware and most interesting to hear was that he uses this as his basically server.
Pearl Sainer says, wife, brilliant, insightful, funny, well written and well recorded. I've learned
some things about you. This program has insights for the beginner as well as the experience.
I highly recommend it. Listen, Jonathan Gump says, building, bringing on the rockets, very nice
episode can't wait to hear about model rockets. Also, he is into ham radio. That's another topic
I can't believe nobody is working on points to himself as well. Am I built? The old greybeards
in the basement. It's amazing how many of us discovered using unique systems in the depth of our
college basement and Dave says, really enjoyed the show. Excellent show. A lot of old memories were
triggered with the mention of the Amazon OS spark stations using it and the rest looking forward
to hearing more shows. What I found interesting was running slackware as a server in the business
interesting right there about how you keep it updated and all the rest of that stuff,
but good stuff. Then we had mirror shade with another episode, BODY Linux, which is a Linux
distribution from its own website. Then Lightning Linux distro, BODY Linux is built on top of
Ubuntu LTS, released featuring the moccas desktop. I'm probably butchering that, but that's what I do
here. An excellent little external episode I had never considered using BODY Linux, but I might
actually give it a go here. Although I'm not sure about going back to Debian after being on
Fedora for so long. Funny the fact that I'm at Fedora was a more a a best to see if I could.
The following day we had Frank Bell with his 5c bread. This was based on Frank
describes his recipe for 5c bread inspired by the first mystery novel Earth Delights. I think it
was a 7c bread he mentioned in the show. He mentioned that he met a typo, but I think Dave corrected
that. Frank met a couple of loaves of this yesterday. This time added so oats and also found a can
of steel cut oats in the pantry. I used about a quarter cup for two loaves pouring volume water
over them and letting them soak for two hours before mixing the dough. The results tasted good,
but the oats seemed to add more to the texture than to the flavor. I know that the results
passed my girlfriend's test with flying colors. Very good. Dave Morris must try our modification
there often. An interesting recipe. There are quite some quite powerful flavored seeds there. I'm
curious to find out how the tasting combination. I often use sesame, poppy, sunflower seeds and my
put caraway on a rye roasted loaf. Frank says it's quite good, but different. It's not everyday
nor every taste, but I quite like it. I cannot envision eating it with jam. I fear the sweetness of
the jam will clash with the savouriness of the bread as for rye and caraway. If I bake rye bread
and forget the caraway, it fails the Hungarian girlfriend test. You don't want to do that. Also,
if you're a mystery booth, try some of Kerry Greenwood mysteries. Kerry Greenwood makes word stands.
Never heard of her. Must or him. Must investigate. The following day, building communities must
listen for everybody by troops, founding host number one on HPR and brings up five comments. Basically,
he goes through a lot of things that he thinks we should do. Talk about HPR. We need to outreach,
he says. We need to bring more traffic to the site. Kind of disagree with him. I agree with him.
We have lots of lots and lots of listeners. Lots and lots of subscribers. Lots of listeners.
But we're getting 0.01% return rate on people contributing shows. And that is even 10%
that's like an order of magnitude worse than what HPR does when it's doing its drives. I don't know
what we're doing wrong. Maybe people just relax, but I would feel that if you're listening to this
show. Probably something you should know is that all the shows we do release shows every week,
they monitor Friday and it's that consistency that has given us that we've been selected for the
podcast wards. Todd Cochran did a video when he announced it. And the first half of that video is
very interesting in these drives. All the things that you need to do to have a popular podcast.
And we're doing all of those things. And the regularity of the show is an important factor in that.
And a lot of YouTubers, you know, popular YouTubers will say that as well. The regularity of the show.
That's why we do the shows weekdays Monday to Friday. And that means we have 260 slots a year. And
if we've got 25,000 listeners, why have we only got 200, 300 hosts in our 10 year terms? So that
boggles my mind. I don't I continue not to understand that. But okay, if we get more people to the
site in principle, we get more listeners, but I don't know how many more we need to bring in order
to get more contributors. So, but particularly, but particularly assured about that is suggesting to
get more popular hosts on. Yo, we should do bumpers. We should spread the word. And make shows easier
to record. Always in favor of that. If somebody is capable of doing an iOS app to record a show and
submit it in, that would be absolutely brilliant. And I was thinking of having something on the
website that you go to actually record a show on the website. Adding images to the shows and he
gives an example here of building community. This is something that's now been supported by
Google podcasts that each individual show you can have a particular link for your for that
individual show. And that's something that we definitely can do. We can put your if you have a
specific image that you want for the show, we can put that in. If you have don't have an image,
we can have your, you know, the HPR logo and your host avatar on there with the show name. And
feeling that we can have the show avatar. Video about what explains what HPR is. I will be
excellent. I have no idea how to do that because I also struggle with what is HPR? I even
explain it now. I'm like, you know, flailing through water. It is a show where people contribute
shows about anything topic that you're interested in. So I would love people just to, you know,
tweet what is HPR to me? So email us what is HPR at HPR on Twitter or on identical places like
that. We're on social networks. So Facebook or whatever. What is HPR to you? That would be awesome.
If you could do a video about what HPR is, that would be cool. The website needs a lot of work
related to show this show, individual show page, related shows. Yeah, now that's something that
we definitely can do with related shows. And that is currently we've worked on quite much,
quite much is that a word? Quite a lot by Dave. If you go to the Hacker Public Radio page,
we've redesigned the website actually. And under the contribute page, you will see help out report
missing tags. And if you click on that link, you'll get a list of all the tags that those are short
summaries. For every show we want a short summary about what the show is about and tags about what's
in the show. That way once we have that information, we can post various different tags underneath
that will give you links to other shows or topics in series. So do shows about unique software,
who books are reading, documentaries you just watched, that sort of thing. And he's on about
stickers, bumpers t-shirts and that sort of stuff. So we can sell them at a profit or to be hosting.
I'm very reluctant to ask for donations here in HPR because then that opens a whole bag of
worms about whose guts counts and I donate it or whatever. So if people want to make stickers,
you go out, you organize stickers to be made. If you want to get a few people together,
you do that. That's fine. And we will, that is very valid and useful contribution to HPR,
but collect the money for it. Don't particularly, don't particularly want to associate that.
We do have, we do have, we are paid a lot of our hosting, given to us very kindly by Josh
nap at an honest host.com. And if you can, you should have a look and see if you can support
his business over there, which is honest hosting. So they, whatever you see on there, they're
actually not trying to oversell you and stuff. So a lot of comments about this one. Tony Hughes has
building community really enjoy this. I like some of the ideas you suggested, getting some of the
podcasters from popular dynamics tennis shows to do guests for HPR and publicizing them on the website.
This would drive listeners to both HPR and guest shows. It's a win-win situation for both parties,
also if hosts who have their own blog, blog about HPR would drive more traffic to the HPR site.
I did a post and both on my own, make a space blog for this rare reason after my first HPR show
is to be aired soon. Thank you very much, Tony, for doing that. And we have asked a lot of
other hosts to do shows first and the point is they, quite a lot of them, don't actually listen to
other podcasts because they're busy doing their own shows and they want to keep their own content
for their own shows. So how feasible that is, I'm not sure. And some shows are very good,
like Linuxing TechShow as promoting other shows and some are not. So if people want to get
in touch with that and also get in touch with other podcasters outside of the small circle of Linux
community and trying to get other makers and other people to listen to some of the HPR shows,
it's really a good option. And Drupes says TechPodcast, very much out of the loop, what shows would
we go after what shows do you listen to. And Dave says, some great suggestions here, thanks,
as far as the tech situation. Well, actually, Tony replies going high, Drupes. We're listening
to the Ubuntu podcast, the podcast, mincast, Linux loadax, bad voltage, GeekRound, going Linux,
Commute America, Linux Unplugged, Linux Voice, Dan Lynch, formerly of Linux Outlaws.
All of those podcasts are community driven, and the hosts make good guest hosts and people
to interview. I'm not sure other HPR listeners could suggest podcasts. Basically, all these podcasts
are on the list of, except most of these podcasters, especially the Linux ones, are on the list of
the HPR distribution list for me, asked for contributions, and they have been asked for contributions.
So some of them have contributed, and others have, you know, play promos and stuff like that.
Dave says, great suggestion. As far as the tech situation is concerned, there's an ongoing project
to add these in some ways, and they're, we're asking community persistence. So I've already
mentioned that, linking existing shows to the database, that's something that we definitely
need to do. So let's, we will be, we'll be on that. So in the next show we had a promo for the
Glasgow probe crawl 2016, where Kebi and Dave mentioned that it's going to be taking place
on the 29th of July, and kicks off at 6 p.m. British time in the Slate Bar on Holland street.
So that's in Glasgow. So we'll keep you informed about that as the time goes on.
Episode 20, 37. Alpha 32 is pinhead oats. It's a talk about how he cuts steel good oats,
and invite you all to share the pleasure of his favorite recipe. And Dave says, cooking, yeah,
great show. I use spices the last mainly stewing apples, but I've never tried them in porridge.
I must be sample them sometimes. On the subject of naming differences, we call dry oats,
crushed ground, chopped rolled, et cetera, oatmeal, and you can call what you call oatmeal,
we call porridge. I believe actually that explains it off a lot. Yes, I think we need more
cooking shows, reasonable reps to be sound like a good idea. As a sasnach, I'm not sure,
and the right person to talk about Scottish cooking though. Dave, at what point do you stop
being a sasnach and become a good cult? Attempting to fix a plastic boat by Jezra. HBR accepts
no responsibility whatsoever for anybody mad enough to do what Jezra has done.
Remind me, never, ever, ever go fishing with this man. John Colp says, hilarious. Wow,
this is the footage to be our episode I've ever heard the bolts and fire. As far as making a
recording while I'm doing things, he uses a $2 mic plugged into my Zoom H1 or my phone. Awesome
show, Jezra. Dennis knew says hilarious indeed. I've lolled a few times, including the four
bolts and fire excellence show. 5150, good times, but I'm never going fishing with Jezra.
Kathy Skolguns says director, very funny. So funny, I kept looking for the video,
dude, this is public radio, good job. There should have been a video and there should have been
pictures for that. Bladder configuration part zero initial setup. This is part of the accessibility,
and this is a show about tearing down the barriers for our fellow hackers. In this episode,
Jezra, John walks you through the process of getting Bladder, which is a new Linux speech
recognition program running for the first time. Excellent covers Arch and Debian, talks about
the links and stuff, and this project really needs more people to use it so we can definitely help.
And it's amazing to think that the person who considers a blow torching a bolt can also
invent a Linux speech recognition system. So yes, this is why Jezra, we all need to chip together
and get Jezra a new bolt or at least a life jacket. And the following day we had Matthew with
why I use Linux, which is in the series, how I found Linux. And basically, he's interesting,
he described that why he used Linux, he found out about word of mouth, bit of a hassle,
when it gets stuck, and what's telling is he misses it when he's not using it. So that I found
myself on a switch door or that I went back to Windows for a while and then I switched to Linux
at a particular point of time when you're not using it, you go, oh, I feel so hamstringed. So
very good show. Router and Tennis more equals better question mark from a ham radio operations
point of view of Router and Router and Tennis. So yellow lines, there's a diagram in here about
four Router and Tennis. I think this was a first show as well for a Lyle Lustinger. And definitely
more shows about ham radio would be very much appreciated, especially coming from myself,
that each antenna of the router gets a slightly different signal from the Router from the notebook
computer. The router then adjusts the antenna electronically to the beam, the signal like a
yaggy antenna does. So in my limited understanding is that you use reflectance in order to push
more of the signal in one direction. And I like the example of using a little bit of light
and you put something behind that. The following day we had Jane Duck returning again with a list of
podcast recommendations and I just updated those with links and RSS feeds. I couldn't find
RSS feed for cartoc or AOPA live. And this actually could be used as a list of shows that
should talk to you to see if we can promote hitherto. So Kevin O'Brien, Dan Karlin,
thanks for recording this Jane. I always enjoy seeing other people, what other people are
recommending. And also a huge fan of Dan Karlin. I have listened to everyone whose hard-core
history shows and current, stay current with common sense. Anyone who loves US history also found
Ben Franklin's world at BenFranklonsworld.com. They build themselves as a podcast about an American
history in which which in practice means colonial through the Civil War. Very interested in they
in some of those. John Kulp asked me another and enjoyed this episode. Thanks. If you like
with it don't tell me you probably like ask me another if you already don't listen to it. Thanks
for mentioning the James Joyce podcast. I'm a huge fan and at one point studied his works quite
closely. If nothing else, the podcast is guaranteed to have a steady source of new material for
a really long time. Dan Mara says, Franklin, you tell. I thought I thoroughly echo Kevin's
comments about Dan Karlin. Also a new little about the history of World War, even though my late
father was fascinated by it. And our history is full of books about it. Dan Karlin drew a picture
of events that hard hard-fired and fascinated me. In the past, I have listened to Frank's Delaney
a lot on BBC Radio and he presented programs called Bookshelf, Word amount, both absolutely
excellent in my opinion. I shall follow your recommendations and try this podcast as well.
Thanks for an interesting show. I don't think actually you can understand World War II without
understanding World War I myself. My brother is fascinated by World War I and
as of my just me with the first show of next month, you're going to have to tune in next week
for tune in next month to hear all about that. So that was a run through of all the shows that we
have at the moment. My counter is already at 52 minutes. This is me waffling and nobody
nobody stopping me. So I quickly go through things that have been on the mailing list.
So last month we had a call for shows. And so what we see happening on HPR quite a lot is we have
a call for shows and then people go, oh we don't want HPR to go away. So there's a big mad rush
of shows and then people submit shows and they look in the website and they say, oh you know
10 people have submitted a show or there's 10 shows been submitted. Sometimes people will submit
three shows because they've been working on them and they quickly dump them in. And then the queue
looks full and then it says, oh you know it'll be 30 days until the next show is released. So 30 days
is a month. So the time between now and the next community news show, that's it. That's you know
that's 30 days right there. And then they forget that in you know two weeks time you need to come back
to the website and look and then you see there's only five days until the next free show or later
still there's only one day until the next free show. So we have this constant issue. And I don't know
how to fix it and people who can perform with groups and enigma and all the rest of the guys,
they also didn't know how to fix it. We tried a calendar, we tried this, we tried that. And the only
thing is I think last year we had several contributors, contributing shows quite a lot. We didn't
have the issue. But that was simply because there were about three or four people who were in the
process of doing series. So the series filled up the slots. So there were about two or three slots
so we'd taken up with these series. And then that was enough for people to fill in the other shows.
So basically what we need people to do is record shows. And as I said, if if we had even only 10%
of all the people who subscribed to the shows, submitting a shows, we would have 80 years of shows
not the amount of people sitting back and relaxing. It's not that difficult. Ask anyone who's
done the show. It's like big thing. And then it's up on HVR. It is really as simple as that.
You go to the website, you fill in the information and you upload the show. And then we do the rest.
It's posted. It comes out and you're a famous internet hero. So that was me ranting on about that.
We need, if somebody can fix that problem for me, that would be absolutely awesome.
We had quite a large debate. As I mentioned before, we hear the HPR volunteers.
How will HPR is kind of structured? If you go to the above page, I did a little bit of a clarification
on that. So if you go to home, the above page, then I give some history of HPR about the community,
the word community show, what free culture is, and the governments. So it's policy-based
around the mailing list. So we hear as you've got Josh Knapp, who's from anonymous.com.
And himself, he has basically final say on site's related security as he should have.
Because that's his job. And if he tells me, okay, can you need to stop
doing this on site? Then we'll have to stop doing that because it's about security stuff.
And they do an excellent job over there. I must admit. Then we have these guys called
the admins, which are probably better described as volunteers like myself, Dave,
MI Bill, and various other people. And that changes from time to time, depending on the
amount of time. And what we do is we work to put, processing the shows and put them up,
and we coordinate policy and update the website and basically do the boring stuff.
And you can contact us via email, admin at HackerPublicRadio.org. But we have no more say
on policy than anyone else. So there have been many occasions where decisions have been taken
that I have been particularly agreed with or liked to put, you know, that's just the way it is.
The community is community. So it's important that you, if you can, you subscribe to the mailing
list. It's really easy. It's relatively low volume. Sometimes there's quite a lot of discussion,
you know, a few emails a day and other times there's not. If it's a simple thing like a, you know,
this person wants to reserve this slot on this particular day, we will do that on the mailing list
and not necessarily mention this in the community news. But some things we will mention in the
community news. And that's what I'm doing right now. And what I'm mentioning is that we want to
change HTML to be the default in the RSS feed. So the current situation is we have an RSS feed that
do not have HTML on the show notes. It has been come, come and place to include HTML in show notes.
So the podcast lines can display images, have links to click on. It means that we will no longer
need to display the entire URL making it more user friendly. And this was something that
Mike Ray and the other blind listener said that they, what we have been doing is putting the
instead of, you know, for more information, please click here. Instead of that, what we tend to do
is for more information, please click HTML, be call them four, four, five, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And the problem for Mike and the screen reader people is, they reads all that instead of just,
you know, going to link. So providing a lot of useless information. So a lot of people have been
testing websites. There have been quite a few issues reported so far. None of them thankfully have
been anything to do with HPR and a few bug reports have been logged against various different people.
But this is not a question. So if you can check the test feed out and that'll be in the show notes
for this episode, please check the feeds out the new feeds and check them in your pod catcher.
And the question is not that the display image is not that display links because your pod catcher
might not support that bash potter for instance, it's just to check whether your episodes downloads are
not. If they continue to download, if they happen downloaded in the past, that's fine. Well,
that's not fine. Tell us about it because we want to fix that too. If they have downloaded in the past
and they still download with this, that's what we want to hear about. And during the course of this,
I'm maintaining a list of compatibility with pod catcher players. But I will say the vast majority
of pod catcher players is G-Podder and Firefox, strangely enough. So the next one was HPR on
Google Play. Can anyone see in the terms of conditions that would prevent us from joining?
And there's a link there to the terms and conditions nobody's replied. So I presume that everyone's
cool with it. And as we're already on iTunes anyway, why not? There was nothing that I could see
that was particularly onerous on us. So that was good. But I am not a lawyer. But anyway,
today I went ahead and subscribed us to that. The feed is currently in processing. And what was
interesting was at the podcast awards thing, you're saying how many people are listening to podcast
via Google Play that it's under rise and iTunes is failing. One thing that really really annoyed
me about both iTunes and Google Play is that they have their own namespaces. So they couldn't use
good news description. No, they have to have iTunes description and Google Play description.
I don't see the point myself. It's just like, anyway, that's a little personal rant there
about me and XML. Don't get me started. Then we had Ventant, the EN-ANT Venant,
asking about closed ducking styles on the keyboard. And this was to do with Mike Ray,
who's a blind user, was asking for help on where the duck would be. And I think we were able to
sort that out for them. Then we had HPR shortlisted for the People's Choice Awards. So again,
can you please make sure and go over there every day. As regular as clockwork, no scripts, please,
no scripts. What they do is you'll be asked to put in your email address. The email address
will send you a link. And then I think they, at the end of the awards, they just simply throw away
all the email addresses. So please do that. You might also be considering voting for the
podcast, if you listen to us, congratulations to the podcast team. So every day I nip over, vote
for the podcast. And I vote for Hackabob the Gradio, and you should do too. The Ohio Linux
Fest 2016, called for presentations for on Friday, the 7th of October. So see the
mail for that. Site changes to fixed navigation. Now this has been, there's been a long standing
bug open with CSS. Before we had these hover menus, a lot of work was done on putting the hovers
menus in. So you can have a drop down purely on CSS. A lot of people on HPR don't like using
JavaScript due to the potential for all sorts of nastiness to occur. So we don't have any JavaScript
on our site at all. So there was a bug that the drop down menus were not visible. So if you go to
HPR's main site, what you would see if you're a blind user would be about home, get chills,
give chills, and that was pretty much it. So very, very bad user experience entirely.
So to fix that involved basically going to every page on the HPR website and modifying stuff
so that it would know where it was in the menu system. We put in a very flat menu system that has
got basically one to, it's got home, but bring you home, then you get get chills, which will open up
the menu strip will change. Then give chills, contribute schedule, which is the old calendar page
about and search. So if you go to get chills, for instance, you'll have a link to the complete
episode guide in-depth series and download options. So the first thing you get is the OSS syndication,
entire audio feed, common feed, and male-less feed. The complete episode guide gives you all the
shows with a short summary, go back to episode one, in-depth series will give you all the various
different series we have and the download options will explain to you the various different
options you have for downloaded everything. You want to be careful about that because we do have a
lot of stuff in our feeds. The give shows breaks down to a sub menu of information, theme,
topics, recording, scheduling, and uploading. So if you want to just jump to the end,
click upload, you'll be brought to the calendar page. So the give shows, it's out of stuff you
need to know, select the topic, recording a show, it's a basic summary. I suggest that everybody
reads this because it's obvious that the new hosts read all these pages, but some of the older
hosts have not, and are asking me questions that are been answered in the pages, which is fine,
but I just then reply back to them saying here's the page on this particular topic. So
usually, if you've got a question about posting a show, it's covered in this. Then under the
contribute page, we want to put in stuff like suggested topics and report missing tags, and if
you're going to conferences and stuff, I'd like to expand that there under the contribute page.
Then the schedule is simply a link to the upload show page and shows the calendar. The
about has got some history about HPR and that sort of thing and when we were in the press.
So if there's any articles or stuff where we've been recommended by people, we just put it in there.
It's got the host pages in there, detailed information about each of the hosts that shows
how you can contact HPR, how you can promote HPR, and various different show commons.
And then they search page, which is basically just a search. So that's that. And finally,
Dave had in about the community news, which is this show. We had some commons on shows that were
posted prior to this month. And in relation to 1580, which everyone can remember was JWPs
Fast and NTFS file systems. And the name of the podcast was misspelled as fast. So we changed
that from NTFS from fast to we corrected the typo, basically. In 1967, which I saw the
Linux light at the end of the Windows tunnel, which was a show by Nacho Jordi. Windigo says,
wrote a novel for the pleasure of using a word processor. If that isn't a quote for a hacker,
I don't know what is very nice. And just goes to show another thing here with HPR is that
people continue to read reviews and go back to them your many, many years after you posted the
show, but don't don't be surprised about that. On Dave Morris's introduction to said part one,
we have a comment by Frank. I put off listening to this until I had time and peace to concentrate
on following the show notes. Oh, I know what you mean, Frank. All I can say is that Regix still
makes my brain hurt. But since I have fine tuned my prock mail file, I've got something to practice
on. I'm going to listen again to the rest of the series slowly and deliberately. Thanks. If my
brain goes away, I'll let you know Dave replies. Good look at Regix. Frank regular expressions are
the language in their own right. It's not trivial concept to get your head around. However,
learning how to use them is very rewarding because they are everywhere. I used to use prock mail
for my mail back in the day in university when I first connected to the internet and had access to
a TCPIP and SMTP mail. Prior to that, I used dec mail and the UK colored book network in protocols.
I found regular expression in prock mail or sea challenging, but gradually got the hang of them.
I just posted the latest episode series number five and I hope you make a way through all of them
and find them useful. Frank says part of my issue with Regix is of course that I don't use it much.
So learning it is more than intellectual is so learning it is more than an intellectual
pursuit. I'm not like I'm a cis admin, for example, except for my own little home network.
That's why editing the prock mail or sea helps. It gives me a need to learn it. If I ever
understand Regix, I'll probably tame the title of Linux Geeks. Frank says hello and said,
I stumbled across Linux questions which somehow seemed germane. So this was a common next
common to us on HTTP 2007, Dave's new laptop, which Dave Morris replies back to Alpha 30 due,
saying interesting show, how is equal, ectron where hardware compatibility, he, Dave replies,
I have to admit that I've not tried anything else on the laptop. I'm waiting to see what
Ubuntu 16 or 4 looks like, but I will try out some live distributions very soon.
Oh, excuse me. And on HPR need shows to survive done by me episode 2008, we had Frank where we
asked, I don't quite get it, I never understand the issue why HPR will die if there are no more
shows in the queue. What's the problem with the day without shows? Will the server crash to a null
pod corruption? You said HPR has been broadcasting for more than 10 and a half years.
In that case, we would need something we would be at something like 3,780 shows by now,
greetings from a springy Europe. And I replied, I read it verbatim actually, I can because it was
and hi, Frank, back in the day, we were relaxed in releasing shows as you suggest. It was fine for
a while, but then after a time the shows were not been released as often. This is why there are only
2,300 and eight shows rather than the 3,700 and 80 shows that you said there should be.
Around October 2010, there were a few months where with very little activity and people were
saying that HPR had podfitted. I suggested we should either end HPR or continue it and there's
a link in the show notes to that discussion on the mailing list. This was prompted by a lost
and bronch show, HPR 0560 old soldiers, which is an essay about how to gracefully end a podcast,
a link in there. Everybody should listen to that show regardless. Following discussions,
the promise was made that we will continue as a community podcast so that when the community
decides to finish the project, we play all the shows we have, close it down with grace and dignity.
This is why we have the text on each and every podcast. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday and Monday to Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself and a link to the team page. So if there are no HPR
shows, there's no HPR why drag it out. And if you ask anybody, anybody at all, a friend of mine
is just going to Thailand for a conference and he does a streaming video channel on YouTube.
And he says that if he ever skips the fact that he's going to be away for two weeks,
will greatly impede his the number of subscribers. They'll simply unsubscribe because if you're
not doing a show regularly, it will be considered dead, people want to and infer. So that's why we
do shows every weekday, Monday to Friday and when we don't and we talk them away because if you don't
only release four shows one week, what's stopping you releasing three shows the next week or two
shows a month or one show a month and then all this work that we've done to build up the podcast
network has gone to waste. So that's it. Understanding new screen hardline status and this was
it was a comment by Eric Zeus. Thank you. Very existential. I've been looking for or not just
aware that I should have been for something like screen really like this. Thank you very much.
Always great to get feedback like that. Very positive. Thank you very much.
Parsing Jason with Python show by clap to and the comment was by our stackhouse.
Jason's popular rise in popularity was due to its utility as a data transfer format.
In heavy client web applications, XML is very verbose in comparison to Jason. Back when JAS
of the script interpreters were slower, the bloat was a big deal. XML just takes longer to parse
and environments where type coercion is the norm. A lot of type information in the form of an
accessory just doesn't make sense. When you own when both ends of the communication pipeline,
a strict contract isn't really necessary. And you should do a show about Jason. That would be
absolutely awesome. And XML because then I won't need to do it. So comments are Linux in the church
by Todd. Great show. Really enjoyed hearing how your church uses Linux and open source software.
Our church used used to use Linux in the sound booth. But we started to use pro presenter. So we
had to switch to windows. We still use audacity for recording sermons. Very good.
Echo print. This is a music identification system. And the lander who had done this show,
I had asked the question was it possible just to check if there was music in there and the
reply is quite behind my list. And so I don't think to check the comments until I call the community
news. Just so you know, there's an RSS feed for the comments so you can subscribe to that.
Just called the episode last night. Frankly, I'm away over my head. Very, very limited understanding
of the fingerprint is that it's just a timestamp list of transitions between sounds. I don't know
nearly enough about signal processing in general nor about how echo print encodes these transitions
specifically to even speculate how one will begin to distinguish between music and speech. That
would really awesome if somebody could do that though. That would be super, super cool.
Geek dad had a pie project and an old cloud project and comment that came in was from
Geek dad, thanking John. I bet the maran's sounds great. My dad had one when he was a kid,
which is a 1972 receiver. Episode 2020 automotive billing by Brian. There were three comments.
John called. Awesome. Love the show. Please do more car repair shows. This is something I've
wanted to learn about ever since my 04 Ranger. I've been trying to do all the repairs myself.
Can always use some tip from the episode. Thanks for the great episode. Jim Zat said,
honest auto mechanic, great shows and information. I have a local mechanic that I use for items
which I am unable to take care of myself. I have often felt guilty that he undercharged me for
the hours worked compared to booktowers. Your insight has really relieved my guilt and made me
even more confident that he is a good mechanic and I can feel comfortable referring him to friends.
And myster or two says, great show. Very useful info and understanding something we have all
had occasion to be involved with. And Todd says, great episode. And this again wasn't a particularly
technical episode, but it was an episode that was of interest to hackers. And that is it folks from
a very, very hot and humid room here in the Netherlands. It has been hot all day and it's
something to do rain. Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
Join us now and share the software.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicant computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share light, free.or license.
