Episode: 2537
Title: HPR2537: Recording HPR on the fly Part II
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2537/hpr2537.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 05:01:07

---

This is HPR episode 2,537 entitled Recording HPR on the Flypart Roman 2.
It is hosted by Clacket and is about 3 minutes long and carry a clean flag.
The summary is in which I update the recommendation from HPR 1,877, just you for the recorder.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi, this is Clacket. I was going to make an episode about something completely different.
But then I realized that you record that I usually use to record episodes on the phone,
was not available on this phone, so I had to install it.
And then I realized that hey, you record is actually not in the F-Droid store, so I looked around in F-Droid
and I found this app called Audio Recorder.
There isn't really a lot to say, but except Audio Recorder is really great.
It has all the settings you would like. You can record to all if you want, you can record to Flack,
which is what I'm doing now, and a bunch of other formats.
And it has a nice management interface where you can delete the files and everything.
It allows you to customize in what directory it puts the files you record, etc.
So it's actually much better than you record.
And you get a cool wave form when you're recording. You can set the recording levels.
And it even has the ability to show you controls while you're in the lock screen.
So if you're using a headset rather than just putting your phone up to your face as I'm doing now,
you can put your phone in your pocket.
And then if you need to pause for a moment or something or you finish recording,
you don't even have to unlock the phone. You can just tap the controls directly on the lock screen.
So that's pretty cool.
There isn't that much more to say, really, except that this is...
I'll make this a follow-up to the overview of Android Recorders that I did two years ago, I think.
And my new recommendation is don't use your record. Use audio recorder available in the afteroid app store.
So that's it for now. Now I'm going to record my real episode.
Now I've been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and clicking our contribute link to find out how easy it really is,
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
which is part of the binary revolution at binwrap.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under a creative comments
and contributions share like 3.0 life.
