Episode: 2065
Title: HPR2065: Whats in My Bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2065/hpr2065.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-18 13:53:12

---

This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hello again, it's Tony Hughes for HBR Radio. This is my second podcast for HBR and at the end of my last one I said I'd probably do another one about what's in my bag.
It's a bit difficult because I have several bags. I don't have one of these fancy rucksack things that several of my geeky mates have but I have several different computer bags that I use for various different things.
So I'm going to talk about what I have geekwise which will appear in my bag at various different times.
To start off with, I carry around a Lenovo X201 Core i5 dual core computer with hyper threading.
This is quite a nice second hand laptop that I picked up off eBay a couple of years ago.
Previously my laptops have been obtained from a computer auction locally but this particular one wasn't available at the computer auction so I managed to get hold of one on eBay for a very reasonable price at the time.
Also have a Lenovo X200 tablet which is the laptop with the swivel screen which is a touchscreen and can be used with a pen which is quite nice and I keep this as a backup machine.
I added to that I have a number of Lenovo X61s which again I picked up at the computer auction. These are smaller 4B3 form 12 inch laptops.
So they're not widescreen but they're core 2GiOS 1.6s and they're quite powerful little machines and by standard you can put in up to four gigabytes of RAM but I believe there is a hack around and you can increase this to 8 gig.
So for little computers for using as netbooks these are very good machines. Like I said I've got three of them, one of which I've put a new battery in and I plan at some stage to put an SSD in and it serves me quite well.
Other things I carry around with me are related to Raspberry Pi. I have several Raspberry Pi so I was one of the people who got the original 256 model B and I still have that but it doesn't seem much easier these days.
I've now got a couple of Raspberry Pi 2s and a Raspberry Pi 3 and I've also got a B plus that is knocking around in me bag as well.
I use these when we're attending Raspberry Jam and for testing them I've got a Motorola Laptop which I've got the cables for now and I use this to hook up the Raspberry Pi to test SD cards etc.
To go along with the Raspberry Pi's I usually carry around several micro SD cards with various Raspberry Pi distros on them.
I've currently got the latest Raspberry and open source media centre and a Ubuntu mate for Raspberry Pi on SD cards but I also have SD card writers on the Laptop so that if needed,
I can always copy another image to a card if we need to at the club or at Raspberry Jam at any time.
As well as Raspberry Pi related paraphernalia, I also usually carry one of my external hard drives.
I've got my passport 500 gig one that I usually have in me bag and that has all sorts of different things on it but particularly it has a number of Linux and Raspberry Pi ISOs or images on it that I can access when needed so that's quite an essential part of the tool bag.
Well that's about it for this episode. Hope you found it interesting and I hope to be back soon. Thanks very much.
You've been listening to HECKPublic Radio at HECKPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECKPublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the create of comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
