Episode: 2497
Title: HPR2497: 2017-2018 New Years Eve show part 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr2497/hpr2497.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-19 04:21:50

---

This is HBR Episode 2497 entitled HBR 2017 New Year's Eve Show Part 1.
It is hosted by Maria Stokes and is about 220 minutes long and can in an explicit flag.
The summary is Part 1 on the 6th annual HBR New Year show.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Okay, let's see what we have here.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 6.
So we have a 15-second delay between the live stream and they look as live stream, which is pretty good actually.
We're looking at about 19 minutes left. That's 19 minutes.
So I've just put a link up on the website to see how we can capture the stream.
So I'm going to capture that over on that remote server.
I'm also going to see if I can capture it here locally just one second.
That sounds good.
So I need to talk some because otherwise there will be nothing written to the stream when I do that.
So if you want to talk, that would be absolutely awesome.
I'm sick of it. I'm listening to myself.
Sure, can I play music?
Is that somewhere?
Yeah, so long as it's great commons and you're legally licensed to do so, no problem.
Okay, so I can just make up stuff and that works?
Well, actually I recorded what I need to, so hold on one second.
Yeah, okay.
I'm going to go get some water and okay, that's fine.
I'll be right back here.
Yeah, that's fine, bye.
Okay, I've got a remote safe going on over there.
Okay, we're good.
Hello,
Kasper, there's a new one here.
This is Gerald.
I'm just doing some checks.
Make sure the type is recording.
How do I go here?
Right, what do I do here?
That looks about right.
Gerald, get away from that.
Oh god, yeah.
Okay, so over there in the corner.
Are you there, Ken?
Yes, no.
I'm a little too much out there.
Kasper just wants to wish everybody
at the holidays from the Alien Brothers podcast on
Backup Public Radio.
Oh yeah.
If you're not listening to
Hacker Public Radio, we don't know where you should go instead.
You might be a better off dead.
If you're not listening to the Hacker Public Radio.
Where did all the hackers go?
That's what I want to know.
Being can't sit around here waiting for some hackers to join us.
On this live stream of broadcasts now.
Kasper just wants to wish everybody
at the holidays from Alien Brothers on Backup Public Radio.
Last stream, New Year's.
A peaceful New Year's.
And where are all the hackers?
We need them to save us from the
into a wet and ashy pie.
Ashy pie can take one to his face.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
Another one for the next year.
It's not another war and I ran.
We understand how the burden's got to build their pipeline
and I ran to the way.
It's so great when the CIA is
fun in the ISIS militants around the world.
They're causing so much destruction.
We don't like it.
We're watching from out of space and we don't like it.
The human race needs to
oh blood from their mistakes
Their mistakes
have a junto
Jail stay in the corner one minute. Oh, Roy. No, it looks like it'll just be you and
me can pick it off. Yeah, no problem. No problem. I would say excellent. It to meet the
mastermind. Could you just told all one second please? Yes. Honking McGoo and basically
everybody else joining me on the stream live is Casper. Hi Casper. He's gone quite
good now. Hello. Just you and me. Yep, just you and me. Just hanging out waiting for the
rest of the hackers. Where are the hackers? They're supposed to be up late. Yeah, up late
is a is a relative thing. Up early. Yes, exactly. So we've got the stream live and you can
talk to us on team speak. So I just popped it into the scene now and I'll just do some
publication around the Facebooks and the Twitter etc. etc. etc. Yeah, if you could also share
in the chat so that we could get this out to other galaxies. Sure. So, dude, we were mentioning
earlier. This is my thing. Actually, no, this is not my thing. HPR is not my thing. It was started.
The original idea behind HPR came about on bin rev. Actually it was before bin rev. Radio
free America way back in the day before podcasting was a thing and there were dudes who were doing
porn freaking at the time and at the last one of their episodes, they mentioned hacker public radio
and as a concept, then bin rev started as a project and twat tech started as a project and
infanomicum started today with a techie and then two years into that they 300 episodes to be
precise. We switched from today with a techie to hacker public radio with bin rev and that's
there's been several admins and volunteers down to the years. I just happened to be myself and
Dave tend to do the day-to-day stuff for the minute but no doubt we will we will move on and
somebody else will take their thingy. And this show the new year show I think was originally an
idea by Polky who is famous for the new year or for the book club and it's now been going for six
years and that's pretty much it. So you tell us about the alien brothers. The alien brothers was a
it was a thought experiment on a beach vacation and Reddiger who is not with me at this time
he had the idea to do a quote-unquote podcast. I had not done anything of the sort before
but I was I was open to that so yeah our first introductory episode was completely improvised.
Everything was on the spot. We didn't even know what we were going to do or talk about and it's
whether there's no topic or anything and due to well I guess Reddiger was a little reluctant to
do any more and I pointed him to Clat 2's praise and from that I was able to pull his arm a
little bit and try and get him get him involved so which I'm still trying to do. Yep cool keep
on coming. So where are you are you allowed to tell us where you are physically? Your earthly presence.
Yes sir. What time is on how about that? Have you touched down in?
At this time we've taken earthly form around the DC metropolitan area, the belly of the beast
as it's called here on earth and Reddiger is a little bit to the south, Casper is a little bit
to the north but that's just where we we chose to tap in and beam on our earthly presence
because we're on many different time zones and dimensions and planes of existence it gets really
confusing. Tell me about it yes yes yes yeah we're going forwards backwards in time we're trying to
you know we killed Hitler and then we're like oh no I made it okay and it's this whole thing
you know it's like the butterfly effect and then this granddad comes to the live yeah yeah it's so
and then there's the baby Hitler and then they went to New Schwabbenland and we're trying to fall
in there and then we went through the journey to the center of the earth and then we came out
the other side and given them the technology we gave them and oh it's it's a whole thing I'd
really die and you know people say why didn't you go back and kill Hitler and then you go but
I went back and killed Murphy come on what more do you want who's Murphy exactly yeah there's
the you know war is a profitable thing so so what is your plan for today pray at me yeah you're
going to be on for those 26 hours are you just going to not do that I'll be here for a bit
my sleep schedule even aliens need to sleep so yeah so if you did the calculations or
earthly presence that we're beaming it's about 5 a.m. and one of our one of my many earthly
presences were they were laid off on November 28th quite unexpectedly that sucks yeah yeah but it
doesn't we did not discuss that on any of the podcast so everybody's seeing it live for the first
time here sometimes you get blessings in disguise so I've been working somewhere and it was not a good
environment yeah and now I am out yeah and on to better things I didn't know the month of December was
rough rough and I'm still my sleep schedule still suffering as a consequence because adrenaline
on top of adrenaline on top of adrenaline wondering if I need to saw my house so when I was an
interviewing ooh talking to recruiters doing things on the you know on the weekdays on the weekends
I would be cleaning my house attempting to get it you know showroom ready so to speak uh
yeah host doctor on the thing yeah yeah so it was a rough month but I'm glad to say at the end
of December I got actually was had three offers and I was able to to pick the one that that I wanted
to take that is great news yes congratulations congratulations actually IIT
vice yeah ahoi mi hearties greetings garbigara
arr a last we got the three two twos skull and bones the original points are
yeah apparently most uh I heard about the the pirate thing why people talk like that
and the first pirates in a turkey movie spoke like that so that's how all pirates spoke after that
uh yeah because they were they're probably mostly of the Nordic they were from part of some part of
England I forget what mostly like that oh London yeah it was there were pirate years there were
quite a lot of them were sponsored by the English government to go out and re-capacán
foreign trade and stuff they're the first empire or one of the for or yeah relative speaking
on your plan sure they didn't cause yes I mean we can go back to uh yeah we we can back
back back back back back I mean the Mesopotamia empire you know like and then you got like Alex
the great and a whole fucked up of Chinese empire is going back a few k years few killer years
I I guess to uh to put it into some sort of time frame when the firearms were coming about
and British were on top of that and British are all too new comers even then
yeah that's true I believe that was a Chinese invention quite so yeah we shouldn't have given
them that either all these inventions all these technologies I don't know all this uh
looks like a dystopia on your planet I don't know it weighs heavily on on Casper and Rettaker
but we do what we can so Ken did you were you able to get the face books and the live tweets and
the streams and the all the good stuff to send out to all the good hackers doing their part
I guess Ken is actively doing that right now and he's probably just listening to us
I like so Ken who doesn't vegan's bacon is the gateway meat
apparently vegans don't like bacon
like in one second second it up so pirate where are you pirating from
Seattle Washington United States of America ah yes are you stationed at a naval base
no I am not are you at a hotel near a naval base uh no I am not are you at a coffee shop
I am in my little tiny apartment and what do you do for for that paper stuff I printed
ah good so you're part of the fed
not as such now so you have one of those really really high class uh I thought they only had
those in South America there's printing machines no this one it's just uh just a couple of pieces of
plates deal with a little bit of a hammering down to them oh I think there needs to be an episode
regarding that all right I'm digging a hole here and I don't know how to give out
it's okay it's okay we kid but we do uh yeah so uh yeah printing uh I happen to go to an
electronics store uh and I saw that the 3d printers have arrived they're not quite at the cd
burner level of price ability but I they are there in stores so that was encouraging
they had a whole bunch of uh plastic to be melted he turned into other forms of plastic
to be used for whatever purposes anyone deemed necessary what type of store was that like a
micro-center ding ding ding exactly all right guys I'm back can you hear me no we can't
excellent news like micro-center is one of those rare stores that they'll have anything from like
a raspberry pie to a 3d printer to just like regular basic computer stuff yes and they've got all
the nuts and bolts and screws and thumb screws and just it's a here in IT you know where to go
and that is the place this is a place over in the Redmond it's uh the local place one store only
place I need to go to I mean from according to their website they've got everything from uh
super computer bits to vacuum tubes and switches and everything else oh sorry yeah no I
I support any local stores there's a music store nearby where I live at this time in my earthly
form and I always I go there so for instance the audio device that I'm recording on I could have
ordered it off of Amazon however I didn't want to do that because they they have actual workers
and they have employees there and I'd like to support local businesses so I uh you know so they
were selling it for like 170 on Amazon is like 130 I was like yeah it's called 150 and is that
is that cool but soon it'll just be us versus Jeff Bezos slash the man well for me if I buy Amazon
I'm buying local uh no I mean I was fondling Amazon giant balls the other day
anyway I could do with them so uh there goes our fondly safe reading
nine minutes when it was air we that's what I say and seems apparent I'm just over there uh
are there by Amazon headquarters down in South like Union there is a set of very large glass balls
okay show another um
all right what about the gold mineshax bull
tax bull. Gotta get those. Or we could all just set a land and watch a nice Steven Spielberg movie.
You could also start filling in the show notes, which will be available on
there's a link on the website on the etherpad thing. So if you have any links for anything in
your discussion, can you pop it in there because it's the biggest pain in the ass in the world
to listen to 26 hours of a show and trying to get links from people who are semi-drunk.
Not saying that anyone here is semi-drunk, but it's early yet.
Where's this etherpad? Go to hackerpublicradio.org and look at the thing that says,
keep notes here. How do, okay, keep notes here. Like to share links. Yeah, yeah.
Amazon's giant glass balls. Thank you very much for that.
We now have a link to that. And over on the right hand side, you can change the
your color and put in your name so we know who has been editing off.
All righty. Cool, thanks. Keep up to good work. I'm now going to tidy my room.
Oh, is this okay? It already has the time zones put in. Yeah, I don't worry too much about
that. Just kind of museum. And here is another link.
timadate.com is multi-count on timer, which I'll pop into the mumble chat.
And that's also the second link. And you can see where you are on the whole time thing.
Is the live.linux logcast 8000 logcast live? Is that what we would post to the tweets and the
and the faces and well, that's the stream. I'll, that's the stream. And I'll I'm currently making up a
blurb that I'll go that's or that I'll go and you can send you those and then you can read
thing in them. All right, continue talking. Don't mind me. Oh, and by the way, this show is released
under the Creative Commons license and is marked as not it for work. Explain it for the explicit.
Thank you. Yeah, although some people don't like the word explicit because explicit means you've
gone into full detail, which is what we have done. Parental advisory. That works. But it's not so.
Because as a parent, you, there are various different types of advice that you give to your kids.
So basically rated in from which you're rated. Do your job. Listen to us. Don't put it on for
people who don't think who you don't think you should be listening to it. Bacon is maximum rated
H for hackers rated D for drunk. All right, I'm going to carry on. Keep talking back.
All right, now we're going to carry on here. So we're talking about I am might have put away
a fifth of from here in a couple of hours leading up to this. Oh, going deep. Well, there's
a reason why I'm called pirate. Yeah, but even pirates need to need to put up the sales and plot
courses, right? No, or are you just the the drunk and pirate at the bottom of the boat that everybody's
defecating on? No, I make the boat go. You make the boat go. How is that so?
So, as it happens, I actually also work on a boat. Like as it is. Yes. Is it a yellow set? That is so awesome.
No, it's a steamship, the SS Virginia 5. It's a 95-year-old passenger ferry and it's
prepared with a triple expansion steam engine. Very, very cool.
That's a volunteer workers. It's your actual job because if it's your actual job, I'm going to stop
you about the face. It's currently volunteer work, although, yeah, it's volunteer work.
Does that make it any better? I think that might make it worse. What do we make it worse?
I don't know. It's a job or if it's a volunteer. Dude, you get paid for it to do like your love.
Well, I thought that once about software and then I kind of really hated rating code when I was
into at work. Yeah, but did you get a chance to say, did you get a chance to code what you wanted to
code? Yeah, I was on the kernel team at Red Hat. Oh, cool. Can you give me that? What's wrong with the
kernel? Or should we be protecting you by taking your, taking your microphone away and leaving
your keys on the desk? That type of thing. Good friends, don't like other friends go live in a live
mic. How about you talk to us about your boat, dude? Well, I can say that it was built as the passenger
ferry back in 1922. It did the Seattle Tacoma run by way of the west side of Vashon Island,
making stops all along the way. Have you got a link for a passenger to the show notes? Yes.
Yeah, keep going. Get on with it. Now, hard to type and paste at the same time. And truncate
silence will remove all these silences, so don't worry about silence. Yeah, sorry about that,
but what about the sound of silence? So I just dropped the link to the website in show notes.
Cool. Thank you. So I work in the engineering department and basically my, well, my title is
Fire and Watertender. I'm basically a fireman. And I assist the chief engineer with running the
engine, running the boiler. That sort of thing. The steam engine is 113 years old. It produces
400 horsepower, 200 RPM. It generates 40,000 foot pounds of torque per cylinder. It's a three-cylinder
engine. So it's a three-cylinder triple expansion engine, which means that the steam goes into the
first cylinder and pushes the piston. And then on the return stroke, the steam goes back out into
the second cylinder, where it pushes that piston and goes back out into the third cylinder,
pushes the piston. And then it goes into what's called a condenser, which is basically a metal tank
with a bunch of tubes running through it. The steam goes in there and turns the tubes and we pump
cold seawater through the tubes and that condenses the steam back to water. And it gets that water
gets reused in the boiler. That's pretty cool. The engine has 45 manual lubrication points.
And it has to be lubricated every 30 minutes and it's done while the engine is running.
That's cray, cray. Takes about five minutes to do a full all around.
So you deal with fire. It sounds, you know, a fire fighter?
Oh no, there's a fire in the boiler to make steam.
It's a lot of fuel off of cold.
We burn diesel fuel. When the ship was built, it burned bunker sea, which is
a very heavy fuel oil. It's basically one step up from tar and when it gets cold,
it actually solidifies. You have to heat it up in order to pump it.
Yeah. How did they, if you were starting off, how would you get it warm enough?
Well, so the old boiler, we have a new boiler that was installed in 2001. These boilers wear out.
Now, the old one, they would actually start off with a little bit of wood, just a few
couple of cords of wood in the fire box. And they would heat it up enough to heat up the fuel
oil and get that flowing. Cool. The amazing, the innovation that there was in the steam by the end.
The engineering plant on there represents the absolute pinnacle of triple expansion steam technology.
I'm just doing some posting on social media right now. You should do a few more shows on that,
actually. I've considered it. Yeah, if you wouldn't mind, that would be great,
because there were now officially started an engineering.
What do you start at engineering? On the Hacker Public Radio, there's the option to do in
depth series on things like Dave Morris has done a series on bash programming. And Kevin has
done most recently, done a series on healthcare in the U.S. and previously on Libra Office.
But then there are also open series that you can group together stuff if people have done things.
Like we have a mental health series, people send in various different shows on that topic
than we group it together. So it's been quite a few recently on engineering, doing cars,
open the wing, modifying a hydraulic jack and that sort of thing. So yeah, they're proving popular,
so go for it. So maybe I could talk through lighting the plant off. Maybe talk through
absolutely doing a cruise on walk-around. You can talk to the other engineers and
the other people involved in it. If nothing else, there's free publicity for them.
Yeah, this could be something I could do here and once we start cruising again here in a few months.
Do you sell for the winter then? Yeah. The lakes for Yezo, for what?
No, every year we tear the entire engine room apart and inspect everything and then put
all back together again and we do that in the winter. Hands are cold. Sometimes you have to dig
around in the bilge. I mean everybody's got to dig around in the bilge at one point or another.
Well, our bilge is oily. Every single drop of oil that goes on the engine winds up in the bilge.
So it's like the trap? Is that by design? Yes. Is it recycled?
Not, we don't do on-board recycling. We collect, we basically collect the bilge water,
separate out the oil and then the clean water goes into the black water tank and gets pumped through
the sewage system and the oil gets sent off to recycling center and see a yellow. I see, you see.
It's special steam engine oil. I think it's something like $150 for a five gallon bucket.
It's not cheap at all. Is this like a charity that you're running or how do you pay for it?
Combinations of, well, memberships in the foundation, we're a nonprofit foundation. So memberships
in the foundation, people will charter the ship. You know, they don't want to have their
wedding on board or something like that. We do public cruises where we sell tickets throughout the
year. And so that, well, covers our operational expenses pretty well. And capital expenses,
like if say a bearing went bad on the engine, we get grant money to take care of things like that.
From the government or whom? Different organizations. Government is one of them.
Very nice, very nice. I did hear about some place in Scotland, I think it was,
that it's a reservoir. And the only vehicles that are allowed to travel on is a steamship.
Because it's totally, and this was the last thing I expected a steamship to be non-pluting.
But it could be, like you say, that all the oil is gathered in the build.
I don't know about a steamship being cleaner than a properly tuned and operating modern diesel
engine. Now, if you have a, if you have a diesel engine that leads EPA tier 4 requirements,
it's going to be phenomenally cleaner than a steamship.
Does hacker public radio have a, a, a twitters?
Yes, at HPR.
Hello, Duke. Hello, gentlemen. Good models, sir. How are you doing with mine?
I'm doing pretty good. This is my first time on the annual. And I just had a little note.
I don't have a link for it. But on YouTube, there's a channel about a steam-powered machine shop.
And it does have a few other steam-related stuff. Both full-scale and model steam.
And somebody actually runs a steam shop with two steam engines for power.
I just thought that this would be an interest. If people are interested in this subject,
I wanted to insert a note.
The net miner is inserting a note. Which nets are you mining?
Well, my grandfather was a cold miner and I'm on the internet.
Are you from West Virginia?
My dad was a very small town on Route 7.
I had the good fortune of opening up an office in Charleston, West Virginia,
which is deeper south than Charlestown, West Virginia. Big difference. I discovered.
Since I went there as a kid and I don't drive, I don't know the geography as much as I like.
But I know we were up near the chief river area, up in the corner between the pan and...
Yes, so that would be closer to Charlestown.
Yes, as I said, this is near Morgantown where the university is.
Yeah, that's all up near the panhandle where the college kids go, the Frostburg states.
And Frostburg is what the analogy was. Something like prison. It's really easy to get into,
but really hard to get out of. Because everybody parties up there. That's what aliens understand.
I don't know what the word on the street is.
It's kind of adjusting his setups.
Nope, I'm doing posting and basically being quiet and letting you guys talk, because there's
another 25 hours of this left. Yeah, no, it's just that, oh, okay, there it goes. Your lips were
highlighted and I didn't hear you, so I was wondering what was going on.
Oh, all right, sorry. No, I shall endeavor to do better, sir.
Has a father's of mining background origins. And so you're not familiar with the West Virginia
Territory, so do you mind if we ask where you're broadcasting from?
Well, I'm broadcasting from
strong Boston area. Oh, yeah. All right. So what do you up there in the Boston area?
Do you hang out with Matt Damon and the other guy?
No, actually, I'm disabled, and I do some computer stuff.
Um, he knows me.
Unky McGoo has been quiet.
Yeah, I think he's just set up the stream and logged in, so that he's alive and active.
I haven't heard him all morning. I'm the new here.
Now, when to do how do you hear about it, pure?
Uh, actually, that's a great, that's a great question.
Thank you very much. Oh, oh, well, yeah.
While I was at previous employment, which we had already discussed,
doing the day-to-day routine, mundane stuff, you look to broaden your horizons, expand your mind
a little bit, learn about different things. So initially, I was a big fan of
uh, some of the air wolf podcasts and improv and stuff like that. And then, uh, I was looking for
things related to IT. I was looking actually for good IT shows, but I couldn't find anything
that good. Uh, there's a, I forget what it is, but it's, it's, I guess, a bigger one.
And yeah, I didn't like that much at all, but I stumbled upon Hacker Public Radio.
And listened to a couple of those and I was like, oh, wow, people can upload their own stuff here.
So I think I had already known about it when, uh, Ruddiger and I had done our first
podcast. So I, I believe I had that in the back of my mind that, that it was a possibility
that it would maybe ask the standards. Oh, yeah, the standard is, is it of interest to Hacker's?
We define Hacker's, uh, there's more than two people. So you and Ruddiger would, uh,
would fulfill the requirements. There you go.
All right. Yep. Uh, so what was the stumbling upon just for my own interest?
Because, uh, it is of interest to me as, uh, in the role of keeping this thing alive.
How did I find? I, I was, uh, let go unexpectedly for my position. So I could not give you, uh,
a browser history and how I came about it. Exactly.
I just kind of, uh, was a Google or a BF, whatever, or, uh, was an iTunes or something.
No, definitely, definitely not, definitely not iTunes. Um, it was, I was probably looking for like
Hacker podcasts or Hacker something, uh, probably something along those lines,
something with a little bit more nits and grits than what they would cover on the shoes.
It brought to you by this and this and it, but so I was looking for something that would actually
be useful and not just, uh, there's just one that all they talk about is Apple stuff. They're like
Apple fanboys and, so I was looking for the, the real hackers, the ones running Gen 2, doing their
own, rolling their own. And I think, I think I found them very nice. That's how I found it.
I believe I was searching for Hacker podcast and I, I believe that, that gave me the correct
result that I was looking for. Yeah, that'll do it. Well, welcome aboard. That's all that's
I see what I did there. Welcome to fires.
Gerald, that'll have, all right, back to sleep. Yeah, so, uh, it seems like a common theme and,
and you'd brought this up earlier, Ken was, uh, mental illness and or addiction and or things relating
to burnout as, as pirate had potentially drink a fifth before joining the cast and then dropping
out. Yeah, but now in fairness, it is the Christmas time. So what people say Christmas time is
not necessarily representative of what they do during the rest of the year and also time zones
do tend to make things look worse than they are. You know what I mean? You could exactly,
but you're one party in the year and then you go, oh, I'll just join HPR because that's a great,
really good thing to do. Yeah, just put this out in here. No, absolutely, absolutely. But yes,
we, we, uh, we recommend moderation and all things except moderation. Yes. Uh, I would, I would
concur. I'm just taking the battery charger off a busted Sansa clip battery that I was in my wife's
and Sansa clip battery. Yes. You know, Sansa clips, they're like a little MP3 pair and they're so
hard to get now that the price has. Oh, I had one of those. I had one. I had a Sansa something
back before iPods. Yeah. So my, uh, whole batteries inside of those like sprawled up and poofed up.
So I don't know what I'm going to do with that. Send it to recycling, I guess. It's going to have to
be chemical recycling as well. Okay. Anyway, that's another thing. Yeah. This is what happens when I
start tidying my desk because when stuff goes wrong, they put it on my desk and then eventually I do
a tidy and start fixing some stuff. So yeah, I had a earlier Sansa, I haven't gone through the boxes
yet. I had to get the boxes up off the floors, got the vacuum going, and then I had some,
some jobs offers come in. So I was able to hit calls on that. But I had the cleaning.
No, I mean, it hasn't been this clean since before I moved in. So it's good.
Yeah, but I had a Sansa, I just, I just looked up Sansa clip and it looks like they'd copy
the iPod a little bit. They've gotten a little bit bigger. I had a really, really small one.
That was a little, a little bit smaller. That was many, many. That was about 2006.
Yeah. A lot of people will still use them. Yeah. They were great too. Yeah. I mean, you could run
forever and ever go to the gym with them. Yeah, yeah. The thing is, yeah, they've released
in the newer ones. You can't put rhythm box on it. The rhythm box was an open source,
is an open source firmware that you can put on them. And it's a free, free, liberal
open source. And a lot of people did that. But now the later ones that they have, they're a lot
cheaper, a lot less RAM. And the option to upgrade them is in there. So it's a bit sad, it's sad.
And also paying 175 euros for something. And when you can buy Android phone, you know,
a cheap Android phone just as a media player. So that's kind of what I did this time.
Understood. Understood. Glad to hear about other people doing some firmware changes. Some
always fun. It's exciting times when you get a ROM to work on your Android. And all right,
I thought the system, oh, no, I got to install Google Play. Yeah, exactly. But actually,
I've done my, my own phone, I've got Google Play, but for the kids, I download the apps on mine
and then copy it across to them. But mostly they're using stuff off after I'd. And which is a
free open source, like Google Play Store. Right. And it's actually quite good because I can,
I know that everything that's in there is vetted. So I just, yeah, install whatever you want from
over there. And if it breaks, well, then I'll just reinstall your phone. That is, I think, a good
example of parenting that you check what they, what they have, you can make sure that it's not
secretly recording them, like the, the Barbie dolls and all the weird stuff that's coming out.
Yeah, that's, that's a bit odd. But it's hard to know you can only do your best. So,
and then, you know, something like the Intel chip OS running Minix comes out when you think,
oh my god, what's going to happen now? How, how deep does the rabbit hole go?
Yeah, yeah, we did talk about that. And on that note, actually,
when I trip to Micra Center today, I was looking for, I had a computer from,
maybe 2009, right before they switched to the i3s and to the z7,
before they, I forget what the chipset was, I think 775 sockets. So I was, I was able to get a very,
very good quad core CPU and overclock it and do all that, but that was right before they had put
in the ME, all that, that good stuff. So that bit the dust, finally, it may be able to be repaired,
but even if it gets repaired, it's not going to be used in the way that it was. So, when I went to
Micra Center to get a computer to be used as a television streaming device, I needed, I needed to
get one that was HDCP compliant in the case that I would have the money to get a 4K television if
I wanted to do that. So, yeah, yeah, and so your options are limited. Yeah, that's that.
Yeah, that's it. That is it. I think the key is to have, yeah, have it so these devices can't get
to the internet. Right, hard power switches. So you want to just unplug it if you're not using it.
Yeah, but yeah, exactly no power, but it's hard to even know then because the reading they're
right up about somebody who bought a night light that could be controlled by somebody's mobile phone
and then they did a security breakdown of all the permissions and things that it's had,
which could be bad programming or just simply malicious program. I'm probably more inclined to
believe bad programming to be honest. One or the other, I mean, it bad programming leads to malicious
programming, which came first, the chicken. Yeah, exactly. So we're placing a battery here in
a near thermometer, CR-2032. Did you know what the CR-2232 where the number comes from?
As soon as we're here to be our own, we're supposed to be providing information.
Some science fiction thing? No, it's the measurements of the battery. Like, 18650 is the width
and the height. So the width of the thing is, let me say, really cool PCB, PCB measuring thing.
It's one second. Is that in millimeters? 20, uh, 20 millimeters, two centimeters across.
32 is 3.2 millimeters. So 2032 is 3.2 millimeters. So pretty cool. That's where the numbers come from.
Very cool. I, today I learned that all those 2032 batteries sold at RadioShack,
little did I know that they were, they were called that because of their measurements.
Yeah, those batteries. Oh, I felt so bad. It felt so, so evil selling those batteries. Oh,
why so? Well, batteries themselves cost 30 cents maybe. And we sold them for like three, four
dollars. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It has a little bit of a markup there, all right?
Just a little bit. I'm wondering, speaking of markups and planned obsolescence,
had that big Apple Fiasco, which everybody kind of knew already and whatever. And so Apple says,
oh, hey, hey, we want to be good to our people. We want to, you know, we want to do the right thing
here. So just stop on in and get a new battery for 30 dollars anytime you want. Yeah,
but in fairness, replacing it, if I had the choice of spending 30 dollars or spending your day
trying to undo an iPhone, if somebody would come in and just replace it for that, that I believe
is worth it. But what if they didn't use glue in the first place? Yeah, but, you know, they have,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I know. They have. We could go on this for 20. How long we got?
We could go on at the whole time. We could. We could. Yeah. But don't want it.
No, you need to do it. I need to do it. I might.
So I put a link in the show notes there to a really cool thing that I got. If you're
anyway interested in electronics, it's a PCB ruler from 808 of roof. And it just gives you all
the little components and gives you physical sizes. So if you're planning to do some soldering or
whatever, or you want to know what the how large traces are or how big AWG gauges are, you can
look to this ruler. It's really cool. That is really cool. I will have to find out if my alien
father has one of those. He is of the transistor generation. I'm sorry. No, not the transistor.
I should say the vacuum tube generation. Oh, nice. He repairs our radios.
So just my father, is it happens? Oh, yeah. Well, how about that? We are contemporaries.
Or does that? Did you take offense? I'm sorry. Good gosh. No, it was just replacing the battery.
Yeah. Look, dude, we're both on a dude like we're both on the 24 hour show that's 26 hours.
And we're here talking junk on New Year. I think we can safely say we're contemporaries. Yes.
Okay. All right. And you are in a better a better place in on the blue marble.
I am living in a bus in which is a small town just outside, half an hour by train outside of Amsterdam.
Oh, lucky. Lucky you. Lucky you.
Boy, we had a back in the early alien days in alien high school. We had these Belgians come in
and invade our space camp. We learned how cool they were and be how uncool we were.
No, that's all everything's well over here when the American kids come in like they're the coolest thing
in the planet. So yeah. American kids, they just they don't even
uh again. I'm going to go grab a coffee. I'll do it back in the minutes.
All right. Net miner, are you with us?
Guys, if I'm not aware, I'm still under that other operating system.
What are you worried under now? Linux, uh, mostly Sparky. Sparky. That's going in the show
and it's forgotten to check that out. And why do you use Linux Sparky? What's the, uh, what's the draw?
Well, for one thing, they still support 32-bit, uh, flexibility. It has lots of installers,
including installers for things like web browsers, you know, I'm heavily into web browsing on my
systems. Uh, it's devian based, because why it still supports 32-bit. Uh, I have some 64-bit
machines and one old P4, which, uh, is, uh, is an old Dell machine that was really tricky to
install a new system on because it only boots from CD size media.
Uh, so you can't do a boot from a USB or thing else that?
Well, I was, I was having difficulties. Also, uh, even though it has a DVD drive, it won't boot
the DVDs. Ah, okay, okay, I see, I see. So it doesn't have the kernel components to
get the DVDs, run them, read them. Yeah, it doesn't have the bio stuff for, for the first,
you know, I mean, it will do DVDs once you get an intelligent system on board, but just
getting that first bootstrapping. Also, one of the things about is, uh, their command line installer,
which is a very small package will allow you to install a desktop, which means you can
use it to bootstrap to a full, whatever you want. By, you don't, you install that command line,
but, but after that, you can put a desktop on it and then start building up from there.
Nice, nice. So, so you like to do your own build?
Well, on machine, more modern machines, I like, you know, like everybody else, I like DVDs or,
or flash installs, but, uh, it worked out pretty good for me. I'm a refugee from Windows 7.
Yes, Lee, what did you not like about Windows 7? I mean, or what was there to like,
would be the counter-argument, but, uh, what was your main beef? Well, the main beef was that,
that they were pushing Windows 10 and I had a virus problem and I switched over to Linux to get
away from that. Yes, Linux is much like four-man's Apple, and that it's not susceptible to viruses,
as much as Windows seems to be built for almost. Well, I used, I for extended docs for many years.
In fact, there's a lot of like a new stuff was first under, under docs and then under
various versions of Windows. I see, I see. When I was just a young alien back in the day,
started off with a Amiga 2000 and you had to boot up off the floppy. And even though it had
the GUI, which was relatively new at that time, it still had a DOS side to it. So,
that was my first introduction to the command line, I guess you could say.
Well, back in the dawn of time, my introduction to computers was, uh, teletype
and our data storage was a high plate because that's where you put the paper tape.
Right, right. It's kind of like the IBM punch card version two.
Well, punch cards would have been faster. This was 10 characters per second.
Hello, can you hear me now? Yep. I wonder if that phrase is copyrighted.
Uh, yeah, I mean, if it was somebody's birthday, I was going to play the birthday song,
but that just opens me up to a whole can of worms. I can't play the birthday song anymore.
I guess, no, but that I crickets. Disney owns the birthday, happy birthday, a song.
And so, if you're ever, if you're ever to hear the birthday song in a movie or any media,
it is copyrighted and you have to pay Disney for that.
So, nobody play the birthday song, all right, because that is not a creative commons.
That's a fact I learned in the movie called the corporation. So, if no one's willing,
I'll just go on.
Yeah, oh, yeah. Didn't that live stream on? Yeah.
Net minor, can you give me a topic? Well, you have all kinds of topics.
So, well, first, for those of us who came in late, where is everybody?
You didn't miss anything. No one came on.
There was one other person that was there was pirate was on and then he went on. So,
I think we're waiting for the show to begin. So, this is the pre-show. This pre-gaming.
Have you ever listened to Linux log or August? Linux log or August?
Linux log, no, but I believe that's what is being run Linux log cast.
Yeah, that's where I and honky come from. And 5150 and a few others.
Any 1911s or 2600s? Pardon me, I don't get the reference.
There are Atari 2600s and then there was the pirate and group Razor 1911, big in the day.
Well, did you say 2600? Yeah, I'm familiar with the
phone speakers of that caliber. Ah, okay. So, you can get us to the secret FBI installation
where you can tap into any phone having a bit next style. I said, you got to remember, I am
I'm a dinosaur. I date from the dial up days. So, some of the stuff 2600 was was war dialing
and stuff like that. Ah, yes. Also, if you get, I think, a meagre stuff, I will recommend
on. Again, I do a lot of my stuff off YouTube. Terrible fire is doing a lot of YouTube videos on
various amiga and some Atari compatible upgrades, especially for the Amiga 500 running a 68, 30 or
68, 40, 68, 20. Yeah, that was at the Motorola chipset. Yes, the the higher end of virtual memory,
you know, full full both chipset replacing just the 68,000 on the base amiga.
Yeah, there's actually there's a great documentary. I'll see if I can find it maybe and put it in the
put in the show notes about the close of the 68,000 says here or 68K or whatever.
But there's a great documentary somewhere on the YouTube's about the closing of the Amiga factory
and like how how unfortunate it was for the Amiga to go away and that's why there's such a dedicated
fan base I think for the Amiga even today because it was so far ahead of its time.
When I was just a small alien, if you were to get computer software, you had to go to a place they
call Rockville and you don't want to go to Rockville but we had to. But there were only a number of
local stores that would sell software and they were all Amiga stores and the Amiga had a 24
bit, 24 bit graphics. I'm talking about an Amiga 2000 so that's a little bit more advanced but
I have one, it won't boot, it just gives me a red light but it was stationed in a garage
for probably about 20 years. I haven't pulled it apart and tried to put it back together but
no idea what kind of corrosion or what kind of credence might be living in the casings.
I'm not quite sure. But if you know the right people that are willing and able to work on them,
that would be great because I know you can just load an extension in a chrome and do it but
there's nothing like the real thing. Baby. Yeah as well. That also is a ancient advertising phrase.
Yeah. This is German documentary. I think I found the right one. I was looking for there.
Yeah and I don't support any advertising. I'm very adverse to any sorts of advertising.
I don't like it. That's one thing that I like about Agapopla Gradyo is that they're very short on
advertising but we would like to support an honest host and Josh who runs the site, keeps the
site live, keeps the stuff going. I just thought I'd plug that and I believe right now on Agapopla
Gradyo I believe there's a special I'm not mistaken. If you were to donate at this time you know
a one to three. I think somebody will triple your contribution which is very gracious of whoever
that that is. If you donate right now you do five dollars results in 20 dollars so it's a three to
one. Very generous if someone to donate. I know I will but I'll have to translate my galactic coin
into to ontanium and then put that into Bitcoin or Ethereum and then see if I can get it over to
them. So be a whole process. Yeah but that's cool. So you're familiar with the chipsets. Old
6800s the Motorola's. For me growing up as a kid I know that it was very beneficial to
have the Amiga because not only did I learn command line interface on the DAW side but I also had
a much better gaming system than anybody else did until I think the Sega Genesis came out.
It was better than the Nintendo and the Super Nintendo. The color I think it was actually better
because I would see the consoles come out and I'm like oh my old Amiga looks a little bit better
so I went back and looked into it and I believe it's 24 bit color schema which was way out of
its time. Again it was big with the creators, the musicians, video, that also gets into the hacking
that what do you call it? The demos. Apple for those people who couldn't afford Apple.
But Apple wasn't even there yet at that time. Yeah well I'm just saying it was you know
Oh so later on you could get a cheap Amiga because they went out of business rather than get
an Apple product that you're saying. I mean it filled that niche that everybody thinks that
creative is Apple. Right I just I remember growing up that when I go to alien school they'd have
these apples. They're these max as they used to call them or maybe they still add I don't know
I would just think I'm like wow these things like these things suck. They only take a five and a
quarter disc and it's like a green screen. Come on. I was like this is what what this why are we
donating box tops for this this outdated tech when at home I had I was playing flight simulators and
dungeons and dragons. Crazy RPG games and all sorts of stuff just didn't make sense to me.
All right. We also enjoyed the the feature where you could type something in and it would say
something. I don't I don't know if that's what what a radio head may have used on okay computer
but it's the same voice it's it's kind of the stereotypical voice of third computer to
if I can maybe load the Amiga console and see if it needs some voice pumping and
you know we're talking about micro center a little bit earlier. Great place.
A dangerous place for your wallet. Dangerous place for the wallet. Absolutely. Absolutely. You
do not want to go there with your wallet full when you want to you want to get in and get out
but that's that's true with any store. Definitely a skin. Get what you need. Get out.
Well for a lot of things that you're placed the late and amended radio shack.
Yes it has it has. In fact I've met some people that old managers go to a micro center and
they're like oh hey Dale how's it going hey it's be my manager. He's like oh hey how's it going
Casper kind of seeing you. Hey how are you doing now my wife like oh I'm sorry to hear that um
so yeah. It's a cheerful stuff dude. Yeah I know I know we good deep good deep yeah but you know
well that's what happened there was a mass migration of the radio shack employees at the time I
was joining radio shack there was a time when I was when I was a young alien. Okay guys. Okay so like
when I was a little alien you looked up to radio shack employees because they knew how to do
everything or anything you wanted and you always had this you had a respect for
radio shack employees so you could bring in something and say hey can I do this to this or
whatever and when I grew up I just happened to get a job there because I knew somebody that
worked there and uh at the time I joined they were definitely definitely transitioning from I guess
what was a sustainable commission based uh income stream for their employees to a not so sustainable
income stream for their employees and I was unfortunate because at the time I joined I was the
youngest uh when I left I was the oldest uh but maybe I just hung on too long there. Yeah I learned
a lot from the uh from the older older people there first got a lot of social skills was able to
talk to people I was actually quite afraid I was like oh I actually have to go out there and
didn't talk to people that come in the store. So it's good experience. I think everybody should
have to do retail at some point in their lives. I think that that should be a year course for everyone
just so if for nothing else that you treat retail employees with respect. Yeah well I spent
oh first eight years of my employment in running our servicing in seven basically at 7-11.
Oh okay okay and what was your experience there? I get you don't mind me asking. My experience there was
there um probably not broadcastable uh well one of the things that I ran into is uh I was working
360 days a year five hours a day so they didn't have to pay benefits. My dad did not consider that
full-time. Yeah so I guess I'm sensing some uh some family. Yeah well I got PTSD at home not
in the military. Also um about to turn in the century or in one of those early years I found out
that I had something called Ashburgers Syndrome. Really? So it would be said that you are on the
spectrum is what they call it? Yeah I used to have Ashburgers Syndrome until they changed the
definition. Yeah yeah there's there's DSMB fours and whatever it is yes they've changed the DSM
and now I no longer have Ashburgers even though that I haven't changed anything myself. I thought
it was a useful definition but the kids you know um of course since I was raised to 50s kids in the
sixties I've gone through a lot of uh no-one-placer changes uh like the generations of the word for
people of color. Right right Negro Black. Yeah I think we can probably uh yes I understand it's
you know yeah I was I was raised in the days of stewardesses of stewardesses instead of flight
attendance. Is that good? Yeah yeah yeah and when they're when there are actresses
so is everyone called an actor or an actress now I can't keep track? They're all called actors now.
Oh okay yeah I can't keep track of that stuff. I for my generation we would say a word that
is no longer uh kosher to say maybe even kosher is not gonna be okay to say soon but uh you
know to say somebody was stupid you can't say that anymore and especially embossed and I'm sure you're
you know exactly what I'm talking about um Jimmy. Oh clap too has entered he's joined us
graced us with his presence. Well welcome I've listened to your cast back along
nice to hear you live. We're waiting for Clevver. There we go. Hey there. Hey got to how you doing?
Pretty good. Happy new year everybody. Happy new year to you. We got a nut nut miner here with us.
Howdy nut miner over now. Nut miner's not really with us. Oh I'm here. I'm just on the side.
No I'm okay. Somebody's got to be in you know with so many chiefs you've got to have an
Indian or two. Cool cool. By the way has anyone heard of Peter 64?
Heard of him or heard from him. Heard from him lately. Um maybe a month ago I saw him on IRC.
I was I was talking to him a little bit. Gosh maybe two months ago now. Well if you get a chance
just say nut miner set hello and that's wishes and all. Next time I see him I will do that. He's
not on that that often lately. Yeah I mean I'm from Dev random in other places.
Cool yeah let them know. I'm from Dev Null.
Aren't we all? Actually I'm from Dev SR0 just to be different. Yeah. All right change it up a little
bit. That's cool. Yeah. What's been going on is you guys when did this call start anyway? I don't
even know like I forget when it actually started. We are an hour and a half into the fun.
Oh okay cool. Well I'm a what is it? What time is it right now? Whatever time it is right now
I think it's about yeah so it's 12 30 so I'm a half hour into 2018. Wow so a happy new year
do you clap too? Thank you. You don't have to applaud I didn't actually do anything it just
happens it just ticks over on its own. Really? Yeah yeah I didn't push it over or anything it
just happens. I thought you had to climb the the stair and get up there and move the the sun
and the moon and I thought I thought that was your own or your control. There is a there the main
event like the main New Year's event here in New Zealand happens at a place called the Sky Tower
in Auckland which is like I don't know a thousand miles away from well maybe not a thousand but
it's all the way at the tip of the North Island so I'm nowhere near that but yeah I've always
thought it was kind of funny that it is the Sky Tower because it's just it seems so important but I
think it's just a corporate tower that they call Sky Tower. It's like that's probably the tallest
thing in New Zealand but yeah they shoot fireworks off of it and that's that's what we do I guess
off the tip? Yeah actually yeah it's it yes it's it's kind of funny but and they show it for like
13 seconds on the TV it's like it's it's sort of a super tiny sort of sad version of the New
York ball dropping. Oh anything that happens outside of these United States aliens are fans of
so even if it's shooting just from the tip even though it might be a little awkward word
it's okay it's okay yeah I once ran into somebody who had a Kiwi sticker on his car he was
surprised to anyone in America who what that was. I really didn't get it until I moved here I
I thought Kiwi I thought they were talking about the Kiwi fruit and I didn't understand why they
called themselves Kiwis and it wasn't until I moved here that I learned that Kiwi is actually a bird
here and I guess they associate themselves with that bird because it's a very unique bird I'm
not really I'm still not really sure why they connect with that bird so much but but yeah I didn't
really understand until they moved here I was completely clueless. So can you I don't know if
this is this is fair game said but you said you're an X-pad don't have the X and so I was kind of
curious as to what led to the migration bigger and better things. Yeah so I was living most
recently in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania and my girlfriend was like hey we should move to New Zealand
and then I saw like just coincidentally like maybe a month later I saw a job posting at a movie
studio with credentials that basically matched exactly what I had accidentally sort of ended up
studying for like that weird mix of film and computers like I went to school for film but I got
into computers myself so I had like this this weird kind of like you know dual major sort of
thing going on I mean no not really but I mean I did and so it was just a perfect match so I
applied and then they yeah they they hired me and that's a care of all the paperwork I mean that's
the that's the big thing right if you're moving outside of the US or outside of any country I mean
you got to get your papers you know you have to have your work visa and all that other stuff so if
you get that you're you're good as gold and yeah actually speaking of that if you give me a second
here I need to grab my my phone there's another another alien brother not rotator but he might be
joining us on this plane so I'm gonna mute my mumble for a second cool that's exciting I wonder who
it is it's like a special guest star yeah one of the reasons why I remember Peter 64 so much is that
uh my mother and father came from farms yeah my grandfather was for the coal mine with my
dad ran a dairy farm when he was younger actually he created a dairy farm he was younger wow
turning 80 or 90 acres a week into a humming modern dairy operation uh between like World War
2 in Korea wow that's pretty amazing I mean I guess in theory it's not that amazing right you
just get a bunch of cattle and and keep them happy and then milk them but but to actually make it
profitable and like you know an actual sort of self-sustaining thing that's pretty amazing well
also he went to an agricultural high school which is to say he had basically the best technical
education for agriculture in his family and maybe in the area since a lot of farmers didn't go to
ag collagen uh right yeah yeah that makes sense and my other parent was from a farm in Maine and it
was still using um basically milk can technology so I've been exposed to both relatively modern
stuff and in very more traditional when my grandfather was alive they're even running
with uh unveiled hay wow that's crazy I didn't actually know there were I mean is there a lot of
farmland up in Maine I don't know a whole lot about Maine but I kind of strangely surprises me to
hear that there's farmland in Maine but I guess there has to be farmland practically everywhere well
there used to be the the farms have died off over the last 50 years yeah actually even where I live
in Massachusetts there used to be dairy farms only within a couple of miles of here I'm actually
going to be in Massachusetts later this uh well I guess now this month I'll be Boston though
are you going to be tried branded steak yeah no I'm hopefully not I'm going to stay away from Salem
yeah my uh yeah while I grew up on farmlands on vacations uh I'm actually a refugee from from the country
from New Zealand no from the country as in Hihaw country uh farm the doonies
civilization by the way I'm doing cross the banjo yeah the banjo line
yeah places places where uh parts unknown got gun control is a good stance
yes they're I heard a story from someone uh secondhand that was somewhere at a bar somewhere deep
in Virginia and they were shooting off machine guns and stuff and the guy was like hey he's like
aren't you worried about the the police showing opposite please we are the police
ha ha ha ha great yeah well in Massachusetts there was the machine gun shoot and they gave
some kid a mini uzi because it was small and cute killed himself now that's a weapon that's hard
for an adult to control uh criminal negligence now out in Arizona they had a machine gun shoot where
they had people shooting tripod mounted machine gun the thing about a tripod mounted machine gun
is it has a lot of stops and whatnot so that you can make certain that that it only can shoot down
range right so by using their brains and having proper adults of provision they were allowing
youngsters to fire far more powerful weapons in perfect safety I see so they were not negligent in that
case yeah I mean I lived I grew up in a house full of firearms but we we were taught
how to handle them or not handle them and uh we were perfectly safe and that's yes always good
yeah I mean that's one thing about like gun control the whole gun control debate that I never
hear a whole lot about which I mean I don't really pay that much attention to it lately but it's
just like sure there's gun control but like obviously there's automobile control right like if you
get a car you have to take a test and take a license and stuff and I mean has anyone really
sort of proposed that gun control control control could just kind of look more like that rather than
looking like the feds coming to your house and confiscating your guns like people are
seeming to be afraid of like why not just just kind of make it a little bit more official so
so that there is some semblance of education around the subject well because gun control
is largely limiting the risk to politicians well that the NRA as aliens understand it
but too I just put a link there and the thing oh yeah I see that's the at their pad if you
want to add notes as people are talking or whatever oh interesting and had asked that we do that
so he did not have to listen to 26 hours and that's a good idea yeah and if I had looked at that I
would have known that it was midnight or new years in your neck or your part of the blue marble
so uh yeah I just want to share that there I think Ken's uh cleaning his house and stuff
so I I wouldn't want to have to listen to 26 hours of this honestly uh yeah I
trying to get ready to do some show notes and that is not happening so well but that's
if that's a whole nother story so yeah show notes are horrible I mean they really are they're really
not they're very important no they're important darn darn darn darn I thought you weren't here
yeah exactly good authority that you were not here just because I have like gun discussions
doesn't mean I'm not here well um yes show notes are important they're just they're just it's so
difficult to do them half the time because it's like you've already spent all that time doing the
podcast and then you you're meant to do the the the notes and it's like I do it twice we will do
the show notes for you if you don't for anyone listening however how can I'm actively contributing
to the show notes I just wanted to talk to how can you do a show without show notes do you not
start doing the show notes or do you just talk off the cuff yeah I generally talk off the cuff um
yeah because I usually talk as I do what I'm talking about so it's it's kind of like I'm basically
just describing what I am doing which is I tend to give presentations no I yeah I mean I have my
head that I planned in it's a good place to plan yeah but as a wise person once said the
palest ink is better than the vast memory that is awfully wise no I do I totally plan on doing
show notes for for things and and I feel like I do eventually get around to it but it's just it
it's a different process for me you know if I'm gonna do a show note I tend to want to make it into
something that's like sort of publishable you know so it's it's the different step okay that's
a lot yeah I I tried to do a good a good show note but then I got like a beaten beaten like
like the dirty dog I am for my spans and my dives oh yeah yeah mark just use markdown I mean
get rid of the divs in the spans it's it's him out gotta you trolling me now do you not have
markdown a conversion I thought you accepted markdown yeah Dave Dave accepts markdown I have this
long-running argument with him that if people either send in text without formatting or HTML proper
HTML that doesn't have any crap in it they're talking about line items headers strong surfaces that's
it just basic HTML because at the end of the day it doesn't matter what you send it in into it's
going to end up as HTML 5 and the person who's going to do that if you don't do it then it's either
me or Dave is going to have to do it I didn't know that I thought you had some kind of conversion
thing going on but I mean surely markdown is better than structured text no not always we've received
in some absolutely god awful markdown and five dollars into it you just going all right yeah I'm
just going to copy and paste this and as plain text and start from there yeah okay I guess sometimes
it goes that's a problem sometimes it goes perfectly but there are so many variations of markdown
of mark that's what I was gonna say yeah so I'm thinking if somebody's capable it's like a barrier
if somebody's capable of figuring out org mode in emax then they're capable of doing
HTML basic HTML files okay so no one in particular
not to future not to future hpr hosts then never admit to knowing org mode and you're you can do
whatever you want I've just lost a battery I've been loving those read line things that Dave has
been posting though read line episodes amazing stuff actually there should be thank you
you want to be an emax podcast we can do an emax series on hpr I mean I did a start on emax
mini series but yeah someone could absolutely get through a whole year by just doing emax
episodes because I mean just open to emax wiki and read a page I mean it would be that simple
while we actually need them we spoke about this on the community news show which hasn't been
posted yet which I need to do is a git series because and I volunteered you for that
yeah I'd be happy to I actually have show notes for that oh show that's pretty written
written yeah yeah yeah they're they're they they exist I'm not I can't talk about the format
I just want to know if it was written yeah good good don't let's not let's not discuss no it's
actually yeah it's um it's in several formats it is written it is yep it's good to go okay hashtag
you owe me a show yeah I will um I will make a note of that and see what I can do
matter if I thought it was if it was so easy to get episodes from people by just asking
yeah who was that guy who did the um who read the articles from open source calm on Katie and
live uh what was his name I'm blanking on the name I feel horrible for blanking on the name
I had it there and it just escaped me as my mouth started working hola
he didn't want to eat it when I had all right we're two hours getting get ease get ease of course
yes just uh get ease yeah sorry get ease um if if if if if he wants to read more there there's a
whole git series that I could point him towards he did an amazing job and that he did great yeah
I feel guilty about asking him for that because in the amount of work he had to do in order to
reduce it oh wow 1.42 volts is that correct for a ag 10 battery we shall ask Wikipedia
doesn't sound yeah ask Wikipedia the internet knows everything yeah my first experience with
e-max was on pdp 11s at MIT wow that's pretty legit and uh yeah the only mouse in the
computer room had a tail and was considered vermin still are some parts well I was on night tvs
which were sort of a multi headed hercules in a pdp 11 so what's it called again
in in tv in tv what did you say night tvs there were a video system where you had multiple
graphical screens and keyboards but it was equivalent to basically what you see people would
think of as a hercules screen I'm sorry I don't know what a hercules screen is used to be a
or a graphical screen screen I do text screen but hercules allowed you to do graphics on it it was
one of the early pc uh particular blood your your text mode monitor and actually do some
graph two color graphics on it oh cool wow okay and night tv was doing that sort of thing off of
pdp 11 uh generation before originally used for a lot of uh AI stuff at MIT with a room filling
two six bit machines 36 bits wow that's insane I've heard of 36 bit machines I just I've never
never really understood why they existed I guess because they had four extra bits
well a lot of it was because for a long time characters were all uppercase and you only need
to six bits and thirty six bits okay wow I think I think we have a show I think we should
end the show here we just learned something I think that's the new year's show okay so
no we're not supposed to learn anything on the new year's show we're all supposed to be drunk and
oh yeah that's right darn it yeah well just wait till rhetoric gets on we'll see what happens
I just scored myself a yeah trip switch from an old toy I'm doing the traditional new years
tidy up the back room because I'm stuck out here because of the show so I'm going through all the
stuff that I have to the kids have broken down through well not broken but have broken through the
years and there's a revolving toy that has a spring loaded trip switch so I'm gonna use that in
the project later on so in the show notes I looked up Hercules computer stuff and I think the
first link I put in there is not the right one I think the second one might be the right one and
talks about Hercules incorporated in World War two in NATO and rocket fuel commercial gun I don't
know 1950s I think it's the second one you're looking at Hercules computer technology
they had a graphics support remember the first one from VGA and then you could buy Hercules card
and we had a few of them not around for really high-end stuff okay so it was the first one and not
the second one correct but the first one is the one that I was the first one it looks like it's
more apropos to the discussion I mean knowing nothing having just learned about it but I mean
the first one have pictures of graphics cards so there you go oh oh oh I would oh today I learned
that my first graphics card was a Hercules oh that's fancy how did you recognize it
because under Hercules thriller 3d th blah blah blah blah it says rendition
of airtight v 2200 agp megabyte sg ram the rendition of airtight was we had a 486 66 megahertz
when the windows 3.1 was still around and when quake came out it was built around it always comes
back to quake no it doesn't always come back to quake that's true it always comes back to doom
that's the one I'm thinking of wait but then but then then it goes back to Wolfenstein and then
then you know where that goes right every conversation yeah right that's that that's the old uh yeah
I mean it has to yeah right so we just we just completed the podcast I guess we can go home now
all right see ya all right kids already huh what one of the interesting things we had back
as dinosaur is over at building 20 god rest you know it was a temporary building but only lasted
from world war two to the turn of the century was uh they they had on this big computer some IBM
I guess seven or nine track tape drives and they said the difference between IBM tape
drives and digital equipment tape drives which digital was the one who made the big 36-bit machine
did if an IBM tape drive fell off the truck you'd have a bottle if a digital tape drive fell
off the truck you'd have a pile of plastic yeah so the IBM stuff was built to last
it was built slightly heavier than a tank yeah I went to uh when the computer museum was in
Boston I went to it with the IBM field service engineer which is IBM speak for computer
repairman and he would go up to a solder and pull the skins off because that's what he did every day
punch card solder yeah yeah yeah he joined IBM when IBM business machines had a lot more gears
than renders yeah okay I was doing a little bit of wikipedia research on why I did not know that
the rendition had anything to do with the hercules chipset and I'm not don't quite sure um the
2200 which was rend renditions was offered on several cards which was a hercules
hercules thriller 3d offered an agpnpc i but at that time there were like in video was
I just knew it was a rendition chipset so but yeah I knew that diamond had one that also
wasn't as always good anyway yeah remember the diamonds vaguely yeah back when you'd go into
a computer store and you'd see like they had just gotten 3d like the pixel I think it was uh
was the fighting game yeah remember what it was yeah I don't know it wasn't really into gaming
back then or graphics are we are we talking Duke Nukem oh that could be Duke Nukem was was definitely a
a bump to the the the doom engine it gave you the jumping ability and the flying ability
that that was a good game engine which spawned many other games I uh like the uh energizer buddy
mod for Nukem it's been so long uh I would dial up with with other aliens at the time and play
Duke Nukem I didn't know that it was multiplayer I feel like this ether pad is an hour off
because I signed on oh no I'm mistreating the timestamps nevermind oh no it is confusing me
because it's it says greetings to New Zealand twice on the ether pad which doesn't make a whole
lot of sense well what we're using is a template that k5 talks came up with I think um maybe about
three years ago now okay it's just it says yeah for some reason it says greetings New Zealand
chat of islands and New Zealand oh New Zealand chat of islands okay I didn't know there was a
difference between chat of islands and New Zealand chat of islands nevermind sorry about that
it's always mysterious when someone sort of disappears off of mumble it's like well have they
forgot to press their talk to speak button or have they just walked away the van Allen belt is
always interfering with our transmissions that's what it is yeah yeah it's tough and and for you
on on the terrestrial blue marble you've you've got as I understand it optical cables under seas
that are then split and then go into data centers and then split back out so you never know what
the kind of shenanigans are going on there it's it's kind of amazing like the fact that we we
that yeah that is actually cable laid across the ocean that just seems unbelievable to me
I got one of the treasures I have here buried somewhere is a book from 1991
where somebody actually did what they call an internet travel log and he went around the world
talking to various people who were making the internet connections oh nice at the time you could
actually tell where things went and the amount of finagling and you know backdoor side door
stuff that was going on with the internet was was was amazing especially since that was before
the internet was was open to common data standards that is to say business business stuff could
only go over these wire over these cables and academic stuff could go over that stuff and military
stuff had to go over here and you know which one goes to westworld I guess we'll just have to find out
I haven't actually seen that show I I know it's a big thing but I haven't seen it I mean
I haven't even seen the movie upon which it was based I guess yeah I didn't see the movie but
I always meant to aliens understand that the technology that DARPA has is potentially 50 years ahead
of what you may be aware of DARPA or Google it just depends on which alphabet yeah just rearrange
the alphabet when you own the alphabet I mean what else are you going to what more can you own numbers
are numbers part of the alphabet I guess not I think arguably not Roman numerals are
but they've got Google IO there you go so I think that covers that yeah it's then I
clad to we'll probably get into it at some point but the increasing I guess the increasing
definition of fascism right yeah yeah is that all you're going to give me is it
no I thought you were going to say more so I wasn't going to interrupt but yeah no I think that's
I think it's kind of dangerous to increase the definition too much but but maybe you mean the
the way that it that it manifests itself rather than what we than how we name it the interesting
thing is I was I was hanging out with some some contemporary aliens history majors mind you
uh and I said can anybody give me the definition of fascism no nobody could give me the
definition of fascism I was just befuddled I could not believe that history majors didn't know
what the definition of fascism is is that because they didn't want to pin it down or because they
just hadn't really thought about it before no they just they were like oh that's just when it's
to total control of and you can't do what you want oh yeah yeah yeah like it was just it's like oh
that's not these right no always goes back to that right but they're they're missing a step
up to a big step which is it's it's the the marriage of corporations and government oh see I
hadn't thought of that either yeah that's a really good qualifier because yeah I was thinking of
the nationalism aspect of it uh no no yeah see that yeah and no it was and with with Nazis you
talk about the the socialist uh they they called themselves socialist but that was really just
correct the you know he actually infiltrated the party it was the the elites uh funded the rise of
of the right and uh if if you read in so basically what they were afraid of was socialism
communism from Russia and you're right yeah yeah and so they didn't care which how how yeah yeah
it's such a it's so funny too that that they would that that they were so I mean I guess they
were against everyone but I mean yeah they were very against sort of Russian communism and
and yet they called themselves a socialist party and it's just like what what's really the difference
between those two things anyway so why would you be so hostile to to communism right yeah it was
just a trick yeah because yeah because they weren't yeah yeah yeah but people fall for it man they
fall you call yourself one thing and even if you act completely opposite people are like well he
said he was such and such you know like well he said he was a Christian but you know he's doing
this thing but he said it he said it yeah it's just so yeah labels labels labels are super powerful
as silly as that seems wait wait a minute guys okay you're missing the vote entirely okay the
original fascists were not German they were Italian yeah no I don't think I don't think I was
think I was saying the original fascists were German I I mean I'm even wondering if they were
originally like Italian there's probably a precedence before that I would sort of imagine
were you talking about like really a lot of fascists oh no what do you mean fascism the symbol
of the fascism or the original Roman definition where it comes from the Latin is a bundle of sticks
it is supposedly a unification of power so that if we all work together that's where they got
the socialist angle to it okay and the guy who had the fascist was the guy who was who was
applying the unified power of the people he was the puppet master just like the head of the
communist party is you know communism is a very democratic ideal but we just help we just select
who can do the voting and it ends up with one guy running things anyone yeah there's yeah there's
lots of different ways to split it up you're absolutely right the origin was from the 1920 Italian
fascismo from fasciso bundle political group so it's yeah it's a very broad definition
but there's there's still that that element of deceit right I mean it's like oh we're
going to band together we're going to do this there's going to be one unified front or there's
going to be one unified champion and and it ends up I mean that is what it is but I mean it's
all for for completely it's like putting a feel good sort of message on on something that's
basically completely exclusionary and oppressive government yeah pretty much yeah once I was here
on Hacker Pope a radio you're tuning in two hours and 13 minutes in welcome yeah it's good
that you're remembering to do the the station identifiers you know at the top of the hour or whatever
do it again it's important yeah it's important do it again or two hours into the New Year's Eve
broadcast but if uh if IT doesn't work out if it doesn't work out then I'll be coming to you live
on a car commercial on your radio station it's a labor day sale it has to be local though you
have to do it local radio because that's where I mean that's they really just let you lose then
you know you just be as over the top as you could possibly be saw good man saw good man
if you don't get the reference I will put it in the notes you'll have to I'll have to yeah
it's uh uh have you heard of the show breaking bad I've heard of it but never seen it um so breaking
bad was a big hit and uh they did a spin-off uh Vince Gilligan did a spin-off that focused on
just the lawyer and how he it's it was kind of a prequel to breaking bad and how this lawyer came
about and his name is Saul Goodman okay and he got from it's it's all good man Saul good man so
but he just he just made up this character on the spot before he was trying to make money to
do I I can't remember exactly what the plot was but it was a local TV you know he had all this
airtime and he was trying to but he couldn't use the airtime for some reason or another so he was
using the airtime to sell the airtime he's like do you want to be broadcast live you know on
that's all right you know so he created this character to to sell it yeah that's actually funny
because uh here in New Zealand they're I mean maybe it's still in the states but I don't I don't
think it was in the states anymore but here in New Zealand like at late late at night like 1 a.m.
2 a.m. and that time frame the the TV stations will actually go off the air and they'll just like
well some of them will just run nothing which really puzzles me but other ones will still run
those crazy infomercials and it's just so weird to see that now where or they're like are you
home are you smoking is your name clattu yeah pretty much yeah and you're like what what me how do you
know they're talking to me yeah it's just it feels like we should surely we have a history a
collection of media that we could just press play on you know like to surely we don't need to run
this this subpar quality of media even if it is late at night like just I don't know Mr.
Adry runs would be better than infomercials infomercials i'm gonna pay money and keep the stations alive
that's why we like to support Josh from an honest host if you contribute now you'll get a 3-to-1
donation so if you contribute $5 your total contribution will be $20 to the internet archive
yes and also throw some cash towards Josh who's hosting the hpr website oh yes i'm
i'm sorry i conflated the two yeah those two do we have prices we could offer people we we
should offer the that's what this hpr new years if you think should be is a pledge drive pledge drive
for the hackers i can offer a prize become rich and famous by putting your
for becoming a new to nationally renowned podcaster improve your CV i'll play a song for
for whoever donates first i'll just i will i will go out to coffee with whoever donates if they are
in Boston from January 24th to the 30th i think is when i'm there and it has to be in the evening
when i'm when i'm not working and within walking distance of my hotel oh yeah okay so
two conditions applied yeah that's what we put in yeah that we would put that in fine print where
this an actual pledge drive okay yeah because really in the fine print it's like hey you
guys are all getting played here yeah yeah always you're scratching that ticket there's nothing
behind yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah we we know what's going on that's why we tune in to
hacker public radio so i'll just give it a little taste a little taste of the oh nice little tune
so i'm in the house
we're on hacker public radio we don't know where to go on this
section that we're doing right here
that's very clear we don't know where to go from here on
hacker public radio but if you donate now today we'll give away our sun for free and
we'll fly away back to our home base on planets
that one's for free so are you two guys that was really awesome actually thank you what's up
again you're gonna say something do you forget it immediately are you two guys like alien like
members of an affiliated alien fleece or something we can't talk about it yeah we couldn't
yeah couldn't confirm or deny that and if we did we'd have to do things destroy planet destroy planet
we'd have to this one you fool we'd have to press the big red button not the one that brings you
the coke the one that does the other thing genuinely that was a stroke genius from i really
handle my heart from the people of earth thank whoever was come up with that idea because you know
i don't want to offend anyone but i would much prefer a big red button in that office to be get me a
coke over let's annihilate the planet but you don't want to get a mixed up now do you i think if
they went to the trouble of making a big red button that gets the guy a coke they have hidden the
other one somewhere where he can't get us well they from what Wikipedia says he carries a football
or somebody carries the football for them or some i believe is it just me or is android mtp just
the greatest crappiest protocol ever invented mtp in general i why are you qualifying it with
android am i is it different from normal mtp well i've had to use it here on android so
and it is just terrible terrible terrible terrible terrible protocol yeah no it is terrible i think i
had a there was a line of video cameras i think that for a while that would only mount mtp and it was
the absolute worst i mean i'm talking like early 2000s probably and yeah i try to avoid it at all
cost that's why the kde connect i don't know if you've seen that or if you yeah that's that usually
works pretty well for me i don't i think i don't know if it uses mtp because i i think i just
send myself stuff oh maybe it's over blue tooth because it it's on my laptop yeah probably
what it is it is truly terrible i've ended up having to put a hotspot on yeah a hotspot on and then
put an ssh client and go sshfs because it doesn't it doesn't automatically refresh even the
stuff on your on your i'll create a directory and i can see it's i can connect on my phone i can
see it i can connect with the android tools i can see it but it doesn't appear and then you reboot
and then a kind of appears wow and also i don't understand why they don't want people to access
their their files i don't i do not understand the logic of that if you're going to do it then
you know sftp seems to be able to handle it why can't you use a protocol that works
yeah yeah yeah i don't know i don't know either anyway i'm planning on doing a show whenever i
guess it maybe i don't the show maybe that's it that's all i need to talk about because i don't
think that counts did you ever expand the file system on android to include the sd card
um i don't know i have i have a mobile from work right now and it has an sd card and it's
sort of i can access the sd card from from the phone is that what you mean like i didn't do
anything it just yeah there are like two options that you can initially use it as a
an sd card that you can put in and take out or you can extend the internal
oh i see where your system now i call that happens when they were doing that that they would do
something like um lvm or something yeah sure because i said you know big warning as soon as
as soon as you do this you can't you know the world is going to end it's only ever going to work
on this phone blah blah blah okay so i went got a 64 gig card put it in there expanded and i
expected it to do that just thing that thing right yeah it would all be one big file system yeah
but turns out all they do is like they in they reformat it i think a ext4
don't know asterix not 100% sure and possibly encrypted in some way but their integration is
just a whole bunch of ugly sim links still oh wow so you have if you you you can't create or then
you have m mq mtp or whatever that protocol is that thing doesn't recognize the fact that if
you create it doesn't display the music folder for example so if you create so you're looking
in your you see a combined view you know a fictitious fake lying view of what's on your sd card
and then you make a directory but you can't make it because some simlink somewhere sees that that's
already on the internal sd card that's just a mess absolutely horrible yook oh that clears up a lot
i wrote ntp i was like what yeah yeah it's mtp yes you wouldn't know it unless you'd had to deal
with it really yeah i was like that's not a one two nine t8 tends to work for me okay the
the the date time protocol that that seems to be okay it's it's a that's a sure in itself i love
to get some of those guys on because they have there's a lot of duct tape involved in that protocol as
well oh yeah because you got satellites you got terrestrial stuff you got underwater stuff you got
radio and you got and the different eight bits and lower device high-ore device four big
computers all sorts of weird stuff that the libraries have to support i saw an interesting video
unless at one point now what i'm doing youtube back to i put a secret space documentary that i
think you should watch if you ever have the time i see it i see that you act it at it isn't that a geeky
response no i it's not too geeky for me but what i'm who am i to say i'm just an alien this isn't
even my real voice cool how many episodes have you how many episodes have you posted so far just
the two i mean i didn't need that to me yeah because i remember yeah okay i wasn't sure now there's
there's four that are two two have hit the feed right now i don't unlike some people i do not listen
in advance i wait for episodes to actually be released and it bugs me for the record bugs me when
people no you don't can i do you comment it you commented on something before i've only ever
broken my rule and that was the only time that i've done that has been when the a new feed list
came in and i needed to make sure that all the shows were in there's the only time i ever ever
done that and special dispensation was asked wasn't asked at me it was on the list i said i need to
download these i normally don't do oh that's right oh that's right oh i didn't expect that yeah yeah
you well you phrased it in a way that was can deliberately you know you were you were asking around
the question it was if i called trickery i have a trickery my art i was so tired doing that whole
thing and so scared because once you start messing with a feed that's got 32 gigabytes
yeah yeah yeah somebody sets up a portable wi-fi hotspot and then suddenly
i was 22 gigabytes yeah yeah okay so that's something for the new aliens here just
tapping in through the man Allen belt uh so we like to go on that when we're communicating with
the hackers on the public radios we we don't like to jump ahead to what's already been uh under review
or uh no we don't need anything oh whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa apparently we do not edit
we do not review we don't even listen to the shows until they come out to the feed very important
this is a peer to peer network anyone can post anything there is nobody reviewing anything on
this network that's deliberately why those of us who normally who are involved in this don't
listen to anything goes into the feed so if you want to say anything you say it we're not going to
drop you the only thing we do is check for spam uh okay see i i for me i would look at the calendar
and so i i had this miscommunication actually with my alien brother uh huh because he was saying
he was like oh why are we gonna i was trying to get him to do one uh what is now last night uh but
he he was uh still recovering from from his job and he was like why are we gonna do another one
when we've got so much we still have to you know produce and post and i was like no no no we've
got four out of five up there um we really hurt i think we've done six now yeah we know we
so we we have six i believe uh and the fifth one is is completed it just hasn't been posted i was
trying to get Rutiger to do the show notes so that he could have Ken beat him um for the
with the the spans and the divs oh man that was just bad you're you're making out like that was
they possibly the second worst uh show notes that we have ever received
only second worst come on man guys can you do better than that what was it with all the
spans and the divs and the things uh it's like something uh the only thing i've seen worse was when
somebody did their show notes in uh Microsoft Word and then did the next book back in the day
oh yeah oh god okay so to be clear i've i've been pulling a lot of weight trying to pull Rutiger's
arm he's he's an older arguably wiser alien and i've been trying to pull him along here and uh
originally he was doing the production post production uh because he had done podcasts before
and due to circumstances etc uh the production part was put on me so for four um
um i don't i can't keep track uh like i said this last last month's been a little uh time yeah time
space dimensions are all blurred um but the thing is it's okay i know also just for the record bad
show notes are still better than no show notes so of the two people here who are most annoyed with
you would be number two i am of course gesting clatoon no worries although you did have show notes
in there they just were what would have been interesting would be to get your history you know
your bash history as you were doing us yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that's that would be something
i reckon you're annoyed now i can tell no i guess i guess i guess i kind of i guess i kind of
oh time time space dimensions are all blurred um um but the thing is that was so that was very um
that was funny because we just heard yeah we just heard in say times face was blurred again
that was really brilliant i'm telling you i know you don't believe me it's true no can i think i
just i don't know that i agree i guess when i want when i show notes to me should be
really really helpful because i'm afraid i guess i i just like putting stuff out on the internet
that that's kind of sloppy and like oh this is you know because i don't want people to go to
those show notes and think okay i'm going to follow these and then not get from point a to point
b yeah exactly so yeah i don't know i know you're you are a course right you are a course right but
it's it it i'm i'm kind of spoiled because of davis show notes and uh yeah yeah with their with
their series an arc it's like oh yeah yeah i think those guys are planning on wrapping that up
into a book at the end of the whole thing yeah and that's the thing i think eventually the stuff
that i talk about i kind of in my head i'm gonna like write an article or a series of articles
whatever blog posts whatever and so in my mind i'm like well this is the audio version
and and i'll get the written version out in some other some other place in once it's ready so yeah
cool oh we can always go back and link to it yeah i'm one of your your chain so to speak
yeah two point three volts that's definitely dead okay yes korean i was just going to say you know
i really missed from hacker public radio is fox fire does anyone remember fox fire i used
fire fox now he was this great this great host who used to do really kind of rambling and sort of
almost avant-garde episodes which which actually the alien brothers kind of reminded me of when i
heard when i heard the first alien brothers episode i was like this is like fox fire stuff
because yeah we were the host was it back in the twit days twit days no no no i mean maybe
but i mean he was he was in the early hundreds uh in in hacker public radio as well and then he
i sent him an email and was like fox fire you are the best host ever and then from that point on
he never you never released another episode so i kind of yeah i'm not sure i kind of i yeah i'm
going through the complete episode guide we don't have a a presumed to him is it uh yeah
don't have them on the complete episode guide we've they called comments
we'll have it on the horse actually uh look over in the left bar of mumble uh ken i just posted a
sample episode you are probably one one one selling his yeah his his name is weird it's i could be
saying it wrong it is but it's not how you it's not it's not how it sounds it's not fox fire it's
for fox for fox fire as in you all the guy fox yeah fire from days of your
yeah yeah yeah wow this is going back well yeah like i say it was a while ago
so yeah used to do this old hack that was awesome oh that's right that's right i forgot about that
series yeah yeah absolutely awesome yeah he's he's gone he's gone well the emails right there
send them an email but well i told you what happened last time i sent you an email no i met you
have you sent them an email now we got to turn it back on yeah flip that bit again what happened
he stopped releasing after i emailed them to tell him he was my favorite host of all time he's
he he's been stopped releasing episodes well we to be honest uh i guess the the belt got him again
oh no no sorry i was listening to the uh it's reading the stuff that comes up and the thing
right yeah i can probably turn that off text to speech yeah okay there we go it's old very quick
yeah i think that's for it's for gamers right like people who aren't looking at their mumble as
they use it i think i mean that that would be great because there are people that like to record
shows and there's people that like to listen to shows and maybe people you know that is a good way
that it could be split somehow where there could be some kind of submission you know where you
would allow and see that that's the other thing is that once you submit to hacker public radio
and you submit the show and with show notes that's it there's no way to go back and change anything so
yeah you know he's email us and we'll do it okay yeah i mean i think in an ideal like if we have
endless resources i think yeah the author of show notes could then go back in and edit them manually
but i mean he's talking about it completely what's that what we do have a plan there's a plan
in place for a long time to do this and we're actually a lot closer now than we will be you know
originally we asked for the your pgp key for to do that okay and with your pgp key then we would
know that you were the person who we emailed because that's beautiful yeah that's beautiful you
were going however now we're looking at moving away from the database on the back end and going to
well moving away from everything being a php my sql lamp stack and just being a flat
a postgres database on the back end given by git or whatever and then we just push flat files out
and then if a if a file or a host so then if you submit a show we we will post that show but we
would also update your page and pretty much everything else would remain the same and interesting
there's no reason why we couldn't like have show notes submitted via like git lab or whatever so
there's where you put your show notes or are you submitting your show notes via the thing and then
the appear in git lab and then you do a pull request back to update them that's really
so lots of options but regardless if you send us updates we will put them in no problem we do that
all the time cool good to know hashtag try not to overstress us either that's i guess that's the
that's my fear you know like adding little things like oh i forgot to paste this url in or
something i just i feel really silly trying to email you guys because your your time is a little
bit more valuable than just doing little things like that so yeah no that's okay well what we might
agree is if you just post them in the comments and just yeah if you're the host and then say please
update the show notes then we won't even post that as a comment we'll just update the show notes oh yeah
that that works it's going up at two hours and 40 minutes into the podcast you're here with
gasper can clad too we got net miner all those songs a bit professional now i want to bring
down the tone here who's rw a is this a real person who's that a stream he's an infiltrator uh
he's this he's the sapu and going back to pgp keys where is a sange oh yeah no one's ever really
heard from him lately huh maybe he's on i don't know he he was and a good thank you in the
yesterday i have to go and give the kids a toy that i just fixed back in a bit oh nice i thought
you were breaking toys but no no they they collect during the year and then i that's on that's
coach there just go through all the stuff that's called for i am julie and the sange that's that's
that's good for i've got to go feed him he's in the basement get that bring out the game
oh what movie oh that was in reservoir dogs that was no that was pulp fiction pulp fiction yeah
pulp fiction there we go rda is a real purse i don't believe it who said that rda oh okay i believe it
now from the city of Atlanta Georgia USA oh cool okay all right confirm all right i read that
comment somebody put it but he's a bad funny i was just missing about hey Gerald shot it all right okay
yeah uh so let's see where is a sange where in the world it was linked to the Atlanta um potentially
the airport shut down so um i saw something interesting about Thomas Drake was wearing a q pen
well on some documentary on Netflix uh that somebody posted in their thing hmm maybe that's q
there are neither here nor there but you are here with us two hours and 42 minutes into the
heck of public radio podcast one zero one one one zero to you uh so are we supposed to welcome some
no i guess not we have to wait for the hour to tick over for that who's next
Russia what's what's the r in or what is rda stand for or can you divulge that information
so my initials of my name first name rich parry g okay i i thought you were like something with
an attitude i was really wanting it to be that as well maybe it is rich with an attitude
that has yet to be seen well could be just the old guy with an attitude uh speaking to that dummy
who only likes to communicate via text which is okay because anonymity
anonymity is a part of being hacker and i'm able to do this just because this is just a
you know physical incarnation of my alien spiritual body here through the van Allen belt
but uh it was his russia ties confirmed i if you're referring to mainstream media
russia this russia that i i wouldn't believe any of it i i mean i don't i don't know what what are
others opinions yeah i don't i i don't know what ties he's talking about really i mean what exactly
is that like what ties like he's in collusion with them or something i mean i know that they
uh yeah oil regress with attitude maybe yeah uh so yeah russia has a lot of oil um i know that
Assange and the legal team uh Sarah Harrison they worked with russia when snowden was in
Hong Kong um so i i know that they they were trying to find countries to get him to but then
it ended up he went to russia but there wasn't any any collusion as far as i know
but unless you're listening to mainstream media family doesn't cotton so he can't speak i don't
know what cotton means is it like you're i mean i far down south in the states i don't think he's
in the south i i know him but i don't think he's in the south is where does he means to look
like and to be similar is that something you've heard or you're just doing that from context
like i mean is that a saying or is that's what i know it means to come up against
oh okay next to i had not heard that one before okay so uh speaking to what uh dummy just said
there so they've uh they're painting everything with russia this russia that uh i guess
this is a russia russia discussion uh the new McCarthyism so if you are critical of democratic party
or politics or anything uh your russian i guess and julienessange to take to cotton is to take to
okay i i got it because it sticks and yeah um yeah i i don't i don't buy any of it uh
were told that he's still in the aquedorian embassy one would maybe think but again we're going
back to pgp keys he hasn't released anything and then there was that twitter outage at the same time
there was the huge police build up around the embassy uh as far as russia collusion i i think
that's just another democratic talking point to say oh well wiki leaks you know hacked the democratic
servers which i think anybody with technical knowledge would understand that um anyone would
understand that the files and the the copy rates which the files if you're going to do a forensic
investigation is anybody with any security background would would do to find out about it you'd
see that oh it it was actually copied at from a usb drive there's no way that that could be hacked
or you know that the files um and so see more herch had the had the dig um and he was recorded
secretly about this and then he he has never said that he didn't say this um but now we're talking
about Seth rich and then you're getting into people that get killed and they call it a robbery
yet no wallet or money was taken and you're so you don't want to get killed yourself
don't talk bad about killery Hillary huh now i'm on the list
junior no and also leave tattoo server alone hi i'm back
jeez please don't don't mess with my server no that's the last thing we need
how's it going should be upgraded i've got a new uh pie here if you want one
oh really yeah like a pie three oh wow do you have a pie three you can send me over the image
for if we can do an upgrade i don't have a pie three um but i i don't think it needs an upgrade anyway
okay everything working out is that where you're doing the open thingy tunnel um yes i think i
did do the client on that one good anyways good to referring to VPN open VPN yeah
yeah tattoo just done a series of shows with pathetic show notes and what may have mentioned it
yeah no i i i didn't see the the show notes in there
it's a fine battery there's enough to be able to jump off to something
i didn't know it was going to get typed up honestly that one is is significant enough i think
to to truly type it up and make it a good a good thing to put on the internet because i
i honestly i used to tear my hair out trying to get on that subject yeah it's horrible
we read out from the comment time it uh it really is just you go to somewhere and it's either
you do this you take this button and it works or right you make and then you assert and then you
you know the optional god it's just i just can't stand i can't stand the way people write
instructions on the internet i mean it's great that the internet is there and that people can put
instructions on the internet is just every time i find instructions they're horrible it's just
so aggravating it's almost as if someone didn't write them up correctly i think they're badly done
by and large they don't do all the steps or they go full and we start to one plus one is equal to
two and and that follows that two plus two is equal to three and then you know it's a simple step
to go forward to the square root of 74 pi times f with the function of minimine what the hell
yeah exactly yeah yeah yeah yeah also two plus two is not three it's four it's five it's five
it's five i meant five sorry how do the thief baby is Brian connecting Brian has connected
we're we're nine minutes away from a russia new year a russian vision that again right
cool maybe snowden will join because he's you know he's joined pretty much every other uh
hey so uh that is attention i really do not want on the network thank you yeah really snowden
attention i don't tell any any attention from that that sort of area thank you we need to say
Brian yeah hey Brian yeah that we're great for Microsoft right security through obscurity right
absolutely yeah that's so let's just do that oh Brian has no microphone that's what that's why
he is not responding oh sorry Brian so okay Brian i will speak i will write i will read anything that
you type into the mumble text box wait a minute upon prior clearance i'm not anything i'm not
gonna just read off anything i have a rumor it's not it's not a good one from what can
and can blame i just saw lots of opportunities there yeah yeah that could have that could have
admitted it left my mouth i yeah i realized what i'd said yeah so you work in it oh okay okay
you say no more okay movie industry plus computer industry plus New Zealand equals Lord of the
Rings yeah yeah awesome awesome i mean it's the it's scenic hang out with wizards and smoke with them i
guess there was there there is production happening uh up north as well on other stuff um i think
even game now game of thrones i think it's just the digital stuff but i mean there are other
shows anyway that that happen up north but yeah pretty much if you're in production work you're you're
doing a hobbit stuff i guess not anymore but you were certain aliens may also have an insider
in other entertainment industries that may or may not have heard about certain things before certain
things came you'll wide stream so can you make it any more excuse i'm pretty clear on what he's
talking about yeah if you know you know if you don't yeah i mean if you don't yeah like there's
certain things in the entertainment industry that everybody knows and all you have to do is know
one person that that and you're like and you know the whole thing it and that's that's all i can say
i got to take a break you guys talk talk talk about me and how horrible i am and how i'm derailing
everything here what wrong away you knew you're only as i'm a surety really as as i leave six minutes
before we hit russia we'll be right back here on haka public radio please donate to josh i don't
know this host be back in a bit i would like to thank you in person for something oh no problem
oh wait for what yes you should always ask for what when you were talking the one of your
shores about mattes and that mattes is just analog computing that was oh yeah yeah found
i just suddenly lost my fear for mattes at that in that particular second is when i lost my fear
for mattes thank you wow okay yeah cool i think that was when one of the gaming episodes wasn't
yeah yeah yeah oh that's so cool um yeah it's fun because i've been doing a lot of
mattes for for studying for the ham radio which i don't have time to do but okay i'm still browsing
around and it was scaring me a lot and then i just okay well actually a lot of this stuff is just
formulas and formulas are just computer programs and here's a rule okay that makes sense
yeah the thing that taught me that was a class that i was taking at work on three on 3d
3d matrix math or something for for 3d modeling and stuff and like you wouldn't think that that would
encourage me at all in mattes but but seeing them like the teacher sort of write the equations
on the board and then and then plug in values it was just such an an eye opener for me because i
thought that that's just that's a that's a function like that's a computer function only my computer is
my brain and as long as i follow these rules it'll all work out into the right answer which somehow
i always screwed up but anyway let's not dwell on that part no no no and this is exactly why i got
into computers because i don't trust myself with uh you already heard my one plus one or whatever
i did i did it right that yeah yes i i can't trust myself so therefore i sit down in a right
computer and i verify that the formulas correct and i have somebody check it and then i can check
all the values not just some and that was actually stood to me because then i noticed copy and
pastors that all the people have met because yeah well you know i can trust my brain well 99% of
the time you can whereas i can't trust my brain 70% of the time so i check everything however that's
by the by and matrices was something that i did really enjoy when i was earning one of the few things
that i could get my head around yeah i'm gonna have to revisit that topic i didn't really
quite get what was being taught in the course that i took but but i i i feel like that was
partly the the the method of of teaching the course i didn't feel yeah i think i need to
in a teacher you can be looking or you can be all lucky yeah i mean like the teacher was really good
but but he he offloaded a bunch of the lessons on to fellow students which is a weird way to teach
a class um and so you you ended up getting sort of incorrect information that he would then amend at
the end of the session and it was just really confusing oh dear that's that's typical in states
in that the professors never there it's always a teaching assistant um so that strikes me
is very odd that i i yeah exactly i've heard it from from people in the states that the the
professors are never there uh they're in their their higher frat bro fraternity uh also called
academic academia uh smoking their pipes and you know saying how great their papers were and
everything um then having their t a's actually teach now you just uh i can just see John
called blowing himself out there trying to uh respond one of our hosts is a university professor
and from his shows i think he's very much involved in the class and in the the the one percent class
of professors and their academia could very well be could very well be getting paid by uh
foundations and carnigees and Rothschild just one second i got it brother that the child is here
that i need to deal with i mean i i kind of yeah i i avoid higher education but if if someone's
going to give me a free class i will i will always take a free class and that that after dropping
out initially all the classes that i've taken since have been paid by someone else so
i don't know sometimes i've wasted my time i guess but free knowledge i don't know it's worth it
i'm glad you dropped out and tuned in here on it for the radio oh wait oh my gosh is it
is it new year in russia yet let's do a time check here oh there it is
rushes now in 2018 yep there it was they beat us again darn it and by us i mean the us the us yeah
they didn't beat new zeland no but it's new zeland oh but i baked new zeland oh six
here at of a corny barnette no she's from the mainland there and from australia i i appreciate her
her music i think she's good oh okay yeah i don't really get a whole lot of australian music um over
here lately it's it's mainly i think everything is basically just everyone imports from america
it's just like non-stop local stuff is very hard to find unless you look for it so it's mostly American
yeah like a lot of american music i was really sort of disappointed i'm really sorry to hear that
yeah kin is there a local scene uh where you are like or do they import a lot of culture from america
yeah it's becoming more and more um there are quite a lot of techno comes from here um oh right that's
kind of almost the birthplace of techno in a way it actually is and you know what i found out why
that was because philips uh did um a lot of the initial chips for it and they promoted a lot of it
a lot of uh that's a lot of people down in nine to have them got into the scene and then
a spread into germany and around so it's still a big thing and of course we got a lot of um
um i think in every country in arland zoolia there's a lot of local music that would be
uh very specific as in i think a lot of probably offend a lot of dutch people but i'm
equally going to offend a lot of Irish people with the sentence afterwards there's a lot of
guys who do you know they uh you get quite a lot of umpa umpa music around the winter for
skiing time but you also get uh dutch music tends to be very formally starting off slow and then
building up and building up and into a crescendo and then orchestra yeah it's like as if somebody's
just plugged in a a formula it's kind of irritating and then Irish music not they Irish music like the
youtube's and the stuff that actually gets out but there there's a north a lot of country music
country and western music in arland that you know people would never have heard of from people who
have never been to america and you know they'll start off i was born in bread in texas when i never
left cabin and i've not the wrong with country and western music both
got them hacker radio blues oh yeah you can feel it
blues country Elvis so i need to go in a few minutes to have dinner
so okay are you gonna leave us unsupervised do you trust do you trust them
yes is this whole thing has nothing to do with me thank you very much
i can't have to shoot down the idea of being like the owner of hpr like at least once at least
now he's twice a week right every hour exactly some people think three minutes on the hour you
will hear Ken saying he's not the main contribute yeah I could really a lot was uh I don't
enough mean administrator oh no i'm not the administrator either that's Josh
but not the one with the big stick for the dibs in the spans yeah that'd be me
a coordinate you are kind of yeah i don't know what term actually i was going to say
coordinator but even that's a little bit more than using yeah i guess volunteer is the
the right word for it or dear leader say in what goes on other than what other people the same say
as everybody else um i probably will have more of an opinion but if i'm doing that i tend to do it
from here's the opinion as an admin and here's my own personal opinion which is not always clear to
people either so i found the best not to actually have an opinion that says hustle okay i've got to go
for dinner enjoy my i completely missed the end of that but he said his opinion was not clear and then
like he said something what what happened i think he said that he has no opinion which is an opinion
no it's a statement depends on your opinion
yeah wax and philosophical here on heck a public radio five minutes past russian new years
so uh what's what's new what's what's the word on the street what's going down it's
going down in the orgs and the the in it in it d's and the system d's and what's what's the lowdown
i think the the lowdown is that a lot of people don't have microphones on their computers
that's what i'm getting from people signing in rw a has a microphone but he was it or i
know that's not dummy is he's got cotton mouth something and rw a is where he was here one time rw a
uses his microphone judiciously yes unlike Casper here on a hydropole degree i mean i guess yeah
as long as you keep talking like in terms of radio i guess that's really the main thing
yeah you don't want the dead air berry that is various you don't you don't want those
we got to keep it live got to keep it streaming got to keep it flowing what it's all about
absolutely the cast cast the pods tasty pods cast them out one by one country after country
oh boy what's next ice norfolk iceland kinkston no no no i'm sorry norfolk island kinkston i don't
know norfolk island i have probably heard of kinkston i'm trying to picture what that is
kinkston done done by jamega beach boy pretty sure it's not that kinkston
gaw well maybe we shouldn't look it up person yeah okay apparently it's a small pacific island located
between australia and new zeland oh you think i would have heard of it or something but yeah
well if there's no movies being produced there then you are forgiven well you know i mean
people do travel for um holiday to all those little islands sort of in the pacific but i never
hear about norfolk island i hear about fiji a lot i hear about vando actu which i'd never even
heard of before so there's a couple that that have come to light since moving here but norfolk
island is not one of them must not have a good tourist industry or maybe it's owned by lariela
listen could be yeah or zuckerberg yeah maybe it's a new vassal state
well that's the new thing right is the um those independent countries that are just floating
you know i guess oil rigs or whatever where they microstates that's what they call them microstates
i was happy to hear that trump has lifted the band on offshore oil drilling yeah absolutely
let the oil gas let the oil flow down the river in the water that's drink rocket fuels
what you're drinking now all the way to pennsylvania on the pad with the fracking yeah
it's fracking let's fracking the pads fracking the pads fracking now it's fracking awesome yeah
all right so kletzoo me and you uh i've got a penciled in for january 5th or
january 6th your time is that right uh sounds likely it could be i'm sorry i meant
on the one zero zero five nine delta fox trot whiskey tango i got you penciled in on that
okay um i'm just looking at a calendar trying to figure out if i actually i'm out of double
book to myself i'll have to email you or email someone else to to change that at two minutes past
the hour we've learned that kletzoo isn't high demand for the cast and high demand no it's just
i'm really bad at scheduling it's all what did i give you a time for that did i propose a time
uh you gave me i think we we're discussing time zones and i mean i can appear
you know in any time zone at any time in any physical form date that you wish but it's just a matter
of your time time i will i will most likely email you with better details when i'm when i'm actually
somewhat concentrating on the subject okay well we'll take that offline uh or
exactly offline offline offline online and yet on a different channel a different channel
there you go yeah different protocol um yeah so oil workers um no offense to oil workers uh
i want oil workers to be safe um and oil is an important part of our industry um i'm not sure
that it has to be necessarily uh pressure doesn't have to be like by the by by sort of definition
of what is necessary i'm pretty sure it's not necessary i'm pretty sure it's a finite resource
that is going the way of the dinosaur pun intended uh i mean that's the thing a humans are so
ingenious we can do all kinds of things and we still can't like get past our oil addiction i'm just
i'm really confused by this it's it's because the the money involved and yeah i guess it's not
an oil addiction it's it's the addiction to all the the money that already exists in oil it's
the contract addiction yeah yeah um and there's there's hesitance to change uh if you look at
Germany as a great example they've gone to solar um almost i think they overtake i mean sometimes
they're like out producing um if you look in australia i think there was just a thing with their
wind turbines uh we're able to kick in in like 20 milliseconds or there was some new
breaking record i'll put it in the show notes here um but tesla's a big battery factor battery
farm out there uh was able something happened maybe some alpha beds took down some other alpha
beds in australia and then but tesla's wind turbine batteries were able to kick in and
interesting had not heard about that yeah yeah i'll i'll bring it up bring it up i'm kind of
interested or i'm kind of surprised i mean yuland does a lot of hydro um power because
we've got a lot of water here um but i mean here in wellington at least we have so much wind
and i'm really sort of constantly surprised that we don't have more turbines i mean there is
a turbine that i can see from my my window but but i mean i would just expect to see fields and
fields of turbines because the north oles and southerlies coming off of the ocean i mean the wind
is just really powerful here experience pain yes those that are resistant to change are doomed to
perish but the pain is great enough yeah it's i mean the pain is great are we not feeling the pain
are not are they're not refugees fleeing countries because of this thing that scientists
call climate change yeah people don't really acknowledge that that's why people are
feeling pain though well yeah but it's it's just to further the agenda right of of the oil
the oil the penguin the big penguin with the uh i think haliburden has a lot of investment
in oil already so we'll have to get batman to take out the penguin hang him by the by his
bootstraps over the the boiling acid whatever yeah we are just now feeling the pain i believe is
what yeah very yeah see that's the alien mind yeah just you and just go into that i was going
forward in time you go backwards forwards i mean i i know how this whole podcast is gonna go i just
you know i'm just participating just so you know it's whatever yes uh which is this change
linux gaming great example thank you i'm actually glad you brought that up that can get us
out of the out of the oil out of the muck in the sludge and back into some some geeky topics um
when i was going through a career oh not a career change but a job change um i'd
needed my one degree and was getting another degree and uh i kind of self-imposed a challenge to
myself um i had a friend uh yeah oh actually that might be a good podcast is how to get these
windows guys off of windows and on to linux for gaming um that was something that was a barrier
that i ran into um yeah i mean that's that's a great point because you you have to get you know
you got to deal with the drivers and i think the only thing i was able to get running game-wise was
like postal something uh that was built really i although isn't steam now steam but that's a
enough steam so i mean steam is on linux and then there's a bunch of games that you can get via
steam that run on linux but then steam is the game people want i don't know but yeah but then
steam's a closed source thing and two so it's another proprietary okay but this is okay so
i've i've often thought and i've i've yeah game the whole game issue for me has has often been
something that i've i've thought about probably too much um but like games being open source i'm not
sure how much i really care about games being open source while while the knowledge contained
within a within the programming of a game is important um the data output of a game is basically
the same no matter what the user right i mean i i think of games as being more like an appliance
you know it's like not really uh it is software it is a program but i mean it's it's not something
that's like the the end result of my game is the exact same as everyone else's game you know it's
it's always basically the same input and output does the source really matter to me i'm not convinced
that it does so you're saying you're making a philosophical argument against gaming
no i'm i'm not sure what i'm doing but i'm i'm trying to make a philosophical i'm trying to make
it more of an argument against gaming and needing to be open source yeah for me to feel comfortable
with it and all of this is kind of all theoretical for me anyway because i don't you're not a game
game right i don't really game that much i mean i do in the analog world but i don't really
video game that much um so i feel like i'm probably not speaking fairly i mean the the thing
about gaming that should be open source i think is for for cultural purposes right because
people i mean you were just talking about quake and doom and duke nukam and stuff like this so
people people know these games and they feel attached to those games and those games become a
representation of a time in their life yes it's nostalgic so if those things go away then that's
unfair to that's that's their culture that is now being wrapped up in closed source and i don't
approve of that so i think eventually games should be opened so it's simply to preserve the culture
of them as as they all are eventually i mean you can run your doom i mean so there's the argument
there that you just you'll just have to wait 10 years or so yeah for someone to like emulate
the platform upon which they run and i mean i'm kind of even then and and even then it might
still be like i mean take nintendo for example uh you know you can't act me i think legally
do any uh emulation intent i mean they might have a sanctioned app or so i i i don't keep up
with that but you know yeah and that bugs me yeah the fact that i mean that if well i'm
that's i guess getting into the whole copyright issue but yeah i mean there's just the fact that
oh you're not allowed to emulate this but we're all going to turn a blind eye and there's
going to be this huge gray area where we're all like we know that it's happening and we know that
it's okay but technically it's illegal it's just so stupid it's like at some point we just all
have to agree it's okay now but yeah that goes to money yeah yeah but you mean it's stupid because
they're not even making money up for this stuff you know like if i emulate i don't know super mario
brother is one right now you know it's not like they're selling it anywhere else as far as i know
i mean i know that they're selling mario brother things but you know like it's just i don't know it's
so stupid i mean disney's i i think the biggest example um because after 50 years things are
supposed to enter the public domain in the states i believe yeah i think 70 but whatever yeah
yeah but so the mouse should be in the public domain yeah that that constantly sort of
amazes me how they keep getting that loophole but i mean they're they're huge they're disney they
are absolutely i mean i think people failed to see how to to realize just how big disney is at
this point you know with everything that they i mean basically all entertainment is disney at this
point i think it's going to be between amazon and disney yeah yeah i think that those are the two
that will be left in the end it'll be me clattu versus uh disney and and uh amazon amazon yeah that's
that's the post apocalypse right there yep you heard it here first well we'll technically have
d o d d dummy but um he won't be able to speak to us he'll he'll just be texting us so
yeah i mean i prefer to rage against the machine uh if if i were to do anything but that's what
again we uh we had a pirate on here earlier i'm not were you here for the pirate
no i've missed the pirate uh he did yeah he was only on briefly i think it was at the end of his
of his shift on the ship uh so he had he had he was he uh yeah he was kind of a rumble mumble but he
was talking about uh steam engines and and you can look up in the show notes it's like oh that's
handsome handsome pirate yep yeah so yeah i know him yeah so he he was on for a little bit um i think
he was talking about kind of the the alienation uh that one gets what um if you're when you're so
involved in uterus and the matrix if you know are you irl or afk yeah yeah that's that is a really
good point i i guess i don't really most of my social interaction is over the computer so i really
don't differentiate that much but at the same time i do know that you would use afk you would use afk
i guess so yeah yeah if have you watched uh the pirate bay afk afk new no shounen coming at you
that i believe uh are you familiar with the movie easy writer oh yeah okay uh i've heard some alien
uh of others of other uh generations refer to that as the movie of their their generation um i
would say that aliens of of next generations would uh consider the pirate bay afk uh as the the
movie of of our alien generation and it's yeah it's i mean it's free i i thought it's a great example
of how films can be produced uh from like kick starters and stuff like that i think that's a great
a great thing um but yeah the whole movie was produced from a kick starter because everybody loves
the bay so people chipped in with their bitcoins and whatnot and so a guy made made a movie and he
followed the guys around and uh and i will say no more because you got to watch the movie here
okay cool yeah i've i've opened it in a tab and everybody knows what that means
that's tabular totally tabular dude yeah eventually i might i might actually watch it
yeah you really should i mean i don't know you i think you've put in like three different
three minutes you know three hour long videos that i'm supposed to watch but oh yeah so yeah
yeah uh i'll talk to you in on 2019 uh yeah yeah exactly yeah yeah when once we caught up see
that's the thing with aliens we we can watch everything concurrently actually it's just uploaded to
our minds so we don't need to yeah yeah it's not really a problem it's oh it's it's an advantage
Brian Brian says super feedback on oh wait what's he talking about super feedback on the laptop
must have taken a fall to many i'll need to go swipe a phone device and phone is in quotes i'm not
really sure he doesn't want to use the eyes no eyes oh okay i got you i think yeah it could be it could be
it's not it's it's not a dumb phone no it's a smart phone it's a smart phone it's with a dumb operator
no no could be i don't know the operator no i no i was just i was just a joke just a joke off the cuff
no i was no that's something that uh that i've discussed with other generations of uh generations
above generations that they see people in today's society you know uh this was actually mentioned
on some social uh medias that you know what if imagine that there was a drug that made people
look at their hands all the time and it was it was like overtaking the nation and there's this
like huge problem right imagine if that was a drug well i mean that's essentially what smart phones
you know are yeah i can't stand the term smart phone it's just such a horrible term it's just a
stupid term you know like why is it well it's better and i don't understand i think they use that
term because uh the japanese uh when they first invented it they called it a hand job so that didn't
translate well that doesn't translate well yeah yeah yeah it's unfortunate no no we left
dipped out how was dinner dinner was excellent excellent because it's the one meal that the kids
actually eat all of them they all eat stuff but not necessarily the same stuff yeah yeah you
you know you get what you can you take what you can get eat the small minutes there yeah yeah
yeah exactly right i'm gonna go have a coffee i assure you approve i do do we i do go look up
cloutous shows is it like uh how to uh mainline coffee
yes that's exactly what they are far off of free base and coffee beans and uh yeah i think we
have a series on coffee don't i have beverages or at least i yeah i think i think possibly it sounds
right okay i would say i would say i would say a bug i would speaking to dad dummy i i would call
him bugs or insects that that's what i would call thumbs it just bugs and terminals are to use
the terminal terminal we're talking about airplanes are we talking about a movie with Tom Hanks
talking about manline home to why they were talking about or why they did call terminals terminals
i mean terminal is the end of something so i get that but i mean i would think that client
or workstation or something like that would be more logical i i didn't see what was wrong with
hand job i mean it doesn't everybody like that yeah yeah i mean i thought that was fine although
it's not good because you can't give the yes smart bugs smart bugs yeah that's that i mean why not
definitely smart bugs smart bugs oh jeez you look up Gerald turn on 830 yeah yeah in the morning oh hey
nope no that's not the time that's not the time where we cross into north folk islands no we did that
already i think we we must be coming up on i think didn't we i think this is Australia and
Australia yeah i think broken ho smart bugs smart bugs i like that i'll put that in there
right seed yeah yeah yeah smart phone to smart bugs uh if you remember in the matrix first thing
they got to do to get neo out is they got to squash that bug right because that's the plant
they got it they got to kill it but they can rip them out i've actually never seen those movies
any of them i'm i don't there's no need to show no those
terminal velocity i think that was actually a movie neuromancer is worth a read though
neuromancer i've heard of it i've not read it is that one by Gibson or is that the one by the other
guy Stevenson or did i make both of those names up Gibson you got it yeah i don't think i've ever
read anything by him i've read something by the other guy and was really not impressed and it
kind of turned me off of cyberpunk for a long time uh and then i got back into it once i found shadow
run um also think it deserves an honorable mention because uh reddiger offered me the book but i
was all already i already had the book offered to me and already owned it uh was uh cryptonomicon
oh yeah yeah i've heard of that one as well i think the one i i read was snow crash
it's all coming back to me now snow crash i did not didn't didn't really like it but maybe
i was just not in the right place for it maybe i need to go back and read more of this stuff
yeah cryptonomicon that's i've talked to many many many a geek and
they all say that uh that they've all been oh have you read crypton oh my god you kind of
be cryptonomicon but it was prophetic in in many ways because it was written before a lot of those
exact things happened that they talked about in the book so it was probably written by out of
the fellow alien like a travel through time space uh right hey pegwall i mean mr.
whirly hey claw two how's it going pretty good i've been here sooner but uh i was focused on
beating bloodborne so that's a game i presume yes yes have you were dark souls oh yeah yeah okay
i i played but like one of them for a little bit i'm not much in the gaming and i don't game
anymore that's how i got my start but i i don't need that anymore i picked up dark souls not
knowing what it was back uh for ps3 and i sat down and started playing it and i just couldn't
understand why i kept dying and and i kept playing and i kept playing because i thought well it's
probably just me so i just kept playing and i kept playing and playing and finally i had to stop
for the evening and i i kind of looked up what it was on on the internet and yeah i was like okay
this is a this is a thing this is this is an experience that i'm having so yeah
it was good i had fun memories of it but boy was it yeah it lives up to its reputation
i i'd never played a dark souls game before this one and uh i started out and the first enemy
i saw is like well if it's half dead already i'ma punch it no it murdered the crap out of me
oh we lost glad too it's okay we we've had some interruptions here and there i had some
Van Allen belt radiation radioactive waves that interrupted my my transmission
earlier so yeah sure the Van Allen radiation belt is where ups routes all of my packages through
it's the quickest way yeah DHL on the other hand they go through the center of the earth
DHL enjoy getting your packages in two weeks yeah yeah there's a whole thing with DHL i
i actually saw uh in on the blue marble there was a DHL in the states wait weren't they
not allowed to operate anymore because of some kind of uh import export thing that shouldn't
have been going on or say i don't know um i have no but the last time i had to use them
i'd ordered camera flashes off of amazon and it took two and a half weeks to get to my house
yeah i'm sure there's a good acronym someone can make up for DHL like does hate letters or
something i don't know the dead letter office that's not for ddh hell like oh hell
don't have it molested perfect yeah yeah all right we're checking in and eight
earned a machine three hours and thirty seven minutes into the cast here
and it's how we're doing it keeping it strong keeping alive by two got intercepted
but mr roly is here tell us tell us something that we tell us please extoll extoll
virtues and wisdom pannas oh jeez man i don't really have much right now
can you speak for your broadcasting your transmissions from or where you maybe
um anyone that listens to the lunatics link texia will know that i uh hot in the diana and uh
um thirty one yeah been been uh doing lunatics podcasts for like a decade now
no nice nice so your season your season yeah i guess in the in the linux world i've as my career is
going this way or that way it's it's ebbed and flowed as to whether i'm working on linux or
proprietary software so yeah i was starting to say earlier i'd at one point uh i'd imposed a
challenge because i i'd come from a windows background but i had a very good friend that
was extolling the virtues of you butu he's like oh it's great it's great it's great um and so i
tried that out and that was my first what i wanted to be able to do was to do everything i did with
the pc where with a windows uh with linux and with you butu it it makes it oh now especially it makes
it very easy but back in 2004 or 2003 it wasn't as easy so you you had to get a little bit uh you
know get a little bit into the code to do some things even just like to get the mouse to work or
but yeah so where do you see the linux uh i mean most of the devices on the interwebs are all
running linux or some derivation of uh where's it going next well if uh if things are to be
believed you know what with quantum computing then that'll be the next big hurdle i think
say don't ask me about quantum computing because i don't know anything about it
i looked into it once uh made no sense to me it's so at the the theory as i understand it
is that it is a way of computing where it's not just a one or a zero but you can have it being
both at the same time or it's it that's really i like that explanation uh yeah so it's not necessarily
binary yeah it it it's a whole different animal uh and the other thing as it as it goes to
encryption is that the reason quantum computing is is on the horizon is because they're working on
types of uh devices where if well that that's the whole underlying mechanics of quantum computing
is is that if if it's observed then it changes so there's like no way to change it i again i don't
i'm i'm not a math scientist i don't i don't understand these things uh but that's essentially if
if i could boil it down yes it's not a one or a zero you can have like any kind of combination
it's crazy but that makes it really easy to crack every any type of encryption that's in one
of the zero is it's just like hey yeah ultimately it's either one of those two values
yeah so yeah yeah so it took with a quantum uh computer it's like forget about it and encryption
is is not even you know it's invalid um it makes sense yeah yeah it's kind of sad though i really like
the idea that everything can be broken down into binary decisions you know like
not just in computing but in real life like oh i can i do if i can just crack this code of
of reality either a one or a zero there's security there you're going to drive yourself insane
yeah i can't do that there's no you're like oh everything's black and or white yeah yeah it's
completely not true yeah yeah but if you if you get you got to step up you got to get more afk time
the mic yeah yeah what are we talking about quantum computing and or uh the reality oh dear
i'd say did i just want to show no no no i'm reading d o d d d dummies the comments
quite i'm not the only one that can that can't pronounce his name there's no way to pronounce that
yeah i wish he would thank you i think he does that on purpose at this point
because he'd be a did the dummy to try to rip up and then announce it exactly guys also he did
pronounce it properly one time on one of his shows yeah it was uh back on the original unix thing
i cannot remember you know what i have done though is uh and nobody's actually noticed this i have
taken the intro of all the hosts and every host has got a specific web file that they pronounce
their name and if you go to the hpr main website the very first page you will see a thing that says
meet the team have you ever played that i think i tried you're talking about that the web file or
the the file right up at the top of the main page yeah the one that's underneath the paint
meet the team please and then please tell about taking the show i think i did try to play that
once and it didn't play so then i gave up and never went back up to it d o d d dummy that's
ridiculous that's a good team adding orders claw two have you ever went back and listened to like
some of the first things you were on or did oh good gosh now i did that a while back actually nobody
should do that ever a great and uh it was the some of the early episodes of linux cranks
and i'm listening to it i'm like i didn't recognize my own voice like i'm sitting there i was like
who is that person with the strange is not quite southern accent who is this person
then i'm listening more and i i heard myself and or no i think it was peter go hey peggy and i said yes
and again i was like oh where did i get that accent from
why don't i'm like mr wear a little lee i'll work with this already
it's just the uh the name i've been going by everywhere else online it's uh it's more of my
public kind of thing you know not just the linux community kind of name
wouldn't have anything to do with the site uh the dan pull up with him
oh jeez oh i don't know about that kim found one
my god my god okay sorry carry on yes go go go wait we have to say hi to shadow
maybe shadow doesn't have a microphone on his computer this is basically the evening
of no one having a microphone on their computer what's this evening thing you were talking about
oh early morning sorry mid afternoon surely i was wondering how to practically force
everybody to go to u tc yeah well me and uh Taj and um and pokey and x100 one we're talking about
that on a dev u random show yeah i heard and i don't even think it's u tc that we need i just
think it's just a standard i like it's it's a number at at a certain point of the rotation of
the globe and we all use that number and if we don't want to lose our numbers then we could use
something else we could use a letter it should match the numbers at all it should be banana time
it's uh what's banana i don't know like they like the chinese it's the year of the monkey it's just
i think yeah yeah okay yeah sure i'll go with that i'll go with that yeah yeah yeah it's alpha
follow closely by beta yeah yeah pinging now not even necessarily in any order
yeah it's weird why is your early texting now your your microphone works you can speak
because i don't want to interrupt your ejada awesome oh please do i interrupt to do
look ken fallen you're a beautiful human being i dare not do such a thing no ken fallen is my
online persona that i very carefully honed if you knew me in real life you realize what a dickhead i
i stand by my statement no comment no comment no is there a hey cazper can you paste in that
ether pad link so that new people can go there if they want to where where are we going uh to that
ether pad uh like uh that you gave me earlier yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it's on the main page
i would be our i think it's on every page of hbr if you go just to make things easy and accessible
i'm sorry i just step away for a minute rick and morty had broken the space time continuum again
so i i i had to lay i had to lay down the wall again i just thought they didn't do time
stuff it was just dimensions no well it's it depends on here you ask it's complicated it is it's
complex as long as they don't go into the time you want me space stuff there's many levels of levels
okay need to vote should i do the arning or should i scan some books you're called scan scan
can scan question yeah question for ken who who is not the leader here or the moderator he just
he just uses tone balloon two yes he's he's he's he's he's he's the head volunteer no i think it was
i stay there where everybody took a step back but yes what's the
yeah uh so do you go the distance or are you are you doing all 20
good god no you're mental including um it's also a no i'm going to drop off very shortly as soon as
more americans come on and they can uh take it from there um americans yep those who are not
up at five o'clock in the morning those who are normal time and going to carry through and then in
the morning i will go for a full eight hour sleep and then i will join back on again tomorrow morning
and close out the show so who's going to moderate in your absence who's going to be our dear leader
good god anyway arning or uh scanning guys what is it scanning i my vote scanning
i print the books before scanning that that was brion sorry i don't take credit for that i was just
reading it out chat where are you where are you are you in america or are you somewhere else i'm in
california oh my gosh nice okay excellent what time is it there early riser it is 551 right now
oh yeah mental people seriously mental i'm not going to stay up for super long i just popped in
say hi hi everybody's doing let's let's not let's not call people mental that's that's that's
micro aggression i do apologize sorry about that are you getting off of workshop or you did you
just literally wake up to say hi and then then you're going to go back to bed um i woke up not necessarily
just say hi but uh i was in michigan for a week so my sleep schedule is all messed up yeah yeah
Okay. By the way, I'm Josh. If people associate my username with who I am, we did not. And we were just,
we were just telling people, wait, which Josh? Oh, no, it's toast. Oh, no, it's toast. Oh,
Josh, we were just, we were just telling people about an hour ago to donate money to you.
Yes, we're doing a fundraising drive. We're doing, yeah, we were trying to offer up awards and
stuff, but we couldn't really think of anything. But we're working on it, man. I'll do your
money. Yeah, provided that you send him all of the stuff via mail and pay postage. No
spans or dives. We're coming up with lots of small print fine print that people are going to have
to read before you're after giving money to you. But the upfront offerings are going to sound great.
Well, and the whole concept behind it was, I mean, they can sign up for a hosting plan and get
something awesome that way. Yeah, that would support the show. And that would be for interested.
How much would a hosting plan with an honest toast? So we re-structured some of our plans a few
years ago and our basic share plan. And I'll get into why the prices went up here in a second.
I actually have to look them up. I think the lowest one's 1249 now per month.
Yeah, per month. So when we first started, we were trying to be the cheapest guys on the block
because, oh, hey, everybody's just looking for a cheap host. But what we found is most people
when they saw the prices are like, there's got something wrong with this. They can't be only
$5 a month, especially in California. That's some high price. Well, globally, I mean, we do stuff
all over the world. But we typically got a kind of pushback of, well, I don't understand how can
you do this for $5 a month. And the big thing for us was we weren't doing unlimited. And if
I ever get a wild hair and decide to do a show again, which I will, don't worry, Ken.
You get a free card from me. It has to be said all the time, I bug you behind the scenes.
But unlimited doesn't exist. All you guys probably realize this, but your major hosting companies
go off and advertise unlimited storage unlimited, memory, all these things that just crap you can't do.
It's not possible. So that was kind of where the honest piece came in is like, okay, we're going
to be up front with you and be like, you pay us this amount of money, you're going to get this
amount of resources. So there's no surprise. Oh, you've been suspended for high resource usage.
It's the best policy, someone to say. Yeah, yeah. That actually was our slogan for a little while.
I mean, we've been around since 2014 now. So we're coming up on four years.
How's the business model? I like it. Yeah. Since we restructured and redid our plans and
redid the site, we've seen probably in this last year a 300 percent growth. Oh, cool.
Good. I'm very glad. So it's definitely going in the right direction. We're starting to see
some larger clients take notice, especially since we're not afraid to do things with AWS as well.
Yeah, that's a big drive. So say somebody wants to have a redundant copy of their site.
We can actually set up virtual servers that will then replicate to AWS. Oh, nice.
And we manage the whole thing so they don't have to deal with any of the support issues or trying
to figure out how to manage the server. So it's a complete, we manage everything in-house for them.
And if something should happen, they have that failover back up into AWS. Although we've been
very lucky and some of our security measures have helped us kind of fly under the radar for a lot
of attacks. Unfortunately, you guys seem to run around with a big bulls eye on your back time.
Hello, hacker name. Thank you very much. It's horrible. Yeah, God. That is, yeah.
Also, even if you're going up to somebody, hey, I really like to do a show and web of what's your
website. Yeah. Yeah. It's a HPR. I don't know if you're ready.
Right. And it's the security logs that get from your server are just holy smokes.
Some of the craziness that I've seen, specifically like they tried to do SQL injections all the
damn time. Yeah. So I think I counted it as like a party every second or so or every minute there's
about 20. Wow. Yeah. That sounds about right. So you're under constant DDoS is what it sounds
like. Yeah. You guys were, yeah, with the scripts I've written specifically for HPR and with the
new web application firewall that we've installed, it's definitely helped significantly minimize the
workload that's had to been had to be done by the server. Thank you, sir. It really was not funny
there for a while. Josh, last three months has been. No, it was it was bad for me. I wake up and there was
something else wrong. And then I contact you and then yeah, it was it was legitimately depressing
to hear. It was just depressing. Yeah. Yeah. If I remember correctly, that's about the time that the
alien brothers came on. Sorry about that guys. They don't want to hear the truth. And if you got
the target on your back, you're saying, you know, you might be saying the truth. Sorry.
Oh, and Josh, the upload thing is a there's a single quote in the file name. Yeah, I saw you post
that back and I was like, it will drop box sanitize it. And that's why I didn't have the error.
Can I download it through Dropbox? It went right right up. No problems. I was like, maybe the
permissions change. I did work. It doesn't make sense. It should have ran just fine before, but okay.
Yeah, exactly. I was bit my head against the wall. Why is it working? Then I tried to file a
little size bigger and then another one smaller and then okay, but apparently this is the thing.
And it's been I see pulse about to go back to 2001. So I rather than just trying to fix it,
I told Kevin Toplow to get him without the backslash. I think to fix that, we may just want to go
off and sanitize. I mean, that's that's typically the safest method. No problem doing that.
But the problem is that what the way they say to do that is you pull in the array and you do move
to whatever. And when I do that, that was called by the upload folder, but it's not even getting
that far. So something's stopping up before it even gets that far. Oh, you know, it's probably
killing it is the web application firewall. Yeah, could be because that would look like an injection.
Yes, very nice. Excellent. Well done, Kevin.
So I don't mind telling people like to not do shitty comments on your
I do everything underscore if I need any punctuation. Yeah, exactly. And I don't think there's
any shame in selling people that that's the policy. That's that's a point that should be underscored.
Very good. But no, I, uh, yeah, I think I'll do that with the 403R,
please, we've noticed this. If you're trying to do this, then, uh, please rename your file.
I'm trying to press the back. Sounds good. Yeah, I'll do that. Don't leave the, leave the firewall
as it is. Yep. Okay. Case closed. Anybody would like to donate to Josh at an honest host?
I will dedicate studio time recording or song place on. I'll be here. I like that the shared
hosting comes with FFN big installed. Like, that's one of the points of, of, of the plan.
FFN big installed. Like, FFN big is great. I love it. You know, we had some people that were just like,
hey, you know, we moved from this host. They didn't have it installed or they had it installed.
They upgraded as it wasn't installed anymore. I know why there was a real simple script you could use
on cento six. It doesn't work on cento seven. Uh, natively, you have to go and fix some stuff.
It's at system D. Yeah. It's at system D and a couple, uh, dependencies. I don't think
translate it over a while, but we got working. Have you moved up to, uh, to, uh, I can't think of it.
Of course, the secure system D stuff, SE, SE, import, yes. So for our shared servers,
we are limited by what C panel supports. Uh, there was a point in time where I was like, oh,
I'm going to write my own control panel. And it's going to be amazing. It's going to do all the stuff.
But there's two things working against me. One is time. Yep. I, I work my butt off, uh,
for various things. And so having extra time is not always, uh, an option. And then the other
thing is is C panel's kind of the industry standard. So unless you have something that makes it
very similar, uh, users will complain because it's not even if it's better. That is funny. That's
really funny to me to hear people comfortable in C panel because I'm never comfortable in C panel
myself. But I, yeah, it's funny to people that that's the defacto now. Yeah. It's, it's way better
than Plex. There are Plex, not Plex. Plex I use for streaming my movies. Uh, Plex is, uh,
I run into some really hardcore fans of it. And I'm just like, why? It's so poorly written
in, doesn't manage stuff properly. But that, that's another tangent.
I don't mind C panel. Like, I'm, I'm used to it now. What I cannot stand a web host.
Oh, we're going to have C panel, but we're going to put our own little design spin on it.
Oh, my gosh. Yeah. Like a, like, go daddy, for example.
Like, you get used to standard C panel and then you go, well, where is everything? Why?
Yeah. How would you do this? Well, it's a beauty of GUI's, right? I mean, someone
moves a button on you and you're, you're, you're stuck for like three hours. Yeah. It's,
and what frustrates me about that is they don't update with the latest, uh, release.
So there's actually a really nice new layout with C panel that actually makes more sense
than the old version. And it's a new modern look. But I know what you're talking about with
they're still using the previous generations theme. And it just, it looks old. It looks like garbage.
Yeah. I'm pretty sure that a, um, dream host did their own version of it. And, uh, you'll find
things in the weirdest spaces. Like, uh, there's one lidable just says goodies. Just
share for like things that, you know, should be under like security.
Yeah. So go to, you're not going to, uh, dream host actually, uh, build their own control panel.
They don't use, uh, centers or any red hat based the last side checked. Um, most of their stuff
is Debian based and everything's clustered. Dream host is absolutely on my shit list.
Yeah. They, they've been really slight downhill. Yeah. They've gone, they, I was going to say,
they've really kind of fallen out of favor. I remember at one point they were, they were like,
really kind of, I don't know, they seemed pretty solid. Um, I mean, I never used them, but I mean,
from, from reports that I got from other people, they seem to satisfied. And lately, I just hear
all kinds of complaints about it. Yeah. They've run into a lot of issues, uh, stemming from all
part of it is, is their support team's gotten cocky. It's no longer customer first focus. It's, uh,
you're stupid. You don't know what you're doing. And we're not going to help you. Uh, the other
thing that they've run into, uh, on and off is they get their entire mail server blacklisted.
They're outgoing mail. So, and because of how they set it up, uh, one cluster getting blacklisted,
means everybody gets black. Means like 20 some odd servers get posted. Yeah. That's bad.
It's gotten so bad to the point where they now recommend their customers set up, like Google apps
for, yeah, but yeah, that's so funny when, when places just are just like, you know what? Just,
just use Gmail. Just, just do that. It's like, no, that's not what, that's not the answer. Like,
I know that you think that's the answer, but that is not their right answer.
It's like, no, that's why I bought a domain so I could have an email address. Yeah, exactly,
exactly. At that dome, but I had a, a coconut install with Dreamhost, which is KOK EN. It's a
CMS pretty much just for photographers. And it works fantastically. And every time they would
update something, it would just neatly break my install, like to the point where I'd have to
delete everything, reupload everything. And then I'd go, hey, why is this broken now? They'd go,
oh, I don't know. Hang on, let us look. Oh, we get a lot of PHP errors. And that's pretty much
all they would tell me. And I'm like, they're like, oh, well, maybe you set it up wrong. I'm like,
the install has been there for months. It was working just fine.
You're going, well, did you set the ownership right? I'm like, yes, like the, the install script
had to be 755, I think it was. Are you sure? I'm like, yes, I'm sure. I'm sure there's, you
can go and look at some logs to see what I've done. I think that's probably a good argument.
Well, for not using Dreamhost, but also for like containerization, I guess. I mean, that's
probably a classic case of why you would do. Put that into a container. Docker. Yep.
Oh, see, I'm one of those people that's not huge on Docker, mostly because I'm a
muskled VM guy. I mean, yeah, I'm not really into it either, but it's there. And I think that
that use case would be, I mean, I guess, as I said, the right answer probably is just not to
use Dreamhost because they're obviously screwing around in your space, you know, but to protect
that from from someone changing stuff from underneath you. Yeah. Either I guess like Josh says
a VM or a container. It's the problem with what Dreamhost does specifically on that sense is
they're making changes in that, notifying people. And I would almost wonder if they're not
making changes like their PHP version and messing stuff up, or they're not installing the same
modules when they're upgrading. And I've seen them do some really like what the hell are you
doing guys? Because it reflects bad. I mean, I trained for a while there. I was working for
another hosting company. I'm not going to mention them just because I'll respect. But
it's a bad practice. Yeah. Dreamhost calls. Sorry, Josh, I'm going to interrupt you just to say
Happy New Year, Brisbane, Portmores B and Guam and some others. Go ahead.
Oh, well, happy New Year to them, but Dreamhost actually was poaching my staff. And so they
legitimately, anytime I got somebody that was trained up and was taking phone calls, maybe three
weeks later, I'd get a note saying that these were the last two weeks. And I find out that they're
over at Dreamhost because hostels were willing to pay them more money. That's pretty bad.
That's why I got to do the old Apple, Microsoft, you know, signs some stupid agreement that you
said. It's not illegal. That's illegal in some cases. I mean, businesses try to respect it,
but you can't enforce it in California. Well, Glad to and I find all business disrespectful,
but that's a whole another thing. Except in honest. Except in honest, because they're honest.
Yeah. We try. Definitely, definitely try. So what you guys are saying is they're so honest,
we don't have to seize the means of production. Correct. Right. Right. We won't have to
nationalize their resources. The host I went with. I'm sorry, Josh. I'm very sorry for saying
this, but I went with in motion because they were like, hey, we fully support Coke and so do we
actually. Yeah. I just found a new web host. There you go. All right. All right. We got our first
contribution for sale. Yeah. Yeah. I'm familiar with in motion. I'm not a big fan because they
don't keep their stuff necessarily up to date. That's that's one of the security practices that we do
is we maintain all the servers. We actually notify customers in advance like, hey, we're going to be
dropping support for this version of PHP. Come. Blah. I think we're actually dropping support for
the day. Yeah. That's cool. I could do it. I've somehow skated by for years and not actually paid
for hosting. I just keep getting free plans. So I don't know. It's kind of kind of difficult to
compete with zero dollar hosting. Yeah. Unfortunately. I totally get zero dollar hosting is nice.
Yeah, but there becomes a point where you need if you're running a business, there's no way I would
recommend. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. No, I wouldn't. Yeah. No, I wouldn't do that. Yeah. I wouldn't.
I've learned. I have learned, yeah, that lesson, the hard way, not necessarily for hosting,
but just for infrastructure, you know, like I used to just love that I could revive old computers
and stuff like that. And just a nightmare to put something that actually matters on anything,
but you know, the most reliable thing that you can put it on. It's just I've definitely learned
some lessons. An honest host is a reliable host. That's right. We definitely try.
Well, that's what counts. Yeah, well, it's more than just trying though. I mean, you have a huge
proof of concept in hacker public radio because the stuff you do for HPR is absolutely amazing. It's
just it blows my mind. The fact that the way that you deal with issues when they arise and just
the fact that the site is still online, I mean, it's just unbelievable. Well, it's definitely not
a single man job because Ken and Dave both have helped him mentally with that. So it's definitely
just it's not just me, but you appreciate the praise and everything like that. I don't like
when stuff has to go offline for whatever information. In the last year, we have had 245 different
conversations, Josh. And that's going down from 133 last year to 122 in 2015, 2014 was 76. So we're
really getting this year. If I'm looking at the graph, it's gone for tiny, it's just like a vertical
line up at about 30 degrees. And then 2017 just springs up because of all the issues we've had.
Yeah, well, I think we worked them out. I think we worked through quite a bit of them.
We're approaching that we're thinking of big extinction. So yeah, go ahead. Things are heating up,
you know, you got to get ready. The sixth extinction is upon us. You're trying to get more of those
conspiracy theorists to attack the site. No, no, I'm sorry. To be honest, I'll just put it in the
show. But it's been an interesting year. We still have a lot of work to do. We're going to,
I think we want, we mentioned it on the community news show last night, which you won't hear
until tomorrow, which reminds me I need to post that now. But also going to a flat file, just
basic HTML website will probably help as well. There's no database, no risk of SQL injection.
If we do have any PHP pages, then they should be on a separate PHP,
DOS hacker, public radio, dot org or somewhere that we can restrict it down, stuff like that.
I imagine that'll help immensely because I mean, people, if if something sees that there is
an opportunity or something sees that they think that there's an opportunity for SQL injection,
then then it's going to bombard the server with attempts. No matter how stupid it is to attempt,
it's still going to happen. Yeah. Front a lot. I'm don't know if many of you guys are familiar with
him. He, he's a prime example of you leave it up there long enough to get hacked. Yeah, I'm
seeing that. Yeah, he, a couple of years ago, now, geez, he got owned because he was rocking
an old version of a PHP, BB2. There we go. And I mean, the time down the code was from before
I graduated high school. Wow. Yeah. And because of how he built his site off of it, he can update
the core. So he literally was just hanging out there with his ass in the wind. And God love him.
You know, I know him personally, he's a great guy. It was just like, you need to do something quick
because I can't patch all these holes. I only have so many fingers and there's a lot more cracks
than there are fingers. And that gives a bigger attack surface for your business as a whole,
correct? Well, I keep. So each PR front a lot, bin rev, all you guys are on is separate VM.
So you guys don't necessarily impact directly to my clients. And I did that intentionally just
because if there was an issue, I didn't want one causing a problem for the other. Yeah, totally.
But there you go, guys. Yeah. Good design from a good post. Yep. Yep. Yep.
Keep an audience separate groups separate is a good idea. But he got owned in just a horrible way.
Guy essentially did a database dump and got all the users and passwords. Ouch. Ouch.
That's really bad. And then to make it worse, this was coded back in 2003 when nobody
was thinking about hashing passwords. So all the passwords, yeah, all the passwords are plain.
So they're unsalted. Completely plain text. And this guy posted all the users, all the passwords
up on paste bin. Thankfully, he did on cool dudes. Oh, and he messaged front right before he did
that. He's like, oh, I'm going to do this. I'm such a lead hacker. It's like, dude, you compromised
a 13-year-old, 14-year-old PHP platform. You're not a lead hacker. I think the, yeah, there's
like this weird sort of, it's just sort of, I guess it's like graffiti in the bad way. You know,
it's just like, it's there and you're the one who had, who just got it there at the right time.
And so that looks like an accomplishment to you. And so now you're missing, yeah, you know,
and somehow you're missing like the fact that there's such, there's so much else out there that
you could do to prove your worth, you know, but you do this one thing and you're like, look at me,
I'm so cool. Yeah, and what you do is you email the admin and as has happened to us dumb
through the years, we have had emails from people going, this page is vulnerable to this.
And then you thank that person and they know that you know that they know, you know, that to me is
like the mark of a irrespectable way to, I've found yourself, this is not an invite, by the way,
for anybody who's attacking websites, the cold white hats. Yes, if there are people out there who
do want to do that sort of thing, we can arrange for you to have a copy of the website that you can
do it. Please don't waste resources. We're doing it on the list. We've had people who've
noticed stuff. We've had people ignore the stuff and emailed us and we fixed it. So that's the
way to do it. Responsible disclosure. Full disclosure. That that was just a plug for the emailing list.
Gotcha. Gotcha. Okay. Yeah, but from that front went off and redid his site, his site's flat
HTML and I don't know how many people actually know this, but France background is actually in web
design. That was his, that was his day job before he became granddad of nerd core hip hop.
That actually, that's quite nice. I do often wonder like a lot of the nerd core people,
like how many of them actually know as much as they claim to know sort of what's the first,
what's nerd core and then secondly, we have a nerd core virgin. Oh my gosh. And and dare I ask
what what do we, nerd core hip hop, oh, the dare, dare I ask. I mean, it's for everyone, but
but yeah, it's like, I guess it's rap about the IT industry, essentially. Well, anything nerdy.
So it's not just IT. Yeah, that's true, because there's like into what Chris or whatever it does.
And see guys that stuff. Yeah. Star Wars front does tabletop games. You've got mega-rand,
who does nostalgic older video games. Okay. All right. All right. Sorry. I was familiar with
the genre. I just had not heard it labeled as such. Yeah. Yeah. That's all right. Yeah, that's
cool. I'm not really a fan myself, but it's just because I don't really like that style of music.
It's not really about the people. I mean, dual cores. They're, I've met them several times,
and they're super cool. I just don't listen to that music. Hey, yeah, actually, I'm just looking
it up. I was familiar with a lot of these, a lot of these people like two skinny jays way back
in the days. Yeah. So I'm familiar with some of these. Okay. Okay. You get your points back.
You get your geek points back. It's a new, the miracle.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday,
Friday. Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicant
computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on
today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up
episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
