Episode: 3184
Title: HPR3184: Linux Inlaws S01E15: IT Security and stick insects
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3184/hpr3184.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:26:27

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3184 for Thursday 15 October 2020. Today's show is entitled,
Linux in Laws Season 1 Episode 15, Its Security and Stick Insects,
and is part of the series, Linux in Laws. It is hosted by Monochromic,
and is about 56 minutes long, and carries a clean flag. The summary is,
how to secure photos of your stick insect collection and more.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
.
.
.
.
.
This is Linux in Laws, a podcast on topics around free and open source software,
any associated contraband, communism, the revolution in general, and whatever else,
fans is critical. Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language,
offensive humor, and other certainly not politically correct language.
You have been warned. Our parents insisted on this disclaimer. Happy mum?
That's the content is not suitable for consumption in the workplace,
especially when played back on a speaker in an open-plan office or similar environments.
Any miners under the age of 35, or any pets including fluffy little killer bunnies,
you trusted guide dog unless on speed, and Q2T Rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
This is Linux in Laws, season one, episode 15.
IT security and stick insects.
Hi, Muslim.
How are you?
Great and wonderful.
How about yourself?
Perfect.
How is the weather over there?
Can't complain.
We're having a beautiful Indian summer with a boat of about 12.
You have rains, okay?
Yeah, that makes a change.
We're doing this for a change.
Yeah, this is what we borrowed from the UK,
and I'm happy to give it back now to make the beer.
Sure.
Well, we just borrowed it from the UK,
and we're starting off with a little bit back.
A little bit back.
Still a deal, right?
What if I?
Drinking beer even more to the rich here.
There we go.
Well, it's bottom up.
How are things over there in the UK?
Still struggling with something called Brexit?
I do.
Is it actually going ahead?
Well, there are various things going on, but stop here.
What did Boris say last night during the term call?
Which one?
You had?
I thought you had regular terms before talking about coronavirus.
Did they have a Brexit brief?
Did they have Brexit?
No, I don't think he has daily Brexit briefings on that.
No, no, no.
Oh, I see him on your own.
The Dutch respect.
Maybe he should have done that a bit earlier.
It's a bit late now.
It's a bit late now.
Boris, if you listen to this,
not all is lost, just give Martin a ring.
He'll sort you out.
Maybe.
Okay.
On to our favourite subject, Martin.
Emma.
Emma rang.
Sorry.
We keep that for the weekbang.
Sorry.
No.
As a matter of fact, it's not.
It's not.
It's not.
It's not.
On to much more neutral credit.
I can take this out.
Anyway.
It doesn't matter.
Martin, for the esteemed associate,
Martin had the brilliant idea
that this is not a ring for a change of doing an episode on IT sec.
So Martin went ahead and prepared a couple of questions.
And what we're going to do now,
we're going to go through these questions one by one.
Needless to say, this is all very theoretical,
no practical strings attached.
So none of the following basically can be put into practice.
I would use you have been warned.
So you say don't try to set home.
Yes.
Well, I've only done a CSSP certified information security professional,
a certified ethical hacker,
a certified secure software lifecycle professional,
and some other IT security accreditation.
So the so the following is purely theoretical practice.
And the rest I can't really talk about.
Fair enough, fair enough.
Right.
Let's crack on.
And so we have a imaginary character.
Let's say I was.
I was.
Let's call him Martin for a change.
Fair enough.
It's kind of Chris.
Chris is your average German living in Berlin.
England.
Excellent.
Keep it coming.
Who uses the internet for shopping or banking?
What is the internet?
What's the internet?
Okay.
Chris is not familiar with the internet, is he?
Well, Chris has a telephone
and he has something called Wi-Fi which he calls the internet.
And so he uses this Wi-Fi to buy stuff.
I see.
He's banking.
He's heard about cryptocurrencies.
So he's out of the political despair.
Do you think we should call him Martin rather than Chris?
Because this is much closer to home.
No, I don't do any shopping online.
I'm sorry, I'm just saying.
Peter.
Oh, let's call him Peter.
Peter.
Isn't Peter C.
Yes.
Is that German name?
Isn't C.
Period.
No, but you see.
Well, if we call him Peter Kahlo, he might be listening.
We just call him Peter C.
Peter is of course a Dutch name.
Come to think of it.
Oh, see.
As in P-I-T-R.
Peter Kahlo, I'm afraid it's the same.
If you're listening, this is purely not unrelated.
She'll just make it.
Okay.
I don't know what it is.
Yes.
Let's call her Emma.
Emma Emma doesn't do any of my banking.
Okay.
David.
Let's call him David.
All right.
Yes.
David, it is.
Yes.
Okay.
That leaves us.
Excellent.
What was his name?
David.
David Martin.
Yes.
What does the David do?
And why he's concerned about artificial security thing, banking, crypto, investments.
And he has a large collection of photographs of his beloved stick insects.
Now, animal.
What are stick insects?
No, they are.
They resemble sticks.
That's why they call stick insects.
You may never have seen one because you may have been thinking of something or stick.
I see.
This comes close to collecting coins and collecting stamps, right?
In terms of referencing the ventures.
We've been harder than this place, especially if you let them on the ground.
The coins and stamps, I'm sure.
So you collect them, but they're still allowed.
I guess you could.
And then you.
You know.
I think.
Yes.
Yes.
Give it then.
No, no, no.
Ask David.
I don't know anything about sticking sticks.
But.
But.
But.
But I digress.
Of course.
There's a certain diversion tactic here going on to not answer any questions.
No, there's no mark.
There isn't go ahead.
Right.
So David had this brilliant idea of where am I going to keep my photos.
And then.
Where is he going to keep his password because he had.
He had been using the same password for all his accounts.
And then someone said, who is that idea?
So he then thought, I'm going to change all these things.
How am I going to remember?
Right.
So password for his banks, his shopping accounts, his dodgy website.
Is.
What are the types of dodge?
The web has dodge.
Like from buttons and stuff and whatever.
I don't know.
But there is also a different.
Third of.
Convocation meaning for it.
The beginning.
Let's start the beginning, Martin.
These pictures.
Yes.
These pictures of stick insects.
They are there.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
That is a fair enough.
Yes.
How would they be rated?
Are we talking about triple X pictures like stick insects, copulating stuff?
Are we talking about innocent pictures like.
It's a theoretical question.
I don't know any David.
Okay.
So the idea is that.
Are you.
You do know quite.
Even Martin don't worry.
By the way, do you collect.
Yes.
Yeah.
Martin told asking.
You might get offended.
The David.
I was just thinking about.
Fair enough.
Okay.
David wants to collect these.
These cherish photos of stick insects.
In many meanings, right?
Yes.
David wants to be able to access them.
Many where he has been showed his at the year.
He is sticking to that conference stuff like that.
Yes.
Reviting.
So in that case.
I reckon he should put the number you use.
Which is sick that is.
Because we are talking about stick insects, right?
Okay, no, I mean, a couple of things come to mind. He can build his own personal cloud like an excellent instance, which you can subsequently secure or if he wants to put these.
It depends on the language that David has.
If David wants to put these pictures onto USB stick, there are a couple of options. He can currently secure the USB stick with an encrypted file system, or he can partly secure a certain directory of set stick.
I assume we are talking about real operating systems, like open source ones, like the BSD, software, and the Linux software.
He has APC, which he has bought in PC world, which is unlike it's a run with Linux, right?
Excellent.
It's not already a commercial of shelf machines.
Down in Novo and some other render system 76, there's a jam company and some other.
Okay, yes.
Since this podcast apparently is not open source software.
Yeah, we are not considering close source approaches now. So the first order of business for David is actually to go down to go to his local luck and reformat the machine and put some open source system, operating system on it.
Like free BSD, like a net BSD or push comes to shaft, as in what comes to us, Linux.
If I recall correctly, this podcast is aptly called Linux.
Linux on your PC.
So going forward, we assume that David has in its infinite wisdom install Linux on this PC instead of some close source proprietary operating system.
So with that, he has quite a few options at his disposal.
As I said, completely encrypt the USB stick using something like Lux, meaning that even below the file system like X2, 3 or 4, you would have encryption layer R if he chooses to do so.
He can encrypt parts like a sub directory of the offset USB stick, like with the likes of NKFS as encryption FS or encrypt FS, you find all of the links in the show notes.
How to install these encryption subsystems.
What do you use software solutions?
Meaning, yes, current.
He has seen adverts for hardware, encrypt the USB sticks, what's your opinion on that?
If they're proprietary, forget about them because they could contain backdoors.
If you buy them, I mean, if it's proprietary, you never know what the software is like.
No, I'm just saying.
I normally don't buy encrypted USB.
No, I mean, if you buy something that is hardware encrypted, you never know what the story is.
Take a look at TPM.
Trust a platform module.
Yes.
You can use it as a fancy keystone or the rest of it, but at the end of the day, you're looking at a minix kernel or minix base kernel.
Sorry.
Andrew, if you're listening.
Andrew, time bomb, of course.
But Intel has done much more with his minix source code than just providing a secure keyspace or keystore.
Apparently, you can infiltrate the operating system using TPM.
It has its own web server of source or something.
So there's much more that you simply don't see running on ring minus one if you are using Intel.
So kids, don't try this at home.
Don't buy unless you know what you're doing.
Unless you buy USB stick, whether vendor has open source.
They're hardware encryption that you can basically trust in.
Don't buy close source hardware encrypted USB.
USB keys rather put your own encrypted file system on it.
So you are full control.
That will be my advice for later.
Appreciate that.
The action piece of advice.
That sounds very sensible.
So we have two piece of advice.
So far, one reform at your PC.
I'm going to try to use a software and use BP for as an option for your now.
I don't know.
Yes.
No, David, I don't know.
Stick out some pictures.
Not more stuff in sky.
And he has heard you can put stuff in that.
Now, what was your would be your.
So he was thinking, oh, I'm going to use this cloud.
I can put my pictures in there, show them to my conferences.
Use my local use booths.
Excellent choice, David.
Especially if this cloud thing is prefix with something called next.
Which for a change doesn't refer to the line of ancient computer hardware.
But rather refers to files in conserva, which is open source.
The beauty about this basically is you can put it on your own servers.
And it's under your full control.
Yeah, David works.
And he's just expanded.
Even further than before.
Having to reform at his machine.
Go to his local user group and store his own home.
He's no longer your average German call, David.
With wisdom comes responsibility because there's power involved.
So with power responsibility, simple as that.
Now, I mean, jokes, jokes aside.
I mean, if I mean, if you use a service provider like Google,
like Microsoft, like Facebook,
you only pay some money for the services that you use.
But more often than not, especially if you're using a free,
an allegedly free service, like Facebook, you pay with the data.
And well, I mean, what about you?
I mean, if you take a question around data at cloud vendors being accessible
to the US government.
Indeed.
I mean, what's going to prove that she does something right?
I mean, don't worry about this.
If you're using a cloud provider of US origin.
If you're using cloud provider of US origin,
never mind whether he or she or they guarantee you,
rather, they are hosting your data on non-US soil.
Here, dream on.
Because all their data centers are interconnected.
And if the FBI is under the impression
that they want to take a look at your data,
they certainly can.
Provisionality.
Provisionality or not.
This is just a legal distraction.
Technically, you're open.
You're in your own open book.
Unless, and this is by the way,
the weather hole thing kicks in,
you run your own server with your own software,
with your own infrastructure, which you control.
Yeah.
In that case, foreign security server,
for foreign security entities,
we have very hard time, especially if done correct,
of getting to your data.
Second sites are not right.
There was still a question left about password storage
if I'm a complete mistaken.
Indeed.
Indeed.
So, David has many passwords.
Right.
One bank is very shopping.
Outlets online.
His.
Do you websites, et cetera?
Where does he keep them all?
So they don't have to remember them.
And you can access them from many different devices.
A valid question indeed.
The homegrown solution,
and that's just kind of a...
I'm trying tested approach,
would be to use an open-source password manager,
like key pass,
some of the more popular card password manager.
By the way, you'll find,
oh, the corresponding links in the show notes.
So I'm not worried about this.
Key pass runs on multiple platforms,
runs on multiple architectures.
And of course, all requires...
All that is required for keys by key passers,
is essentially a file system location,
where it stores the encrypted password.
So essentially, if you set up a next-doored instance,
if you then point key pass to this next-doored instances,
instance, ideally encrypted in terms of that we've discussed before,
you will have all of the passwords
at your disposal on each and every device
that is supported by next-doored,
including your mobile devices.
Because what you essentially do is,
you store your passwords on this next-doored instance,
and then you download the corresponding files
onto the corresponding device,
and simply point the instance of key pass,
running on this device at this location,
and you're all set.
Excellent. That's like a good solution.
And any alternatives to key pass, don't we?
I'm sure there are multiple things that come to mind.
Key pass is probably the most popular one.
Again, there are certain cloud-based services
paid and free ones.
Personally, and I reckon that goes for them as well, David,
I wouldn't trust these providers,
because they are...
These passwords would then be like last pass, for example.
These cloud providers basically take your data,
although they tell you that this is secure,
because more often than not,
the underlying software infrastructure is closed-source,
you don't know what they're using.
They don't know what they're doing with your data.
So bottom line is,
if you want to stay in control,
do it yourself.
Okay, next slide.
So I think that leads us to the conclusion
that if you want to do anything secure,
you run it yourself on your own server.
Indeed.
Because the more you give away,
the more you lose control.
Simple.
Yes, agreed.
So David has one year later.
David is running his server
for his file sharing,
for his password file,
for his IP security cameras.
His doorbell, obviously.
Obviously, of course, yes.
It's most important, yep.
Now, how does he secure all that?
Apparently, David has grown up now,
because if he's sending a web server,
now for other purposes,
then just run the next slide.
Apparently, that was an initial approach
at how to secure this.
The old adage applies.
There is no such thing as an unbreakable system,
even systems that are not connected
to this cat video file sharing network
called the internet are still,
okay, are still subject to compromise,
because if it's not connected to the internet,
you simply break into the facility
where the machine is hosted.
Well, now, you may secure this facility
left or right in the center,
but that only means raising the bar.
So it's just a matter of bankrolling.
The project,
because there is, as history shows,
there's no such thing as secure site.
You can only raise the bar.
So your average Joe block
doesn't necessarily break into Fort Knox for a reason,
because that site is heavily secure,
but that is high, yes.
But given enough money,
given enough time, given enough effort,
and these are obviously all equivalent,
somebody, of course,
came break into Fort Knox.
Nevermind the security put around it.
So it's like a cat mouse game.
Now, I need this to say,
for doing so,
there must be a corresponding interest,
because your ordinary thief
wouldn't have the means at his or her disposal
to break into Fort Knox,
because you're looking at,
I reckon, at least,
seven or eight digits
in order to bankrupt the project.
Because you're talking about multiple teams,
sourcing out the vicinity,
taking a close look at the physical security technique,
and a close look at the policies
surrounding Fort Knox and all the rest of it.
You're probably,
and this is just a wild guess,
you're looking at a year plus.
So this doesn't come easy,
but once you're inside Fort Knox,
how many built-ins of dollars
are you disposal then, Martin?
A couple of them, right?
It's the president's recovery resource.
Yeah, I'm not sure if that's still happening.
So, apparently some people have tried,
but so far,
on a fail-for-a-reason that is.
Okay, back to the subject of hands.
Indeed.
Indeed, 25 degrees more,
and Martin gets annoyed.
Interesting theory about Fort Knox,
but yeah, I'm thinking that one.
No, not anytime soon, exactly.
Now, you see,
the whole thing is basically
do it with intelligence.
In terms of,
before you even sit down
and kind of plan your whole endeavor,
you take a close look at
what are the risks at hand?
How can I mitigate them, avoid them,
or transfer them?
This is the usual approach,
like taking out insurance.
That would be, for example,
transferring a risk,
mitigation would be to
deploy a firewall or two.
So, the idea is basically,
you take a look at your scenario,
you take a look at what's at stake,
and then you intelligently
assess the risk attached to each of the items.
Exactly.
So, once you've done this exercise,
let's take the example of a web server,
or at a general,
domestic infrastructures,
but this way,
you should arrive at something called
Outlining the demilitarized zones
that you need,
right from your network router,
to your crown jewels,
including firewalls,
inclusion detection systems,
including prevention systems,
and all the rest of them.
Once you've done this,
it's just a matter of
securing the various parameters
and hardening the underlying infrastructures.
Like the operating system,
like any virtual machine that you're using,
like any containers that you're deploying,
like any firewall systems
that are guarding your DMZs,
never-mired IPSs and IDSs.
Once you've done this,
you probably have raised the bar sufficiently enough
that anybody
without the corresponding means
at his orders
will have probably a very hard time
breaking into your system.
Right, when you
refer to means here,
you mean the actual physical
eye-checking of these servers.
Okay,
how would you break into the smarten?
Yes, or do you have
this basically one IP address?
What do you do?
Scan some ports first.
Excellent idea. What happens then?
Hey, I mean, you know,
it's supposed to be absolutely ridiculous.
Hello, Martin.
Okay, let's flip the table for a bit.
Oh, sure.
Let's try the table for a bit, sorry, yes.
Okay, once you've done a port scan,
you have what?
Well, slow and pause.
Yes, and if you do it intelligently,
you also have the services,
including the version numbers,
apparently sports.
This is your first attack vector,
because now, depending on the information,
you can deploy
a couple of threats
in terms of how can I break into a
patchy version 2.4
on something
with the particular patch level?
What is the attack surface?
Once you've knocked this out,
well, I wouldn't say you're half way there,
but you have at least made
a first foray into the network.
So, here,
the important point here is really
is to keep your
software patch right now,
because of the...
And the beauty is, of course,
open source.
The open source word
gives you a really
comprehensive array
of
software infrastructure
to harden your system.
It starts by
hard operating systems,
like Linux, of course, comes to mind.
You have various
firewalls at your disposal.
Most of them will be
a whole tool chest of tools,
ranging from snort,
which is a network-based
RDS, right up to something called
fail-to-band,
nevermind-peace-at,
tool tools which are able
to analyze log files,
and based on the information
found in these log files,
in the kind of fail-to-band,
basically a band,
IP addresses,
detect even port scanning.
If piece at the tens in the
scan attempt, it will block the
corresponding IP address
using again IP tables,
or NF tables going forward.
So, the ecosystem is quite
comprehensive.
Snort essentially, which is again a
popular RDS, takes a look
at the network traffic on the
network layer flowing through
your system.
So, if you, for example,
have a backup SSH server,
SSH server,
SSH server,
with a certain payload,
depending on the patch level,
chances are this SSH instance
is vulnerable and will let you
into the system,
because our proper authentication.
This is in network level attack,
the relying on a
malformed network packet.
In contrast to this,
tools like fail-to-band
essentially analyze
log files.
And if they come to the
conclusion that you're trying to
break into system, we'll again
ban your IP address.
Let's continue the example of
SSH. If the SSH server
log has a certain number
of authorization failed entries,
fail-to-band will
immediately use IP tables
to block the corresponding
IP address.
So, there are two
different levels of
attack prevention.
And again,
the open source world is
at your disposal
with regards to a very
comprehensive set of
software infrastructure,
ready to be deployed.
It's just a matter of, again, analyzing
your attack surface,
sussing out what has to be
hard to what level it has
and then deploying the corresponding
software infrastructure to make the
secure.
Indeed. However,
just an interesting
perspective on
SSH servers and dealing
with
text-on-switch services
would we not consider
running a DPN instead for
things like
SSH or
alchering that are not necessarily
required to be
accessible right by
anybody but
the system over.
Again, I mean, using
commercial VPN service, you don't
know what's behind it. Do
their log your IP address when you
connect to them. Most, I'm
likely to believe most of the
VPN services do this.
So, you might as well not
bother because when somebody
knocks on your door,
they hand over the logs that
for security.
You're much better
of using, in that case, you're
much better of using something
like Tor as in the onion router,
which is a really,
I'm not analyzing what network
in contrast to your
commercial VPN provider.
Uh-huh. No, no. No, no.
Unless, Yeah. Of course,
you need to say yes.
You can run your own VPN server
The very popular tools come to mind OpenVPN, which is a more cumbersome tool setup.
And in contrast to this wireguard, which is probably the latest addition to the ecosystem
as in the Nucon in the blog, essentially it's a VPN that requires basically easy key
pair. It is a public key infrastructure based VPN that is pretty simple to set up.
Even somebody called Linus Torvalds has given his blessings to the addition of the corresponding
crypto code to the latest kernel version if memory is anything to go by. So wireguard is now
officially sanctioned. Needless to say, you can get wireguard also for non-linear systems.
There's a user-land implementation in place for OS X and I understand that there is something
called boring ton that is a re-imlibitation of wireguard written in Rust, fun enough,
that also runs on Windows if memory serves correct.
Okay, good stuff. Right, so I think, would you like to summarize the, oh, let me do that.
So in short, David, yes, David, David decided to reinstall his machine,
his NFC, decided to run a store, his sticking stick photos on a secured USB stick software encrypted
fine. And then decided to start running his own web server so we can run next cloud for
algebra. And he is going to add some level of intrusion detection through PSAD and field
van things like that. Okay, and finally, he is a happy man.
Yes, don't forget to, that David will actually put the crown jewels into the cellar
beyond the moat, moat, moat, moat, moat, moat, moat, moat, right? Exactly. And David also will get
some pair of, some pair of disabled drivers to put into cellar close to the crown jewels.
This is quite raising the bar, raising the bar, yes. And so if that's a good tip for our
listeners, if you are very attached to your, uh, privateness of your sticking stick pictures,
get the pair of saber teeth like this. And a cellar. Especially if, if, if, if these stick
in the text, in the pictures are copulating because that case, they would be rated triple X,
right? I don't know, native programs triple X. I think, probably, I don't know. It's too
question. Gosh, where did the time go? There you go, that wasn't that hard, was it?
Now David, sorry, no, no, no Martin, sorry, no David, sorry, no Martin. Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Now Martin or slash David knows how to do it properly.
Does he? Okay, I'm sure he's very happy about that. Excellent.
Any concluding your marks, Martin, before we finish off this episode?
I think about from a feedback, which we're going to do in a minute.
I think there's a bit of work to do to convert people to this open source cause, right? It's
your, as we started out with your average David who goes to V.C. Will to buy his V.C.
or even the bookshop, whatever, whatever, for the environment. Yeah, from there to running your
own Linux, so it's probably quite a big step. So what are you going to do about educating the masses?
Just like, just join your Linux, your local Linux user group, simple, blatant, commercial,
what's what I'm looking for? Introduce exactly. There are some Linux's groups around.
Just check the network also known as Internet. There's a lot near you. These locks have one big
advantage. The chaps or the gals are, the people down there in general, are more than
eager to help you to lead you to the path of righteousness.
As in, for going with your close source operating system, putting some open source alternative
on that machine, including all the belts and whistles, depending on your specific requirements.
So as a matter of fact, and then it's just basically down to choosing the right distribution,
I can't recall seeing somebody installing, installing Linux Mint, which is a popular
distribution based on Ubuntu within 15 minutes on a SSD base Dell XPS 13. So it was just a matter
of basically reforming the partition, putting MintBase, Linux MintBase stick into the USB part,
and then the rebooting with the machine. And within 15 minutes, the base operating system
was installed on that laptop. So it's not a big deal, especially with beginner-friendly distributions,
like Linux Mint, maybe even Ubuntu. It's not that complicated at the end of the day.
There's something called DistroWatch. The website, I think, is this word DistroWatch.org.
You'll find the link in the show notes. Just take a look at it and pick a distribution of choice.
It's not that hard. Like so. We have converted the world to Linux. How does that sound?
Not too bad.
You have some feedback on the stand?
I do. So do you want to start?
Yes, please do.
Okay. Well, this is not actually feedback. This is an email from Dennis in Accounts.
I'll see F.O. And he's very happy with the...
We have a CFO.
We do. Did you not know Dennis?
No.
Anyway, let me introduce you to Dennis. He's our CFO. He's in charge of the monies.
How come that we have a CFO? And I don't know about Martin. Did you hire him personally?
Well, yes. Otherwise, he would be some dodgy character.
And this character might prove that I'm serious.
Some dodgy character, that would steal all of them.
Martina, would this be Dennis, your cousin, as the one fall down from the country?
No, no, no, no, no. This is Dennis. Experience CFO, run 500 startups, raise $2 billion,
whatever, something like that.
Oh, I feel I had that coming up.
Anyway, Dennis has seen the lights and decided that Linux in Los is the future after
doing all the previous startup companies where he made millions of monies.
Linux in Los is the next big thing, so he's decided to join us to look after our money.
Here we go.
Or our lack of money.
Beats me. Anyway, carry on Martin.
That's the final details.
Final details. So Dennis, I'll see if he is emailed both you and I.
So I suggest you check your email, but anyway, I don't get this.
Probably help if you actually read it at some point, but why don't you read it for me, Martin?
Yes, I'll read it for you.
Okay, so Dennis says, dear hosts, very pleased with the sponsorship of Reagan,
Bogan Esquartz. However, the sponsorship amounts that they are bringing in the whole
total of a hundred euros is not really adding up to enough to cover Chris's bill with Reagan,
Bogan Esquartz. There are some items here with an invoice for a Paulina Sophia.
And this is the name.
So this total of this invoice comes to you about 3000 euros. So our 100 euros sponsorship
is not really making up for this. I suggest you either one get a better sponsor or two
consider your expenses again.
Martin, which is more than interesting because apparently Dennis doesn't know this yet.
After the last feedback that Emma wrote in, basically, I changed this corporate account to my
personal one. So any of these services, I'm sure this is now coming out of my own pocket.
I'm sure Dennis shouldn't worry about it.
Okay, okay, glad to hear it. That only leaves us with a small 5000 euro deficit.
I'm sure we can come up with the money somehow.
And if it's just you standing on three corners and telling your body that's okay by me.
Oh, I think that might be quite successful, but I'll delegate that one to you, person.
Okay, very enough. All for the great dude. Anything else that wasn't the mailbox.
There was more in the mailbox, but this was Dennis's feed. Like, why don't you go next?
I'll do the other. Yes, shortly.
Very good. Where is it? Okay, Emma wrote in.
Got it.
I finished this regular listener.
Absolutely, Martin. But let me finish this. Okay, Emma wrote in.
Congratulations to Martin's new endeavor in the entertainment industry.
Glad to hear that I could be of assistance to get him started.
Passato here that the IT industry eventually wasn't for him as he told me during
one of his last visits. Too bad that such an apparent talent is finally lost to the
social passion, which is known as open source. But I'm confident that he will make his mark
in the delicate realm known as grown-up fantasies. Also, as he's done numerous times before,
if his legend is anything to go by, may the force be with him wherever his road may take him.
Please tell him that I'm always there for him. Should he need further help and support?
Never mind a lovely discount on all services rendered. Martin, you have certain
that's an impression with Emma. Very, very nice of her here, excellent. Indeed.
And Dennis will be glad to hear. I'm trying to show how it is related to the show, but
if I should change this back to a cop for the cow, no, Dennis will be glad to hear
that apparently now you know you know you're in for a lovely discount.
Ah, that service rendered she writes. Martin, do tell more.
Well, this comes always good, but sponsorship is better, right?
Let's do have a website now, basically.
Do I have a website? No, no, no, I don't have a website.
So how do you promote yourself in the end of the entertainment industry if you don't have a
website? I think probably Emma has the wrong Martin. That's always a possibility.
No, I mean, she, I mean, she didn't say Martin with her, but there's only one Martin basically
avoiding or you who used to avail over corporate cow and coming from Linus Illos and that would be you.
Right. Right. Okay.
So I don't know, but certainly. So this GPU database outfit wasn't for you eventually.
It's doing quite nicely. Thank you.
Do they know about your, what's it called, the kind of secret existence?
Secret existence.
Um, it's a good question.
In the entertainment industry, you could ask you the same, but I read it.
Readies for those few listeners who don't know what readies are.
I don't think that's part of the contract.
Is it? Do you have any sidelines in outdoor entertainment?
I do not, Martin. You don't know. No, no, no, that's for no.
But and I'm not sure if how how readies features in here, because readies, as we probably all know,
is an open source, BSD license, no sequel in memory database.
It's debatable, but yes.
No, it's not.
That's not good right now.
Martin, Martin has a lot of work to do apparently.
Sorry. Okay. By the way, by the way, Danny feedback.
By the way, Dennis is not looking after your books now, is he?
I'm just checking. No, he's looking after our books.
That's good. So you have your own accountant if you are starting off in the adult entertainment.
I don't know. Do you need one?
Why don't we do a special on Chris's exploits in the adult entertainment industry?
I'll just set up your account and you will start a 10 seconds episode because there aren't any Martin.
Oh, see, see.
In contrast to other people, if Emma, if Emma's Laura is anything to go by.
Emma's Laura, brilliant.
I'm sure they're remaining feedback. Yes, the final feedback is from Brona.
Oh, it's Brona.
So Brona wrote in saying, back in 1993, I was going through college,
nurses college in Dublin. And during this time, I met a lovely chap called Chris.
I've used to call him Little Chris.
So I think of him quite formally sometimes.
He was going through similarly going through college on some EU grant, which
he used to mainly spend on myself and my friends to support my income I had to do very
outside of study activities.
Excellent.
My past.
I have to say that he was a lovely, lovely guy.
Inside the NDA, you remember this, right?
In technique, you are in violation of the no distortion you find.
Yeah, well, I think nothing, Brona is, he's after fame and fortune now.
I think breaking the NDA is worth being on the machine.
I wouldn't go that far, but that's my personal opinion anyway.
Anyway, so Brona continues.
Yeah, so Little Chris, a lovely little fellow.
So some of the requests were a little bit obscure even for me,
but having been having doing this sideline for a while to get myself through college.
sideline.
It's a nine of making money by not by doing outside of study activities.
You mean, you mean, you mean, you mean Martin, Martin Vista's specialty as an adult entertainment?
I don't know, she refers to you as Little Chris, so not sure adults are involved.
I don't know, I'm lost anyway.
Right, so she continues.
Yes, so Little Chris, lovely little fellow.
With some of his requests were a little bit odd.
I won't go into too many details because I know this is, even though this is an x-rayed show,
I don't really want to spill the beans on video and I haven't quite forgotten about the NDA.
Very good.
However, there was one occasion, which I will enlighten, which was a very specific
way. So, so Chris just had his monthly EU payment and he said,
oh, I really like you, Bona, but can we get your friends Chloe and Shannon involved as well
in this activity? Because that's, this is, I really want to experience while I'm at college in Dublin
in 1994. No, no, it all comes back, you talk about the comic artist, right?
As in the cartoon artist. Yeah, I can remember that, actually.
I mean, there were four girls, which we see.
We had a lovely afternoon and then they thought that stuff to marvel and made a fortune of it.
I see, I think you're not thinking of Charlie's angels or something.
No, no, that's fair. But it's interesting, Bruno, that you come back after all these
years because our almost forgot half foot and had completely forgotten about you.
So, why did she have to write it in the A to do cartoons?
Because there was more than one, Bruno.
Ah, there's multiple, okay, okay.
Yes.
Right. Well, I suspect we'll get further emails.
So, any other other, Bruno's out there, feel free to write to feedback.
No, this is not funny to spill the beans.
Bruno, just in case, remember me, most of the times there would be an NDA in place,
but just don't forget to check this before you write in any letters.
So, in Linuxinloss.eu.
Excellent.
Anything else you want to discuss, Martin, why we're on this subject?
I think it's probably in the feed.
Okay, onto the much more important stuff, namely,
upcoming Halloween episodes.
Halloween?
Yes, lassies, yes, lassies and chaps.
There will be a special Halloween episode,
penciled in four.
Love funny enough, for the 31st or rather 31st of October.
And for this, we need your questions, because the idea is,
never mind how gory these questions are.
We will have no censorship actually for this episode.
So, anything goes just as long as it's open source related.
Just send your questions in and we will do our best to answer them.
Excellent.
And that was the teaser for our upcoming Halloween special.
Okay.
The Linuxinloss would like to thank Rainbuy Scores
for their continued support of this podcast.
With more than 30 years of continued service to the first community and way
beyond, Rainbuy Scores has more than just deserved a reputation of going
the extra mile in terms of pleasureing the masses and then some.
No aim too far or peak too high.
We even cater for niche groups such as Grumpy old coders.
Just reach out for a quotation and leave the rest to us.
And here's your watcher, you are.
Rainbuy-scores.com
forward slash Grumpy minus old minus coders.
Enjoy.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the creative
commons license type attribution share like credits for the intro music go to blue zeroesters
for the song solid market to twin flames for their piece called the flow used for the second
intros and finally to select your ground for the songs we just use by the dark side.
You find these and other details licensed under cc hmando a website dedicated to liberate
the music industry from choking copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
Now yes.
Good morning.
So onto the feedback feedback.
Yeah, but you have feedback Martin.
Okay, cut.
This is feedback cut.
Yes Martin.
Feedback onto the feedback.
Yes.
On to the feedback Martin.
Thank God I can edit this afterwards.
Well, it depends if you're in the post-production.
Yes, I am doing this.
This will make for some great outtakes.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
On to the feedback.
On to the feedback.
Yes.
Okay.
You have a f***.
Okay, shall we move on to the next feedback?
Please, please Martin.
Okay, I have a, um, uh, uh, yes.
So, uh, following up from from our brilliant episode on I.D.
security David has written in and saying, uh, uh, uh, I know you is being a, uh, uh,
an open source podcast.
However, as is, uh, being a good idea to do the stick insect episode, please.
Um, which is funky because we are, we have just done this episode.
How can David ride in?
If this feedback part is part, is coming right after the I.D. security thing, Martin.
Yes, but David sent two emails in Cook's session, did you know?
Why don't you be to email?
No.
I, I didn't get an email.
Martin, I think you just made it.
You should, you should, you should make it yourself.
You should be to feedback email, email box sometimes as well as the one from accounts.
Oh, do you need a PA perhaps?
I think the only person in the entire need of a PA is you Martin.
That's beside the point.
Um, I think we should cut this out because it doesn't make much sense.
But anyway, okay, it's everything else we should talk about.
Um, yes, upcoming episode.
I've come here to shoot.
Yes, I'm in there.
There is a feedback.
I thought you had.
No, no, no, there's another feedback.
Did you, did you, did you?
Why do you know the each of mail?
I don't, I didn't get these mail.
You didn't get these emails.
Yes, obviously something wrong with your mail system.
What are you running this on?
No, it doesn't, that's our fact.
Does it work?
Does it work?
It works quite well.
Thank you very much.
Do you have too many filters on that pass?
No, I'm sure, right anyway.
Um, the, the, the email.
So what do the remaining
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomican computer club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status,
Today's show is released on the earth.
Creative Commons,
Attribution,
ShareLive,
3.0 license.
