Episode: 3287
Title: HPR3287: Quick tip
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3287/hpr3287.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:13:06

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3287 for June 9th of March 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Quick Tip and In Part on the Series,
looking it is hosted by Archer 72 and is about two minutes long and
carrying an explicit flag. The summer is, Quick Tip and HBO needs shows.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HBR15. That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello Hacker Public Radio.
We need shows.
So here goes a quick, one way to get shows is the Goldie or Android platform
and go to the F-Droid store and use the audio recorder that I'm recording on right now.
And get in a show. So my quick little tip is to get perfectly
de-shelled hard boiled eggs. After you boil them, leave them in the pot for about
10 minutes so that the water soaks can even more. Get a small glass,
a little small drinking glass and you don't have to put any water in it, just kind of twirl
around. Hear that? Loosen the shell.
And just put the peels back in the glass.
And there you go. A perfect egg wash off this shell.
And you go, that's it. It's probably one of the shortest clips in a while,
but feel free to record anything this or even longer. You have thoughts and ideas and quick
hacks or longer hacks and we would enjoy hearing them. Bye bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under
creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
