Episode: 3501
Title: HPR3501: HPR Community News for December 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3501/hpr3501.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:33:59

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 351 for Monday 3rd of January 2022.
Today's show is entitled HDR Community News for December 2021 and is part of the series
HDR Community News. It is hosted by HDR volunteers and is about 72 minutes long and carries a
explicit flag. The series HDR volunteers talk about show release and comments posted in December 2021.
Hi everybody my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today HBR Community News for December 2021. We made it through Dave, we made it through.
Yeah we did, still alive and everything. Wow, it's not over yet.
So joining me tonight is Dave and there are a few other people around Don't know if they'll
unmute later. We're recording this smiginarily in order to facilitate the community
community news in order to facilitate the HBR New Year show which is scheduled for
a few days from now. So there we go, scheduled for tomorrow to be honest. Tomorrow, yeah.
So tomorrow morning 10 o'clock I'll start all these projects that I had left behind
for the entire year but by the time you hear this it's over possibly, possibly, could be still going,
you never know. Anyway, as a little bit of background on my HBR is where a community podcast
that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday and entirely volunteer organization
where the shows are submitted by the listeners. People are very much like you listening to this
today. And one of those who stepped forward to join us on our quest was
send my brain working and changing tabs and we are congratulating mechatroniac who joined us
in this past month. Excellent, excellent handler. Yeah, and why HBR? HBR is dedicated to sharing
knowledge and you can do so by submitting an audio file of your choosing an only topic that's
of interest to hackers that is in spam. And many of those people who do that we come on here once
a month to give you a first of all to go through all the shows in the month, make sure everybody's
got at least some feedback and then we go through all the stuff that's been happening on the
mailing list and all the other stuff. So shall we start, David? Indeed, indeed.
The first one was audio wiring hack in a classroom in Lafayette, Louisiana by John Culpe.
Yes, this is John going and tweaking the wiring in the lecture at the end, which, you know,
sounds just like John, it's just this is sort of the thing you'd expect him to do.
Absolutely, absolutely, yes. We had one wondering was he doing this clandestine like
but apparently he had asked them to do it but they didn't, so we don't. Yeah, yeah, I could see that
exploding in a literal way, but we'll manner kick back if we dare to do that sort of thing in
the universe arrow type, the audio visual people would be at the doorstep, the heavies would be there.
What did you do? Indeed, indeed. That's true. I'll read Trace. So Trace says, I'm sure the audio
strict video development loves you. It's the same view as I do. Thanks for sharing this great little
hack. It may have a negative impact on the impedance matching for this audio input channel
but it shouldn't be overtly noticeable when listening. Thanks again for sharing, excellent.
So the following day we had Linux in-laws with version console control systems and why
you should bother. Another excellent example as the guys putting together a nutshell given an
overall history actually in the various different. Yeah, it's quite nice to get a bit of context.
I knew some of it but not all of it, so it's good to have that sort of view.
And Trace again was here and said thanks for sharing. I've been managing versions of configuration
files locally on my system and you have inspired me to try to use GitHub instead. GitLab. GitLab.
We shall see how it goes. Keep up the awesome work. There you go. And continue chugging away
with a series on the GIMP this time. This is more of Layer Modes in GIMP and a Darken Modes.
And as ever you should check out the links in his showments.
Yeah, it's quite interesting insight into how this sort of stuff works. I've never given it much
thought but it's sort of pulling back the curtain a little bit. Yeah, some of the effects you'd never
really think of doing but then you look at some of them and you go, oh well, I've seen that before.
That's such in such a person's logo. Yeah, yeah. That's intriguing. Good stuff.
No comments on this, but I think he's getting a few comments on this. That's not English but I'm tired.
No, he's just true. It's partly because a hook has become sort of part of the HBO furniture I feel.
Oh yeah, it's this time. A hook show. Oh yeah, fine. Oh, that was good. But, you know, why would you,
why do you congratulate your chairs? Yeah, exactly. Hold on. I'm on the seating.
I know it's it's it's it's a shame because he does need the he does deserve lots of congratulations
which we try and give him of course on these shows. Yeah, but even also, you know, if he has three
shows in the one series, we just kind of skip over the other two, you know, but I would go
feel free to take as much credit as you like and indeed there's a beverage of your choice
available whenever you've come over to visit. Absolutely, yes, yes, although he's heading to
waterproof as RV to get it over the Atlantic. I don't know if he's planning to head to Europe,
not in the RV, I'm sure. There's a there's a show I'd like to hear. How do you?
The following day show was the community news. We said nothing controversial and that was that.
I know we had an introduction to post-apocalyptic robotics method technology from
metatronics and there was one comment on this one. Is he new horse, by the way? My turn is yours.
I think it's mine, isn't it? Yeah, yeah. It took me a while to to scroll down.
Scott, I can click the comment button. Anyway, revealing my idiocy to the world today,
fascinating subject says when to go. This is a stellar first episode. Harvested electronic
components, robotics on the cheap, made for the apocalypse, but fun beforehand as well.
Thank you for the additional video links. I'm glad I was able to see these robots in action.
I'm looking forward to future shows in this series. Excellent. So you have to do more shorts now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've not not looked at the video, I've slipped up there, I must have a look at that.
It sounds a lot fun, not the things like printer motors and stuff. I have a dead, maybe a couple
of dead printers here. I have a lot to throw away, so I'm going to see what I can do with the bits
some stage. Yeah. Okay, next to me was a very short shoe from, I have a silk flop and she's got a
foam. It's a 0.64 foam. I have a 0.64 foam. Did I do a show about it? No. So procrastination,
procrastination gets it away again. However, I just would be interested to know, does
my 0.64 foam gets really hot? I mean, really burn your leg hot. I'm wondering is that normal?
Anybody out there with a 0.64 foam? Yeah, that doesn't sound good.
And there's an image in the show notes, gimp on the cell phone for obvious reasons.
As you would, yeah, of course. Why not? I was trying to talk my kids into having one of these,
but they said no, the iPhone will be fine, thanks very much.
Following there, this one will be right up your alley on guessing. My VIM set up with GNU PG.
This is very cool. It's the ability for them to read and write encrypted files, which you've
encrypted with your GPG key and stuff, which is really cool. Yeah, I can't remember if I've
done this. I think I might have tried at some point, but never had any great need for it,
since it's just me. But I do have a few GPG encrypted files, but I don't need to edit them
mostly. But still, it's cool. It's very cool. I love the show notes, even the color.
Yeah, yeah. Archon 72 is doing a wonderful job of preparing show notes, actually. We had a
little bit of a fight with his pictures, as I recall, but not much, because we were sort of
feeling our way to the best way of putting pictures in show notes, which I want to write up at some
point and make available to the to the HBR world. But yeah, it worked out really well.
Yeah. It's very good. Very good. I'm filing this on under the heading of I will lead us at some
point. Yeah, it's good to have that sort of thing. It is to have that capability. It's going
to be excellent. I have occasions and work to have to have files GPG to at least come into
normal nature. So there you go. The following day, I inspired by a comment on a master done.
I was 50 years at the time of recording when the first edition of Unix was published and I thought
to myself, well, why not get the book and somebody says here is the original book. So I went and got
all the commands from the first version of Unix and then tried them on my laptop, just running
for the door to see how many were still working after all these years. And about half of them
have survived, but the half that have survived are the ones that have nothing to do with tape decks.
So yes, yes. I did actually encounter Unix in about 1970-something. There was a company called
Harris that made a unique sort of mini thing that we were looking at at Plankhurst University
when I worked there. I have no idea what version of Unix it was, but tapes were very, very much
involved. It was all about using tar to generate stuff and squirt it to tapes and rewind in your
tapes and all that stuff. Those were the days. Well, that was the hard disks of the time, the SD
code, as such. So Unix has, what's interesting is all the other ones that continue to work and lots
of work. 10,000 LS plans run fine about 3,000 times or about 2,000 times platinum would be pissed with
me, but there you go. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely, absolutely. It's not really surprising,
is it? These are nuts and bolts of Unix Linux. Yeah, and it's just the whole thing about
Unix being a difficult learning curve and yeah, it's a learning curve, but you've got 50 years
in which to do it like, you know, can you? I remember having an argument in my, when my kids were
in national school or in, I don't know what you call it, in the UK national school, the first school
that they go to. Yeah, digress. About Windows, Windows 2000 or Windows XP at the time and
that, you know, they'll have to learn how to use all this stuff. I don't know. These operating systems
will not exist by the time these kids have finished their education. And yes, the Linux commands,
the Unix commands will. So good. Yeah, yeah, it'd be interesting to just as a personal voyage to see
how different these commands are from their original, because the GNU project has done a huge amount
of work on, on, uh, twiddling them. I think probably find has got a bazillion, or, uh,
objects to it. And all the regular expression stuff. And yeah, I can get on with the find when
I first used it back in HP UX and no tricks and some awesome things. It was very, very strange
thing to use, but it's become much, much easier to use. I think it's just a few if statements from
become sent, from becoming sentient. Yeah, you're probably right. Wait a minute. Okay. Well,
do you want to read? No, I'm sorry. I'm just wichering in the background here. That's fine.
Not my mom. My mother, Chromix says the show, great show. This of course is a nookie mirror showing
exactly how time flies and how we've been getting older versus. Right, true, true. But thankfully,
we're not, uh, we're not installing Windows 95 floppy disks, so yeah.
I am still happy with the media, uh, with the choice of media player that I've given the kids,
which is a bash console and, uh, uh, MPV. And let me to, you know, well, because I was, uh,
I told you this ages ago about the having to update like XBMC and whatever it wasn't,
whatever it's called, Cody and all the rest and UIs and menus maintaining complicated systems.
So I just said, here's a, here's a bash command. This is how you access,
how you access your media. So they've learned CD, LS and all the shortcuts, like for relative
directories and, and fall directories and director navigation. And occasionally, when they think
I'm not listening, they're teaching my wife how to, how to do stuff.
Well, that's wonderful. That's wonderful. Yeah, yeah.
Listeners. Yep, yep. I think my, I think my son is also a bit of a command line, uh,
freak, because he's had to do quite a lot of basic stuff during his MSC,
including his hands. So, uh, I think he's become more enthusiastic about that. So, yeah, good,
excellent thing. It becomes so much more productive. I don't know, even, even though I have a
Nikon there on the bottom of my screen for open and a browser, the amount of times I've had
alt f2 and xg open the web page either. It's just fine. Okay,
unless the true potential of GNU nano text editor and audio rendition, this would buy hacker
default. And yeah, I read it out more or less. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I've forgotten that you,
you've done this one. Yeah, yeah, it's excellent. It's really, I had no idea. No, no,
could do all this stuff. I have, I have hated on nano for years, partly because I spent a few years
using and supporting people using pico, because we had, we used pine on the, on the back cluster that
that I was managing. And so that comes to pico, and that's where nano has come from, because it's
it's another one in that range, isn't it? We've had that discussion. But yeah, but it was,
it was, I mean, it does the job. It does the job, but it's like, you know, trying to knock a nail in
with a, with a rock feels like rather than having something which is properly balanced and constructed
hammer to it. Oh, no, you are, I think it would be extremely unfair. I know, I know, I know, I know,
I'm just useful editor. Well, I just, just dislike it because I know there are editors
where I can say, go through this whole file and do this to everything that manages. And,
and that was the case too on VMS editors. I did a lot of work in editors on VMS, because you could
program and they had a programming, when I use, anyway, had programming capabilities to get
right sort of things in a past-gallish like language that, that let you extend your editor enormously,
which I did, you know. So, so yeah, to find things that are that basic, just irritates me.
And it's, it's a, it's a character flaw on my part. I really accepted that. I knew you would.
But yeah, but I, I really should have a, I should back away from that and have a proper look at,
nano based on this show, I think. I, following day, we've had installing a tap door, by role.
And this, this I thought was an interesting one. Hot hot doors. Absolutely.
I have to press me so much when I found that out. I know, I know, I have several of those sorts of
doors in my house. In fact, I think they probably all look at it. It's both of two, yeah.
Yeah, they're not cheap. There's ones with the sort of fake panel-y things on them,
but are made of MDF or something with just two people. Yeah, a big hole full of cut-filled
with things like egg boxes. It's just sort of wiggly, wiggly bits of cardboard holding it together.
Yeah, it is intensely frustrating. Having tried to hang door hooks on the inside of the
bathroom door, and then you find that you're, it's like you're attaching it to paper.
It's just, it really is. But what do you do? What do you do? I just had a new door. I've got
stairs up into my attic, and the attic is flawed, and I'm trying to turn it into a sort of working
area, if I can. And the, I had a joiner in recently, who is doing some, some work up there,
putting it in closing the area in blast boards and stuff. And he put a new door on for me,
and he said, all right, it's not a bad door. It's got a sort of veneer that makes a flat wood,
but when you, you touch the bottom of it, where you had to cut it down to fit the gap.
Yeah, it's just, just open. It's just a void. No, it's a cardboard hanging out.
But she don't see, but that's irritating the life out of me. I thought we were going to do something
about that. I know the feeling. I know the feeling.
So, no comments on that one as yes. No doubt in the fullness of time, electronics will be
fitted to that, and we will get a life eve coming in from how often the door is all kept.
Cat goes in, cat comes out. Right. Yes, yes.
It's a good show, though. I really enjoyed, I really enjoyed this sort of thing.
I don't know whether everybody feels the same way, but I did. And it was great.
Yeah. The following day, we had a bi-oral 3D audio recording. Please listen at normal speed
with good headphones. And this one annoyed me because I had to rewrite my script to do the
to not munch up the channels, but that's that's a new thing, not a, that's like, oh, you just
hard-coded all your variables, type problem. You know it's your fault, but still doesn't make it happy.
For thankfully, thankfully, that has been fixed at least, so we're good to go.
Yeah, it's good. I'm glad. Did we add in the links to the other episodes? I can't remember.
If it was Kurt Moher who sent in the, I think he did send in the original links,
yeah, which is great because he's been doing this stuff for, for a number of years now.
And it's good to hear some more. Yeah, I'm just wondering, does every recording coming out of
America have to have a fire alarm or a police alarm going off in the background?
I don't know, I've most of the recordings I hear from the states, especially the rain once you
hear a siren going off in the background. Yeah, yeah, it happens all over the place. Yeah,
sure. When I took my kids to Paris, we stayed in Paris in an hotel. We were walking up
regularly by blooming yellow sirens, so they're very sireny in Paris. Yeah, it depends on
this sort of local fashion, I think. Yes, but in Paris, it's the flipper of the police.
The fashion police. Probably, yeah. Oh, I got it. You have not
carrying said bagel properly. Okay, we do apologize to all of our French listeners.
We have an inferiority complex of our friends, as most people do. I think it works both ways,
actually. I'm sure a number of French people take the making it to a Brit's and whatever.
So the following day, she's back this time, it's Haskell, equally, equality of structured
errors. Oh, this one I needed to read the notes. I did. The notes are brilliant, as I always say,
that they're so full of information. But boy, it's a lot of stuff there. Yeah, I think there are
several people on this network operating as a few gigahertz faster than I am.
Oh, yeah, digital digital is one of those that is for sure.
Yeah, yeah, lots of good stuff about it. Yeah, very much applaud the fact that shows like this
are being sent in and so forth. Maybe one day I'll sure get my head around Haskell, but
yeah, don't hold your breath. It's been one of these where I interaction with programmers and
then, you know, it really shuts them up. If you go, hey, you know, there's a cool series in Haskell,
there. You can go have a look at that. Oh, my God, there's person devil tells in the art that
is Haskell. Yeah. And here, following day, the path, more undos, this time it's the path,
excellent, excellent, excellent memories, memories, traumatic memories, perhaps,
both nonetheless memories. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that is a strange beast.
Or even is. Yeah, I said before, I've got most of the stuff I ever did, but yeah,
it's quite interesting to be reminded. And again, as with the game episode, this is one that,
yeah, thank you, thank you, the chair. Absolutely, yeah, yeah, it's a great resource.
Now, my github and flick metrics bear with me as I go into my github over the past year for some
real gems in here, this operator. Wow, this is a treasure 12 of stuff. This is one you want to
check out just to have. Yes, yes, I think there's a, there's a few quite interesting pointers in that
lot. I have brain dump as it may be. It's still like, yes, there's weeks of studying. Exactly,
I was into this. For some reason, I was going to train somewhere and I was listening and then
script after script after script. Oh my god, Floss is going on in here. I don't know what to do.
Ah, that's what he's doing. Not very good. Like Android, like Cat, for instance, is just
and each of each of them, my only criticism of this is each of these are is a show in itself.
Yes, yes. That's very true. But as we know, people, people just don't listen to me, Dave.
To which you say, sorry, what did you say? It's on the script. Yeah, the page three.
You can see that if you can get all this stuff out in one show rather than sitting down,
um, teen times to do several shows, then there might be an incentive to do the former.
I mean, the following day we had Linux and Lolls pipe wire, just another audio server,
think again. I was complaining about, yes, another pipe, you know, yes, another, I'm running
in Fedora, Fedora has adopted pipe wire, didn't mean a few years back, just have this big Huha
overpulled audio. And yes, it seems to have worked. And we seem to have migrated. And at the time,
I was wondering why another one. And then this episode, the interview Martin, who is the lead developer
for, um, for pipe wire, the Martin references that he wasn't there. Sorry, why don't the name,
put the name of the people that are interviewing that it is. Oh, sorry, Vim Taismans.
Taymans. Vim Taymans. The remaining Vim Tayman adventure. Yeah, that's him.
But not only was it a brilliant explanation of pipe wire,
the program where it came from on all the rest, but it was a great background to audio in Linux,
to which, to which, in actual fact, I've sent this off to several people recently. You asked me
about, what's this with Jack and what's this with the pulse audio and stuff. And then forward
to them to this episode, brilliant. Yeah, yeah, it really set the scene much better than I've
ever heard before, actually. So I did not know most of this stuff, how they, how they interrelated
with one another. So yeah, very cool. Very good. Very good. Okay, Monochromic, you get to stay
for another month. My first Spanish episode. And we had a, this was, this was an episode that
we had a request from somebody to do, could they do a Spanish episode on HPR? And actually Claudio
got them to it. So in this show, he's, as I'm joking, he's trying to solicit
NFTs in Spanish. I don't think so. I was surprised how much I was able to guess from this, actually.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. I was surprised how little I could get, actually. But I've only listened to it once,
so I need to, need to listen again. But yeah, yeah, Spanish is a nice language, I wouldn't mind
learning it. But it's, it's a bit of a, yeah, as with all languages, it, you either need to be
in the context of it. And then you start to absorb it, or you need to go through the whole process
of doing it in a formal way. So yeah, but very good, very good. I'd love to know what it,
I'd like to see a transcript of it in some stage, a translation of it. I mean,
Collins. So shall I do the first one? DNT says great episode. Thanks for the podcast
recommendation. Great name for it too. And I apologize for this. Oiente says,
gracias. Muy bueno, tu podcast, ya hablé español perdón. Can I still know
muy bueno. Muy bueno. Salutos, des por favorico.
Say a word, Collins. Say a word, Collins. Hi, hi, hi. It's, it's a, it's a, it's a very attractive
language. And the structure of it has got a lot, lot in connection, lot connections with
French and other, other such, we're so-called romance languages and stuff. So Italian as well,
I suppose, yeah, Portuguese. But anyway, yeah, cool. So recent general razor repairs by John
Cole from Lafayette, Louisiana, yet again. And I've started now, when they're
passed and mastered on the releases, I've started to give a little summary in reply.
Did you? Yes. I see you didn't boost them, Dave. So obviously, I just read it. I didn't read
only it's me. Something got the little plug in, yes. Okay, fine. Annie, who, yes, the generator,
why everybody seems to have a generator. Amazing. How do you balance? How it goes out often,
and that's probably a good idea. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, John will be laughing when they,
when he hears the, the dikes are broken here in the Netherlands and we have no generators.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. See, I told you so. Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
I, yeah, in the last few years of work, I was tasked with improving electrical power to
our computer room. That big, big mainframe e-size computer room. And although we put in a big
UPS to power the whole room, the next step in the plan was to have a generator outside,
we even expect where it's going to go. We're going to put a concrete blimp out there,
have an auto generator that switched in when, when needed and stuff. But then they said,
oh, it's going to cost a lot of money. No, we can't do that. The people who wanted it so
desperately couldn't want it. You know, you know, it's management. But yeah, it's a, it's a very
interesting thing to, to be working with. But I found this show fascinating because I didn't know
that you, an alternative would be a pro, was it propane generator as opposed to, you say,
this is a gasoline, a petroleum petrol thing. I assume there were diesel in many cases as well.
Yeah, fascinating. Absolutely. The insights you get, you assume that you know, you know,
you get a feel for a place and then suddenly something completely different.
The fact that you can connect it to your house, power supply, presumably, and then switch over
to that source rather than the main source is pretty cool. I don't know either. Do I imagine
your experience or stuff going on? Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I have no idea how that's done
in the UK if it is. More shows, folks, more shows. You know, give us a show. Hey,
what was that? Do you know if you know, give us a show. Wow. That's slogan. Copyrights are here.
I get on the straightaway podcast recommendation, their retroist. And Trace says,
great recommendation. Thanks for the recommendation. I listened and it was a great dive into my
favorite Christmas films of all time. And I saw the retroist himself or herself themselves.
Giving us now boost there on the social medias. Very good.
Did you see the video's distance? Creative Commons, because I actually did this. We watched
diard over the Christmas, on Christmas day, actually, Christmas evening. My wife had never seen it.
And I had confused it with little weapon, which I had seen literally hundreds of times,
because it was the only video tape we had when we were in college. So we'd come home from the
pop and put on little weapon. So I hadn't seen it as often as I thought I had. And the kids
wanted to watch it because it's been referenced all the time. It's a running joke in Brooklyn
if you ever watched that series? No. It's a comedy cobshield based in New York and the guy
isn't me or it's his favorite movie and everything is basically about dihard. So it's,
you know, it's funny. But then the following day afterwards, after listening to it after watching
it, I listened to the podcast, not this podcast. I had already listened to this podcast, but I listened
to the, um, to the Retrist podcast and very nice. Well, producer. And, uh, yeah.
Yeah. And a lot of, a lot of insight into the movie, actually, that I wasn't aware of.
It's, it's quite a layered movie. I do recall watching it a long time ago. Um,
rarely it's one of the rare films I've actually seen all the way through. So I usually get bored
with them and tune it. I'm not a great one for movies. But, uh, yeah, it's actually, um,
it's, it's, uh, yeah, it's a, it's a mean, though, isn't it? It's a, is it a Christmas movie?
It's not a Christmas movie. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But so it's good, good stuff. So, yeah,
it's a shame we couldn't have been included in the, in the, uh, podcast couldn't have included
in the episode. Yeah. As you say, it's a copyright issue. Although I've had, I've had look
not this month, actually, because I've contacted two different people about changing the copyright
and, uh, one, one of them, uh, sent back, not flattering. Uh, yeah. And not, not a great response.
But anyway, we do our best to stay polite and try again. But sometimes you have look and I've had,
a bit of luck getting people to at least switch to, uh, creative comes license, you know, non-commercial
even is at least better than nothing. Mm-hmm. I don't just don't think many people
fully understand the nuances of it is part of the issue. I, I must admit to sometimes
drawing a blank. I come to, to, uh, think about it. So yeah, I think we've, uh, in the free
software community, a lot of people have been exposed to the concept of licenses and then coming
into, uh, creative commons is a license on a published work. Then that's, that kind of makes sense.
But I think a lot of people just assume, oh, it's on, it's on YouTube. It's, yeah, I can,
I can share it. I can upload it to YouTube. It's, it's fine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. The following day, Norrist. Nor, hit me with that one. I think he pronounced
it, Norrist. Norrist. Okay. Norrist. Norrist. Norrist. Says how I record HDR episodes, some
Python to record short segment of audio. And I presume you will be doing covers of this.
So some guy commented on this saying great show. A very interesting approach to recording HDR shows.
It's not a method that ever occurred to me, but that's what HDR is all about, smiley face.
Great to hear your comments about Mr. Gadgets. He was an HPR stalwart for many years and I for one
miss his contributions. I was listening to some of his shows while working on the tag project and
it was great to hear him. Yeah. Yeah. Excellent. But Norris show is brilliant. I really enjoyed it.
It's a very, very good show and well done and the thinking behind it is, it's really, you know,
bit eye opening, I think really. It's, you know, just seeing how other people do things.
Did you want to give people a summary of what the show was about?
Well, he is not, he wants to record HDR shows. He's been a long time HPR listener and
but he's he's not good at speaking off the cup, which is why he mentioned Mr. Gadgets and
and how he always, he used to just phone in shows and he could just talk in a structured way
just off the top of his head, I think. But yeah, Norris is saying that he can't do that.
So he comes at shows with a script but in some cases he quite likes to do them in small chunks.
So he's written a thing that lets him record a bit and then record another bit and then stick
them all together and make a show and he drives the recording and sticking with scripts and
which use a script as in a written text with markers to separate the chunks. So you can do it.
So, you know, overall that's a fantastic idea, I think.
I am more than mildly interested in this. That's a word. I'm thinking of doing some stuff
like this because if you if you do it this way then you've got your show in the little side of
the way straight away and gives you a structure for it. Very very cool. Very cool.
Yeah, yeah. It's yeah, it's a really interesting way of approaching it. I've yet to look at it.
He's sent in his Python script or script as just the one. But yeah, it I think that's quite a lot
to be learned from what he's doing there. So I've yet to look in detail but still very cool.
Okay, cool. Next one is Jankilator's, has to be one of school. Follow the whales of the Jankis is
all monster to the muddley flux of head torch bordered hands which makes no sense if you didn't
listen to the show. Yeah, yeah. I was I have to make go on why and then do a rewind today to
the beginning where it was. Ah, it's one of spoons. Right. Rebooting my mind to the correct
freedom of reference and the way we go again. Yeah, excellent. The most interesting take on
on the subject. We'll also see a photo graph. Yes, yes. Or perhaps a wood carving might be more
appropriate. Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Excellent, excellent. No comments on that as yes.
I think everybody's still digesting, bro. Yeah. In shock. Yes. Right. The guys are back with
the big Christmas New Year bash with the grumpy. They do a lot of planning. They were able to
squeeze this in on the 29th. And just the future is yes, sent to us will always be open. They, yeah.
Yeah, it was coherent, but as I was listening to it, it was coherent, but looking at the links,
it doesn't seem to be. Yes, it's one of these stream of watches. Yes, thanks. It turns out to be
yes, yes. But it's an enjoyable show, particularly if you're into their brand of humor. Yes,
yes, yes. Oh, it did a great job. It's quite nice for the more bouncing ideas of
each other. That's a good combination, I think. So the next one was today as we recorded this,
fixing a noisy blower motor, which was Archer 72. And what I liked about this almost not only did
you get a fixed bar, there was a before and after, and it was a definite improvement. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, that was that's an important thing, wasn't it? Yeah. I noticed that and
noted it to myself. Yeah. And yeah, he sent in some nice pictures too, which I'm always a great fan
of, as you know. Yeah. Cool. Law hit leaf blowered myself. I have to tell you.
Yeah, we're bordering on the two graveyards behind us, and it's like 247, you know, go
why? You know, it's just like the lads have nothing to do there and then write, okay, go out for
a few hours and blow the leaves away when there's no possible reason to do it. Anyway,
and the last show of the year, I think, rather fittingly, was episode 3500, 3500. That is 3800
shows, Dave. So we're going to be hitting our 4,000 episode next year. Mm-hmm. Wow.
Yeah. Yeah, impressive stuff. Anyway, the show itself was the Gimp. It was about layer modes,
called blending modes, combining layers in different ways. If you don't know about layers,
you should, you should listen to this because it's a very good concept of how layers work.
And as analogies are quite good in this, I have to say.
I'm gonna have to listen yet because I can't see it.
It's been a busy, it's been a busy, busy, future day for me to be 22, 22, 22.
I know, I know. I'm just under the louche and then we're left.
Right, let's do that. Of course, you're going to spend three evenings scripting something
to make sure that we do do that. I guess. I might not actually.
Do we have any comments that are not covered? Oh, last. So there's six comments from four
previous shows apparently. So from the squirrel free software foundation blog,
a total tummy says, where's the down comes down button. What are you talking about? I think
that should be what are you talking about? You seem to think that if a distro moves an
application, the hate is can call. If a distro moves an application, the hate is can call
them names. Part of making a distro is adjusting the curate application list. I never, it
never occurred to me that HVR should have a thumbs down button until I listened to
this piece of work. Next one. Yeah. The next one is from DNT on a show from Klaatu about
XML style it. And DNT says, when I listen to we need to talk about XML, I nodded in agreement.
Working in localization, there's a lot of XL, I have heard what is that to know about. So
I've learned to appreciate it. This week I had a chance to use XML style it that works. I came back
another listen to this. There was some trouble figuring out the deal with XML namespaces. I found
that in XML style, you can just use double slash underscore colon node where the underscore stands
for the default namespace. For now, it's just work. But I didn't need to learn more about namespaces.
Thanks again. Yeah, the four such, four such there is not necessary. You can do it with full
relative paths with the colon underscore colon. But only if you're not dealing with multiple namespaces.
We're doing multiple namespaces. I suppose that's a show there that I need to do.
All right, fine. I'll freaking do it. Yeah, yeah, I did try and learn some of this
few in a number of years ago and then decided not to. I retired instead. So that's what I was
not on the option, Dave. I seem to quite a considerable amount of time going over XML and I have this
massive how-to in work that people occasionally hit the like button on. And yeah, it's just tears,
tears, tears of pain. Anyway, we covered the love books comment I can guess.
We didn't. Yep. We'll go on to the operator who's comment about replace Ken Fallon with a script.
This is on my HPR audio phone, which is it comment I made to operator from HPR.
Do you want to read that one? And then I think I commented back.
All right. Cannot be automated. Oh, shame. Alexa, Siri, neural networks, everything can and
will be automated. I would start with detection of notes, similar how singing auto-tune can make
people almost sound like they can sing. Where the audio is checked for end length of music.
ID, it's near the beginning and matches the intro music by end percent, then they
included the intro. And if the notes don't match, maybe it's some other music or singing, same
for outro. The only limit is yourself. It gives a link to www.zombo.com. I struck a note there.
You make a good point about messing with people's audio. I imagine a fully automated system
that will manage at least 75% of uploads, smiley face. Whatever if you only had to answer one
question, choose an option. The HPR edit your audio, remove noise, detect presence, intro,
detects presence, outro. Question mark, do not edit my audio. Those will be the options that
would be presented, perhaps. To which I replied. Thanks for volunteering. Hi operator.
Thanks for volunteering to do this. Once you have a script up and running image can
announce it to the general population. I intended that to be Tongan cheek, but reading it doesn't seem
to be, but if anyone was thinking I was serious about that, that wasn't. But with regards to
us options, no, no, because we've already seen with the, is your intro a neutral present?
We ask people to fill out a form. It doesn't get filled out properly. Even by seasoned hosts,
in fact, especially by seasoned hosts, actually tend not to pay any attention to the radio
buttons on the forms. No. And Taj, in the most recent, in the most recent Dev random episode,
the RC. Yes, automation of audio is not possible. And I'm agreeing with. Yes,
transcording I can do, but don't go messing with audio. Thank you. It's a deadly thing.
Though I must admit, my son who is into AI big time seems to think that it is possible.
I don't know whether that comes with being an AI person or whether it's reality or not.
Theoretically, probably, or manner of things possible, but the reality has an
nasty bite sometimes. Correct. And I'm worked with Alexi and Siri, and yeah, and yeah,
there did a number of false positives that you get the number of, yeah, I can't really comment on
this, but it is, it is interpansea either. And neural networks are just computer generated if
statements. Sorry. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I'll, I'll bring my son on one time and see what he
cares about. I would really like to hear him do a show actually. Yeah, he's still
still in the early days of his new job. Anyway, there's one more comment from operator said fun.
Yeah, I caught the Spanish episode and I thought I could try a rough translation to English
with the script I wrote just speech to text any media. And he gives a link to a GitHub script
in his GitHub repository. So before detection of standard HPR intro should be possible. And if
I'm lucky, I can detect any non-standard like humming it, et cetera, but I only ever done
basic Dartnet training with images. Yeah, I'll mess on the side. I had a look at that script and
I couldn't see anything in us that would leave me to think that it was going to, yeah, there was
going to be able to do stuff, but then again, it calls another script within us. So I'll have to have
a look. Yeah, I had a quick idea. I personally, for I uploaded my audio, would really appreciate
a D on one fire. So if you can work on a D on an a fire, that would be great. And it should be possible
to do that because each person tends to have their own. And I can't remember what the word is for
that filler sound that people's makes when they're thinking, but that's the thing. You'll
everybody else knows who's listening to my show, knows what my personal ones are.
Yep, yep. Oh, I go to a lot of trouble to to remove them out of mind because my brain now being
as old as it is, can't go as fast as it could. So there's a lot of, oh, I need to think here.
While I do this, I shall just go and and and so on. And but you can spot them because they
they have this strange sort of shape like a sort of small whale.
Yeah, as you scan everything. Oh, there's an unbam. I get that gone. But yes,
so you would think it would be possible to to do that when you, but yeah, wait and see.
So that was that for the shows, moving on to the male list discussion.
And for people who don't know, we tend to discuss policy stuff on the HQR
male list. And basically whenever a question comes in that is above my favorite,
that's then I just asked the host to pass that question on to the male list so I can be discussed there.
And for some reason, I was checking to see, oh, yeah, I wanted to see if the janitors
male was working. So it was no need for a bite. It worked.
It looked like there was an issue with male.
Um, I don't know if it's you or me. Try again. Can you? Yeah, you're still ziling.
Indicate. It could be on my side. How do I stand now?
No, still. The unfortunate thing is probably come out from my recording.
Okay, I'll go through the male list.
Hi, it's that time again. So this is about the New Year show. Not a lot of point because this
will be announced after the New Year show. Policy change removal of by a range permission
when posting to HPR. So yes, this is we require the license from host submitting a show.
As by default, the work is considered to be copyright all rights reserved.
We accept shows posted under the Creative Commons license.
The new free documentation license and anything in the public domain, anything under a
Floss software license. We do not post other copyrighted content even if it is under
a fair use clause. And there's a link to this discussion on why that is.
We do allow shows by a range permissions where the host has explicit permission to submit the show.
But we have never had a show submitted under this clause. I am now proposing that we remove
that option. As even though that would give us permission to host it, it would cause problems for
our listeners. Our podcasts are played in public spaces. And as the content is Creative Commons,
they don't need to pay national license authorities. If we play a content that is not Creative
Commons, then they do. It would also prevent anyone from knowing the rights they have without knowing
the explicit permissions attached to the visual show and being able to interpret what that would
mean to them if they reused it. This clause makes the whole question ambiguous because we flag
our free Creative Commons, but the individual show would not be. To be safe, we would need to remove
these shows from the main feed and make it so that they would only get these special shows
if you explicitly opted in for them. I don't see how this would benefit anyone
as no one would be subscribed to this feed. So the proposed change is to remove that text and replace
it with. If you are redistribution, really distributing under another Creative Commons license,
new free documentation license, public trainer floss, software license, then please signal that
when you upload your show, we do not post other copyrighted content, even if it is made available
under fair use or by the ranged permission. So the feedback on that,
James T says, sounds good, and avoids a legal challenge. Kevin O'Brien, I'm in favor of
Use Creative Commons and Normal Content for years. Rome says, I am for it best to do it now before
somebody does a show, does submitted a show by ranged permissions. Andrew Kameh and McNally,
I have two M in favour, a straightforward policy, but I confess I'm now thinking of quickly submitting
a by-eranged permission show only because Rome put the idea in my head.
Sporus definitely sounds like the right thing to do to avoid potential future issues. I'm having
a hard time thinking of only downsides and I tend to be the person to pick apart proposals at work.
Tatoo, I'm in favour, keep it simple, keep it open.
X1 or 1, I2, I'm in favour of this change. Chris Monochromic says, given the fact that each
and every show carries an explicit copyright notice even if submitted under the default license.
Hi. Claudio says, hi all throwing in my vote for this change definitely will be for the better
and provides protection as well as making sure the content remains freely accessible.
Mark Roy, some in favour also.
That's pretty much the feedback on that. Okay, and then Chris requested that we
from Monochromic from Linux and most says, hi admins, every considering using
Alexa and Tript search for HGPS for the website. I'm putting a redirect in place to avoid
browser security warnings to which I said we do have it in place and an automatic redirect.
I would like to get people's feeling on an automatic redirect more or less summarising.
John sprigs says, better search engine optimisation and reduce the risks of intercept and gives examples
where that's happened. Yeah. Kevin O'Brien says he uses HGPS everywhere in his browser so he
automatically gets redirected. Claudio says he is an edge case where he has vintage computers
accessing the site. And John replies back to Kevin saying that the EFF has deprecated
HGPS everywhere. And then we had Monochromic 7 saying linking to 2014 article from Google devs
about how they're going to rank HGPS sites more than HGTP sites.
And so I can cover with John and other people that the advantages of HGPS far outweigh
the disadvantages to which I reply that John had two points. Both of his points are covered by
the fact that we have HGTPs already in place. Kevin pointed out that he has an extension.
John pointed out that the EFF page says now the world is closer with mainstream browsers offering
native support for HGTPs only mode. And I pointed out that the article from Google goes back
seven years and in that time we've been contacted an awful lot by Google. Anytime Google changes
the policy, in fact we get an email saying that our sites isn't doing this or doing that
according to them. I do want to point out that Claudio's I'm summarizing here. Claudio's vintage
computer thing is it's kind of valid because there are a lot of local IoT devices that don't
necessarily have certs that would allow them to connect. And I think that's going to become a
bigger problem here in the future where if you ever load up Windows 95 or a retro computer and
try to browse the internet now, how much of a problem that is. Again, my point is Google don't seem
to be worried about it and the EFF doesn't seem to be worried about having a HGTP only sites. So
what's the point again? What am I missing? Matt says I would prefer the HGTP site to be only
available on I don't care about security.hackerpublicradio.org. To which I reply that redirectors like
strip SSL take a HGTP connection and basically take advantage of these HGTPs redirects and use it
to their advantage to do a man on the middle attack. Then we would need to use a thing called
HST which is HGTP strict transport security which is a header that you can put in new URLs to
a header that you can put in say that you require HGTPs. And then I bring up the point of are we going
to do browser redirects but what about the pod catcher clients and I really kind of want to know
why we're doing this now and not in 2014. John the nice guy gives me some advice about UUID's
yes John I hear you and when you're on the back end of three or four terabytes of data you got
to be a bit careful. So D&T says there are the government website on HST clearly advises against
redirecting HGTP to HGTPs because it doesn't deliver the default security and then goes on about
maybe we shouldn't implement it and but skip the preload which might be inclined to do.
And then Mag gives some more information on on the maxh etc and so D&T actually noticed that
the navigation bar on HPR was hard-coded with HGTP which we fixed and I subsequently noticed
when was it today or yesterday obviously we'll get to that one in a minute and yeah I say
some of the padlocks saying parts of this page are not secure so when we went through and fixed
all the all the websites itself they show notes themselves contain images and we're going through
a process of fixing those over the holidays so that's a bit of a change that we need to be a
little bit careful about doing and Chris has a description about mana in the middle of tech with
the mp3 or augfeed but Latu has already hacked us using a similar method so yeah we're never
going to be secure but Karl has a recommendations for a web server that does HGTPs
and basically was looking at the same issue himself so summary is as of now the main website
has been modified to be HGTPs links well modified to be if you come on HGTPs the links are all HGTPs
most of the images will probably redirect to the HGTPs website we'll see how we're going to do that
in the fullness of time. Any comments there Dave? No not really I mean there's a bit of work to go
through the entire database and make changes but we're going to tackle that soon as we can we can
get the resources to do it we can do stuff. Yes very good and
even I noticed that even though I didn't change any of the RSS feeds that was sufficient to
retrigger all the recent show postings to mastodons so I am very concerned about changing the RSS
feed stage. In fact I don't see the point someone would really have to convince me with a strong
argument as to why that would be useful people are more than welcome to I can do a separate HGTPs
feed that people can subscribe to if they wish perhaps that's the way forward and you know
we'll let us settle until after the new year show we'll see come back to this one again in
January. People's thoughts on this would be appreciated but I'm not going to I'd like to hear
I'm not going to change it just because everybody else is doing it I want to know a reason we have
a very specific use case on HPR everything we do is in the oven anyway so yes there's a reason
to have a HGTPs website which we do so and we should provide an option for people to download
their shows I've asked over HGTPs. Is that going to be a separate feed? Sissy to himself?
Perhaps, perhaps. Anywho? I to the mailing list I believe the following policy changes have
be accepted and will be made over the holiday period this is your last chance to give feedback
his field will move from hash orcast planus will move to hash orcast planus on libera
and we will also include links to the matrix and mastodon etc and a link to the discussion of that
existing shows will be flagged with the current version of the
Creative Commons license and new shows will start defaulting to attribution forward at all
international license cc by essay 4.0 so that's not correct in the mailing list by the way
cc by essay okay the intro natural will be changed and the upload form will remove the option to
add the intro natural and I've requested some recording time with my wife to record a new intro
or a new outro and the most recent one removal of by arrange permission when posting to hp or
so if you have objections to any of those please contact us immediately thank you
going to be having a think about the commission news we had a request by Tony and mad swingy about
the upcoming new year show or we're going to update the website for a bit some bugs
and that was that anything to add Dave oh no no that seems to be
yeah indeed chance I'm not sure if I'm still mistoating I was keeping my eye on my side yeah
yeah but it could be me yeah yeah shall I do the any other business the older hp or shows on
archive.org there were 125 additional shows in the range of 1 to 8 7 0 have been uploaded
and the number of shows left to upload now is 244 excellent work I still need to have a look
at that one issue that you had half another chance yet and I would like to thank I'll just do
them all myself Dave then if that's okay I would like to thank all the hosts that submitted shows
this year to be frank trumpet john windigo CRVS or 9L arftab deep gig baza tim timmy tojet anonymous
enigma tajsar polkwork clinton roi honky mugu swift 110 kogo some guy in the internet
tray be easy placke zenn florter 2 daniel piercens nai nai illosa dev moris platu black carnal andru
conway jwp dune dnt mr x jesra the lovebug minix brine in ohio metatronic sickflop hacker defol
ron quick new operator claudio maranda john culp norest one of spoons archer 72 tukatoruto
ken fallon monochromic ahuka and of course the hbr volunteers that's it Dave are you going to
be on the show tomorrow yes i plan to put it in the morning probably okay that's it everybody tune
in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker public radio you've been listening to
hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org today's show was contributed by an hbr listener like
if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is hosting for hbr this kindly provided by an honest host dot com the internet
archive and our sync dot net unless otherwise stated today's show is released under creative
commons attribution share like three dot o license
