Episode: 3741
Title: HPR3741: HPR Community News for November 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3741/hpr3741.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:53:31

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,741 from Monday the 5th of December 2022.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for November 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 55 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in November
2022.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today it's Community News for November 2022, joining me as ever is...
Poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor, poor
poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor
poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor
resolution for January 2020, too, was recorded a show for HBUR. Get your finger out and do that.
Thank you very much. Have a nice day. Goodbye. Yes, yes, I echo that.
Okay, for those of you who don't know, HBUR is community podcast, where the shows are
submitted by people like you. And one of the holes that stood up to the place was will be introduced
by Dave. We had a new host this month. And the name is, I believe, I haven't actually heard
this person pronounce their own. They forgot to introduce the songs. We'll ask them to do that
in the future, but I read it as King Easy. So yeah, yeah, it looks like King Weezy, but they go,
King Easy. So we'll be King Easy. Thank you very much. Super. So what we do here on this show is
Dave and I are the janitors here on HBUR. We've put down our mobs for a while and have a quick
chit chat about the goings on, the shows that were posted, anything else that we've been working on
or people who've been talking to us about our updates. So before we have furthered here,
let's talk about last month's show. It's starting with video editing with
shot costs on a low end PC, but miss your X. Nice to hear Mr X again. And this is quite
interesting. I never heard of this particular bit of software. I, yeah, so it sounds quite
intriguing. I must go and look, I've meant to, but I haven't done it. I have been playing with
Kaden live recently and stick together things that people send me on Telegram.
Maybe shot cuts easier. I've used it in the past from what Mr X says, it may have improved
significantly. So we'll go with that. It was also, yeah, I'm also, you know, explaining
the use of a video editor on an audio podcast might seem a bit strange, but this is the man
who was able to teach people how to solder using a podcast. So. So do we have any comments
on that one, Dave? No, commenters are obviously too busy recording shows, which is excellent.
Making Ansible Playbooks to configure single sign-on for popular open source applications.
Now this is one that I'm, uh, this is by your room, uh, fellow Naderlander, and uh, he has a
way there to, he's currently sports Bitworn, Jenkins, GitLab, Keeloke, Next Cloud,
Auto, XWiki and Zebit, Zebix. Fantastic little project there. Not something that I'm going to be
using now, but it is something that I have in my to-do list. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't really need
single sign-on on my system here because it's just me. But it's, uh, it's a fascinating thing. I was
involved in this at work, um, and we didn't do anything like that. So, yeah, that, that, it was
most interesting. Could it mean a bit longer? I mean, I'm complaining, which is great to have,
but a little bit more. I wrote down, well, I wish I'd, wish I'd heard more about this. It's
fascinating, but anyway, thanks to the shop. How's your good idea there, Yerun? Uh, and show,
basically, yeah, Bitmore info on this will be great. Maybe I'll just set it up for Next Cloud.
That might be a good, uh, you know, taking this as an example. Yeah, yeah. That is an application,
isn't it? Yeah, for single sign-on. Yeah. Good.
Following David, HBR News, InfoSec, the Lama Joe Security, by some guy on the internet.
Uh, those me and the HBR helicopter. Okay, fun. So tell me time in the background.
Thank you, Dave. This is, uh, what type of squatting is and how Spamers users, I did come across
an article about this, but it is, it's actually scary this. I, there is really, with some of the
type sets, there is no way to know that it's not the website that you think it's going to be.
Yeah, it used to be bad in the early days because you could use different fonts and stuff,
I think. And you know, you could rely on, on the font, but now know that Unicodes here,
it could, it really can be anything, can't it? Yeah, yeah. So yes, we have a comment from,
shall I start the comments? Please, please, yeah. Sends in a message, another form of typo squatting,
and it mentions a, another way of typo squatting and sends a YouTube link, which I have to,
I have to confess, I haven't actually looked at, but yeah, something we should all check out.
So the following day, we had the next in our DOS series via hookah, uh, practicing,
DOS, dot, button, sorry, practicing batch files with echo. You can see how,
potentially poor we are a podcasting, Dave. I mean, surely,
the people, we're bringing this down here. Anyway, DOS is a general algorithm for
this copper region system. Anyway, this is part of the DOS series, and this is using the echo command
in batch files, which I have used quite a lot in the day. So it's pretty, pretty cool.
Yeah, yeah, it's good to know, very good to know. It's, um, good, no, no comments on this one,
but yeah, we, I think we all appreciate it very much. And the following day, we had the community news,
where Archer 72 is calling us a weirdo, apparently. Thank you very much.
Keeps sending shows and I don't mind. Weirdos can, great t-shirt idea, hang around HBR and become
a weirdo. Yeah. That's, this was some, some guy on the internet, so comments about, uh,
he's been now, he's involved with HBR, he's become a weirdo to all his friends or something to
interact with. I love it. I would say we brilliant.
Batch snippet plurals and messages, how to use English singular plural words and messages.
And I'm sure the audience out there can only ascribe this to one person.
So, who the hell would do this?
Yes, next to me, how do I cut my finger in the house?
Ron says, great tip. I have used new guest text utilities in projects. I didn't realize it was
available in Batch. I understand that irritating feeling when seeing one file's processed or whatever
object action is happening. I often put the plural in parenthesis, so it's one file brackets s
processed. Do like your script Dave, but we'll probably take advantage of n get text if it is
already on my machine. However, your Batch function would be more portable if writing the script
for wider distribution. Good. So, I said in reply, thanks Ron. I also encountered get text before,
but it never had any need to use it. I was surprised and pleased to find a command line interface
to the package as well and hoped it might be of interest. I have used the pearl module, which is
quite complex, lingua, en, inflect. Now it replaced by lingua, en, inflection, which is very
comprehensive. It even goes as far as brother and brother and in terms of plural. I like to show
brother and brother. Yes, you're not alone. You're not alone. More HPR news for the community.
And I think some guy in the internet is looking for a catchy title for these things.
This one was about stress analysis, your attack surface, and user space where Netflix
cracks down on three loaders and Samsung implements a private blockchain to link devices,
as well as talking about the Juno tablets, which was actually a nice addition to their
to their shows. Yeah, yeah, it's good. It's good. The details of the Juno tablet looked intriguing.
So there were no comments on that one. The next day we had archer 72, my top Android applications.
They were AIO launcher, which I haven't tried. I don't want to mess with launchers to be pretty
honest with you. Termox, which I use all the time. QK SMS messenger, which I don't use SMS is
that a lot that much. That's a lot of word not is. I don't use SMS loss anymore. Say Firefox,
Opera Brave, Clear Scan, PDF scanner, and optical character recognition, which has got a donation
option, a tenant pod, Tuskegee, K9, Viber. What did you say Viber was again?
I remember looking at it. Yeah, I don't know, I don't remember. Audio recorder,
explore, jlpn, file manager, liberate ebook reader, and a multi-timer. And of course the US
hand radio bands. So Viber for mobile is a desktop. Your desktop synced to your mobile account
to activate Viber features. Yeah, seems to be a sort of messaging application. Multi-platform,
all the same. Okay, I'd throw it off. Yeah, maybe I did look at it because I use KDE Connect.
So when things happen on my phone, I get pop-ups on my Linux workstation screen and that type of
stuff. You can shunt files around and stuff. Yeah, maybe just if it's any better. But yeah,
interesting. So the following day was another Android one. From me, OSM, Android,
public transport, and we're showing you how to use OSM, Android, how to display transit routes,
so public transport in any given location. Which I've used to know.
Loose, since then. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it looks really intriguing. I did have a look on the
version I have installed here and yep, it tells me where the bus tops are. Which busses you can catch
there and stuff. So yeah, it's looking good. So it works for trains as well and the like,
the thing I hate about buses other than being buses is that you're, you know, you go to a new
location. If you're taking a tram, the tram is following the lines. It can't deviate off, you know what I mean?
A train follows the line. It can't deviate off, but sure as anything, you know, you need to get up
but get off a bus stop C, yeah. And you're traveling along in it's bus stop A and then bus stop B,
and then all of a sudden you're a bus stop D because there's road works. And then you go,
is this bus stop D or did I miss that? And then you're watching all the advertisements coming
around and the thing. And then you see, oh, it's bus stop E coming up. So now you're two bus
stops further down. So that's why this sort of thing is absolutely perfect. That's where the
bus stop is. That's where it should be. And if, if even, if they don't stop, then I can, I can show
to them. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have done that with, I think it was an open street map because you
can track your movements with it, can't you? Can you actually see? Yeah, it's a real time.
Because yeah, I've been to the wild parts of Edinburgh and not knowing where to get off
for where I want to be. And knowing approximately where it should be. And, you know, looking at
the window, you can't work it out, but looking at your phone, you can say, oh, yeah, it should be
at this junction here. That type of thing. Yeah. Yeah, it's really good for that. So yeah, very cool.
So it's my turn to do comment. I think we have one from Kevin O'Brien who says,
useful and timely. Good show with useful information. We need to do everything to help people
use public transportation. Something I saw on the internet, a developed country is not one where
the poor drive cars is one where the rich use public transportation. Very good. That's a teacher
right there. Indeed. Following day, breaches ever reaching a by lurking prion, a short
episode about the reaching effects of breaches and forgotten accounts. This was a bit of an eye
opener to me after a minute. So yeah, quite good. Find out. Yeah, I imagine all the accounts
that have been breached over time. I still occasionally get people probing my mail on the basis that
they have access to a password I had on an old system. I can't remember what it was even
now. Something ages and ages ago. I can't remember. It's not coming to mind. But yeah, they know
the password because I haven't used the account for years. And I've deleted the account. And
the password was a 30 character one. But it still haunts me. There's no danger there at all.
But these these bums are still out there trying to to wind me up about it, you know.
Yep. So there was one comment on that by Hammeron. Hammeron, I guess. Hammeron, figured. Old live
journal. I used to love live journal years ago. They changed ownership and terms of service.
I did not agree with the new terms of service. And I wanted to delete my account. But I cannot
access this unless I agree to the change terms of service first. So the accounts sit stormant.
Anyone have any thoughts on this? Actually, yes. You write a letter on paper to them and you ask
them to shut your account. Ideally, you write a letter from a European country and you ask them
to shut your account. If you're in a European country, you have a lot more control because you
can't take the privacy officer directly. Now, they may be requiring you to prove that you are
who you see where you are. I once was trying to shut down the account because they have my email
address. And in order to lodge the complaint, they needed my email address, my home phone number,
my living address, my a copy of my passport. Yeah, exactly. So a quick call to the
privacy officer put a put that one to bed. Yeah, wow. These people always grab in the sort of data
because data is money these days, isn't it? Indeed.
Following day, expanding your file system with LVM, which is Linux, volume manager,
Ron describes adding a new hard drive to his work computer and expanding his file system.
And this had me worried, very worried, because he has a hard disk and then he has another hard
disk and then he made one big hard disk of both. So now, if either hard disk goes, you've lost
both hard disks. I don't know, maybe I'm a bit paranoid about that, but yeah, okay, fair enough.
Yeah, we use it work way back. And then we didn't use that anymore, we use alternatives, but I
have set it up on a machine here in the past, but it, the machine became unusable in the end,
not nothing to do with that, but yeah, I'm happier just with individual disks, to be honest,
at the moment. So yeah, I would have some, some qualms. You need some pretty spectacular backups
and rating and stuff to be, to be happy about you, I would think.
Yeah, but on the other hand, what's a, like, 256 disk versus a 500 disk, it's like two,
250 disks, disks together. So I was thinking about that, oh, no, you shouldn't do that, but then on
the other hand, yeah, you're not doubling your risk, I suppose, your, yeah, you're increasing your
risk by doing it, but on the other hand, if you've got to go back up in place, you've got to go back
up in place for everything. So what does the model? Yeah. Yeah, it's, I mean, it does give you some
advantages in having a sort of potentially infinite amount of disk, you know, infinite really,
but something that can just grow and grow as you, as you need it to. But yeah, yeah, I have mixed
feelings about it, to be honest. But these young ones, Dave, live free. Yeah, yeah. So we have a,
it's my turn to comment. Yeah, yeah. Zenflow to two says, love server problems. I run open
BSD now for about 14 years. Love just show reminded me somewhat my own problems.
There you go. Next day we had, by binnercy, a Pinebook Pro review. And if I'm not mistaken,
sneaky old BSD popped its nose in here as well. As it does. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Oh, there it is.
BSD. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think we've been taken over by BSD, Dave.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's good to have alternatives.
True. At least the submatules, you know. True. This, this was a doozy of a show,
it's a massively long and full of, full of excellent detail. It, I got the message that Pinebook
Pro is for hackers. He says it in the almost exactly that way. Not really a daily use machine.
So yeah, I, I'm slightly tempted, but finally, I don't have enough hours in the day,
they say. Well, maybe I have a, I have a Pinebook here. If you want that,
the keyboard's a Trojus, but if you want it for hacking, feel free to have it. I can send it over.
Have a thing. Have a thing, Dave. I mean, there are lots of comments on this one.
Sorry, I could go off. Oh, sorry. No, it was your turn, actually, to do. Was it?
Yeah, I did. Then Flotter 2 said, I like the show. I like the show and I'm a squirrel who lives in
a marketical forest in Oklahoma, and I use a 149 dollar Chromebook for my main rig now.
There should be a segment of the human race, which suffers like this for fun.
And one of Spoon's comes in with a comment saying programmable ROM.
No, no, you can't, you can't introduce them as one of Spoon's. It's one of Spoon's.
I just don't know what the game is that you play with with that anyway.
Yeah, programmable ROM. I played with O'Droids and the Ubuntu phone, then compiled linear
GOS and flashed Android, so I recognised the territory. I've been tempted by bus pirates and
oscilloscopes, but I remember that risk V devices are on the horizon, so maybe I should read through
those instructional sets and avoid the hard work. And B says Ruck Chip. Thanks for the benchmarking.
Hopefully, they'll release an updated version board with RK3580's and more RAM.
Interesting, yeah. SunZoo says available distros. Hi, nice show. Thanks, therefore,
you mentioned the Linux kernel may handle the CPU setup better than BSD's, so I want to mention
the Slackware Arch64, which occasionally supports the PineBook. Slackware is relative BSD like it
uses Sysv in it instead of SystemD, for example, and you could get the advantage of the Linux
kernels, hardware compatibility. Long story short, if you'd like to check it out,
here's the link and here's the link to Slackware and the PineBook Pro. It's currently only the
current version, but I ran it on my Raspberry Pi 4. It's not broken until I ran it. SunZoo, yeah.
Okay, the following day we had contributing to Super Tux-Cart by Celeste and loads of links
about the game and they were explaining the workflow to contribute to a flask game with some
media assets, rather immediately the first thing that jumps out as one, but yeah, it's good to know,
good to know. And D&T says, car rambling, great show. It's a good idea to record a show by
rambling during your drive. Perhaps even a car rambling series will be worth thinking about.
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I made you know that it was recorded while driving. I'm always
surprised that people can can sand, you know, reasonable and have joint together thoughts
under those circumstances. I can't do the joint together, just sitting here in the chair.
As I take the train to work, I'm a bit lulled to do a HPR show. Hi everybody, you're
stucker public radio. A lot of orange turns are handed to look. People do their makeup. I've seen
loads of strange things. I've seen people changing, changing from work clothes to party clothes
in the train. All right. One time, say? Yeah. How are you going to do that bit? Ah, okay, very clever.
Gentlemen, is it your goal or my goal, dude? I did. I think it's yours actually because I did the
last one. Damn, customer. Presumably referring to dikes and other water retention stuff.
I really need to find a good way of keeping notes about podcasts I listened to on the go.
This was an episode with some backstory on Hoover Dam. Yeah. I really enjoyed that. Oh, actually,
you're supposed to say damn. Damn. No, so it was interesting. I, um, when I took my kids to
America 2011, it was we, one of the bits that we drove around was through Arizona from Las Vegas
to the Grand Canyon. And we sort of fiddled around there a bit, followed Route 66 as
a hooker did. And so we saw some of those sorts of areas, but not enough, I would love to see more.
So I was looking at the map and I understood where he was talking about when he was.
I love these travel shows, actually, because I always have to run to a map and
the place he's he's talking about. And, you know, see if I get some pictures or whatever.
And it is a great insight into the journey that he's taking. Excellent stuff.
Living precariously through someone else. That's what we're all about. Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Speech recognition in Caden Live. And this was done by a D&T.
And how to get speech recognition to Scruton.
Can we could do some of that here? How to get some speech recognition to
to describe your clips in Caden Live? And you do the first comment?
So it's from Celeste who said, didn't know the feature. Thanks, I completely missed this new feature.
Caden Live has improved so much in the last years. But minute for 40, yep, it's both free as in
price. Both Libra open source. And the next comment was by D&T Replay. Both Libra and open source.
Yes, I used a abundance of caution here to be honest. I only assume Caden Live is open source
let alone free software. So I'm gonna try not to walk around saying things are free software.
I once heard a very well-meaning person say that Adobe Bridge was free as in speech software.
This was in Portuguese in which there can be no ambiguity between free as in beer and free as in
speech. I nearly fell out of my chair. Thanks for your comments Celeste. Yeah, the ambiguity of English
in this respect is unfortunate. To be honest, the only reason we're with this problem,
and I've done a show about this. The only reason we have this problem is because somebody thought
it was funny. And it was a stupid name to pick. It's a bug and it's a waste of time.
And anybody who says the argument about, oh, it only takes five minutes to explain to somebody
about, yeah, but in that five minutes you prove yourself to be a plunker. Whereas you could be
actually explaining how important the whole free software is. If you add a two additional
letters, freedom software, why hell? I surely do understand why that's an important thing.
Thank you very much. I can get it into my head. What type of software it is? No, it has to be a joke.
Yeah, no, no. And I also think that with naming of projects, for example, yeah, I won't go into
them, but this is a rant. It's just you're making it more difficult to find your project. You're
making it more difficult for people. You're putting time and effort into something and you're making
it more difficult. There's enough barriers in a way without all the crap that we're putting
on top ourselves. Yes, yes, yes. I have been guilty of naming projects, stupid, stupid names.
It seemed like a good joke at the time, but a year down the road, you were very, very cringy and
scared of ever mentioning it again. And yeah, don't do it. Yeah, I said, and it's hard to name
projects, but yeah, something as important as that, then outsource it to somebody. Yeah.
I mean, it's not just freely for software. There's somebody who has named a kitchen appliance
a cougar. Now, Dave, how would you think that would be a cougar? Something that cooks for the
dimension? Exactly. It's a kitchen appliance alright, but not another or a cougar, which is the
generic name for that item in which you bake something in every Irish kitchen. No, it's a water
tap that provides you with scalding hot water when you need it and hot and cold water.
And they call it a cougar, because they're fricking morons, Dave.
Yes, yes, yes, yes. And it was named like that back in the
1800s before we had a thing called the internet, but they knew it would have zero
Google ability. And yet, the name did that. I should have called it on a faithful or something.
Hot water tap. Yeah. Yeah. Get one out. It's bloody hot.
Anyway. Oh, that was a bit of a rant. Oh, and by the way, if you completely disagree with
anything I'm saying, and you hoop my guts right now, polls, record a show and send it in.
Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Excellent. Next one, my experience owning an Atari Jaguar.
And I thought, well, this was going to be one of the, you know, your car series ones,
where my first car was an Atari Jaguar, but actually, no, it turned out to be a computer.
Yeah, not heard of this one at all, but then I wouldn't have done really, because I'm not
into that sort of thing. But even my, my son hasn't, has never mentioned it.
Never, never heard of it, actually. It sounds, sounds very cool. These things, when you look at
them closely, are rather cleverly built and have interesting features and stuff.
Yeah. So it's good to know. I hope video console for anybody not knowing.
So there's an awful lot since I've moved to mass. I've been on master and a lot of people
are into retro game and restoring these consoles. That's in cats. Cats appear to be everywhere.
Yeah, yeah. I joined my daughters on master on that and we both joined cats of master on
and you get absolutely drowned by cat pictures. So yeah, cool.
Is she on my, uh, Orzmi, a show list?
She kept talking about how she was going to do a show. Well, I've said it earlier this year,
but she's got distracted, I don't know. Next time I see it, which will be at Christmas, I will
say to her about during that show you mentioned. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. We should, if you accidentally
uh, ping her and with my handle on there, I can be sure to remind her on a regular basis.
Is she might never speak to me again? See, it's a win-win!
Smite the battleground of the gods. And I was listening to this while I was cleaning out the
turf bunker for my mother. I don't know. I'm wondering should I do a show about turf, actually,
but, uh, I don't know. Probably yes, if I was, now that he goes on saying this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I know the basic principles of, uh, of turf firs and stuff like that. Of course,
because I come from that era. But, uh, it would be fascinating to know more. Yep. I'll, uh,
I'll have a thank you the next time I'm back in Pattiland. Lurking Pryon said, let's do a show.
Hit me up and let's do a show or six. Cool, cool, cool. Yes. And some guy on the internet says,
sure, I'm game, are you on element struck matrix? The HPR room, I'm also a master's on. We can use
the HPR mumble server to record. So, I know that, uh, since then Lurking Pryon is on master's on.
And so, so hopefully there will be an interesting, uh, show coming from the two of them in due course.
So, uh, I know to you, this internet super server proving that Slackware is an inferior operating system.
See, Dave? See what it did there, Dave? That doesn't get the Slackware people out of the way.
Can you hear people typing already? I don't want them typing or welcome recording.
So, right in the notes, they're going to say, yeah, yeah, yeah. I let the this super,
the internet super server. And I had never really considered this so much. But this actually
convinced me there are loads of occasions where I would use this. Yeah, yeah, it's actually an
amazing idea. I, I found it. Um, I was, I had a, a brief conversation with, uh,
been I see about this. Sorry, I'm coughing. Yeah, the mute on, um, and, uh, I had, we had
an equipment of, of, um, I did on the BMS system that I managed and I used that a fair bit for
all manner of things. Um, so you could, you could ask it for a password and there was a password
generator behind a port, one of the, one of the range above the normal range. And, uh, so you
get a password from it and you could, you could do, it was also used as part of the student registration
system. They would come, new students would arrive on campus, they would walk up to a PC, they
would hit something or other to start up an application, an application, let them enter their
details and get stuff about there, their, um, login and stuff and set a password. And that was
all done by an, a, a, a program running on the, on the, um, Windows machine, which sent, uh,
a blob of data to, and I need to, um, port for the specific purpose, just a single packet.
This thing received and it sent back an acknowledgement and, uh, and okay, when it had done the,
the business and that was so easy to write compared to other things. It was lovely. It was really
good. So yeah, yeah, I love it. It's really nice thing. So what it does is it makes writing programs
that talk over the network super easy. So rather than having to have a web server and all sorts.
And it also goes over SSL, no doubt you sent passwords over SSL did because sent
in when pure text over the network will be bitsy. But there were single use password and
enter changing and stuff. But yeah, all right. Yeah. It was, it was the, it was the days. It was the
90s, 90s. But yeah, we were telling it in everywhere. Yeah, merrily.
Sinza says, great show. I always like your shows, but I was wanting to work with
netBSD INAD, which seems to be similar to OpenBSD cousin for a personal project of mine.
This show came at the right time and I learned a lot. See, David, it's a conspiracy. It's a conspiracy
might be the years. The BSD is at the gates. It's a large letting people when you leave it.
And all these VMS people are, that's what I want to find. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
Then Flotus says, Zenfoto 2. Love this, he says. Love OpenBSD. Try
Figuator sometime, smiley face. Think it's how you pronounce it. Isn't it Figuator? Yeah,
that's how he pronounced it. It's our call Figuator, which is an OpenBSD 7.2 first released in
October. Don't copy, right? It just sort of is. It's an OpenBSD version.
So the next one is the i3 tying window manager. Again, from archers 7.2, lots of the same names
coming up people, lots of the same names. These people are not paid professional holes yet.
There are fellow people who have also busy lives who also have taken a few minutes out to record
a show. Yeah, please share the burden. Thank you. Absolutely. i3 is a lightways
tiling window manager. And by tiling window manager, we mean div.
We mean one where you say, give me a window and it appears on your screen and then you say,
give me another window and it slots itself alongside and another window and that slots.
And they do things like size and fill the space up and other fun things like that. Yeah,
yeah, they're cool. They're cool. It's pretty much what they all did back in the day, I think.
Yeah, they're all using TWM and things like that. It's not a window. It's not a tiling thing.
Yeah, the dots overlap, so nothing is hidden. It's all right there. Yeah, yeah, it's cool.
It is. I did not know that you could run i3 with KDE. That was a revelation.
And I'd like, yeah, I've got a note to myself to try some of this to see
because I have the case where I have eight virtual desktops and two monitors, so that's
16 desktops. And mostly they just have one thing on them, but when I want to have a bunch of things,
it's such a pain to have to lay them out so that this one takes half the screen and that one
takes the rest of the screen and whatever. Be lovely if you could just say, right, you
do sit over there and you share the space with it and stuff, and it would just all happen
automatically. So don't know if I'm expecting too much here, but it would be great.
Yeah, following day we had a show by Klatu, and it was either going to be Klatu or you that did
this show about metastatic words, blah, blah, blah literally.
Cool. And having noted what a metastatic word was, I was very interested in hearing this show,
and it's about this food barba's thing, which I had been embarrassingly long time wondering what
the hell food barba's was. And it's very difficult to search for because all example programs have
got food barba's in it. And it was only on one of the new world order shows that Klatu mentioned
in passing, oh yeah, the food barba's is just a placeholder, you know, that you use like example.com
for a domain name when running a program. Ah, thank you. And this show explains that. So this
will now be linked anytime I need to explain food barba's, blah, blah. No, no, it's great. It is
important. I mean, it's always been an issue with writing documentation. One of the things,
my first job in IT was one where I did did documentation. And you had to write things like
the command is such and such a thing. And you had to sort of put a token that meant here's where you
put the variable item that you want to work with. And we spent a lot of time in that department
working at what was the best way of signifying this. We ended up using, because this was this was
in the days of typing. And we got the typist to put sort of greater than less than greater
sign, land signs around it diamond brackets as we tended to call them around a word that says,
you know, name of your program or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But yeah, so that has been a problem
to have some meta syntactic symbol that you can use in that context. So it is an important thing.
I think British English speakers tend not to use food barba as at least in my experience. They tend
to use other silly more silly words, you know, like Apple, Carrot, Banana or something. The things I've
seen documented have used those sorts of things. And there's a thing about the Brits have got this
thing about rhubarb for some reason. Yeah, rhubarb rhubarb means is a sort of meta syntactic word.
And yeah, it means just sort of generic noises that people make or maybe speech is
in distinct or something, which is what blah, blah, blah really is in distinct speech. No, no, no,
rhubarb has a rhubarb has a history because it's used in the theater. It gives the murmuring sound
in the background where people are having a conversation and you want them to be a general feeling
that people are having a conversation. So you talk rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb and it gives the
various different tones of when it interacts, it sounds remarkably like people are having genuine
conversations. Or that could be just a something I met up in me. Who rules? You need somebody to
researches and I'm sure about us. Indeed, indeed, yes, I'm looking forward to the meta syntactic
rhubarb show. Very soon. Anyway, I just found a bolt underneath my chair, which I don't know if
I should be worried about or not. It's not the famous bolt from a movie, is it? No, no, no, no,
plume. Okay, review of Cobal Libra H20e reader. Yes, these are, this is a good show and I have
a version of this, I think, or something from the same family. Yeah, I knew of them, I knew the name,
but I've never researched them. I don't think the Libra H20e is available in any more, but there's
quite a range of others. In fact, I mentioned it to my family saying there's one called the Cobal
Clara and just just by by the by, so I taught his name. So she's going to ask for one soon, I'm
sure. I think that's the one I have, and it's possible to, you know, put your own firmware and
stuff on the DVD, but it's also just simpler to come up with a random email address and register
at the one time and then turn off Wi-Fi after that. Yeah, yeah, but I'm intrigued to find out
more about it actually. A reading tablet would be nice for the same reason that Rome speaks about.
Yeah, I prefer a preferred book myself, but on the other hand, if you've gone traveling or
wherever, it's nice to have all the wigs available. Yeah, yeah. How are you? No comments on that
as yet. It was late in the month, so people may need some time to respond. And the following day
we had the last one was the K-My Money on KDE. This was the new show by King HZ and the only way
to correct our pronunciation of that name is to send another show where you refer to the correct
pronunciation. Yes, yes. And use schedule tasks, jump from two to three because three had a
corruption in the recording. Okay, this was interesting. I think, though, due to the way
tax, there's no pay as you earn tax in the US as far as I understand it, people need this a lot
more than other European countries where at least in my experience where your tax is assumed
is paid at source. So there's a lot less tax to be done. And although this was related to checks as
all, I haven't seen the checks since I left Ireland. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's very true. It's all
about waving cards at things these days, or throwing something. But still, I have no real need for
for such a thing anymore, but it does sound quite interesting. The fact that it know you can tell
it about recurrent payments and that type of thing would be would be very helpful. You know,
the thing that reminds you to pay something, well, if you don't want to set up some sort of
standing order or a duration debit or those types of things. So yeah, that sounds intriguing.
You just so happened that I was listening to new world order today. In fact, I'm way behind
with all my podcasts. And um, uh, um, Claudia was talking about, came my money in his list of
packages. He got up to it. And he was saying that if you're setting it up for New Zealand, it
doesn't, doesn't know about New Zealand or Australia, which caused me some, some puzzlement have to say.
Happened that quite a long time, you know. Well, you know, there, it's an, apparently, it's an
internet myth that is a New Zealand doesn't exist or is that, uh, is that nowhere somewhere?
Yeah, yeah. It's not, not an important fact. It's intriguing.
Okay, but cool show, uh, taking an application, reviewing it, sending it in, brilliant idea,
love it, love it. Absolutely. And that brings us back to the comments from last six
comments on five previous shows. They had to show about spectrogram. And Mr X says what a great tip.
Hi, tattoo. I just wanted to say I was intrigued by this podcast. By the way, this is about
audacity, the function of a spectrogram in audacity. Continuing on, intrigued by this podcast,
and I took notes to try this out when I get it's verified minutes. I just opened my most recent show
into a dusty and selected the spectrogram view. The results are amazing. And any involuntary noises
become so much more visible, making them easy to pick out or remove. I will be sure to use this
in future shows. Thanks again for another brilliant show. Cheers, Mr X.
All right, cool. The, um, some of the comments in this list just between you and me can, um,
a highlighted in green mini, we read them last time, but I think it got it wrong. My algorithm
went a tiny bit haywire because we had comments in at funny times or we recorded at a funny time
or something. Anyway, um, so I think the one from Bin R C had already been dealt with.
Well, okay. But the comment from Zinflo to on Zinflo to to show about cars from DNT,
he says, pedestrians and cyclists. Recently, I heard a cancelled person here in Kansas City,
which is in, what is Kansas? I don't know. What was their most and for I can't remember that one?
Anyway, Missouri, Kansas City, Missouri. Okay. There's, I think Kansas spreads, there's a Kansas City on one side in Kansas City on the other side.
Yeah, yeah, it's like spring Kansas City, Kansas City, Kansas City, not the same city. It's just a different size over a different state.
I thought it was like, there's always a city called such and such in every state. But anyway,
having heard here in Kansas City talk about how these bigger vehicles that were replacing cars were
also far more likely to kill a pedestrian or a cyclist in a collision, say nothing of squirrels.
I'd never considered that. They designed with little regard for what might be in their path.
Thanks for putting it together this show and stay safe out there. I think we read all the other ones
as far as I can recall. Sorry, it was just putting that bolt back in and then the cheerful
down hit the wash machine. I had all sorts of stuff just now. All right. So so a lot of
hardy time. Yeah, very much. Except if it broke the wash machine, I could get out of this house. I'll turn it off for another.
So we're all done. Mealless discussions. Let's see what chats we have.
To us quiet on the mailing list this month, usually that means there's going to be a shit storm next.
Yes, yes, yes. Just some guy talking about the community news. That's all. Yeah,
always keeps popping up that guy. So yeah, that was easy. So then, yeah, go on, try ahead.
Take that. I was going to say that we can move on to any other business if you're up for it.
And one of the subjects that I added this time was about the HBR RSS feeds and HTTPS
links. And the question came up in November. I say, regarding the HBR RSS feeds, all of the URLs
and these feeds use HTTPS as opposed to HTTPS. Although this made seem odd, this is a fairly
common thing to do because the RSS standard, such as it is, does not cater for HTTPS links.
There is a concern that passing an RSS feed with such links to a validator, such as the
W3C feed validation thing will result in it being marked as invalid. I don't know that
that is necessarily true, but it's a thing that could happen. And there are other validators
that might reject them. So that's why we've stayed as we started, is that right, Ken?
Yeah, pretty much, but the vast majority of new podcast players switch to
assume that there is a HTTPS link available and they use that. So any minute, that's fine.
I don't know. I'm just informing one to inform people. That's why it is. If you have demons or
or you have a huge objection to us, then there's an almost thing.
Yeah, yeah, we can certainly look into it. But I was not aware that that was the case.
Our new RSS was a pretty, sort of, hazy standard or nonexistent even.
But it wasn't quite clear how little it had been done to sort of ratify it in the time since
it was invented. So yeah, that was a bit disappointing, actually. But there you go.
Yeah, that's it. So the other AOB thing, it's just say that the
process of updating the various shows that I've mentioned every month is progressing.
Managed to do 230 in November because they are up to the rate to doing 10 a day because I
realized if I did that, or we would actually have it finished by the end of December,
assuming I don't get run over by a Santa Claus or something.
Then, so yeah, looking like the 29th or 30th of December is the end and so yeah,
so it's it's it's it's talking away. Good. No doubt I'll find something else for you to be
doing, Dave. Don't you worry. I tend to do that for myself, actually.
And nobody, nobody need to be twiling under the bare thing, under the action. Oh, I have nothing
to record a podcast about. Sure, I wouldn't be able to know what to record a podcast about.
I have literally books upon books of creative common stuff that can be narrated
and put into a podcast. No excuse there for anybody getting
contacted with me and I make sure we can volunteer you for something near your problem there, sir.
Yep, yep, yep. Good stuff, good stuff.
All right, that would be my best Irish accent there, do you know what's this?
Oh, sure, we got it.
Yeah, well, yes, absolutely.
Okay, that's it, Dave. We're done. This has possibly been the worst HBR
community news that we've had, but I'm sure we can drag it down even further if we apply ourselves.
Yep, yep. So, yes, we need to draw in the long to keep it on that.
Yeah, that's good. It didn't take too long, so that's fine.
Okay, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker, a public radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive, and our Sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
