Episode: 3696
Title: HPR3696: HPR Community News for September 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3696/hpr3696.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:14:43

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3696 from Monday the 3rd of October 2022.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for September 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 55 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about
shows released and comments posted in September 2022.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is the Community News for September 2022.
And joining me this morning is...
Yeah, morning A. Wow, this is Dave Morris.
So, normally we record this on Saturday afternoon,
but switch the casual scheduling change to do with my son's birthday.
This is HPR, which is a community podcast where the shows are contributed by listeners very much like you.
In fact, by listeners like you.
We could do with listeners submitting shows, especially if you're a new host,
because I've noticed recently that the majority of shows have been submitted by the same people over and over again.
So, it would be fantastic if some of the people who listen to this show,
who have never contributed to the show, would do that.
Or if you haven't contributed to the show this year, that you would also do that.
What you're listening to now is the Community News,
which is a look inside what's been happening on the HPR community.
And the first thing we do, Dave, is introduce all the new hosts that have arrived this month.
This, this past number of, unfortunately, zero.
So, yeah, not, not so good this month.
I'm not hungry Dave, I'm just very disappointed.
Let's mosey in, have a look at the shows that were posted last month.
Speaking of which, the very first show was an emergency show.
This was entered into the queue back in 2012.
And it was put in there by Klatu, it's entitled Mod,
which doesn't mean Mod, I guess.
Multi-user dungeon.
That's the one.
That's it, that's it.
Yep, yep, good.
It was, it was pretty timeless.
I thought you wouldn't have known that it was 10 years old.
I'd been sat there.
Yeah, it's good.
So that means actually we also have a hole in the emergency.
We have on the show in the reserve queue.
So if people have reserve shows, can they please just pull some and add a note
to the reserve show for now?
I'm working on a way to do that during upload.
But oddly enough, I would like more experience with what people are sending in
in order to be able to do that.
So the following day, we had a show from binrc,
which was plan 9, an exercise in futility.
And plan 9 is a operation system experiment, I guess.
And the show notes are spectacular.
This guy produces some amazing show notes.
I have to say, yes, yes.
Very good.
It's a fascinating thing.
It's one thing I want personally to be running.
But it's really interesting to hear about it.
And what people, you know, sort of ideas that have gone into it.
Interesting.
And the name itself comes from plan 9 from outer space.
It does, yeah, yeah.
It's something I've ever seen.
I saw some stills of it.
And it looks quite amateur.
I think it's one of the classic beam movies out there.
Yes, yes, yes.
I've also seen clips from it or something.
But yeah, nothing that drove me to go and watch the whole thing.
So lots of comments on this one.
One of Spoon says,
a direct directive gem.
A useful exposition and inspiration.
Practically a reference piece.
I actually said,
Claudio M says,
plan 9 slash 9 p.
Great episode from BNIC and bonus points
of explaining where his handle came from.
Which is a nice thing to have by the way.
Always been curious about plan 9.
I remember tinkering with inferno back in the day,
late 90s, early 2000s.
It was quite intriguing.
Since then, I've never really touched it.
Been curious about it.
However, after hearing this episode,
I felt I might be,
it might be relegated to the curiosity
one would have for tempo OS.
And intriguing to mess with.
But that's about it.
Anyway, for those interested,
SDF has bootcamps on learning plan 9.
More information here
and it gives a link to the SDF site.
Excellent.
Norris says,
an in-depth series on learning awk.
You mentioned you want to learn awk.
This series is some of the best content on HSPR.
Brace yourself for a deep dive by Dave Morris
and be easy.
And I wholeheartedly support that statement.
I must turn that into a book at some point.
Once I finish the said one,
I'll get there.
We'll get there.
I certainly will.
Ken says, you're going to do Ken's.
Yeah, it's not me.
Right, I just saw your name there.
And it is not Ken Pallem.
You're so smart and you understand everything.
Sure. Sure.
Which I wholeheartedly agree.
Yeah, absolutely.
Passable by cents fake news.
There's no vulnerability in the authentication system.
Just a path transversal
which has been exploited,
you're called,
to read files already publicly accessible,
accessible for child overhead the rest.
And then it's a show coming.
I think this month which goes into this
a little bit more depth.
And it's a classic
journalists going nuts over something,
which is entirely trivial.
Happened in the early days of
when I was working in MIT.
We had that sort of stuff.
Yeah.
Right.
So, from think tank work spaces,
he says, come back to plan nine and try to stay.
It's always a learning curve,
even for me.
I started to make better progress
when I decided to build a server
on line at a linode
and really use it.
Work was a dream come true
and it simplified all B.S.
It exists in other heavily bloated
C.M.F systems.
J.S. is garbage,
but it's not going away.
You can just use mothra.
If you're staying plan nine,
things get easier.
Do get easier over time.
You passed. New pass was a struggle.
But I'm a better person for leaving Gmail.
Go-along works on my server
and helps bridge that gap when I actually
have to work on Linux
on my day job.
But yes, see is the way to go,
but a ton of stuff is written in RC.
Take your pick I guess.
Thanks for putting this together.
an excellent show. So the next day we had the community news and we also had
nine comments, yeah, people were. Archer 72 says, good show, I made it to the end.
Thanks for another great community show. I did make it to the end, although I
admit to downloading a listening dish to the show at 2x after the mailing this
discussion will start it. By the way, Ken, I do not skip your shows. Yes, sure.
Yes, I've forgotten we'd sort of put a challenge to say, if you manage to get
to the end of this then let us know. I think you did. So we have nine listeners that
is what we could assume. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Claudio M says,
another one made it to the end. Admit the list without the 72 making it to the
end. Great show. Well as far as the Archer 72, but I do listen at 1.5 times
feet. I always look forward to Ken over enthusiastically shouting radio at the
end of community show. It's worth listening to all of it smiley face over
enthusiastic. Are we not all that enthusiastic about his viewers? That could be
anything else. Michael Ray says, ally, ALLY and abbreviation. Congratulations on
spending love. We're talking about accessibility than every other podcast put
together ever. Anyway, back to the notes. I give up trying to get podcasts like
destination, then it's to include ally components, ALLY, 11Y, components when
they do review, when they review a distro. All I ever want to know is whether you
can install it or not. After no one of you prototype dependence, photon type
dependence, would give a house room to a distro. If you had to run around looking
for a blind person to install for you, that will point. And now we're worried
about abbreviations. Good. The abbreviations A11Y is similar to I1A's N
International Nationalization. Replace the central letters with the number of
letters moved and leave the first and last letter. ALLY is pronounced ALLY 11Y.
Not ALLY. Okay. ALLY 11Y. How is that? So I'm wondering how that A is a good
abbreviation, and B has only thing to do with accessibility. Here, 11Y. It's
somebody's idea of shorthand for long words. It's my interpretation. I'm
guessing. I'm not looking this up. But the number of words that will have an
out the beginning and a Y at the end and 11 letters in between must be more
than accessibility. So how is that improving anything at all? I just
I don't know. It's people wanting not to have to talk long, long words on
phones, I imagine. Did you get lost? Hello? What's... Did you go? No idea. I forgot
the passport to talk, dude. Yes. Where was I? You were on the sentence
exception to this is K8S. Okay, back to the comments. Exception to this is K8S, a
common abbreviation for Kubernetes, which allows a folks pronounce K8s. I will
see if there is a way of recording a show and including the audio from my
screen reader in order to demo some of what we have to cope with. If the sound
of a screen reader would not drive the whole audience into madness, end of
content. Absolutely. I'm a lot of the process of trying to help Mike with his
accessibility issue was not fully understanding what his problem was and it
was only by fiddling with Orca that I got some clue or not enough of a
clue to understand it. But yeah, that would be wonderful. From my point of view
anyway. Okay, next comment. Operator says, I made it, exclamation mark, I made it
to the end. Much better than trying to figure out API for real links. I don't
have to install their app. So you found our show was better than what he was
supposed to be doing. Very good. Forky said, did make it too high. I didn't
make it to the end of the show no problem. Only about hours. That's nothing.
I think I have to state once more my stance on the Linux in those questions.
Yes, I don't like the show, but that's not why I agree with all thinking they
should take this step over to Ark of the org. It's just that they overstayed
their startup time in HPR. I wish them all good and maybe we should give them
less help by adding a link to their own errors as soon as it's up. And all
shows they hear they had here to make it easier for their listeners to find
them. End of comment. And yes, absolutely. We're doing that. Yeah. Brian
in Ohio says, the show great show is always the table of shows in the show notes
is useful. Thanks. Norris says, public access to the HPR site
generator required an auth code for contributions is understandable. It would
be easier to automatically site build if there was an unauthenticated option
for checking out the code. I like Ron suggesting of a public getmer. Another
option would be to create a jelly archive of the code that can be downloaded
from the HPR site similar to the S2L dumps. Cool. Miguel comment number eight
says, I made it double exclamation mark. Yes, I made it the end. It's quite a good
episode. Sorry for the in-laws. It made it, it made for a very interesting
conversation. I've been thinking about subjects for a show, but I feel stuck
with the fact that I live with limited resources. May you be interested in
tech stories from the third world. Yes. Oh my God. Yes. Yes, please. Yes, please.
That would be absolutely. Absolutely. Anyway, stash a F says,
matters. I made it to the end. You underestimate my ability to listen to
people for a long period of time. No, that's why we're here. So a new
show part four. And at the end of that, filibuster says filibuster 80% of this
three hour spectacular is one person dominating the conversation. The other
20% in vain attends for everyone else to join. Not mad, just impressed. Yes. I
have had a word with the person in question. And yeah, it was noted. So
they're also. Yeah, it's also very difficult for that person. And it's on
the getting a little bit of outside help on that one. So next year will be
more supervised. I can assure you. Yeah, I wrote down a little bit hard to
listen to because of all the overtalking and stuff. But on the whole,
I haven't really enjoyed this native. It's the conversation. I think I did
point it out to the person that they may have come across as rude. And that was
absolutely not the intention. So apologies to everybody sausage with that. If
it came across as being rude and that wasn't the intention, it was just hyper
excited to be talking about stuff. Yeah. Anyway, the next day we had stupid
users, no, not those users, the other stupid users. And some guy on the internet
says stupid equals no backups success. In the last step, you can make an
a flight of stairs called failure. And you're like me, you'll take one more
tiny step than fall. Your call host is correct backups for the win. I do stupid
things often on my system. And when the mistakes seem to cost more than two
hours of my time, nuke the system and then run pave.sh to restore my from backups.
My stay away has more steps than I'm allowed to know. So it'll be on my way.
Thanks for the show. Nice. Lurking Prion says no backups. The lack of
preparation for failure is the failure to be prepared. I agree that we all fail.
In security, we blame the user for our failure to be prepared for that
eventuality. Failing at home is expected as we are one person. In an enterprise,
there's a team preparing for this. The problem is that preparation requires time
and money, which are more often than not denied as a business decision. There's
a lot more on this topic coming in future. Glad to enjoy the show.
Excellent. Lurking Prion also said not a podcast. This is a preemptive strike as I
don't know what I don't want to be the next. The next thing I'll say is the
shows I'm posting are not podcast. This is the next show. And this and the next
show have enjoyed the no tools. I'm a load of a long time ago and I wanted to
try different things. So forgive the apparent hubris and accept my apologies if
anyone was offended by this. It's just hacking the format. Some guy on the internet
says you're fine. Reference preemptive strike. I know recent events have raised
some questions but there's no need to be concerned. Just remember to say I use
arch by the way before starting the show. I talk about doing everything in the
terminal. Toss in a window manager. Be spawned because it sounds cool and quick
mention of them, then you're all good. Once a host had to go into hiding for
speaking ill of the mighty think pad but they're safe now.
Lurking Prion's comment there was prompted by an email that I sent asking for
clarification because with the with the limits in the last thing. Yeah it's
hard for me to tell whether a show is a show or whatever. So I don't want to
leave anybody in the lurch that we have a repeat of this thing. Remember I'm
super least hacker radio or was that that's a sick foot pad? Oh yeah yeah that
turned out to be not a thing at all. So it's not always clear what people's
intentions are. So I'm glad Lurking Prion is here and I do like his shows and
yeah good. Not that my liking a show is a requirement to be on HPR just as
by the way. And the following show was Linux in laws. Episode 64 non-profits in
the US closely look at 5013 C's and I've had the free software podcast to
show about this at one point as well. So that was good if you're if you're
working familiar with the topic. I get confused about whether it's 3C or C3
I have to really stare at it hard to work out what it is. My brain mangled it
unfortunately. So the next day we had Edith. Oh the amount of time I spent on
like Amanda's a lot. Happy day is hey. Not so much but yeah yeah you know it's
fine. It did a lot. Getting curses sort of thing. So yeah. Never used it. I've never
used it in my life. I used to avoid PCs like plague at that time. Yeah yeah it's not
the main thing. No that's fine but as a simple text editor for what it is it was
fine. You know it had like a window on that was F10 and a lot of the commands
that are even used know. F1, F10 you know were included in that. So yeah most of
the moment. Yeah it is a necessary step on the way to the journey that we're at the end
of now or where we are now anyway. Yes. Following a Rust 101 black
kernel teaches us how to make functions for loops in Rust. This was interesting. Not
sure I'm, it kind of made more sense to me the whole rust thing but yeah I'm still not
on the bandwidth. No I would have really appreciated some source code. Yeah yeah and I thought
oh it's on the Github because this previous show I think referred to Github and then
was stuff a repo and there was stuff there and it said updated for episode 3 but it didn't
seem to bear any relation to the thing being talked about in the audio. So I got rather
puzzled about that on my parade. Yeah I did stop this one to go in and see if there
was, if there was source code for it I was in the garden so I just not that I needed
a source to confirm that the vision of my head was the same. Well exactly yes I don't
have a lot of skill at forming code in my head. In this sense something really detailed
I can sort of think of block diagram-y type things but this was detail and I really needed
something visual to, must mean I'm a visual learner or something I don't know about
anyway it would have been really helpful. Yeah perhaps I can add that to the show it's
never too late, never too late. That would be great yeah yeah just taking on board this
comment but on the whole of a great show we enjoyed it. The New Year's show last one
part five come up and one comment was just to thank Delwin for the servers Josh for providing
the HPR site honky for doing streams and the etherpad and of course a HP and honky we
should and editing the shows and submitting them. Absolutely a monumental amount of work
and speaking of monumental amount of work, HP Lovecraft for the absolute excellent show
I know I'm still astonished at the quality. I haven't listened to all of this one yet I
listened to all the other show this month because time was a bit short and I'm just sort of
part way through this one and looking through the list here some of the things being talked
about and I was thinking oh yeah I don't know if you spelled she'll anyway and what was that
and it's all it's all documented it's really really good. Yeah it's brilliant yeah the only thing
in all the show notes was he had won IMDB reference to Parky was talking about the octinots the BBC
children's program and on the in America apparently there was a American version so that was the only
thing does the only mistake in not mistake oversize or that was kind of wouldn't have been obvious
listen to the audio actually in the whole show notes that I felt I needed to edit is absolutely
brilliant for. Well considering the volume of notes and the number of links that have been
forward through then you know one mistake in that is pretty down good going I'd say there's a
reason it came out in September yeah yeah oh I think everybody's got that message.
So the following day was an episode that I did and it is something that I've used three times
since then and shown all the people it's how to open OSM Android so it's an Android navigation
map that uses offline open-street map data and it's actually very very very good thing and I
have it on the all the kids phones that no matter where they are or you don't need a data connection
in order to use this thing so it's even if you want to use Google Maps or your boss into the
cloud this is no harm to have this on your phone in case the the mid and it's the mid and middle
asteroid pressure would say. Yes yes oh it is useful I landed in Brussels my first time
with this on my phone but I hadn't quite installed it right I said it out probably so it wasn't
I had to go and get a paper map and find where the hell the hotel was but yeah yeah I have
used this in in earnest it's it's pretty cool a bit clunky I'd say yeah yeah yeah yeah I don't
go on with APIs sorry go on and that's exactly why I added this you know you would imagine that
when you're doing navigation you could you should just be able to you know from I'm where you want to
go that's easy you put in your address you know you how why is the nut like a button there just to go
save save this destination you know why can't you just save this destination so the only way
you can put in a saved location is to basically follow the show notes in the show and then add it
but it the UI is improving over time I've noticed and another cool thing the event is public
transport so if you arrive at spot and you see on the second picture there in Amsterdam I didn't
even notice that when I was doing it but when I was doing it from my daughter who was going to
Dublin and you can click on the bus line and it'll show you all the stops with lines in between
the it doesn't it doesn't follow the route but it does you know kind of give you an idea of where it goes
I'm really good actually yeah yeah yeah I'm not used it recently but I will it's still on my phone
and there's it's actually quite good there's some neat things so now you can download the maps and
you can schedule them to download every day or every week or every month at a particular time
you know in the evening or in the morning or or whatever so you always have updated maps
so that's kind of cool there are some I'm wasting an episode here shut up
wake on that yes I didn't think I needed an episode on wake on land and turned out I did
ah do tell well it's just a it's a it's something that I knew about it's a magic package I've
read the Wikipedia article and he you see it yourself well it can't be that complicated kind of
but he went through a lot of things and it is actually it was a great little show for just
expanding my view on what the possibilities were for wake on land yeah yeah yeah no it's good to
good to hear about I had I did know about it we used to use it at work I say we but the team
looked after the PCs did to wake machines up in the middle of the night and upgrade them and stuff
but yeah it's I didn't know exactly how it worked and and some of the problems and pitfalls
and JWP covered covered a number of those that was interesting yeah cultural
so the next day budges and an android app very very nice the zoolful spreadsheet I had
not come across before no I don't know anything about that yeah it's um yeah it's it's it's a an
interesting thing at the having processed these notes I was sort of a bit puzzled by some of the
bits so follow them up have a see what they what they were about and yeah it's intriguing it was
really a call for help I think more than anything else this show but I know there's a follow-up
coming so we most intrigued to see how how the developments get on yeah exactly so this was a
next show was follow-up on hatred for a three six seven five clarification on the Patrons
version bug that was mentioned earlier and bin orc goes into a lot of detail describing how it works
I thought this was a nice a show coming from a comment in a show yeah yeah dude who'd have thought
well obviously somebody thought to use since the URL and then you put in dot dot slash only you
early encode it so whatever's looking for that sort of nonsense doesn't spot it presumably
and and you can back up to to areas on your website yeah remember fixing a windows
anti-IS server back in the day that fell for this exact thing mm-hmm if you haven't fully secured
your web server underneath and you might be able to get get to to naughty stuff I don't know
I don't know yeah since I've managed a web server so maybe they they come come out of the box a
bit more secure than that but still you don't want that to happen new new and then I was not
correct the last new year show was the following show which was three six eight seven and then after
that we had education certification and slipping on the socials sipping on the socials and this was
another one from the lurking prior yeah interesting viewpoint in terms of
what you need in a way of education and certification and stuff and and also your social media
presence which which some somebody my age regards as me a pivot yeah it's but it's obviously a
lot more important than I have any concept off yeah if you don't have it it looks suspicious now
so yeah and I know in America a lot of companies require them to give you access
to your private like to friend them so that they can see exactly what it is you're saying
I think that's all over sipping on mark personally so the idea that your was to have two accounts
one for you know your personal stuff and one for your professional presence which I think is fair
off yeah good device around and I also used a tip in here which was a I am currently doing you know
sign up for a course and then put that in on your on your resume and on your social websites you know
studying Amazon web certification and then the web crawlers will find Amazon web certification
and your your thing you you get picked so clever stuff yeah yeah yeah it's a it's a game and you
need to know how to play it absolutely get your foot in the door after that it's it's all about
what you can do the job or not but there's a lot of barriers to get you in there and I think this
was the last Linux in laws season one episode 65 last on here and it was terminus DB and this
was a database that I hadn't heard of actually before no me neither it yeah it's it's a no sequel
database which no it's not an error no much about to be honest but yeah but yeah it's it was
interesting to hear yeah yeah yeah yeah it's quite kind of specific to the large data sets and
data rules and stuff that yeah and it's advantageous was that you you wouldn't need to
rerun queries over stuff so I think yeah probably a niche that are a niche never never like
those saying the word niche to me else because actually it comes from French so it should be pronounced
niche it's niche it sounds like you've got some sort of disease from a bug or something yeah you don't
have a niche yes where are we next year I think a trip yeah good general advice not necessarily
related to you know the links and stuff are related to a hooker's travel trip but it is good advice
and again when my daughter was gone turned on we went through the entire process modifying
how we this how we that how we thought about this how we water the constraints what do we want to do
so that all worked out quite well yeah yeah yeah it's um yeah it's interesting some of the places
who can mention the sound absolutely wonderful so yeah yeah I'd like to be going as well but
yes yes starship.rs the best prompt I don't use what is tattooed all about with this
and it was a yeah a way you can customize your your prompt you know you've got a
bash prompt or your monitor shell prompt in order to show useful information something I did
for a period of time and then stop doing because uh because not that I found a annoying per se it's
that when I SS Hed into all the machines then I didn't have that crutch and I missed it
yeah yeah yeah I have been around the loop a few times with fiddling around with with my prompt
and making it more or less complicated and I've got it at the point where it's minimal but it's a
bit more than just a dollar sign but so I'm happy with it but I did try this I did install
starship bars which is very impressive thing um and uh I found that it was telling me stuff that
basically I didn't want to know but that's what that says in the in the show that the
config file is very complicated and he's right that the documentation is massive and I found that
it showed icons I said okay do the pearl one if I'm in a directory which has got
a git repo with and a lot pearl in it no it's not the git thing it's the the presence of pearl uh
then show me a little camel on the in the prompt which it did but then I've got why don't I don't
want to see this I'm fed up with this it lasted a day I'd had enough of it so but it's very very
clever but there are ways you could make it more friendly well I could make it more friendly to my
way of doing things so but yeah most interesting to I never never knew about this so it was very
interesting to know about it and play with it I worked in a place once where they had a mandatory
bash prompt that everybody had to use and it was the most irritating thing in the world
it's it's the ones that take an entire line that's it you you input is on the next line
and which one that gets in the way you know if you just listed something you look back there's
this bloody line in the way that's you know of course it's my my brain got worked I was that in
that file I just listed oh it wasn't oh it's not exactly and text was just enough to fit into the
pit into the page but because of that extra line the bit that you want to see is just
bumped off the page invariably yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I mean record record shows on your
views on bash prompts should you use them should you not use them and if you do why what's a real
hacker that can probably and I there are two two comments on this one right under high says
cousin I have to I have to say that the American cowboy accent you cousin son what happened here
you've never you've never done it before why are you using the F word so much does someone need a hug
let's come in actually looking Brian says yes I probably need a hug sorry the old sailor and
me slipped out I'm stuffing back in the cage right belongs smiley face excellent exit
so perfect so mild mild complaint should we say and followed by the perfect answer yeah it is
that's how we do things here in HBR folks insert sound rocking chair and a porch and somebody
smoking a pipe okay and then just when you're nice and calm and quiet who comes out but
wrong what is bloody law more I went over and sabotaged up the other night and guess what he does
he fixes the thing yes yes it's I had never looked I've got a literal one on Moa and it has this
dead man's handle type thing that you fall over then it shuts loose loose you grip and it stops
by never looked at how it works um but yeah it's quite quite interesting I think that's a switch
basically yeah just yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah but there you go that's fair enough I have a
I got an outside or was this residual current detector I think which I'm very very happy with
and I use this for when I'm on the lawn and when I'm using power tools outside so that would be my
safety tip as well there are only 25 30 euros so it's well worth it yeah yeah I've actually got
one installed in my garage two times yeah yeah the one in my garage is sort of fixed to the war
but I was told by the electrician you should only have one I've got a master one but trouble is if
you if you lawn mow overloads and it switches the entire house power yeah yeah so having a having a
small one on the interview your extension cable might be a better move cool and the next day
which was teresie that's teresie rule bull tripping river lords of the apocalypse organic synthesis
of human and machine the corers post cosmic events by our good friend mecha tronny yak
master comments on this one shall I start this one please it um one of spoon says inspirational
artifice in in curly brackets good story convinced convincing consistent style and tone
soundscape further imbues is seen with atmospheric oxides metallic and otherwise imagination is a
cognitive facility combined with real world observation and practice it can save us from dull
compliance and replication of deluded privilege Claudia um says great story really enjoyed the story
and looking forward to hearing more on this and i say in my best father take actions i love this
more of this type of thing i didn't get i yeah yeah yeah yeah very good mecha tronny access thanks
thank you for the comments i probably won't do more like this for a while because of the ever-involve
law this one has been on the burn for a long while but it relates to stuff i'll be talking about
later on so presumably so i felt the need to get it out and brine and ohio says the show
great episode whatever the interval keep them coming yeah it was it was most interesting i wasn't
i was quite taken aback by this show is uh not what i was expecting so yeah enjoy it that's
that's the type of show i like to do yeah just just one just one mild criticism though the sound
balance between effects and and speech was such that my hearing which is broken we had very
great difficulty working i want was being said at times so it's some just you know old people
who're going deaf can't can't easily set the autopsils calm Dave what do you expect
yeah true true yeah typically sin my ears yeah that's why i destroy the planners in the first bit
okay hello yep the last show of the month was how i watch youtube with newsboard and this was by
um minorsy obviously i i used your SS feeds for my surfing pleasure and he had some trouble
releasing the urls that for the rsses feeds so i have a little script to do that i might make
a show about it oh that would be good i actually tried this i uploaded i mean i downloaded
newsboat and the other other bits and pieces recommended and tried it out yesterday in fact
and finding the correct url or the the id effectively
from the from the the channel name which uh vanity names as he puts it uh isn't easy without some
help so i'd be most interested to open the thing i'll uh show about that i didn't think i was
i allowed to show i didn't think it was um particularly sure worthy my my little script
well it's it's better doesn't gripping it out and then hunting through the colored bits and
cutting and pasting it which is what i was doing um no no i'll uh i'll do sure it's like literally a one
liner and then i i get some moral information from the file and uh and stuff like that but i'll
do a quick show on it cool okay and we have two comments even though it was only on Friday
40 says great for g-powder 2 thank you for the great show i could use the url i got your way
for g-powder 2 but not for cast get just for those who wanted to use something other than
newsboat so there you go binon c says rss the planet i forgot to say in the show video feeds also
seem to work with the antenna pod app from f-droid on android or automatic audio only playback
of video seems to work also hack the planet no i want to rss if i the planet very much
agree with that for sure so there were some other comments um to the previous
shows is in fact brain and ohio had a show about or mode mobile solution and
uh since uh i had a comment titled pine phone i'll preface this by saying that i'm responsible
i'm responding to this five year five years later or this is a 2017 uh show
and i'm not 100% sure if this would have been desired or possible for that matter back then
just sharing it now how i got around this problem in 2022 smiley
what i do for my mobile org modes need is a pine phone with a keyboard case running
pine market o s o s with the s x m o environment and emax installed on it's a full no compromise x 11
based emax setup it's actually quite comparable to the Atari portfolio in form factor
as opposed to the more typical smartphone because my cell phone provider doesn't provide the smart
the pine phone i don't use it as an actual phone however interesting it
so next one is one of my shows bash tips number 20 and there's a comment from unnamed
uh an untitled comment from unnamed which is good consistent anyway thank you very much for
the series the comments it's i have a lot of friends who i infected with hVR with with your show
one is even blind using a braille device i want you to know that this kind of work is very much
appreciated good people are so rare dot dot com there you go there print that off and stick it
on your fridge absolutely that's that's wonderful thank you very much for that comment
been up says uh has a show about bsd for linux users and i commented that that was featured
thanks to luan j won't give for name because it was it was private on bsd now episode 471 where
they discussed that so um i'm just just puzzling over this next one because he's got some very
strange characters in it um and it's uh two one of one of chromics shows linux in or shows and
it's from operator who says awesome i just want to say not every linux in law is for me
but these are smart people we should embrace smart people to communicate and share even if they
we can't always communicate effectively and you've written you be be be awesome be awesome yeah
but it's it's it's it's it's embedded with all sorts of unicode characters it's definitely hard to
read it's very very clever i must say when i saw that one coming through the ether i was thinking all
on this is going to a fire scanner and i'm going to make sure to check what this unicorn is doing
before i was amazed that um the comment system didn't didn't feel filtered out actually so yeah
it did it did it managed to let it through the little key yeah it's it's great absolutely great
okay uh dnt says uh oh sorry dnt didn't say carl said to dnt show on recording for hack or public
radio uh and he's coming to us great tips great show dnt and thanks to you and taj for the feedback
via email what are the odds that a hbr show that specifically mentioned me with also air on my
birthday the 31st of august pretty cool i would say the odds are one in 365
yeah yeah well you forgot leap years of course but yeah 366 how about that
yeah that's the most you want to see if there was any discussions because i need to go visit
somebody in a hospital so try and keep me short today if you want if you want along your show go
back and listen to last month's walk and we already covered that uh that section uh at the top
of apologies to hbr um in the last month's show i don't think we need to go through it again do we
no no no there was a call for shows open and volunteers for the new year show banner so i'm
looking for somebody to do a sort of a logo or something for the new year show if uh you know back
in the day we had like banner advertisement some pages something like that um and then there was a
show above help posting show notes through image files and did that get resolved if yes it was
just basically asking how you send um or you send supplementary files really um so you send a
tab or do you send them individually and how do you do it and uh it big it was resolved by then
the answer which came from row and saying no your browser you can do control and click on several
things at once and send them yeah you can also send a zip file should probably uh record a show
about that speaker will say who's recording a show is corporate two doing a show and
cordy plex and jelly thin and uh commenters i'm finishing up some notes for a little series on my
experience with uh home media front ends plex cordy jelly fin etc and he's specific questions
that folks might have and x110 says i've got a html attack i've used plex for a while and the most
compelling thing about their plex pass offering is being able to share my library with friends very
simply so if either of the other tools or something like that it will be awesome to highlight and that's
it i'm jumping about between things that can and can't see the html so yeah shall i do joshes on
okay then and josh was the final reply how do each handle media tagging an organization i use
plex and actually have a lifetime plex pass but i find that it's sometimes sucks of putting
shores in the correct season and such okay and then you have one of our the accessibility
question uh to mike um yeah just keep everybody up do you want to read us i'll really like um i
won't go it's got it's it's not entirely readable but i'll just do the more readable bits just to keep
everyone up to date i say i made some tweaks to the tags page to try and make it more accessible
i emailed mike about the lips changes and i think i'm right in saying he'd find it a lot more usable
the changes have been to add a header at the start of each alphabetic tag section mike says he
can navigate my headers and this was a change he suggested and to add an aria label attribute
to each show link that contains the tag a hyphen the word show and the show number
i give a little snippet of the html is generated as a consequence this change makes the
links associated with the tag more meaningful when using a screen reader please let us know
if there are more accessibility issues we need to tackle on the hpr site too yep super now what else
do we have gone on Dave oh yeah uh fast and uh is coming up in Brussels might be gone i understand
you're not no i won't go okay and i'm thinking of requesting a stand representing free culture
podcasts and if there are more people who are willing to come and do the stand with me there
will have to be at least two different podcasts involved in that to before we can apply so we had
two years ago the last in person uh show that there was or event that there was so if people are
interested please get in contact also be sending a reminder about the hpr new year show which
will be going ahead again this year so promos will be going out hopefully this week for that
do you want to do the next one and then we'll wrap it up if i told you i was waiting desperately to hear me
all right let's prolong it a bit short um no uh just to say that i'm make a progress with the
uploads re-uploads of shows in the range uh in the thing here and i looked at it it's 155
155 and then 150 why is that well those are two 31 day months and two and one 30 day month i
discovered i'm surprised i'm surprised 150 so 30 times five is 150 so there you go
learn something new every day i do anyway okay okay done so we have 678 remaining indeed
so i should just keep plugging away until i'm done yeah and then once that's done we can link directly
to the media um the internet archive for everything yep i can remove those redirects that we have
in place and also it makes rooms thing a lot easier because by default it can point to the internet
archive so even if you're running that at home you can point to the internet archive okay yeah cool
that's it Dave and thanks for rescheduling thanks for reminding me that i've forgotten
the new time thanks for rushing through us because i need to go
uh uh students more for another exciting episode of hacker public
radio
you have been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work today's show was
contributed by a hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording podcast and click
on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting for hbr has been kindly provided
and onsthos.com the internet archive and rsync.net on this otherwise stated today's show is released
under a creative commons attribution 4.0 international license
