Episode: 3545
Title: HPR3545: How I make coffee
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3545/hpr3545.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:12:30

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3545 for Friday the 4th of March 2022.
Today's show is entitled, How I Make Coffee and Is Part of the Series, Coffee It Is
Hosted by Archer 72 and is about 5 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Making Coffee and a Podcast Recommendation.
Hello, this is Archer 72 and in this episode, this is How I Make Coffee.
I'm going to make in some jingle-bill Java giving it the beans.
I found it last time that if I do the whole amount of beans in one grind, I have parts of
the beans left over, so I'll do, and I have a 30 teaspoon cup, and that filled up
is exactly what I need, exactly what I need to get there right on my beans for 10,
a 1.5 cups of coffee, I already got the water, I'm using a bun coffee maker,
the model that you have to do is pour water in the top, put the graph in the bottom,
and it starts brewing in a few seconds.
Just take about a particular grinder, it takes about 15 seconds each grind.
It's a coarse grind, that's still pretty good.
Where did I put that?
Okay, that was half, it's hopefully ground pretty good, it's still a little
fine grind, it's not going to be a really fine grind.
well well, I'm going to put more and give it a flat grind.
So it looks like it's more coffee than I need, it's going to be too strong for some
work. This bun coffee maker does not take a lot of browns to make a pretty nice
cup of dark cup coffee.
Now, the nice thing that it only takes five minutes to brew.
Let me explain the giving of the beans phrase actually comes from another podcast. The podcast
and also the name of the site is Ham Radio Crash Course. It was started by Josh Nass,
K.I.6 and A.Z. as a YouTube channel. Ham Radio Crash Course, HRCC, has evolved into
a rapidly growing community of radio enthusiasts that are excited to grow in the hobby and help
others as well. And now, back to making coffee. The coffee maker I'm using is a bun speed
brew. It brews coffee by having a reservoir of water heated to 200 degrees. And then when
you pour in your water for the next pot, it displaces the fresh cold water with the hot
water that's in the reservoir.
So I should have a fresh pot pretty soon. Thank you for listening and go enjoy your coffee
too.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org. Today's show
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR is kindly
provided by an honesthost.com. The internet archive and our sync.net, unless otherwise
stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share Like, Play
