Episode: 3672
Title: HPR3672: 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3672/hpr3672.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 03:35:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3672 for Tuesday the 30th of August 2022.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Public Radio 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 3.
It is hosted by Hum Kimagoo and is about 199 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is, the HPR community comes together to chat.
Hey guys, has anybody of you ever played around with
respiries, the camera, which you can connect through the ribbon cable and WebRTC,
so that you can connect from a web browser to your Raspberry Pi,
and it would then stream what's on the camera. Has anybody done things like that?
I have, and I've heard of people doing it. I've heard people talk about it on different podcasts,
as well as Miwi channels and Facebook Raspberry Pi groups.
Now, I try to go quite minimal with the Raspberry Pi Zero, and yeah, I'm not so happy with the
resolution. The camera could deliver much more, but I cannot find anywhere where what's the
maximum of picture quality that can be delivered through these little devices. Does anybody have
clue? Well, actually, not too long ago, I think there was an upgrade or a different camera that
you can buy, because there were two really low end cameras. One was just the regular Raspberry Pi
camera. The other one was almost like it, but I think they took off the infrared filter,
and that made it, I think, better for like nighttime viewing or something like that. But then there's
a third camera that's, I think, much higher resolution, but I can't remember what the name of that
better camera is. Yeah, the thing is that the camera I have, I have the first, well, I
bought it cheap on all the express and cost like two or three dollars. And this has
approximately five megapixels, if I'm not mistaken. So you could in maximum when you do streaming,
you could do like a full HD. And I cannot even get this high. I settled somewhere around
480 by 640 pixels, so I'm judging from the quality of the picture. And I spent already
quite some time and I tried to find some information, but what you can squeeze out of this little device,
where the limitation is, if it is the Raspberry Pi itself, the Raspberry Pi zero, or if it is
the wrong software I'm using. And I tried this UV4L, and everywhere you, almost everybody guides
you to this website. But then when you try to get this thing up and running at least when I tried
never really worked, it just didn't work. Yeah, as I can remember, and this was a few years ago,
yeah, the resolution on the Raspberry Pi camera wasn't all that great. But again, like, yeah,
I'd look into that the latest camera. I can't remember what the resolution on that was, but that
might be better. I'm not sure how much you'll be able to do with the zero, because I've never
really used up the zeros. All my pies were actually just like Raspberry Pi 1, 1A, I think 3,
3 plus and Raspberry Pi 4. I've never really used the zero before. The Raspberry Pi zero is
interesting considering some some projects because of the size, right? And it was and I have chosen
it because so many people around the world use it. So I thought it would be the best solution
than I finally find something for that case. And the thing is, if you built like a birdhouse,
where you put it somewhere out on the tree, and you throw a camera in it, a Wi-Fi stick,
and a battery pack, then you can basically, they do, so some people do that. Then they follow,
well, they hope that a bird is coming into your box and is raising his children within like 14
days to three weeks, then they are gone. And then it is quite handy if you have such a small device
first for the place. And secondly, for the small power consumption. So this was one of the thing
why I went for the zero. Yeah, that's definitely a good choice for that particular application.
But then again, it was the ESP32 camera. If I have looked at it or what?
I mean, it's much cheaper, much smaller. I don't know what the resolution is though, but
I mean, if you're not getting very good resolution, if the Raspberry Pi, it's, I mean, the ESP32
is a lot smaller than the zero even. You think that I could save even more energy with that setup?
I believe so, yeah. That's a good idea. I'm not sure what the pixels are. I'm looking into it right
now. I'm checking what the differences between the cameras themselves, but yeah, it's a lot smaller
and I don't know what the difference is in any other way other than it's smaller and a lot cheaper.
Just thinking the ESP32 is while sending is also quite power hungry. If I remember correctly,
it needs quite some energy and I don't know how to, how to say, how to talk them to the device.
If you could, with this WebRTC, then the Raspberry Pi kind of offers a web server
where you connect to. So it's WebRTC. It's like speaking to each other like a chat,
but you just see the camera then obviously and if you have a microphone as well, you get some audio.
Oh yeah, you're not going to get with the ESP, you're not going to have like a GUI to play around
and you're going to have to code through the Arduino or Python. This would be possible.
Thanks a lot for the link to the Raspberry Pi camera, but this one goes up to 12 megapixels.
If mine already has struggled with five, I won't go that high.
Hey, and the other thing you can do probably is instead of taking like,
and I'm not sure what you want to do, but instead of taking like a continuous video,
which would be like a powertrain, what you could do is set up like a, say like a cron job
to do like just occasion of like images, image captures, and then what you can do
after you capture all those images, you can convert those images into a video.
That's a nice idea. I have done that once on a birthday where I placed the Raspberry Pi somewhere
and just let them shoot every 15 seconds to picture. It's a good idea.
Yeah, I did that with a Canon camera because Canon cameras used to come with this.
It's called CHDK, which was Canon hack development kit. So what that was is you can
replace the stock Canon software with special software and it would give you different functions.
Like one of them was time, it's like time lapse or things like motion sensors or things like that
and that was pretty fun. What I did back then was I was wondering what my dog did our day.
And so I set up a time lapse on the Canon camera and basically he just slept our day mostly.
Which just got some more tips and ideas in the chat. I have some time to go through.
Oh, Sebastian.
Hello, the micro streamer which was in the chat is a lightweight, very quick server to stream
MJPEG video. The thing is MJPEG video, well, JPEG is in itself a compressed file format,
but on the other hand, the Raspberry comes with an H264 hardware encoder, decoder, one or the other
or both. And so it would have almost zero delay, so to say, so this would be very handy.
I don't know, the micro streamer sounds interesting. Looks like I tried the MJPEG streamer,
but was not so happy with it. And yes, some comparison on the website. I guess I put the things
now in the easier pad, unless somebody else already did it. Looks interesting to give it a try.
Jirolo, you wrote that you use this package from MicroStreamer and have you also tried others.
I have one more. It's called Pi, Pi, Crail, Cam. I put the link in the ether pad on the
link to the ether pad is on the website of HPR. And there also seem to be quite good that we have
by any chance already. So, my experience with this one.
Ah, can I be heard now? Yes, we can hear you.
Good, so now I can be heard, right? I'm not used this for ages, two years maybe,
probably two years actually. And it's changed a little bit since, I think,
bike process just to set mumble up in the bunny or on the desktop because of the destroyer, really.
Europe goes to New Year, there is a lot of noise out there. Where are you from?
Switzerland, Switzerland, is that? Sorry, was that the window? Yes, from Switzerland.
Yeah, I think the name gave it away when you look again in Swiss, right?
In Germany, it is forbidden to have any fireworks, but obviously not in Switzerland.
In England, actually, the UK is different, depending on when people are,
because it's been, everybody has been spressed up for this. Everyone's got,
everywhere's got slightly different rules, be that England, Wales, Scotland, or Northern Ireland.
Same man, everything in the East, where I'm at, it's completely illegal, but I've bought
fireworks in other states, in the US. No, I don't know, fireworks are allowed here, it's more about
people getting together or not, and if that's loud and how many people and all that, you know.
Yeah, for sure. Here, it's like in California, it's a lot like Australia, and we like to catch on a
fire, so fireworks are a big no-no. Well, there'll be fireworks one hour to go right, and it'll
go bang outside, I'm sure. Oh, I gotcha. So, is it legal for you guys to own fireworks?
No, no, fireworks, fireworks is fine, it's just, they're doing co-registrictions here, right,
and every country, because the UK is split up, you know, in England, actually,
split up into four countries, ready, and every country has its own rules slightly, that makes
sense. So, for example, the nightclubs are all open in England tonight. However, if you're in
Wales, they're closed, and so some of the Welsh have come over, I'm sure, to come clubbing here
tonight instead, and also in Scotland, they're doing some rules a bit more as well, and so some
of the Scots are down in England as well, to do New Year. Do you see what I'm saying?
Yeah, I gotcha. For the problem is, we've had Christmas in England, right? We've had Christmas
without any restrictions as such, we've had New Year's now, without any restrictions as such,
they put, they said, you have to wear face masks, and if you shop again, and on the bus, and
taxis, and trains, and when you walk into a cinema, but when you sit in the room, you don't have to
do it, but I believe, things like that, but we might pay for this in January, now that's
the only thing, because to be fair, there is a virus still going around, and you know, it's not
made up, and I just have a feeling that when I want to do things in January myself, going out a
little bit, going to things, that potentially is going to be restrictions, so which is a bit annoying.
I just have that feeling, there's something's going to happen, I just can't believe it's going
to just stay like this, not after what's been happening in the last two years. I don't know if you
caught what happened with the CDC said here in America, but they're essentially telling us that
the economy is more important than people's lives. Well, yeah, that's kind of what's happening here
as well, it's like you didn't lock down at Christmas, you didn't lock down at New Years because the
pubs want money in the bars, and you know, pubs, nightclubs, bars, restaurants, all that, they
had problems, that'd be closed last year a bit, but it's like, it's like the economy is more
important, and then when people get given the choice, like, would face masks, for example, don't
wear a face mask, I mean, I didn't always wear face mask gloves to be fair, but however, however,
when people are given that choice, 99% of people don't do it, of course, and so do any way to
make people do it, really, or enough people is to kind of try and force onto people like they
were doing, and that probably does actually help stop some of the spread to be fair, it's not
going to stop everything, but it does probably help a little bit. Yeah, well, we have all of that
mask and nothing closing down, but we've also reduced the amount of time that you have to
quarantine from 10 days to 5 days, despite the, you know, gestation time, or your contagious time
for COVID being like 28 days. Yeah, yeah, you did that here as well, I think it's down to about
maybe seven days now, or 10 days instead of two weeks, and it's bad. Oh yeah, it's bad, in fact,
I know, like, this is going to be recorded, so I'm a bit like, oh, I want to say this on here,
but I guess I can. There was a guy in our Linux user group who moved to Florida,
and it turns out he died of COVID in the summer on my birthday, so, you know, that's not great,
is it? One of those really clever people as well that you would have learned a lot from
about Linux and other things as well, which is, which is sad. Oh yeah, and it forced people to
grow a brain. I mean, I mean, I got a sense. Yeah, I don't know, but I'm a little bit mixed,
on the one hand, we want to go out and do things, on the back, go to the cinema, go to a restaurant,
you know, have eat out and enjoy life. It's not about not living your life, it's about mitigating
risk. Yeah, yeah, but on the other hand, that on the other hand, there is a thing going around,
it has killed certain people, and it will kill more people, especially with, and there's a lot of
people that are just not tickly taking it that seriously, they're just like, oh, well, it's new year,
let's go out, let's go pubbing, let's do this, let's do that, and there'll be more photos come
to more about people who are being out tonight. And I got a friend too, like here in Texas,
basically nobody's wearing masks anymore, the people that are wearing masks are extremely few
and far between, and yeah, that's exactly what, yeah, that's what's happened here as well, it's,
it's like the 1%, my, my mum wears a mask, but she works in, um, with, um, in care, with
vulnerable people, let's say, and so they have to kind of wear a mask in her job anyway,
but when you go out into the real, the outside world, and you go to shop, so you go to cinema,
she went to cinema on, on Thursday, and she was telling me on the phone, how it was a bit like,
wake up call, like, wow, is it that, is it really like this? Yeah, 50 people will not be wearing
masks in the cinema, because they don't have to, in the, in the, when you're watching a movie,
just how it is now, and, um, about 1% of people are doing it, and those people are, I would say,
they're the sort of, the older people usually in stuff like that, um, if then probably the same in
America and, well, everywhere, probably really, because maybe people have had enough of this,
but, yeah, on the other hand, I didn't, I was a bit unsure with masks to begin with as well,
I read all the bad stuff on the internet, mountain being bad, and they make the glassy steam up,
and all the rest of it, but, but now I'm a bit like, actually, maybe, maybe, I went to a pub
early this month, and obviously there's nobody masked in the pub, and I knew that, but I thought,
actually, you know what, I'm, I'm, I'm in my early 30s now, and I don't want to get co-read either,
really, and I, and even some of the really young people can get, get it and get badly affected,
or you can get long co-read or something, so it's not just, it's not, it's not ideal either way,
it's, no, it's good to try and avoid it, but then the second you go out to a shop,
people weren't, weren't masked before, and now they, now they, now they're supposed to be,
you know, to pub, they're not going to be masked, they have to wear pubs, them in masks,
in the pub or clubs, and you know, and I don't know quite, but, um, what I, uh, yeah.
Have you, have you ever seen the, the short movie where a guy is using this, um, I don't know
how you called this in English, but, um, instead of smoking a cigarette, you can just breathe in hot
air, which is generated from this device that you hold in your hand, so then he takes a deep breath,
puts several different masks on his face, and then he breathes out, and, um, you know, this team,
now I got it, the team you see then, um, you know, the team is equivalent to, to your breath,
right, but now you get it, you get it visible, and then, then you probably stop wearing the mask
in the cinema. It, uh, there's been a few internet graphics where I try and show like,
somebody I know was linking some of this on Facebook before, and she was trying,
whether they see it showing like, this is what happens with the mask, this is what happens,
that a mask, this is what happens with two masks, both people are wearing a mask, uh, I think
you mean a bit like that, don't you? Well, he was actually expressing the opposite to try and show
that masks are not effective using, um, a vaporizer and the fact that, uh, moisture, the water vapor
from the vaporizer could make it through the mask, even multiple masks, but just because something
isn't 100% effective doesn't mean that you shouldn't use it. Well, yeah, that's, the bait isn't it,
one side is that mask, just that mask didn't really work, what's the point in this? On the other hand,
it's like, well, they might, they might, they work a bit actually, and if you are infected, so,
so they might actually help a little bit. There is two ways, either it helps or it doesn't help,
where it helps, if somebody is next to you to speak, you speak to somebody and, um, while you're
speaking, you evaporate probably as well, maybe it's the correct word, I don't know, um, your,
your voice is, is carrying some stuff, right? And so when you wear a mask, then you will not
carry it over to this other person, it will rather go leave your face on the side, then in front of
your mask. There it's really helpful, maybe also in a supermarket where the fruits are just
everywhere around people look over it and breathe and everything and things that get, are more clean.
However, when you are for more than an hour in the same room with people, then I guess a good
air condition is in any case, always a good idea, no matter if somebody is ill or not. And, um,
yeah, but apart from that, do you want to continue your life of being afraid, um, that you're going to
die? I mean, you will die anyway, right? Well, that's kind of the other side of that as well.
One, one thing is like, do we want to wear masks, wear them all? And, uh, and the answer to that
is probably no, most of us are going to say no. I mean, in some of the Asian countries, they,
they do wear masks as part of their culture, any way, I believe, when, when they're ill, they will wear
masks, sort of thing and so on. But in our kind of countries, you're up in America as well,
you know, Western countries, most of us are going to probably be like, no, I don't want to be
wearing the mask, having to wear a mask, for having more basically, just because there might be
viruses around and germs. And that was a thing I've seen on the internet a few times as well, where
some people went and said, like, oh, um, we'll have to spread cold before we're in flu and things. So
why can't we do that with COVID sort of thing? Why is COVID different? That's what some people
said online. I've seen these comments. And, um, I think the, I think, well, the reason COVID was
different, answering that question, actually, I believe it's because there was no vaccine. And,
and it did kill a lot of people, potentially, and it could, but they're trying to treat it like a flu
now or starting to, I believe. People tried to treat it like a flu right from the beginning.
Yeah, but like the governments are starting to kind of go that way now as well, some of them, I think,
but we're not there quite. And it potentially could be similar to the flu if everybody were to
get vaccinated or everybody that didn't have a reason to not get vaccinated did. Yeah, but that
they did. Yeah, but that's kind of another debate now. I could go into where basically people go,
but if I get vaccinated, like it can't show anyway. So why should I get vaccinated? And it's like,
you know, less likely to die from it if you're vaccinated. Well, well, yeah, but I'm trying to,
but I've had a rage. I just say, yeah, I've had three Pfizer jabs. I'm 34. And I, there was
an AstraZeneca jab that they didn't you care not really doing anymore, but I decided not to have
that originally for some other reasons, but I had three Pfizer jabs. The third one,
Marie recently, most people have been vaccinated on, I believe on somebody like sort of dating sites
now as well. Well, they actually can people can lie on here on there was obviously, but they can,
it says, have you been vaccinated? And you can part what you've, what you've, if you've been fully
vaccinated, part vaccinated or non vaccinated, I've seen that on something, but I do think most people
are vaccinated in in the UK. However, you would power this quite a lot that aren't vaccinated as
well. That's the thing. What I think would be a nice thing to carry on in the future is them to
wear a mask when you feel, when you feel not so well and you don't know if something is, if you're
becoming a flu or anything, if something is coming and you feel not so well and you wear a mask
in order not to accidentally infect any of your people around you. Yes, that's what I just said,
like what two minute three minutes ago, I sort of basically said they kind of do that in the
Asian countries, I believe in it as part of their culture anyway, but here in the Western countries,
a lot of us think we want to do that even even if we're feeling a bit ill, we do not want to wear
masks, but some people will do it. And then you could, you know, we could, you could go into
another bait and you could start saying things like that. A lot of people are selfish and get
into all this, you know, but it's like in the bait, everything, it's all opinion, isn't it?
Selfish in which regard now, when wearing a mask because of a flu, or
well, yeah, on the mask subject, so it could be that they just even know they feel ill,
they don't want to wear a mask, even so. Like you're saying, it would be nice if maybe if people
did wear a mask because they know they're feeling a bit ill, but certain people wouldn't do it anyway.
Well, I was just ill now over the last few days and usually I have my nose out of the mask
so that I can breathe, but then in this situation, well, first of all, you stay at home as long
as you can, but then when you have to get some groceries or anything, you've got to go into a shop,
then you wear the mask as good as it gets, I guess, to protect people around you. Now this is
this is a matter of not to say values, right? Well, use people think about others.
Yeah, yeah, it's a bit like somebody said to me to the same woman who was linking those
graphics about masks working, actually, she's about 60 something. Anyway, she was saying to me
some other day on Facebook, like, oh, people who are like wanting the pubs open at the moment,
they're like the cell, they're like, they're being selfish, basically, because what she meant
is because there's still a virus going around, there's Omnicorn or whatever. And in a way, that's,
I can see a point, but on the other hand, it's like, in a way, people who are out now celebrating
new years going to pubs and nightclubs, you know, even if they've had their lap full flow test,
a test, you know, you could sort of say, is that right? Should they be out doing that really?
You can go out and still be safe. Like 100% safe other than, you know, locking yourself in your home.
But if you go out, maintain distances, wear a mask if you're going to be close to someone,
you know, get handed your drink, be wearing your mask then, then take your mask off and have your
drink. I have never seen a virus politicized the way this one has been in the US. I really think
it's ridiculous that people not wanting to get sick is a political decision now. And that's
just wrong. When we had the Spanish flu 100 years ago, the government said everyone gets this
vaccine now and they took it and nobody said anything about it. And now all of a sudden,
well, they can brag about how past Trump got the vaccines to market. And then they forget that he
took it himself and they're all going out and saying, well, don't take that. That's that.
He only people do that. You know, he even told people last year to get the vaccine.
Yeah, but he followed it up with, but it's everyone's choice.
Yeah, but yeah, but it's not just the US. I mean, the UK, right? We've got Boris Johnson,
if England and then there's a different, and then each other, you can come to have the
room, like, person in charge. But it's basically every country with the World Health Organization.
We've all got a slightly different version of lockdown and restrictions, but we're all going
through the same thing basically. My point is that how did we allow this to become a political
issue? What if the health issue? That's a good question. In the US, that's a question. In the UK,
we've actually got spent called the National Health Service anyway, which is our health system.
And the health system is funded by guess who, the government or if you like the taxpayer.
Well, so that's how a lot of our nursing system is forced to get the vaccine. If they accept
any government funding, then they're considered to be government employees and they're required
to get the vaccine, which is why so many people recently quit nursing industry and were so
sure handed. I believe some of the care organizations here, especially old people care, they're trying
to sort of force the vaccine onto their employees. Basically, you get jabbed or you're having this job.
I don't know if anything's actually gone through properly like that, but I know I've read something
in that saying that. Well, there's much more than one reason to quit being a health care worker
in this country. If you are being a health care worker and you're being responsible and you're
you're protected equipment and you got the vaccine and you're getting screamed at by people
who are telling you that it's a hoax and there's no such thing as this virus. And the vaccine is
that's all they're going to take is the Ibermectin. Well, fine, give them more Ibermectin,
let them poison themselves, you know. Watch them die. I mean, it's not a parasite, it's a virus.
Like I said, it should never have gotten politicized like this. And it's in the US,
it's the fault of the orange Julia seaver that it was. Yeah, but it's not
politicized just with one country. It's politicized with all the countries that have the world's
health organisation. Basically, Canada, UK, Europe, Germany, but on the other hand, it also has killed
killed a few hundred thousand or more people. So it's a bit of a yeah, we haven't even discussed
the availability of the vaccine in third world countries and that political snafu.
Oh, oh, I just got on here about 24 half an hour ago, nearly, but yeah, okay, we can talk about
that. So I'll start with say something about that. So in the UK, we had the AstraZeneca,
right, our own vaccine, which they kind of stopped using for, I believe because of
possible blood clots was one reasons, but so I read Pfizer, we got a lot of Pfizer and we got
this little bit Moderna as well, but they were going to give out, they were going to give away
vaccine to the developing countries as well. And I believe they have not given many out a way
at all, so far. Yeah, well, even the, what was it, AstraZeneca? I do remember hearing something
about the blood clots, but that was like very, very low numbers on the percentage of people that
ended up with blood clots. And it seemed like they pulled it a little bit early.
Well, the numbers on AstraZeneca were considerably higher than the same numbers on the other mRNA
vaccines. So I don't know, maybe it's just a bad version of the mRNA. No, no, no, no, no,
AstraZeneca was, it's done a different way like the old vaccines, it's not, it's not like Pfizer
Moderna, it's, so it's not, I don't think it's, yes, done like the old ones, but I think the part
part of the blood, a lot of the blood clots story actually came was political as well, because,
because the UK did a Brexit left the European Union last year or the year before 29, yeah, 2019
sort of thing. And that was what it was to do with I believe as well partly. And so they came out
this story, which had some truth to it. I'm sure, but then it also got politicized and then
Germany for a bit banned the vaccine, I believe as well, but the AstraZeneca vaccine. And I think
maybe Zwitsland did as well, I'm not sure we got, we have to switch, say if he's still here, but
some of the countries I believe temporarily banned AstraZeneca. And we're like, no, no, no,
What do you want to get AstraZeneca unless you're ready to die?
Yeah, why do you say that?
Because you have to dig maybe a little bit, but the vaccine of AstraZeneca, what it is based for and what it led to and what it was used from AstraZeneca.
So it is kind of a copy of another one of an existing vaccine they had, if I remember correctly.
I'm just quote here what I have in my mind and then they just changed it in that way or in that direction.
But last but not least, now as you speak about the vaccine, does you think that everybody should get vaccinated and if everybody was vaccinated, they would be the world would be a safe place.
I got my cold from the person who is double, double vaccinated, including booster, plus influenza vaccine as well.
And I am without vaccine, I'm not vaccinated here.
Yeah, he gave it to me.
I'm really grateful.
Well, that's the, well, that's the thing as well, the vaccine, you can still capture even a few vaccinated however, if you've been tripped double, triple vaccinated, there should be less of a problem.
However, the thing now also is like hang on, some countries are talking about Germany, we're talking about a full vaccine, another, another jab, a booster, another a fourth one.
I'm thinking like, how many vaccines are, boosters are it going to be for this is basically, basically over six, seven, eight, last night, that they're still weak or last week or the other day was mean, and he sort of said, he's in the 60s, he sort of said, oh, maybe, maybe six, six,
Japs, and I was like, ready, so you're probably going to end with a yearly booster. Well, hopefully it's how it's every three to six months.
And then one idea was that if you have a Pfizer booster that it doesn't last as long, maybe 10 weeks, the third one, that's because the virus still on us.
Well, the MRA vaccines were never approved for human trials because of all the problems with the animal testing, because they died, because they died finally.
Yeah, yeah, they almost all die after the MRA vaccine about a six month span of what they're vaccinated against or something else.
I used to follow that all the time, because it sounded like a great solution to immunizing everybody for everything, but they never got a working.
So we're in the middle of a two year, largest human trial study on MRA.
There was, well, I've had, well, I don't know, with the animals dying quite, but that sounds kind of true.
I did hear that before that in a way that these were, well, in the UK, there were emergency approved or something, whatever that really means.
But they, yeah, I've heard it sort of experiment still and with, yeah, it wasn't a human trial.
So normally when they're testing drugs, they'll have a small subset of healthy people that they test the drugs on over time, small sets, and they increase.
So they're not doing that. It just went to billions of people.
Well, hopefully it's going to be okay because a lot of us have had this now.
And, yeah, well, I've had all three of my shots and it's been more than six months, so I'm still here.
But yeah, it's the same about three years and what, but this, this year, what gets me is how Moderna, this is the first drug of any kind that Moderna has had, and there keeps being more and more COVID.
And the Moderna vaccine is effective against most of these strains, but the stock price keeps dropping.
You think it'd go up if it was a useful vaccine, you know.
I don't know if there's some little bit of Moderna here as well.
I think it's makes me Pfizer. However, that's the other thing as well.
You're on like another point here that that's what some people say as well.
That that basically is big pharmacy.
They make lots of money from these vaccines as well.
Yeah, somebody's making a lot of money from it.
It's not me. Did you get the, didn't did you buy stock from from there?
No, let's just get the shot.
I actually did buy a little bit of Moderna stock.
I can't afford much.
It was like 1.3 shares or something like that.
And then I had to sell it because it just kept dropping.
There was a, there was a story.
I can't remember bang on that, but I think it was the basically one of guys who comes on TV with these updates.
We're the prime minister here.
He had actually bought some shares in wonder vaccine companies or something like this,
because this came out about about nine months ago, something like that anyway.
Yeah, my mother passed away this past January of COVID.
And in June or July, I guess July, I started actually getting a payout from her estate,
which was much larger than anyone believed it was going to be.
And I'm only get 15% and they have to spread it out over five years.
But for a change, I've had a little bit of money that I could invest in.
I mean, a little bit because my wife doesn't want me to even be doing that.
She considers it gambling.
So I'm getting, I was, first I was getting $100 a month.
And now I'm at 200.
And thanks to the app called Robinhood, I'm able to do that and not just be spending all my money on broker fees and whatnot.
Can you tell a little bit about that Robin Hood app, how that works?
I mean, I've heard about it and how to, I've to think about that.
The H4 made it to the news over here, but what is the idea?
What is the philosophy of this of this Robinhood app?
The philosophy is basically to let anybody has anything to invest to invest it.
And they don't charge any fees.
I do not know how they get their money, but it's not from fees.
And it's they allow you to actually keep your money uninvested with them as if they were a bank.
And they pay a little bit better interest than most banks these days.
But that's not saying much, but you just can pick your stocks and you can buy, you know,
minuscule, you know, hundreds of thousands of portions of a share of whatever.
And right right now, I'm up to about $700 worth of stock.
And that's not dittily, but, you know, you can pick whatever you want.
I missed the beginning of the, well, I didn't hear about the Robinhood app,
because probably going to be on about half an hour, but that sounds quite interesting.
Robinhood is also a English thing, really, or, yeah, famous.
And I want to find out more about that, but I, but I before I lose my, forget my little point.
Yes, there have been many characters thought to have been Robinhood.
There's all kinds of historical documentaries on that issue.
And they've got them in various, various different periods of time.
But most commonly as the time while Richard was off being king in Europe or being king of England,
but in Europe.
Any rate that the app is basically a way for you to invest your money without having to give up fees
of any kind or certainly most brokerages that you go to the laugh at you.
And you say you have $100 to invest and they probably take most of that just in their fees.
Or as far as I know, Robinhood app does not take any fees.
I do not know how they make their money, but it's not from that aspect of their investing.
They follow the risk of the work.
They follow the risk of the risk.
Is this the risk you take when you, when you invest via Robinhood, then you choose,
I don't know, some standard banks or trading company with, I don't know, known for 10, 15 years,
whether what I know and it's the risk higher.
No, the risk is the same.
If you're going through a brokerage company, there's fees involved.
And it's usually larger amounts of money that they want you to be working with.
Really, Robinhood is, it treats stocks and the market in similar ways to your crypto exchanges do.
Crypto exchanges let you buy portions of, you know, even bitcoins or something like that and do very small transactions.
And it's the same thing with Robinhood.
Thank you.
And it's not just stocks you can buy.
There are also some mutual funds you can buy and there are also some crypto currencies you can buy.
And this is just around for what is it about two years or so?
Yeah, there's also been some heavy controversy with Robinhood, especially earlier in 2021, game stop.
In regards to game?
Right.
And then stopping trading on game stop because the value got so high and, you know, supposedly it was because they were overloaded.
But the thought was that it was market manipulation and they were keeping the rich rich by preventing people from making money on that stock.
Yeah, rich people are allowed to manipulate the market, poor people are not.
And they were able, we are ready to influence, so we are ready to, we are Robinhood.
They were able to influence the market.
Right.
It was Reddit.
It was some redditors that kind of reached the market there and they did legal market manipulation.
And you know, they basically just talked people into purchasing game stop stock and push the price up and increase the value of it.
But it wasn't necessarily specifically Robinhood that they were aiming at.
They were aiming across the market.
They just wanted people to buy this stock.
So they created buzz about it.
I do want to say said that I do not own any game stop.
Yeah.
I have decided to start investing according to the stupidity of the market rather than just the things I'd like to see succeeded in the market.
So I'm going to start buying Facebook and Google and all these stocks that will never go down because people were too stupid not to buy them.
I'm actually listening to Jamie Oliver when he was talking about the game stop the debacle.
And I the funny thing I think was that the market people actually shorted the game stock stock a lot.
So they thought that the game stock was on the way out.
And when it rose in value, they lost so much money, which was really fun.
Yeah, which is why places like Robinhood stopped trading.
Well, they only stopped for a short while.
They opened it back up again because they came under criticism for stopping it.
Hello, by the way, from 2022 in Sweden, very foggy today.
So we didn't see any fireworks, but it was really nice.
Glad to hear it.
I have a friend in Sweden.
Yeah, it's a large country.
So there's a lot of people here.
Well, yeah.
It's not like I was reading about Guyana and the only English speaking country in South America,
although more people speak a sort of English Creole than actual English,
but whole whopping 800,000 people.
I knew straight away that there was a Swedish person coming on here because I'm half Swedish as well.
And I've probably spoke to this, but I've probably spoke to Calus about two years ago.
I'm not sure, but either way.
So yeah.
Do you know which half?
Yeah.
Top half, bottom half, one side or the other?
Well, true.
You kind of know what you say half.
Well, actually, I can say I'm caught a finish or whatever that is as well,
because I've got the second cousins finish as well.
But I know what you mean.
I don't know.
I don't know which half.
No, I don't.
I tend to be funny at times.
No, no, no.
I know you've been.
I know you were joking.
Yeah, but I think Sebastian is a pretty common Swedish name.
And Calus Perfer is a very common Swedish brand of flakes or frosted flakes that we eat in the
morning.
So if you're from Sweden, you're pretty much know the brand.
I'm well, I'm half Swedish.
I've lived in England most of my life, but yes, I can speak Swedish as well.
That y'all can.
Yep.
My one friend in Sweden is named Carl Johan Noren.
I don't know if he's famous or anything, but I know him.
He's famous because you know him.
Well, he is a songwriter and has actually made several trips to the US because of that.
I think Nuregan is a pretty common name or a pretty known name in the music industry.
We have a couple of those that actually are producing a lot of music, but I didn't ring.
I can't really point that person out in a crowd.
Yeah.
Where are you from in Sweden?
I'm from Gothenburg or the Kungs back there.
So three miles is so hard because it's not really a mile.
It's 30 kilometers or 35 kilometers from Gothenburg.
That was a common boat school.
There's one Swedish Linux event that's been happening in Gothenburg, but you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Do I think we had Fossinov or something?
Yeah, Fossinov, that's it, isn't it?
Yeah, Fossinov.
Yeah, I was there in 2028 or so with something like that and I was helping out a bit.
I got to go in for free.
Yeah, that's cool.
I remember having to, I remember I was going to go maybe a four-ballet and then I didn't go.
But then I had to go to wind up in that airport another year.
The opposite side of the country, pretty much, where we were actually going because of missing a plane
and having to drive from there to there because Sweden is big.
It's quite a big country.
It's with a lot of empty, not much going on spaces, a spiral farmland and stuff and forest in between.
Well, actually, even true of the United States, there's a whole lot more rural U.S. than anyone thinks of.
Yeah, but Sweden is very long, that's the only thing.
It's not really wide, it's just very tall.
Yeah, yeah, it's tall on the map as well.
It looks tall on the map as well.
Well, they're the normal map.
That's the fault of a Mercator projection.
They make things north look bigger than they are.
Yeah, but I think you can't or you need to spend the whole day 24 hours if you want to drive from south to north of Sweden.
Let's see, so Gothenburg to North Shurping, quite a driver.
Yeah, I actually went on a train from Gothenburg to Baldwin, which is Kirin, a very far up north.
I set up a train for 17 hours.
Oh, wow.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Is there again Catarina?
Hold on, no.
No, vulnerable near Kirruna.
It's pretty much in the farthest north of Sweden.
It's almost in Lapland.
Yeah, yeah, it's farther than that.
But it actually, the most northern part of Sweden is called
called, it's a place where the three countries meet. You have Finland, Sweden and Norway
meeting at the top. And I think that Kirona is pretty much a couple of, let's say, a hundred
miles, a hundred kilometers from there or something like that.
There was a place in, ooh, some were up in Lapland and I went to like a club for public
speaking there. But it was very international because on Zoom it was like, well, that's
not seen very Swedish, but some were up in Lapland otherwise. I can't remember what's
called La Lille, that's it, Bingo. Have I ever heard of that place? I think it's called
La Lille.
Yeah, that's probably what school is, isn't it?
Yeah, so that is pretty far up. But do we have one place called Umi, which is even further
up and Kirona is pretty much even further than that?
Umi, Umi, Umi, yeah. There was somebody on the project that used to be involved with
it, who was from there. So yeah, that's true, it's very long. I suppose it's normally,
yeah, it's normally wide as such, it's just very long, it goes up and down Sweden and
it's a long country.
Yeah, and to the south you have pretty much Skorn and with Denmark and so on and there
is very hot in the summertime. And up north you have installations from Facebook and Google
to keep cold during winter and summer times because it's really cold in Northern.
Oh, Skorn there, yeah, that's nice. Used to go there or through there sometimes when
we were to go over as a growing up and stuff. But I've obviously been that stuff in many
years now. But yeah, Denmark also, that's kind of, from what I remember, it's got like
sort of beach down the side of the country as you drive them through whatever going for
a car and it seems like a nice country as well, doesn't it?
And that pretty nice, very flat and then you have all the Danish people. I have a real
problem to really understand Danish people. It sounds like they have oatmeal in their throat
when they're speaking so it's really hard to understand them.
It's probably not as bad as Finnish though because Finnish when they speak Finnish.
Yeah, Finnish is a totally different beast. They don't have any vowels in their language.
And the Norwegian is, I don't know, it can be similar to Swedish as well, I think.
And the Norwegian is pretty much happy Swedish. So they have a couple of other words but
they're very similar. So understanding a Norwegian that talks slowly is pretty easy.
Yeah, I've not been, I think I've been to Norway very as a baby maybe or just, but no,
I suppose people are nice over there as well.
Very nice countryside. So I've actually been thinking about going into their fjords.
So you go by boats cost the border of Norway. So there's a trip going all the way there
and it's really nice, really nice atmosphere and really nice weather and so on.
Where was that?
Where you can go by boats through the border or the countryside of Norway so you can go
from south to north.
From the north?
Is that near Oslo or not?
I think Oslo has some hardware or if it's pretty much, but I think that's to the south.
And then you go from there or even south more south and then you go by the coastline with
boats. That's a very nice trip. So that's one thing I've been thinking about doing sometime.
Yeah, especially in pretty nice place in the summer as well, didn't you?
Then the wind's out. It's probably going to be not very nice now.
Nope. I've been skiing in Norway a couple of times and that's pretty nice, but not going
there and just being...
Yeah, well, I think it's possible to speak.
Yeah, I'll just pop on and say happy New Year to everybody.
Has there been any issues with the mumble server as they've been behaving itself?
No problems with the mumble server then?
I haven't heard anything, but then again, I just arrived.
I just spent my New Year's getting Sweden just recently.
So you have the New Year's in 10 minutes or so? Have you already had it?
Already had it for just walking back. We did set a lot to the neighbours and we're just
heading off to bed.
Nice.
Hey Ken, what's going on?
Very little. It's late. I'm tired. I'm going to bed.
I'll be back on here tomorrow, so I expect with the Saturday it'll be the after show
might be as long as the show itself.
I'm verbal. Man, this has been a while.
Yeah, it has.
It's great to hear from you. How are you keeping? How's Mrs. Verbal?
I'm well, thanks. How are you?
I'm doing great. All the better for here in New Year, okay.
You should stay in touch, submit a few shows like to hear what's going on.
Okay, we'll have to do that.
Okay, oh, you're coming on sale?
Yes.
So it's to my daughter. All I know, uh, switch audio, one second.
Okay, say hello to everyone.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Thank you.
Okay, good about it.
Happy New Year.
Yeah, I'll probably stand up on that some of the year in a moment.
All right, guys, talk to you later.
Okay, we still have five hours and nine minutes here.
Very good.
Very good.
So do you have any activities going up to the New Year or are you just staying here?
Who?
Em, Momeo, anybody?
Yeah, anybody.
We were sitting down watching some kind of lotto that is pretty common in Sweden to have
like an event where you watch a television show that goes on until the end of the year.
Yeah, same here.
So we've got, um, to Graham Norton show on New Year special,
and Graham Norton has does a Friday night show every now and again.
It can sometimes be funny kind of, and they do celebrities and stuff.
And I had it on the very beginning before I came on,
a set, and I was, I was feeling mumble.
And now it's still on, but without any sound on.
And I'm thinking like, yeah, you know what?
That's fine with me.
Because I don't want to hear this guy singing on TV.
I really don't.
I really, really, really don't.
And in about five minutes or so, that will finish.
And it will be big Ben.
That'll mean I'll watch that.
It'll be the fireworks.
Well, they're not the normal fireworks in London,
because that got cancelled.
And then the other one got cancelled as well.
And this is going to be something smaller somewhere.
And Edinburgh, I'm not doing their normal thing either.
I've been Scotland, that's what I heard.
They're just going to blow them all off at a party that borrows hosts.
Yeah, I mean, if you've seen that story,
there was a Christmas party, apparently last year,
when the country hit, it was in lockdown.
And he wasn't part of it.
But people who worked for him were part of it.
And it's been, and it's leaked out recently, the story.
I don't know if you may be seeing it.
Oh, he didn't know.
He didn't know.
He didn't get ran all over the place.
Yeah, go out onto the internet.
And yeah, they know about it in America now as well.
It turns out.
And you're struggling fast now, though.
But yeah, some of the people they put on TV, like music,
it's like, I don't want to hear this guy singing.
I could put the volume up, which I'm not going to do.
I just know, like, no, I just, I just have no interest.
Well, we don't have Trump to laugh at so much anymore,
so we have to switch to Boris.
I'm always saying Biden's better or, yeah?
Oh, Biden's kind of boring.
Everybody's creepy, Uncle is about as far as you go with him.
Yeah.
Like, Trump is still there, but he's not obviously not present anymore, so yeah.
Well, the fact that he supposedly has a media empire,
or at least his media empire that doesn't exist yet,
has $1.2 billion to invest from shell companies
whose funding all comes from China.
It's about all you can talk about with Trump,
because he doesn't add Twitter access to anymore.
He doesn't have any real access to the media anymore.
Yeah, well, say what you want about Trump,
but every day was kind of funny, except for being scared out of your wits.
Yeah, some days it was really scary.
Some days it was really weird, and some days it was really funny,
but always there was something that was happening.
Well, then again, I watched Stephen Cobair,
so I've followed the America from a funny prediction.
Oh, I mean, in the UK,
they obviously had a bit of a laugh-apparate as well,
on the TV and things as well, BBC and all that.
Yeah, well, I have a friend in Winnipeg
who offered us couch space if we really needed it,
and it didn't quite get that bad.
And then a friend who is in this room right now
has kind of offered me his boyhood home in Iowa,
in case I just wanted to hide out and still be in the US.
I think I hear a few fireworks,
but they if so, they are like three full five minutes earlier, I think.
Yeah, they started at like six o'clock over here,
and something like that, but it's really funny.
Oh, you know what, I can beat that, I think,
because I think about 24 hours ago, yeah.
24 hours ago, yeah.
About, I think I had fireworks outside,
because I remember I met someone on Facebook,
I was like, I think I'm here in fireworks,
although that's like 24 hours early.
Yeah, here in Kungsbeck, the children were actually,
yeah, kids were running up to the police station,
throwing fireworks into their yard.
Well, they did it realize that they had a lot of cameras over there,
so the police had had a lot of fun trying to track those kids out of them.
Now, there was a video, some shopping,
Asia, I think, some, I can't remember.
I just went and asked all the other day,
all night, and it was basically it said that
somebody was on the sun, probably the UK thing.
Anyway, on the website, but anyway,
there was a video of a clip of somebody doing their shopping,
and there were loads of fireworks and crackers,
and I think party crackers maybe as well,
going off in the shop at the same time,
and it says like, well, they really want to finish their shopping.
I'm very surprised we haven't heard anywhere I live,
because these people are fireworks nuts.
Anything that goes boom, therefore,
but we heard a lot around, you know, early July.
If it's like, yeah, we haven't heard anything yet.
I haven't heard anything yet either,
but I expect the booming to start anytime now.
Okay, well, I'm in an hour ahead of you,
so we should get it first.
But isn't it illegal in some states to fire fireworks?
Has that ever stopped in American?
Not Texas.
Probably not.
I mean, literally, you could probably,
well, you could legally, as long as you were out in
middle of nowhere, I guess, fire a cannon.
The thing is, right?
Okay, the fireworks going on from outside,
and I always go, I see it's going straight into the U.S.
thing now, that makes sense.
But, oh, it's one minute to go.
Less than one minute.
I bet, yeah, I'm going to watch this.
Hang on.
We actually had a lot of fireworks going on around us,
because we are living at the top of the mountain pretty much
here in backpack.
It's not the high mountain that's still pretty out of far up.
So we should have seen a lot if it wasn't for the fog,
and people are shooting a lot up here as well,
because it's very visible.
But then, somebody was shooting this quite heavy piece,
which was almost half a meter and half a meter in diameter,
or something like that.
And that caught fires.
We're actually going out hunting for some way to drench it,
so it didn't burn longer,
because the people that shot it just
left, which was really strange as well.
Yeah, we're not as bad as Texas here in eastern Tennessee,
but we'll shoot anything in anybody.
I think most weapons are illegal in Sweden.
Would be nice.
Basically, no weapon is illegal in Texas,
and you really carry it anywhere.
If you don't own one, you're probably not going to get anywhere.
If you're a male over the age of 18,
and you don't own a shotgun,
you're technically breaking the law.
I think there was somewhere where it was illegal to shoot a gun
that just was blank,
but you could own a shotgun.
Could that be Texas?
Um, Texas, you can basically own any gun
and open carry any gun without a license.
If you're white,
well, you can do it if you're black too,
you know, statistical probability.
Yeah, you're not going to live long.
You can do it.
Yes, we do still have serious racial problems in the United States.
Yeah, actually still have serious racial problems in Canada,
but at least they're trying to deal with them there.
I don't know that was mostly historic,
although that they were trying to deal with.
Well, they definitely have problems with the Indigenous population,
but they are working on that very hard.
They are doing scans of the ground to see how many unmarked graves
they can find near the residential schools.
They have actually named an Indigenous person
as Governor-General,
and she's doing quite a nice job up there.
But they also have number of problems with blacks
and various types of Muslims and Hindus and whatnot.
You can still get shot out for being a Sikh as being a Muslim.
They don't know the difference anymore up there
than they do down here.
It's pretty strange for me to hear these kind of stories,
because well, the most strange thing I hear about
is my wife is working at the hospital,
and she is actually actively the one that is working
with people that are migrating to Sweden
and trying to inform them that, yes,
you have free health care, and yes,
you should visit the doctor if you need it.
So most people that cross the border
don't have any health history at all,
and that's a real problem for Swedish population.
All right, now we're having serious problems,
especially in taxes about women who feel they should not need
to carry a birth determ that the common perception
of the American public is that Jesus himself said
thou shalt not have an abortion.
Well, he also said kill all the first born in Egypt,
so...
Well, that wasn't Jesus, that was his dad.
That was God.
Of course, most Christians believe they are one in the same person.
Exactly, eternity.
But that never made sense to me,
but no, I am not a Christian.
I don't please don't stone me.
That's why I'm on electronically.
If something doesn't make sense, I don't believe it.
I don't care how many billions of people do.
Yeah, we all have our opinions and some of them are good.
All minor good, what do you mean?
Yeah, I'm usually in the favor of everybody has their own right,
their own body, and can do whatever they want with their body.
It's rather disturbing that people think that they can dictate
to other people what that person can and can't do with their own body.
The fireworks just started here,
so I am no longer without booms in the distance.
Actually, they're right outside my trailer.
Granted, since they couldn't, you know,
mandate it legally here in Texas,
they mandated it civilly by allowing you to sue
if, you know,
yeah, minimum $10,000 plus court costs.
If you would.
And that's even if you just were the Uber driver that dropped them off at the abortion clinic.
Maybe soon.
So it's almost turning, you know,
suing people into big business,
finding out somebody got an abortion,
then you sue the doctor, you sue the nurses,
you sue the person that got the abortion,
you do the Uber driver,
you do the guy in America,
if you can't sue somebody, you're not an American.
Yeah, but then again, lawyers don't have great wages,
so we need to proc those up a bit.
Have you ever had to pay a lawyer?
Yeah, those dudes make money.
Oh, yeah, you and the ambulance chasers make money.
Yeah, I was kidding.
Not quite the same amount of money as someone running a mega church,
but still.
Right, the most interesting ones,
you know, those locked cases are the ones where you have a bunch of
tentative people that are suing somebody,
and they get to like one transaction and class action,
you know, those are really weird ones.
Well, yeah, but even when you win that,
the lawyer gets most of the money.
Yeah, and with the class action lawsuit,
it's not usually about, you know, making money,
it's about making someone stop doing horrible things.
Yeah, but the lawyer makes money.
Community, then you showed that least,
give that community some money back,
and not like five dollars.
Yeah, I agree with you.
I think it was some case about fracking
or something like that.
The people got really sick,
and then they got like five dollars.
Like, thank you.
A lot of pharmaceutical companies, you know,
they get sued, and then they have to make a payout
that's, you know, a billion dollars,
and they simply don't care because they made
30 billion dollars,
killing off all these people.
Yeah, and the opioid thing,
where the families that made all that money,
the sacklers tried to get themselves
excused from any future lawsuits.
Oh, we'll give you four and a half billion dollars
and we'll run off with this other 20
that we already siphoned off of the company,
and you can't sue us anymore.
Well, the courts decided to turn them out on that one,
finally.
Yeah, I still can't really hear about the sackers
without thinking about the,
I don't know what the,
or the, the guy's called,
but it is famous.
The famous, now it's a famous actor
that reenacted this dude from the sackers
that just in the court case said,
I don't know to every question.
Then they had the famous actor reenact that,
and it was so good.
It was an SNL scare, wasn't it?
Yeah, something like that,
or if it was extybical variant,
because yeah, I watch a lot of that.
Well, maybe it was Colbert,
because I do remember seeing it,
but I can't remember where I watched it.
It was Colbert.
Well, I only watched bits of Colbert on YouTube,
but he doesn't good stuff.
I think it's amazing how he is kept on top of things,
and John Stewart seems to be falling
more and more conservative every year.
Kind of hard for a gay Jewish guy to start turning conservative.
Everybody can change, I guess.
Well, I guess at my age, I'm supposed to be a
dyed-in-the-wall right-winger,
but I never got the hang of that.
Then again, I think most of the person
is pretty much the writers that makes it up because, yeah.
So some of the things that Stephen Colbert says is like,
I don't really commit to this one,
because this was what the writers were actually writing about.
Well, that was more in his past life
on the Colbert report that he made it very clear
that he was not a conservative, but he was playing one.
All right, I'll be back.
I'm going to go cook some food for the kids.
You're going to cook the kids for food?
It might happen.
That's a cannibal, if I ever heard one.
I'm trying too hard, I know.
Yeah, everybody's sleeping here, so I'm by myself.
I'm trying to get down so I can actually go to sleep,
but I went up really early this morning
and tried to solve this on-call-duty thing.
It was really heartbreaking that things got as bad as they got,
and then that had been tied all day,
but I haven't been able to sleep.
Sex?
Yeah, then the most irritating part was
that I found the problem yesterday, or, yeah.
Yeah, yesterday at 1.30am,
and then I went to sleep because I was too tired to actually fix it.
And if I had done something back then,
then the problem hadn't been that bad.
Uh-huh, yeah.
Can Sam particularly familiar with that exact situation,
but I have had occasions where if I had done something
at the moment where it should have done it,
I wouldn't have as much trouble as I did when I actually did it.
Yeah, and this was a pretty simple case.
The hard drive was full in the night,
so nothing came in, and then in the morning it was still full,
and nothing had come in.
So then we just had to clean up stuff and actually get everything in
and up and running again.
A lot of some words of that.
Yeah, I understood that a bit.
Yeah, um, somebody interrupted also.
That interrupted.
Using dad's setup right now, not really used to it.
Yeah, we spoke last year, right?
Um, yeah, might have.
Yeah.
I think the topic that year was pretty much the most scariest creatures in different
countries.
Um, can't remember.
But I had to find a list of things that could kill you and sweeten.
Oh, yeah, it wasn't that long.
I remember something along those lines.
Um, yeah, I was pretty tired.
I remember coming in, people being like,
why are you still up?
And then I remember talking for a very long time.
And then, um, I remember it being 10 in the morning
and the sun being out and stuff.
And just a couple of things in between.
It's like, I even, even during the talking,
I could hardly, well, I could, but I could,
I had trouble keeping track of everything that was being said.
Wasn't there an Norwegian guy here as well?
Well, I haven't heard from him all year.
Sorry, I haven't seen him today.
Uh, I don't know.
Was it, was it, I remember one, one name, KDG.
But yeah, I, yeah, I remember two names after the thing,
but I forgot one might have just been you.
Yes, I was an Norwegian guy that had a three-letter abbreviation.
KDG, I remember KDG too.
I remember like, first there was some one and then like,
um, I don't know, kind of remember it specifically.
But yeah, Mike sold the way off in the corner.
I'm used to having like Mike connected to my,
um, my, uh, ear, ear, um, what's it called?
Airphones, like things that cover your hair.
By your headset.
Yeah, headset.
Yeah.
Like the cool gamer headset, basically, with lights.
That's what I have for playing D&D.
So I'm used to that, but that's all the way up in the attic.
So, um, if I would actually use that,
nobody would be able to sleep.
And everyone would be really angry with me because,
then they can sleep.
Because even now it's like,
qualter past one.
And we've just basically come back from a long,
nice, well, not too long.
Just a little walk around the, um,
basically just round the area,
trying to have a look at all the fireworks and stuff.
Yeah, we worked out to our, uh,
what is called playground outside here.
And it's about 60 meters or so from here,
so very close.
And from there, you have, uh,
view all over Cougspack, a city, uh,
because we are living pretty much on the mountain.
The problem was today,
there was very foggy,
so you didn't see anything.
I couldn't really see fireworks that were shots
more than 10 meters from you or something like that.
Wow.
Was it natural fog or firework fog?
It's natural fog.
Yeah, we have just firework fog right now.
It's actually perfect weather for, uh, firework.
It's, uh, it's drawing, uh,
kind of remember if it was too windy,
but not really that windy, um,
and, uh, not foggy at all.
The problem is there are no mountains in the Netherlands.
Well, there's one in the summer we went to a place,
a far, far away place called Limber,
where they have actual mountains,
and the people talk a bit weird.
And like, they have the tallest part of the Nell,
the lens tallest, um,
tallest like, um, natural part.
Is like a couple meters away from the border
between both Germany and Belgium.
And like, it's on the same hill too,
there's like the highest points,
which is like man-made building.
Just yeah, and that's advertised as the highest point.
And that's on the same hill.
Like, there's only one actually toll hill,
and that's like three hundred,
I remember like the, the artificial warming,
three hundred and fifty something meters up.
And then, and the natural one, um, uh,
320 meters, something up, uh,
from like sea level.
So yeah, not too high.
I think we are about a hundred or two hundred meters up
from the surroundings.
I don't know how far it is from the sea level.
Yeah, no, that wasn't from the surroundings.
That's sea level.
Cause, um, yeah,
Netherlands is pretty flat,
except well, that one part.
But that one part is like,
it's the most southern, like bit.
It's like little, like you've got the Netherlands,
and then you've got this little like southern blob,
like in also far,
like far away from the sea,
and like down south.
And it's like, um, yeah,
no, it's like, uh,
it's basically just far in country,
which pretends to be the Netherlands.
I was there and I was like,
this isn't the Netherlands.
This is Ireland.
We're in Ireland.
They're just pretending to be Dutch.
Cause I know.
But apparently it will just part of the Netherlands.
Who knew?
Hello, clucket here.
Hi.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
If it's the highest point in the Netherlands,
then it would be the upper lens of them.
Very funny.
Yeah.
Kind of is I,
I basically was the tallest person in the Netherlands.
Then cause I was like the tallest person standing
on that platform.
And we all know, and we all know, yeah,
we all know the rules of being the, um,
the tallest person in the room.
If you stand on something, that's okay.
If you jump, that's a whole different matter.
So the people in the airplanes don't count.
They're just jumping.
They're just jumping for really, really long.
But I counted cause I was standing on something
which was on the ground.
So that counts.
Okay, he's good to have clear definition.
Yes.
Yes, you weren't playing basketball, right?
Um, no, not basketball, no.
I have a feeling if we were, I would, um,
probably drop the ball off the thing.
And then it would roll all the way down the hill,
which, well, we called, we basically called mountain.
Cause it's so tall, but in any other country
it would just be called the hill.
And, um, it would roll all the way down
and then we, then we wouldn't find it.
I'm usually the tallest in that new room
because I'm six, six, six, seven, or two meters.
Two meters, yeah.
I'm like, uh, well, I, I don't, I know, uh,
I'm around as big as my father.
I'm like, um, 190 somewhere in between,
like, um, can't remember exactly,
like, 194 or something, um, or like around 190.
Or maybe I was like, well,
there were different measurements taken
with different accuracies,
all saying, like, different things.
So there was like, I think 180 something,
190 something, 192, 194, that kind of stuff.
So I've got something saying on, on my,
past portion of stuff in my ID.
And then I've got an actual measurement somewhere else.
So yeah, it's, it's, uh, yeah.
I'm around 1.80 myself.
So it's rounding up because I'm 198 in the morning
and 196 in the evening because you're, yeah,
sprinkling.
Yeah, yeah, that's also something I might have
also been the time of day or, uh,
how long I was wearing my brace
because that's also, uh, that also affects it.
I was not aware that male shrinkage was the topic.
Well, it happens to everyone.
If you, if you stand, well, during the day,
you generally stand a bit more.
And when you're standing, well,
then you kind of shrink.
And the cartilage in between the bones shrinks.
And when me, there's also the added effect
of that I have, um,
Sherman, uh, sickness, sickness thing.
So, um, I've been in my back.
And, um, depending on how long I've had my brace
of which keeps me upright, um,
it depends on basically, uh, I'll be tired.
And then I'll, um, then I'm more likely to, uh,
not stand straight or, yeah.
But I was trying to be straight.
So, yeah.
What do you say?
Did I ever see in Seinfeld?
No.
Yeah, I was just making a joke about shrinkage.
Ah.
You were talking about getting shorter.
He was talking about, uh,
male genitalia.
Ah, ha, ha, ha.
Yeah, so you watched Kestan some of us really angry
because the girls didn't know about male shrinkage.
He was caught bad time.
True, true.
Yeah, I have a spine curvature too.
Um, it's not extremely pronounced
but it hurts anyhow.
I must say that I, um,
not the most, um,
I'm not very specialized in male genitalia.
So even though I have one,
I don't know everything about it.
I just know how it generally works.
So, yeah, I might not follow.
You need to study Seinfeld that.
Yeah, probably need to know the last couple,
last row of, uh, I've been, um,
I've, I've just watched some stuff which I thought,
well, everyone seems to have seen it.
So then I'll see it.
And then what did he do?
Nobody I know has seen it.
Like I think everyone has seen it and nobody has.
Talk about stuff like Marvel or something,
which entire Marvel MCU thing in the summer.
I, I think, uh, Seinfeld has been the largest age group.
So I was watching Seinfeld on TV5 or something in Sweden
and they were actually sending all the episodes in a marathon.
So I think they ran the whole week and won 100 episodes of it.
And when you had watched a couple of hours,
it was really hurtful because you,
you had stomach ache and so on because you were laughing,
not just because it was,
not really, really super funny but was a little funny.
But when you are tired,
something that is little funny is very funny.
Yep. Yep. Can agree. Yeah.
Well, it also kind of depends on, uh, on the thing too.
Like, uh, I think from what I've heard about Seinfeld,
it's, I think it's supposed to do that.
Like some things are just supposed to have you,
like breathing air out of your nose just a bit.
But I think that's supposed to, when you're tired to make you, um,
you're supposed to watch it when you're tired and then laugh a lot.
I think, right? Similar to something like a big bang theory.
I've seen that. So big bang theory is better than last.
What? Go ahead. So big bang theory is better when you're tired.
Well, think so, right? When you're tired, you had a,
you had a long day, you're tired.
You come back home, like, maybe you've, you've got your friends,
couple friends and you're like that kind of stuff.
And then, um, you'll watch it and, uh, then your mom
are likely to laugh at the jokes.
Then when you're alone in the morning and you just woke up,
are like, it's new stuff.
True. But the major differences between, you know, like big bang theory and
Seinfeld is that Seinfeld was literally a show about nothing.
It's actually branded as a show. Well, nothing.
And I wouldn't have known that because I haven't watched Seinfeld.
But that just strengthens my case that, that it's probably,
I don't know, more likely to make you have good,
to make you laugh like that in that specific way.
Because, um, a show about nothing seems very funny when you're tired.
I know this because I'm tired right now, and that seems very funny.
And then big bang theory is like, you know, you can hate the background, but for nerd nerds.
Yeah, I thought it was a little too phony nerdy for me.
Well, they actually didn't have a bunch of geniuses on there.
I think Snellzing has been trying to say something here.
Unmooted.
Oh, no, I wasn't trying to. I'm still playing around.
I was worried it might be Echo.
Hello, I'm Shelby.
I was told about this from a guy named Robert Niel.
He said there was like a virtual New Year's party full of Linux people.
Yeah, I was like, cool.
That's awesome.
Yeah, that's awesome.
You're out of Echo though.
I'm more related to the Linux people.
I'm not the Linux person myself.
I know, I know, I know I've filled everyone.
It's the end of the world, but are you at least not open to this person?
Well, I'm not really a computer person.
I use the Linux excessively, because all the people you know about
computers are all Linux people.
I just wish to talk.
What?
Am I Echoing?
There you go.
Yeah, hard.
I've got pushed to talk.
I just thought some Niel's, who was Echoing?
I think it was Echoing.
I'm trying to show these Niel members.
Yeah, I also saw it through a couple other people's,
but also make sure to meet myself when I'm not talking just to be safe.
I do have a setup that like sometimes it echoes and sometimes it doesn't.
It almost seems to, I wish I understood this audio stuff.
I'm also trying to use this on elementary OS.
So, do you have a headset?
I'm new to it.
Um, yeah, but I'm not sure if they're good or have audio.
You don't need to use the microphone on the headset.
You just need to use the earpieces.
Yeah, that's the only thing I need to know.
In the end, we have that problem constantly, because we also use mobile.
Oh, um, I think every time more than one microphone is open,
we're getting an Echo, especially if one of the people has speakers.
Yes, yeah, if you don't use both a headset
and if you don't have a headset on is basically the problem,
because then it's basically where your mic on is on.
It records the sound of being outpriced so you have an Echo.
That's basically.
I think the only Linux nerd here is probably Moss.
I'm a Linux nerd?
Yeah.
Oh, wow, I've graduated.
Yeah, you're a distro hopping Linux nerd.
But I barely know my way around a terminal.
Yeah, and I know that terminal really well.
So I don't, I don't, I still don't think I qualify as like a Linux nerd.
No, I'm using the network.
So I only Linux computers at work and use Linux for my workstation at work.
The problem is on Windows, you can play games and it's pretty much easier on Windows.
And I also use Premiere a lot.
But I was actually planning to switch over to Linux.
This little vacation we got now between New Year's and Christmas.
But yeah, I didn't have the phone.
There's the value of our drive for that.
Well, the thing about me and Moss will help verify this.
All my computers run Linux and my hobbies include Linux podcasting
and putting Linux on various tablets and seeing how well it works.
And also 3D printing and also fixing just about anything that's the least bit
electronics.
Yeah.
Wait, so Linux on, is this better?
Yeah, that's better.
Much better.
So you said Linux on tablets?
Yeah.
How does that work?
It works pretty well on Windows tablets.
Well, depending on the age of the Windows tablet.
Okay, so what?
Sorry.
Oh, sorry.
You're putting on them.
Whichever, I've had everything from Arch to Linux Mint to, yeah, Fedora actually works
really well.
Oh, that's cool.
Yeah, I like Fedora, but try and figure out what to use it for.
How do you, do you have a keyboard attached to the tablet?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, most of your modern Windows tablets have a USB port on the side or they haven't
attached a keyboard of some kind.
Oh, that's good to know.
Even if it's a soft one.
I started out doing some ASIS transformers, getting Windows put on there.
And that was the hardest thing with those was the bootloader because it was a 32-bit
bootloader, but a 64-bit processor.
So we had to kind of dance around to get it to boot the first time and then reinstall
a grub and then everything would work just fine, like a normal computer would.
And some audio issues with those.
But then I moved on from the transformers to the delts and delts make it easy, but other
than the venue eight.
It's good to know.
Has anyone put...
Any words, magic, man?
Does anyone put like Fedora on like a Chromebook or something?
I really want to get like one of those like little Chromebooks and just like wipe it
into like Fedora because those Chromebooks are cheaper than like a grocery bill now.
Yeah.
With the Chromebooks, you have to do some research.
But like since the beginning of Chromebooks, the very first one, people have been finding
various ways to just install Linux on them to get rid of Chrome OS and install Linux
on them.
And it's worked better with some than others.
But most of them, you can do it or at the very least force run Linux applications on
it.
What I do more than that is actually just buy used computers because you can get a computer
that costs $1,200 new, usually for two or three hundred dollars if it's four or five years
old and it still works just as well.
And you put Linux on it and you don't even notice it's an old computer.
I do the same thing with tablets.
I mean, the Dell Venue 11 is still a decent tablet that you can get for around $100 mark.
Depending on the model, the $71.30 and $71.40 is really the only ones that go for it.
But then, you know, to buy it, it's through the $38.95, you're so, uh, smellsy.
Sorry.
I was asking if you can mute yourself.
Will you hear your keyboard?
I'm sorry about that.
Sorry, I'm still going to use to this.
No worries.
A bunch of the Dell latitude ones are actually, you know, on the $200 to $400 range if you
can find them used.
And then I also like getting them, you know, broken and then fixing them because you can
get them cheaper when they're broken.
Yeah, and that is if we want some kind of a laptop.
I actually have a cluster of very cheap old, uh, desktop computer, those kinds that you
buy for companies and put on the back of your screen pretty much and then I cluster those
up in the system.
Yeah.
I'm trying to.
I'm sorry.
I was going to say I'm trying to get my friend to join.
He actually, he's bought a lot of computers like he has war stories and basically buying
like really cheap computers out of necessity.
He's never had a whole lot of money and putting stuff on him and he has, he's kind of sort
of learned everything a hard way.
You do have to be careful not with buying new computers because he bought, I think he
bought a MacBook that someone spilled coffee on.
He knew that.
But I think the amount of time and money he put it into it, it almost would have just
been easier to buy a full price one.
So you have to be careful.
That is the chance that you take it.
I have a MacBook which, uh, not MacBook or Chromebook, um, which, uh, works perfectly fine.
Uh, it works perfectly fine with my standards, which is like a billion tabs open at
the same time, um, which is pretty well, um, but it's completely smashed basically.
It used to have touch screen now just has it around the edges.
That isn't a problem.
I didn't use that anyway.
Um, but basically what happened to it is I was on my bike twice, electric bike and, um,
I crashed twice twice the computer had more, uh, more, uh, cracks in it than, uh, before.
So, um, yeah.
Well, have you looked into how much, um, it would cost to buy a replacement screen?
Well, it's not really worth it.
Like, it works perfectly fine.
And yeah, I've had, I've had that now for like more than a year and I haven't had any
problems with it.
The only problems there are is when I have too many times open one, wouldn't it be fun
to replace the screen fun?
Very fun.
Very fun.
Thanks.
Everything that has to do with a soldering iron is fun.
What's good.
Joining your fingers is fun.
Admire the ambition.
You have it.
If you can't bring fingers while you're soldering, you're doing it wrong.
Exactly.
That's my experience.
I sold 10 lots of 10 broken headphones to fix them and give them people.
20, 50.
Yeah.
I've sent my headphones.
Yeah.
I need to send those back too.
I've got a box full of stuff to send you and I just never get to the post office with
it.
If you spend a lot of time on the computer, repair or anything like that, then you learn
something.
And that is a valuable skill.
Absolutely.
Boundering is my sister going.
Hi.
So I meant to ask, where do you guys go to buy old computers?
eBay, Craigslist, my favorite.
I think that's for me.
Look marketplace.
What was this?
Yes.
All of the above.
Yes.
But honestly, I found the best prices recently on Facebook marketplace because everybody's
kind of done their research by the time they hit eBay.
Although eBay is a good place to buy broken stuff, especially when people don't really know
what they're talking about because I was able to get some really low costs like DelVen
U7130s because they thought the device was broken and they simply didn't have the right
charger for it.
Oh.
That's funny.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've heard a lot of stories of people who get perfectly good printers.
The funny is, it's not strictly computer related, but I have a friend who's senior
who lives on social security and he gets real crafty and he dumps her dives.
And he regularly finds vacuums that are, he empties out and cleans them out, tries them.
He's found like eight or ten where they all work perfectly fine.
They just needed to emptied.
Yeah.
Well, one society for us is going to be people like us who keep stuff alive.
The other day, my wife tried to convince me that I needed to buy a new vacuum cleaner.
And what I ended up doing was taking the vacuum cleaner all the way apart, cleaning out
the hoses, removing the brush wheel and completely, you know, taking off all the stuff that
was clogging up that brush wheel and putting it back together and it worked like it was brand
new.
How the Linux user cleans a vacuum.
Joe will clean anything.
I will attempt to fix anything.
I'm trying to get that way.
Yeah, I do almost all my buying on eBay.
Craigslist, you never really know what you're getting until you actually drive there and
look at it because they usually don't post all the information about the machine.
Yeah.
And you also don't know if they're trustworthy.
Don't order any electronics through Facebook Marketplace like the, you know, they'll ship
it to you.
Don't do that.
There's too many scams for that right now.
Yeah.
But if you can show up first, if I'm ordering through, if I'm ordering through Facebook Marketplace,
refining things on Facebook Marketplace, I'm definitely, it's going to be a local pickup
not so.
Absolutely.
Am I wrong in thinking that if you buy something on eBay, you can actually find all the big
sellouts when you have companies that have gone on under or changing the stock out there
you sell it on eBay.
That's frequently true or like when they have just bought new machines, there are some
rather large companies that buy all of their old stuff and refurbish it and put it up
for sale.
I just got this think center M700 tiny, I paid less than $400 for it and runs like crazy.
A good thing to do if you don't mind dumpster diving is waiting till the end of a college semester
and then going out to the college and checking the dumpsters there because you have a lot
of exchange students that can't take anything back with them when they go and they'll just
throw it away.
That's exactly what I've heard from my friend who had a bunch of foreign exchange students
and he said that's how you wound up with like perfectly good furniture and all that.
I wondered because I lived in your college and his friend that gets the vacuums did too
and I was like how do you get perfectly good stuff thrown out and just sound like okay.
I'll have to remember that.
Maybe I'll go dumpster dive.
What's the end of the college year?
That's the problem.
You have to know what the schedule is and you also have to know what the trash collection
schedule is.
I'll...
I'll...
I'll...
I'll...
I'll...
Forgot words.
I can't speak.
I was going to say I'm back also, I've just realised something.
We call...
Well it's not really Ken Fallon that saw me the other guy.
But I know I'm from...
to when I was doing this thing two years ago.
What's about that?
Yeah, I go.
Not sure if I came one last year.
I think I didn't go on last year.
Or maybe I did.
Or was it, I was two years ago,
I didn't go on probably actually.
Well, we always,
years are pointing together.
Me.
Are we?
Snowfall.
Oh, yes.
Hello.
This is Mordancy.
Robert, who invited you?
Oh, hi, Robert.
How are you doing?
How are you doing?
There was some dead air, so I thought I'd say hi.
Hi.
OK.
But me and Schneider is also here.
No.
And also our visual sister is gone to family and stuff.
We used to come somewhere before midnight usually
and be like, hi, we exist.
And then book her off again.
Thank you.
Yeah, we'll just come on and say happy new year
and then we continue on with our day.
And last year, I did the usual thing
which I like to do, which I have done for like three years,
but with like a year of pause in between
because we went to family for once,
which we usually never do.
And which is basically just me staying up all night.
And that's it.
Usually I watch something.
But last year, I didn't have anything to watch.
So I decided to go talk to people actually.
And I enjoyed talking to people for hours and hours and hours
because usually people don't want to listen to me
for hours and hours and hours.
Yeah, well, hey, they will, I guess,
if they actually download it as a podcast
and start to listen to it in their car,
or whatever they're going to listen to it.
But yeah, staying up all night, I was thinking
of probably doing similar now to be honest.
So, oh, pretty much.
Well, I'm not sure we'll see what happens.
So how does the recording work?
Did somebody just go through and remove all the dead air
or is this whole thing going to be uploaded?
The director told me the dead air is getting removed.
So I didn't know that last year.
Now I know.
So that's what he does is he goes through.
And yes, he removes all the dead air.
And that's just a matter of what truncate silence
in audacity.
And then he will probably drop out the low end and pop
and to normalize all the sound.
And then he'll split it up into probably three chunks or so.
Is it who's recording it properly?
Because I didn't see that.
Lizzie, where's it say he's not recording it from here.
He's recording it from the ice cast stream.
I was recording it on a different thing.
Right.
Yeah, they usually don't get it posted until June or July,
but it's there.
Yeah, very funny.
I think it was five past last year, right?
It might have been, I'm not sure.
I'd have to ask Honki.
I know, but I recommended people listening to the thing.
And I think it's hilarious.
They didn't get that I was joking.
But basically, I was saying like, yeah, it's summer.
So it's like it's summer.
So it's perfect time to listen to last year's New Year
show stuff like that, or like, yeah, I've just like this New Year,
I was doing HPR stuff.
And you can listen to it in the summer and that kind of stuff.
And people usually don't get that kind of joke because it's lame.
And I'm not very good at joking.
No, no, I get you.
I've not actually come out probably a bit soon, I really,
but I think that's what we're joking about here.
Who says, yes, and Snellzing, a web to name is?
I was, I was going to ask you Snellzing, what area are you in?
Ohio, America.
OK.
Oh, eight.
Is everyone else from?
I'm from the Netherlands, Europe, which is, yeah, which
is northern hemisphere, if you need more.
It's also cool.
It can also be known as, you might not like this to see.
It can also be called Holland, I believe.
Yes.
No, it's fine.
I also live in Holland.
Yeah.
I live in the parts of the Netherlands, which is called Holland,
but it's like, like, we use it for tourists,
for people who don't know what the Netherlands is.
But it's not actually called the Netherlands, but stuff.
It's basically like, how can I put?
It's a bit like New York or like London.
That's how I'll put it.
It's like the most important parts of the country,
but it's not the entire country.
I'm in Eastern Tennessee and Joe is in Texas.
I'm from Sweden.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm in England, but I'm also
half Swedish as I was talking with Puffa earlier.
And I think we got, it's clack, clack, clacky.
Why is that naming a bell?
Yeah, I'm Sweden.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm being Hong Kong,
but currently I'm actually in Sweden, visiting family.
Where's Sweden?
Forgistan.
Faustar.
Forgistan.
Yeah, I think I've heard of that.
North of Vesteros, almost Dalana.
My echoing, was it just me?
I didn't hear.
Now, when people are talking independently,
I don't hear an echo.
I guess when two voices at once, yeah, that was playing that.
Usually when one mic is open and they have their speakers
on, it's when you get the echo.
Josh, is that you?
Me?
Sounds like you.
I'm echoing.
No, I was just asking if it was you.
Oh, I got you, yeah.
Hi, Joe, hi, I'm Josh from the Mintcast.
From where?
The Mintcast, the Linux Mintcast.
I was in the Mintcast.
I thought you were naming the place you were currently
and we were just doing that.
I know, I'm from California.
California?
Yeah.
Really people from all over, don't we?
California.
Oh, yeah.
California.
Are you from Northern or Southern?
Josh, California?
I'm kind of right in the middle in the Central Valley,
a little town called Turlock, about an hour and a half
south of Sacramento, the capital.
Yeah, I know a Turlock, I'm in Auburn.
Oh, okay, yeah.
I've been there many times.
So let's tell everyone who named the place.
Yeah, but it's not.
Yeah, but really, it's not that exciting
because what we've got here at the moment, it seems,
we've got two or three people from America, right?
Then we've got two, two or maybe three of us
from Europe as well, so you see what I'm saying?
Yeah, exciting, drifting.
It's like an action movie.
That's how exciting it is.
Actually, I think there are four identifiers
being from America.
Well, four then, yeah, and some people
at the West.
We win, yay.
The Western world, the Western countries,
the developed countries, there's no one from Asia
on there, or Africa, or, you know.
Well, nobody's from what I heard, there was,
well, there's not be any Asia's in that,
but he's still Swedish, so I'm not counting that
on what I'm trying to say.
Yeah, I think last year we had some people showing up
from South Africa, which was really interesting,
but there was a lot of talk about business and so on,
right?
They're good to talk that.
Explain that.
It's nice, that one.
Don't, you can't remember.
Mark Shostler, if I met him once, that was good.
Got a shotguns with him as well.
One of the conferences, talk to him briefly,
stop can, shut my hand.
And I've met Richard Stalman before as well.
So yeah, two of the most famous people
in the world of Linux and open source
or free software for you.
So yeah.
I don't know anybody, but I'm listed right after Mark
Shuttleworth on the donor's list of Paul Circle magazine.
Mark Shostler, if it's South Africa,
and obviously that's what I'm saying as well.
Absolutely, you case.
Well, Conor Cole, let's see, they had
all a man thing there, which is one of British idols,
but then they've got a London office as well.
So it's like, right, okay.
So it's sort of British, shouldn't worry, I believe.
I actually met Stalman once.
He actually told off some teenagers
where we were sitting on the tram
and was answering some emails.
And then they asked him, why are you using the computer now?
You don't have any internet.
So you can't really use your computer.
And he was like, oh, you can do a lot on a computer
without the internet, you should know.
Yeah, I remember this university,
I went to see a speech, but it's just Stalman two hours.
You know, it was like 2013's ring.
And there was somebody there with like a McDonald's
top or something, and he really, really go at them then,
like, wait, like, wait, leave the room,
why are you gonna leave?
And that's why I remember as well.
But yeah, you can do a loss on a computer
without internet, even look at stuff from the internet
if you've got it open from before you lost the internet.
Like sometimes, when I, there's Niko,
no, there's not.
There was Niko.
Yeah, because two years quite a while,
he's like, he's gone.
Two hours gonna cut it, but I realized I was interrupting you.
So I got off.
Yeah, thanks.
Well, I'll quickly say, yeah, sometimes,
when I know I'm not gonna have internet,
I'll open stuff before I'll go to the place.
If I'm like, yeah, I'll have a little rest
and maybe read some of this,
like, for instance, like,
magic, the gathering,
lore stuff in a strad lore.
And then I'll just, like,
and then I'll just open it.
And as long as it don't refresh the page,
everything is fine.
When I refresh the page,
then it, like, in school,
I do have internet, but it is,
but magic is blocked for some reason.
So I, what I'll do is,
sometimes it's just, like, open it beforehand,
because it's fun to read that.
The funniest thing with telling Richard Storm
and in particular that,
hey, you can't use your computer without the internet,
is that he doesn't even do his browsing online.
He just accused a couple of pages.
Actually, I believe there was a story
from Leaver Planet,
the, you know, their event,
the FreeSoft Foundation on America.
And I think it was about three years ago,
Chris Marskelson, where it basically said that,
he now apparently does actually do web browsing,
and so on, like, like a normal web browsing, you know,
and then the audience, like, gasp,
and then applaud him apparently.
I think things like that,
which, which, like, normal things,
but because you know the context,
you're, you're, like, surprised,
and like, you think it's cool.
I love those kind of things that I think that's very hilarious.
I looked up endless OS,
and it is, like, probably the first Linux distro
that's, like, actually made for, like, the whole family.
It's a very clever distro.
This is why I like Linux,
because you'll just get, like, weird stuff,
no one thought about.
Halemontel, the OS member, that one, anybody?
That was made for, well, that was made for a bit of a laugh,
probably, really, but,
but there's been other attempts that,
more seriously at making things that would be,
like, you said, for the whole family.
What was the one you said that was kind of for laughs?
Halemontel and the OS, did you miss that?
It's from, like, 2009, I think, now based on...
Oh, that would have been much before we got in the Linux.
Based on the Linux.
It is still being maintained.
What, is it? Where do you, really?
Yes, it is still being maintained.
The only things I understood there were, like, endless,
more serious, less serious, second stuff,
and for family.
The rest all just sounded, like, magic spells.
Like, ooh, I'm either...
I've summoned in a fish in the flight of the Alps.
From there, from there, from there,
and it sounds like action.
Happening here to Kapovarbe, Praya, Ponta del Garda,
and something that I can't pronounce,
because it's just a couple of weird letters,
so I will send it in the chat,
and if somebody wants to get a gold,
then we're going to do that.
Oh, yeah, it's not sure,
where is behind the UK, and they are behind.
And then we got some other countries next,
and then we got something next, I believe, next two hours.
And then we got those, like, three hours and a half time zones
coming up later, new Found and, for example,
where I've done some Zoom meetings, actually,
which was for public speaking,
which was kind of interesting.
One of those places I went to South Africa,
did some there as well.
We're talking about South Africa.
I've been to a US Embassy.
That's already last year, 2021.
I've been to South Korea.
I've been to Australia.
That's what I've been doing.
I've been doing Zoom traveling for public speaking groups, though,
and there's groups all over the world and gone online,
and it's just amazing, because you can go up,
you can suddenly can go and have meetings in America, Canada,
Australia, if I really wanted to,
and you've seen them maybe if I really wanted to,
South Korea, and all over the place, Finland, Sweden,
and it's best when the hybrid I reckon,
because I went to one in Tampa and Finland
the other week, for example,
but I've done that twice, but want the first time.
It all just snacks on all the bottles,
and it looks so great on Zoom,
because you can see people down in the room,
and then you're on Zoom, and then you can do your things as well.
So, yeah.
So you basically...
Well, do you want to do something like that?
Is that what you said?
We get the chat to stop for eight reading off messages.
I don't have that, I don't have that.
Do you say you can do something like that?
Yeah, there's a setting to read messages.
Go to scenes in general,
and then I think it's the second option text to message.
Text to speech, yeah.
Okay, so that's like an individual setting.
I understand now.
Before you said you wanted to do something like that,
then he was going to say something as well,
and then we ended up talking about text to speech, just me.
Yeah, I can...
Oh, yeah.
So you were talking about Zoom thingy.
Is that like...
So basically, you're having an online meeting,
but the difference is you can see the people in the meeting.
So you're just basically having meetings with people
all around the world, which is pretty cool.
Well, kind of.
I mean, it's part of a thing all around the world anyway,
and it's been going since, I don't know, 70 years
in 100 years, and there's groups all over the place.
And in various countries as well,
I've been to some in Brussels when I went over there
and one year went right,
I'm going to go groups over there, as well.
I went for the big foes, then, obviously,
but he got clubs in America.
He got clubs all over the place,
and he learned to do public speaking,
and it's all...
Everything's evaluated as well.
And you people do speeches and you leadership roles,
and you can get involved with your club that you're part of.
I'm more involved with my club currently,
with Bowls and the committee.
Or do you only catch, as you're supposed to be 18 or over,
to join more of these clubs,
and I'm not thrilled you are now,
but yeah, that, yeah, it's great for business as well.
18 was two, does not seek or 18.
No, maybe two years, then.
But it'd be great for...
Well, last time I said that,
some clubs will do it with schools or education, as well,
but most clubs aren't like that,
but no, it's a good thing.
Good to get into public speaking, as well,
because that's good in business, or college, or education,
or anything like that,
where you need to talk about stuff,
and in front of people,
I'll present something with a slide show, maybe,
and yeah, there is this organisation I part of,
to some extent, that probably the biggest one
for public speaking, and it's because of the pandemic,
really, that it went online,
because people can't meet in person suddenly,
and it was like, oh, what are we gonna do?
Oh, we can go on Zoom, and it works,
because Zoom, you focus on who's the loudest,
there's no, and that's how it works.
Zoom for singing, sort of singing, or choirs,
or music, it doesn't really work very well,
but you can't even clap on Zoom properly,
but for other things, like public speaking,
and it does work, and what I meant by hybrid
is where, basically, that's why I'm hoping
my own club will go this direction,
is where we're trying to,
but it's been probably getting equipment sort of down
on things, but the idea is you have people there
in the room in person, and at the same time,
people online on Zoom, and then you just interact
simultaneously between the two,
and it just works very smoothly, usually like that,
instead of just having it in the room with no equipment,
just no online presence, or only online,
where it's only people on Zoom,
and yeah, why not?
We threw free lockdowns, really dead,
when I was stuck at home, like, we're a lot of the time,
like, well, I'm gonna do now, great, I live by a city,
but everything fun is basically closed
for the time being, like, restaurants, all nice,
like restaurants, and pubs, and bars, and cinemas,
and I'm sure you know what I mean,
I'm sure everyone's what I mean, what I mean,
and you know what I'm saying here, I was looking.
Library was closed for the first lockdown,
and afterwards, I didn't have anything to read anymore.
What was that, say again?
Afterwards, a library was closed for the first lockdown,
and afterwards, I didn't have anything to read anymore,
and because I had everything on an e-reader,
and then I already read everything,
and I didn't have any new series, which, yeah.
That's pretty impressive,
because usually people always have like that bookshelf
of books they haven't actually read all the way through.
Nope, well, all the uninteresting books,
like books about computers and stuff, stuff dad likes,
but all the interesting ones, like teraprature,
that kind of stuff, all the things I like,
they're all read.
I've read them all.
I have a lot of books that,
even though I listened to all of my audio books
at like 3.5x, I don't think I could finish them
in this lifetime.
Oh, I've got a lot of books here,
but they're just old books that have,
you know, from the house, et cetera.
And most of these books, I will not read properly.
Yeah, I think, yeah, the thing is,
well, I do have a fast reading speed,
but it's more like, well, first off,
I read most of it when also like the entire library,
when I didn't have any online presence whatsoever,
I didn't do, didn't watch YouTube, didn't do anything.
So I basically had all the stuff
when people are usually like online
or watching TV or something converted to book reading.
So that helps.
Definitely not gonna reach those speeds anymore,
but I'm also very much cautious of books and stuff
of books and stuff.
Like I've read lots of terrible books for school
in the name of school, like literature.
The only good literature I've found
are from the middle ages, which says a lot.
And, I mean, the giver, what?
Do you have to read like the giver and stuff or?
Well, that would, the thing is,
we have to read Dutch literature.
Like English literature is fine.
There's a lot of things that's wrong with the world.
Those kind of stuff, that's fine.
But with Dutch literature,
it's either all very modern day
with psychological problems or World War II.
Those are the two biggest ones,
and I hate both of them.
I've had enough World War II stuff
in primary school, basically,
equivalent of primary school.
And they didn't have any other history.
And for someone who loves history,
but doesn't really care much for World War II,
that sucks.
And, yeah, I already,
I don't really need any more psychological problems.
I don't think anyone needs any more,
especially during COVID time.
You don't really need to read about a person
shut up inside a day when you're shut up inside a day.
Have you read any Brandon Sanderson?
Any what?
Brandon Sanderson.
Is he writing Dutch books?
No.
And I wouldn't be allowed to read him.
So did you.
Like, you can read things on your own, can't you?
That's true, that's true.
Let's see history, right?
Yeah, World War II, World War I, I mean,
in a way, yeah,
enough that kind of needs to be covered
or should be covered.
No, all those kinds of things.
All those, although they're going to do it
in their take on things, aren't they?
So there's things we're not going to bang on now.
And that's, but then again, yeah,
if you get too much for one thing,
it can get a bit boring.
I suppose that's true.
And I was thinking in England, we've had,
well, if you know, a long time since I did history
at school, a quite a long time, right?
However, I'm thinking, well,
what else did we let go?
Well, yeah, about what, 20 years is it?
I don't know, no, 15 years?
Anyway, being quite wild regardless,
but my point is, what else we learn about?
So I was thinking we had the Romans, the Romans,
yeah, the Romans.
The Romans?
Yeah, the Romans.
Look, look that up if you don't know about the Romans.
That we did, obviously, because we got like
Roman baths and the city called bath,
which is what it's famous for.
Yeah, did there be a presentation on Romans,
just a little while back?
Yeah, yeah, the Romans obviously.
Yeah, basically university level,
but then something you have to do in like middle school,
right now, what?
Yeah, yeah.
Secondary school.
Secondary school, we had to do university stuff
in secondary school because, again,
it's, again, it's an economic thing, if something.
And then we had, and then obviously we've done
a little bit about the Vikings as well,
from Sweden and all that, yeah.
Nice.
And then, yeah, so they covered those.
And I was watching a documentary,
I think there was Napoleon who conquered a lot of Europe,
I believe.
And I remember something on TV,
it was about why, basically, in Europe,
in the mainland of Europe,
why people drive on the right,
hand side of the road.
But in UK, we drive on the left side of the road.
And I think there was a thing to do with that.
And it was to do with how he conquered most of Europe,
basically, and he was left handy,
I think was the reason.
So I think we're tall sears and all this, right?
Because it's four cars, right?
But he didn't conquer Britain.
So I think it's the two of them back.
And so for some sort of life, well,
I remember that from a child,
I just heard it somewhere and it's true.
It is because of Napoleon,
he did a lot of standardization.
I would explain to you why America is on the right side
of the road.
Because it basically doesn't have metric,
because the person who was bringing America in, did he?
What?
I mean, he didn't conquer America, did he?
No, but I don't know if America was around,
when Napoleon was on thing.
Yes, they were doing the war of 1812.
I didn't even know that existed a war of 1812.
And then when I found out, I was like,
why don't I know about this?
And then I was like, oh, happened during Napoleon, of course.
Yeah.
So they did exist.
They did exist, but America always had a good relationship
with France.
I didn't know if they had it around that time as well,
but they definitely didn't like England.
So they were.
America broke free from England, really?
Yeah.
Yeah, this is interesting.
Yeah.
And there's another thing.
They just had good reasons to draw if on the right side,
because then you could see the people,
they could stare castle bets or horses bets or something.
I don't know.
You could do something better with wagons.
But like, do you know why America
doesn't use the metric system?
No.
It's because of pirates.
Like I used to think pirates for, if not,
they were at least pretty cool, pretty cool stuff.
Like I used to know the real world, really like for pirates,
but then still it's pretty cool, cool branding.
But they made sure that I can't watch my science videos
with actual use for measurements to me.
I have, they have to add an additional measurements.
Because yeah, basically the guy from revolutionary France
was going over to America when it was still pretty young
and he was going to explain why metric is so great.
But then the ship got boarded by pirates
and they were going to ransom him, but he died
before they could do that of sickness and stuff,
just bad conditions.
And he actually brought, I think, kilogram
or something over, like a copy of the kilogram?
I know.
But anyway, fun fact of the day.
The metric, the US system is actually
tied to the metric system.
It's tied to the kilogram, tied to the meter,
that kind of stuff.
Because otherwise you couldn't do good science.
Yeah, they tried to understand in like the 70s,
they kept getting, they've tried to like convert people
over here to the metric system.
But we're stubborn.
Like Americans are kind of stubborn.
Yeah, everyone's stubborn.
Did you know that actually, actually,
we're learning this in history at the moment.
The entire like governing style of America,
like the whole Federation kind of thing,
is copied from a free, before Napoleon Netherlands.
And the reason for this is that a lot of Dutch people
went over to the Netherlands, went over to America,
and then brought their influence with them.
That would make sense.
My dad's side of the family is actually all Dutch.
Oh, Zingha, which is my last name, actually, apparently.
Well, you might know for another lens, apparently,
it's very common in a particular region.
Can you tell us?
Sure, can you tell us?
I think.
Now, mind you, this is the like American spelling.
I know over there, it's like E-L-S-I-N-G-A.
Well, I think really, I mean, a lot of people came,
well, yeah, a lot of people came from Europe,
originally to America, because they left for an island,
probably quite a bit Irish, as well, with Gunnabe, obviously.
And then the Titanic's already with that ship, obviously,
didn't make it.
But, you know, they left the Europe and whatever reason
to get, well, it went for better life, didn't they?
In America, that was the idea.
Well, they went for a dream of a better life.
They probably didn't find it.
It's like, America is not necessarily better,
or I think it's not necessarily worse than Europe.
It depends on what you expect when you come here.
That's a big thing, and we even have arguments over here
as to what the American dream is.
I find it depends on the country they come from.
Like, we'll get people that come from Europe,
where it's pretty developed, and they're like,
yeah, it kind of sucks here, and they go back,
but if someone's coming from like Somalia, China,
certain parts of India, India is different.
So, if you come from California from India,
and they're like, it's way better,
and some other people come over, and they're like, hell no.
So, it kind of comes from where you're coming from.
If you come from where you started out really poor,
then yeah, America can be helpful.
Or if you come over here, and you come from old money,
and you have a lot of money, then, yeah,
things go really well for you.
It's a bit like now with the stories on the news here,
every now and again about these boats going wrong,
as extra, because there's a lot of legal immigrants
coming over from France, who have come in
from like ball country like um but Afghanistan maybe but you know like places
where there's been balls really poor poor yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and then they
then they got the idea that Britain is really great so let's go over there and
well I've seen this on news or somewhere they were talking about and it was
like it's still like hang on me you're in France what's wrong with France you
made it to France or those countries why do you still insist on coming over
to Britain because actually France isn't isn't that bad either that's that's a
developed country and so one you know and and and then it's based it was a
whole what's a Europe problem as well I think because some of the in general
with some of those other Italy and other countries as well but but it's like
why they insist on coming to Britain specifically because Britain isn't
it's why it's better than some countries for sure but it's not great either
just depends on what you heard from which people like I've I've always heard that America is
like the end of the world and stuff but I don't think it is I don't know I've not been but I
don't think it it's an anarchy all over the streets and like like like Florida man constantly
riding on crocodiles or something the way I don't know in other countries is that if you come
to America think of it as like just if you different little countries that are loosely connected
by almost like sort of an EU that has a little more power but not by much and stuff will make
a lot more sense because if you are in like California versus Florida versus Colorado versus Ohio
you'll have a very different experience so like Florida Texas like they're really weird you will
just walk down the street and someone will just have like a gun at their hip but like I'm in Columbus
Ohio which is actually a little more like hipstery and a little more and you know Columbus is awesome
and super chill and you know you can like I we have a lot of like say Somalian immigrants and a lot
in most countries love it because they come here and they're basically you know guaranteed a job
almost it may not be the best work but you know you can come here get a warehouse job and they
often do and to them it's a crap ton of money you know $15 now or they're like you know and of
course they I mean so I mean if you're willing to know if you're just trying to get if you're
trying to get some better you know I've had people in New York ask me because worked with them
and I live in Texas if I if I wrote a horse every day to work yeah I have had that and yes
guns are you can see people walking around with guns and I live in you know central Texas
north Dallas area but I go to Walmart I don't see anybody carrying a gun they can if they want to
but you just don't see it very often yeah that's a misconception I think people have of
Americans that were all just like or even most of us just have like our gun or hips it's like
there's a lot of us that actually now are really afraid of guns do question when I was a kid I
lived in Iowa and northern Iowa out basically in the middle of nowhere in the country and it was very
common for people to keep shotguns in their trucks even when they went to school and things like
that because well hunting was an important part of our everyday existence because it was the
only way some of us got to eat yeah misconceptions you should see you said so I was thinking of
something that there's an idea that well one idea is that basically Americans are lazy and so
most Americans will drive a very short distance case to store the shop here as well say here
that that is true in a lot of cases where people will go extremely short distances in their
vehicle but then again there's also places where I've lived where there wasn't a store with that
wasn't a 45 minute drive away so yeah that it depends on so where I am I would agree actually
that I'm lazy because I live near like a shopping central where I get annoyed if I have to drive
more than 15 minutes but in the state I'm from Colorado people regularly like a half an hour
drive is considered a short drive so 20 minutes 30 minutes away from me like driving more
than 50 minutes is long for me might be because I just live in a tiny country but I have two
questions nice three questions who who was who said that that thing about horses that day
were asked about if they would ride a horse that was the the Texas Cowboy Joe I believe
what were they just joking just pulling your own they were actually serious
were they can you actually ride a horse that's why they didn't have cars can I ride a horse yes
have I ridden a horse yes have I ride a horse to work no no no I I also ride horses it's like
completely unnecessary here because why would you ride a horse there's literally no space
there's some space but like hardly any space well people have asked me do I own a horse and no
don't don't know horse it's it's it's the monatio owns the horses I don't I just go there
and I pay money to be able well my parents pay money for me to be able to ride on the horses
or like a stereotype in Americans that we I knew about the guns things some of the other things
but horses that must come from like our pioneers day and I do know like a lot of that way
movies I glamorize it now I just took Texas I used to live in El Paso and people were convinced
that El Paso was just the way they'd always seen it on TV yeah an extremely tiny border town that
had like two saloons and a bunch of dust and people riding around on horses all over the place
stereotype Americans because we're on this subject it seems it would be that that basically a lot
of weight they look you know big and ever I mean that's mostly true yeah I mean it's speaking
yeah the thing I'd actually say about Americans that I think surprises people I come over here
is more just the diversity about it because the food we are I think overall on average like
bigger than like a lot of Europeans but I wouldn't say we're like all really fat I just think we
are a little like for example I am actually considered kind of thin here but if I went over to
like Japan or if I went over to France I'd be like probably a little on the bigger side and if I
went to Japan they would be Japan is like like I isn't it true that Japan has is like as like
hardly any like overweightness or anything yeah I don't want to stereotype Japan but from my
understanding they are it's very hard to be like any one bigger there yeah but you know I've
actually heard I actually heard some specific stereotypes for like I've got some things which I
connect to four different United States within the United States like transport there's New York
with the yellow cob thingy there's Florida with crocodiles for some more reason yeah crocodiles
alligators yeah people are insane there's a large portion of Florida that insane and so most of
your crazy stories do come out of Florida and yes yeah stereotyping Florida it doesn't mean there's
a good people there my dad lives there yeah the guy we're freelancing lives there and he's
perfectly sane yeah basically what I heard about Florida is that there are a couple of very insane
people and some same people but a couple of very insane people who stuff but it's mostly jokes
which I heard so different theories like why Florida is like so weird I will tell you a lot of
people as I understand it retire there and they get in these like sort of white you know white
gay communities you know and when you kind of the thing I've done shame on America is I think it's
a lot easier to section yourself off from the rest of society I think that maybe in Europe and stuff
so that's how you get people to just get weird echo chamber effect yeah yeah in Europe well people
don't realize is a Europe is well a really small continent compared to well everything else
yeah it's like if you put you can surround Europe with four chilies not chili pepper just
chilies like country chili and you can surround them just with four of those which yeah they're
very long country but it is still it's not very big and then you've got a section off and tiny
little like small countries where like um the Netherlands isn't even the smallest it's pretty big
compared to like well pretty big it's larger than the rest of the bin look switch them if I
start driving at approximately 70 miles per hour from one end of Texas to the other 70 miles per hour
oh okay well um uh one tin and um the comrade's power uh yeah yeah which still take me about a day
to go all the way across Texas yeah it's not mean someone feels like yeah it's not mean sorry
I'll just give this uh someone's like you know yeah I you know drove to you know Germany for
groceries stopped in France to visit my family and then drove back on one day meanwhile it's like
Florida I've been driving four hours north and I'm still in Florida I love memes they're funny
but yeah that that's literally true that it like I can I I think I can drive it like 100 kilometers
power um because that's like the speed limit um and uh I can go from one side of the country to
another in like a couple hours like like half a day max I'm actually studying for train
conductor here in the Netherlands there we go again the train person talks about trains
boss uh it's only a few hours if you take the train from literally most south of most north
so it's actually pretty cool trains I wish that was more of a thing here they keep trying to get like
uh now granted be harder oh they've done it in India like get like a public train they've had
plans for a while that um would like to circle I think between Chicago Columbus Cleveland Damien
Damien's my friend he's DM Callaway do you know about that but yeah they keep having these plans
to do more public transportation but in America like the government and companies are like
open like hostile towards like public transportation it's not like a norm like it is in Europe it's
very obnoxious you guys you guys have rules for the amount of parking you need per building
we don't have that here like I actually saw a video but made by an American person who was
specializing that so uh they know what they're talking about um they've got you you've apparently
got a rule that for instance per this type of building you need this amount of parking space
we don't have that yes if we had that we wouldn't have enough space to um grow to do all this
to actually just to exist on the world economic stage like we at least need a little bit of space
for farming and stuff and we need a bit of space for you know teaching people stuff and that
those two are like our main exports yes uh what what you're referring to is something called
Euclidean zoning um that is the root of all evil in North America um yeah we are really obsessed
with our cars I think contrary to a lot of non-Americans think they're actually a lot of Americans
here that really care about like making public transportation more of a thing but I think a
struggle that we deal with America I don't think people outside America always realize
everything's really far apart so the places for public transportation has been the most
successful usually these places that already were pretty condensed like in New York cities yeah
LA used to have really good public transportation they got dismantled which is the whole thing um
so the challenge is like okay you know how do you make you know transportation when
you have all these major cities that are like hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours
um apart as it is you know by car and again it looks like a cool idea that would make like I
think getting between like Columbus and Chicago or something take like you know 24 hours off to
look it up yeah so ideas about bullet trains across America for a long time it's just one
extremely expensive and two not necessarily you know that feasible when it comes to thinking
about you know how many stops along the way how long does it take to speed up slow back down stop
here unload reload so it wouldn't really be worth it in the end the thing is also like I think
when Americans as a whole as an entire units of a country put their mind to something I think
well then you get great things like I'm pretty sure like in the 18 something something
um there was a train nine built from one side of America to the other side I don't know if that's
still in use or something transcontinental railroad oh yeah I got taken down a long time ago
well actually it's still in use but only for freight yeah yeah but so basically the whole idea was
that um the big powerful people and all that all the people who mattered and like basically
everyone put their mind to we're gonna connect these two parts of um the we're gonna connect
these two oceans together and that was like also the whole manifest anything the whole the whole
like um oh yeah and then they try to come off all the Chinese and the Irish by working them half
to death yes that's not great that is something all countries have that point in in their history like
I don't know about that it's just but we seem to have a lot of hosts that's well yeah kind of but
it's also with Europe uh that's also the case like like with the Netherlands our most the time when
we were most powerful and most coolest and actually we were like the OG like how America is now we
were federation each um province completely different um and you have like the sea side and the
country side which um had vastly different views um that was built on um the VOC which was the
freinert austinist company which was um basically well it's basically like um they went to
what was known as uh uh which would later be known as nalans india and now as indonesia
and they just pillaged it and made and made it their own little private empire
brits and tried to replicate it but they more they uh only succeeded when they like took the dutch away
and made it their actual empire they couldn't have a um trade empire like made by a single um uh what's
it called um a business like uh oh like um the pho say it wasn't part wasn't um run by the government
it was run by um oh yeah it was in the uh company or at least that's what we know in any
relationship yeah i always kind of imagined at least i can't speak for all americans but i always
imagine the Netherlands right now it's just kind of being the country where it's like it's sort of
like the calm like sibling where there's kind of like it's just kind of cool and it's just kind
of i don't know it's not there just seems to be kind of low drama in the Netherlands like it's
just kind of cool there the only like exciting at least from american standpoint because is i
think it's like uh you know drugs are a lot more legalized there yeah what are actually stereotypes
for europe because we talked a lot about stereotypes for america and i think we all know that we
we we connect to the internet yeah but i haven't heard nearly as much stereotypes over europe
like what you're saying is actually yeah we we do we actually had that in history we have a um
thing which is like um well we're very tolerable we tolerates a lot of things so drugs are
correct me if i'm wrong shane but drugs are illegal we just tolerate them more well they are
illegal but they kind of just not sure what i think i know what you mean so need i mean so like for
example here before marijuana was legalized basically everyone was doing pot like it was just
kind of it was just weird like open secret and you basically only actually got in trouble for pot
if you were like a dealer and you piss someone off and they got you in trouble or we have to
problem over here where because everyone again was doing pot but like people of color or black people
or mexicans or whatever would like disproportionately get like arrested for it over white people so
that was that's actually one of the big drivings yeah behind legalized because people are like listen
everyone's doing pot so and you're you know criminalizing black people for more just like just
legalize it um yeah and what happened is to call around to stand up from what i think happened
personally is my opinion i don't know i can prove this they legalized it taxed it made a shit
ton off taxes and i think the other states were like oh okay i guess i guess we can deal with pot
like they got dollar signs in their eyes pretty funny yeah yeah that was pretty much it yeah well
not illegalized it and had to give tax money back to all their citizens and then other states were like
hmm money yeah pretty much yes once there's money involved people will generally continue getting
money involved um but basically yeah that kind of stance so um stuff like for instance uh i won't
start that there was like a war between Sweden and Denmark as there usually is and um like one
of the countries uh told the Netherlands this was back in the um in the in the in the pre-France
uh in the golden era um uh this was uh when when the the Netherlands was actually back then uh like
what america is right now it's like big superpower which is very very funny because it's so small
and tiny um but um basically they said don't trade with this other country uh with don't know which one
it was and then the uh people in charge were like sure we won't trade with the other one
and then they were and then what happened was that they just traded in secret because you could
make money out of it and that kind of stuff or for instance in history we once again had had
lesson and then one of the things he also said was um uh the Netherlands always had a lot of people
like um uh what's the word people coming to them um uh is emigrate or immigrate immigrate right
in the another word you know what i mean um and uh that that usually that was like other cultures
were just tolerated like um like Jewish uh people were just tolerated um right until like uh
the german occupation which was little less tolerable but um uh yeah pretty tolerable like even
Catholics were allowed to have secret um secret churches as long as they weren't out in the open
it it's it was okay um yeah um it the only time it would kind of be a problem is when um well
he said i can't remember exactly what so but like um the time it became more obvious when
was uh after world war two and the whole empire stuff whole colonialism began collapsing
a lot of people with different skin colors began traveling to um the Netherlands so um that
would then it was more obvious and there was more resistance but yeah yeah basically like if you
can adapt to us it or stick to yourself then it's fine that's basically it is there so i take
it there's actually a lot of like diversity in the Netherlands as far as like yeah race religion
well i don't know i don't really care like we get really high focus on it in america and one
of them always cuts one step over by when i talk to you know is people are confused by how
focused we get on race and yeah like my opinion on that is you're human i'm human we all
belong to the homo sapiens group we might have a different idea but we don't have to fight
a war we can literally just play magic the gathering to decide wars i don't know
wars i don't do something not destructive i don't get very easily it's just don't get angry that's
very simple yeah most people aren't but i'm just i literally don't care if like uh if someone
say someone uh is gay and they're like to me i'm gay and then my response is okay yeah exactly
why do i care are you attracted to me no okay i don't care my grandma is also gay i don't care
that's true by my my grandma is gay but yeah i don't really care a lot of people around here will
get like really offended if someone of the same sex makes the past at them and they're not gay my
opinion is is okay you gave it a shot i turned you down as long as you don't keep pushing at me
yeah that's fine the way it is uh here now is and it's still kind of like you can still find
areas where people aren't out um but where i am like if you know because i'm like technically queer
as we call it here and to me is the least interesting part of me which is kind of nice because even
when i was growing up like there's always this big thing and now you're like i'm gay or i'm a
sir i'm pan of people are like okay like literally why do i care what you're going to do with your
janitalia yes long as it's not with me exactly and it's yeah and it's weird because like with
our parents and grandparents they still they're kind of weird about it sometimes or like i have to
sometimes explain things to my parents or my grandma just straight up does not understand certain
things that's why tell them is like people just do what they want now or don't or done it and
think my mom finally gets it she's just like yeah people don't care nowadays and i was like
they're extremely oversimplified but yeah yeah and but uh yeah i like if someone were to actually
um someone would try to make passive me or something i would not even notice that they were doing it
i would just react in a very literal way because i didn't i there should be classes for that you know
there should be classes like if somebody does this this is what they mean or something because
it's so complicated i'm generally oblivious as well uh but i literally had you know guys
they hey do you want me to perform such and such a sex act on you and it's like no i'm long term
committed relationship and i plan on staying that way and that's the end of the conversation
yeah if you're interested in me just go up and ask well as long as you're in the legal age of course
yes otherwise it waits until i'm old enough exactly yeah age of consent is important i'm not
piercing any consent is of course important yeah over there here it's for the most part like 16
18 in some states 18 well i i just assume everything is 18 or whatever price your parents tell
you at in florida actually this kind of a messed up thing here and there's actually a bit of a
problem with it in certain like weird circles is that you can actually get married before the legal
age as long as your parents sign off on it so you will wound up a severe situation to have like
15-year-olds married each other and the parents are like yeah that's fine for a 15-year-old marriage
is a 40-year-old yeah well yeah and you're all weird for like 15-year that happens and like child
marriage is actually like kind of a problem in like very specific areas in america which surprised me
when i found that out because i always thought that we were kind of like way past that but apparently not
yeah there's lots of things which you think your way past like um uh i've been getting this
adds like um uh something talk therapy that's brutal and that's still legal in evidence and
like for gays of i i i think that's like uh that you're tried to talk someone out of being gay which
like doesn't make sense because we're the first country to lead that marriage which by the way
that's like it it was in 2001 i think that's super late no we still have conversion therapy
year yeah it's like a lot of it here and it's i think less of it here but i don't know for certain
it's like this stuff you think you're doing really well in but it then you suddenly find out that
there's this whole underbelly to society which is old backwards and weird and like wrong i don't
have a problem with it if someone wants to you know go to therapy in order to not be a homosexual
or anything like that i don't have a problem with that if they want to
if they want to are sending their kids yeah that's like i'm literally shaking my head but you can't
and see that i'm like yeah that's terrible uh that that's literal torture that should be made
illegal yeah that's literally just like oh my god version therapy is illegal in some parts here
not in other parts kind of again kind of on the state of the city as it does with everything here
i think it's largely tied to religion that's what i've seen from it
gosh i hear Josh's voice yeah i'm here Josh how's it going not too bad not too bad just hanging out
having various political conversations here yeah so it seems starched from like um like
some uh what what what was it again uh word um uh stereotypes about america and then stereotypes about
uh europe and um yeah i don't think we even got stereotypes of europe while we were doing the
Netherlands and then we were like um uh like uh there's some stereotypes were mentioned about
the islands and then i was giving in the whole history explanation about some of them i was
informing people like um uh there was something oh yeah um there it was said that uh there aren't
any problems well there are some problems in the Netherlands and i've noticed it's usually with like
like uh uh what's called holidays or stuff like um celebrations like there's center class which is
the major one it's um this is this might be a bit people might be very shocked with this one but
basically kids uh there's like it's like Santa like the guy before Santa was Santa that guy
saying Nicholas it's saying Nicholas but then in like an older form basically um um
crapeth no but no uh kinda nearly it's a Dutch saying Nicholas basically um center class uh
week one and um basically he's got these little he got these helpers um but these helpers they
have black skin and where where certain types of clothing which people nowadays think is very racist
and they're correct it's very racist and then people um trip people like um uh do shmink and stuff
to make uh them self look like black people basically oh black people yeah it's worth a pizza they're
called black pee yeah yeah we've got a black face over here and it is like it is one of the fastest
ways to get yourself canceled in the United States is yeah if you are white and you put stuff on
to make yourself look black it's like kind of realistic and not like it's just don't it's not
the thing is it's kids and all they want is candy and it's a fun thing and nobody actually means
any harm but it's it is racist and the thing is people know this but there's some people which are
like um which are resisting the change to like include like people of all ethnicities in the
beta or like um what my solution to the problem is is uh that you have people of all ethnicities
and all colors like rainbow people for like so if someone for instance a gay peak could like
be rainbow and pink or something that yeah I'm looking at a news article about this and it says
slate.com in Holland Santa doesn't have elves he has slaves well the thing is we do also have
Santa and most people are actually I think now doing um uh Christmas instead of uh center class
which they're two different things by the way and I think in presents wise center class is
way superior you get like a couple presents leading up to center class and then like the big jack
but in center class it's like the bill like the spread out and the all clumped together at the same
time well he arrives like truly week before the yeah and then each weekend yeah he
is basically the big day you get to shoot out a number of times and then you get a bit of candy
small present in your shoot and then the last day like the day before he leaves his birthday
the 5th of December um you get like big presents and stuff and it like
who it used to be like instead of Christmas you'd have center class and I think presents wise
it's way better it yeah it's just that it's a bit racist and um the there's like a central kind
of authority basically on um like of course everyone has their own little thing but um depending
on where you live uh like going there would be people going uh doing like parades or going to
schools and stuff but there um there's also the the central now which is like uh just like a news
for for a center class um and they are trying to go over to the um to a subpar um solution which is
basically just that it's um that they're that the beta are black because of um the uh what's it called
stuff in chimneys what they're black because of the suits but basically what they're doing is um
uh they're all what they did is they got rid of the couple very like major pizza in the thing you've
you got you got a couple and they kind of took them away which was a shame because they they were
really funny and really great and great no they didn't they didn't take them away because the whole
situation with them they just didn't want to be a part of that because they kind of left the
changing of the color way too late they had done yeah if and if they did it with like everyone I
think if they included everyone just maybe a couple black pizza the it doesn't necessarily
even have to be your own skin coat you you could paint anything anything as long as it's appropriate
or like it it would be fine if you did it in time but it's too late and stuff and now yeah
it's kind of sad actually and there's like and I'm not like a person of color um to me it's like
because yeah I'm reading about it it seems like most people in the Netherlands are not bothered by
which is kind of like surprising me as the American but again Americans get super caught up on race
for some reason so thinking outside of like my American assumptions it's like well you know if
you're not having other issues because it's something I have to think about sometimes um if you
guys aren't having other issues with like racial inequality and stuff then if there's not like
huge say huge income inequality between blacks and whites because we know I didn't know about that
situation other stuff and blah blah blah now I don't think that that's as prevalent but I don't
know I'm not very good with economics and stuff I'm politics I don't do anything definitely a
reason why we're so focused on it it's not like we're just freaking out for no reason yeah if you
look at American history and slavery and stuff like whatever your opinions on it and obviously
depend on the American you ask and all that I think it's though the thing is it's uh it definitely
is present in the Netherlands with the whole sorts of pizza thing that's the main uh that that's
like this is the biggest the biggest discussion we're talking about here I actually had a
conversation I had darker skinks not per se uh that they are black it's more into the every
small thing throughout the year that that's kind of like here we say the dripple did the ember day
overload but I'm not sure which straw which breaks the camel's back yeah dahon so yeah it's I don't
think there is a huge difference but I'm not sure uh yeah it's so enough to like annoy
yeah it's it's annoying like it's enough to assume that if um with with uh geography we did a thing
on cities and it was enough to assume that if more black people or colored people lived somewhere
that it would be poorer it's enough to assume that but it's not levels like from what I hear from
America levels it's and it's yeah I it's it's um but also uh uh pizza thing it's also the counter
arguments is also kind of strong it's because it's um it's our cultural heritage it's like two
cultural heritage clashing it's like the more Americanized like income of black people or like the
people who came the well they're also Dutch but like American ideals are coming to the Netherlands
and black people living in the Netherlands already have some problems and I like it's at the
cat the straw that breaks the camel's back it's bit basically like that but also with American
ideals uh they are coming up with to the Netherlands that is a thing um and yeah so I was I'm just
so in Germany like just recently in Germany they they since uh the Nazis they kind of ignored
and it was assumed that if you were a Nazi you would get fucking whatever like it would just
it wouldn't be good for you to tell people that you're a Nazi well it turns out that like there
was a whole lot of people in the police force and um uh they uh there were immigrants from
Middle Eastern countries that were getting killed and they just assumed it was those communities
right and then it turned out that it was a neo-Nazi group that was pretty prevalent and a lot of
the police officers in Germany were part of this neo-Nazi group like is it possible that the
Netherlands is having a similar thing like the the average person is like well it doesn't really
happen here because it's normal it's not we don't we don't care about it but I'm sure there's
people right you know what I mean I don't know then again I'm not very social so I'm not sure
yeah for sure either. Yeah for sure either. A teacher who was you had darker skin color
and he said it's just small things throughout the year that could eventually breaks,
comes back but that's obviously only one person one perspective so I'm not sure. Yeah yeah
I mean even here in America it depends on where you are I've you know I do know people of color
here as we call them who really felt like they haven't faced any issues and then you have some
people where they felt like it's basically the fun to find their entire life here so I will say
also to contribute to the like there's a YouTube right watch who's a very very very dark skin
woman and she actually the Canada and she said like there's a little less racism but it's also
like they just didn't like to talk about it in Canada but it's like still there. Yeah Canada is
too polite. Yeah she said that it's kind of annoying because they just like to pretend they didn't
have the racial issues of America and it's like just because they're not as bad as we're not there
so I wonder if it's like that in year two. Yeah we did have the Netherlands what's called
well there was something if people had a different last name like they would have had a foreign
last name yeah yeah they would feel less likely to get jobs and that's also like um no but it was
the uh two slagoff uh the one with the date remember no oh pretty much uh if you had a different
last so are you saying like if someone had like a clearly like non-netherlands or non-native name
they'd be like maybe more likely be targeted because we have some of that here. Yeah well that's
pretty much what happened and they had to pay money back afterwards she left pay back that actually
only a flash when I wasn't watching the news probably what when I wasn't watching the news probably
yeah I wonder luckily luckily not all our problems here in the Netherlands are to do with race
um some are to do with fireworks because if you don't know um uh right now uh it's a firework
season or firework two days it kind of build up sometimes sometimes people two days well yeah one day
really it's and it's technically two that is basically what happens is I don't know if it's still
legal but it used to be legal and then it was made illegal like last year but everyone still
set up fireworks and um this year people still set up fireworks but it was not in our uh
vacuum not now we're little three streets so we just had a little walk around but people were
doing it just a little bit less might be because they didn't build up a lot of stuff I don't know
project usually it is just loud but now it's corona and they don't want the hospitals to
manage so that's how they know yeah but I the thing uh the problem there is that people uh
a lot of people for instance in the government and stuff are saying that it should be banned
but a lot of other people are saying it shouldn't be banned I'm kind of in the middle I
I'm kind of for it not being banned because I really love the feeling of just being able to walk
around and being um scared of being able to explode at any second kind of it's a thrill it's a
thrill that's an interesting uh I would I would have thought it was an argument against but I guess
for that's an that's an argument for because it's like yeah it's interesting it's like it feels
like lightning and stuff it like lights up the sky and thunder everywhere also that could be used
as an argument against as well but yeah because it's definitely not that good for nature there's
literally mist in the air sometimes it lights up to look like today and um and uh animals uh are
like scared shitless basically so yeah the big thing here is we have the same arguments over
fireworks also people shooting guns off their front marches of thing here yeah that's a little less
here yeah mostly people are like against fireworks the fireworks against um guns yeah the thing
is I mean I get annoyed when people are doing fireworks in a neighborhood unless the house is
a really far apart because the thing here in America is like you drive out to the country you drive
like an hour out to the country you can set up as many damn fireworks as you want because no one
will be around for miles so here yeah people really know excuse like if they're setting off in
their backyard you're probably the police call on you at some point just agree with you just a
little bit there because you can't do that across all of America especially California um certain places
in New Mexico oh sorry yeah I should say assuming the places that are not dense it's just a lot
of running out obviously in LA but even still I mean in LA you can't well that's what I'm
pointing out here you can't go up to the country in California and shoot out fireworks because
you're gonna like something on fire and half the state's gonna burn away yeah I should be careful
because my home state actually is basically on fire right now I'm sorry I guess which state is that
with gender reveal foggy yeah well then still comes down the same thing though if you're
wanting in one of those dry states you shouldn't be doing fireworks period yeah yeah like I it's kind
of a meme like it's either California or Australia which is on fire that right
this is true uh my brother actually lit our neighbor across streets yard on fire one year by
throwing a firework up in the air and it landed over there and thankfully we had a friend run
over and snop it out but uh yeah everything's pretty dry over here yeah and then then the ones
everything's pretty wet so wet that if you don't keep the dyke sweat that they'll break and then
everyone is wet and dead and everyone's gonna be pretty pissed that they're they're red and dead
especially wet but people can usually swim if you can't swim then well that that's a problem
problem is is that you can't swim against the sea that's a problem because like with the it's
actually a very important part of geography was very important together with like cities
because to know about just water and rivers and that kind of stuff because we have um we're basically
one big delta literally um in deltas deltas are the only places where rivers can kind of break up
apparently i don't know why it's specifically deltas but um literally the rain goes into the
Netherlands and then splits into two different rivers so we're literally just one big delta and
we have to deal with that and with like water and stuff first we thought just get the
water out of here but now we figured out if we do that then we'll run into problems um let's see
if i can remember those problems there's like too much water will basically um we you don't have
enough water in the summer when it's dry and you need it and then there's actually and there's
more uh vapo and spirati which is like uh vaporation and uh transpiration so you have less water
in the summer even though it rains more um so that that's then a problem and you can need to balance
out the water but you can't just uh i'm pretty sure there's like laws saying you can't uh just
chuck the water somewhere else and it's someone else's problem to deal with it's your problem the
water and you can either keep it in place where where it uh like it would rain you can either keep
it in place where uh landed you can try and you can put in another place or you can transport it
away and that's like the three steps you need to do with water basically and there's a whole bunch
of stuff to make uh rivers more safe and that kind of stuff because we can't just keep increasing
the size of the dot aches and stuff and the speed of the river because rivers generally want to do
their own thing but we generally don't want them to do their own things so we kind of have to
get a compromise what yeah we were like i said we were in limber in the summer and um it's called
falconberg and that um is on the mass which is also a pretty big river but uh we actually learned
the difference uh between them and the rain has like a steady like snow layer which just constantly
melts so it has a constant layer but um on top and on top of that it's just the variation of
rainwater but the mass only has rainwater which is a problem because um some places you sometimes
you can't you literally just can't uh get a boat through the thing um but other times other places
it floods and that's not good and that happened in a place called falconberg and it also happened
in Germany and Belgium and there were actual deaths and stuff but the damage was pretty big
and um yeah they had a fixed up pretty quick yeah we we already had those kind of problems in the 90s
um my grandma said um because um her wife used to um used to uh watched and used during that period
and it was all death death and death because of the rivers flooding um that's the thing people don't
realize it's um the water we have a pretty complicated relationship with the water and it's not just
to see it's the rivers yeah because sometimes we used to water for defense and trade like we uh used
all the way up to the world war two we used to flood um the countryside with water to basically
use it as a defensive measure and worked really well except for when it froze over or you could
parachute over if you got past it we were basically screwed but um water worked really well as a
defensive strategy because it's the perfect height for um for like killing people right we don't
have four-time problems like that but we do also have a complicated relationship with water here
especially when it comes to uh dams and usage like take the Rio Grande for example because um dams
and hydroelectric fall up and down it but by the time you get towards the end of it towards um
like El Paso where it comes into Texas it the Rio Grande is basically non-existent most years it's
almost completely dry because it's being so utilized upstream despite the fact that they're supposed
to let so much through they really don't yeah that's the problem but that's more political that's
something created by the people this is something like still a holdover from the other stage it's
it's the thing we have like we can't fix it by talking to people and being like well it's really
probably really hard for you to with like the dams and stuff in regulations and blah blah blah blah
and we we need that energy and blah blah blah but um one example my next example is going to be
Katrina which is a hurricane in Houston yes and took out all of the um balls there that it's not
dams it's levies took out all the levies there and basically turned Houston into well a swap
well a return to Houston to a swap arms yeah water was there first yeah we'd push the water back
and you know got ourselves more land and then you know the storm comes into that ends and then we
put the levies back up yeah if we would have storms like that we would not have a country
because how much how much of the Netherlands is below sea level half of it yeah about half
and you don't even need to be below sea level to experience problems it well it do is in a pay
in a pay is below sea level right yeah it is is half of it below in a pay or below sea level because
in a pay is normal Amsterdam about the normal Armstrong spell basically normal I'm some
multi level I'm sorry and wrong it was Harvey that was Houston and Katrina was New Orleans but
60 concepts same constant yeah that that's pretty sucky you can't you have to yeah don't know much
about how to prepare for that we don't really have those problems usually it would like hit we
hope it it's something like that would even exist every year Ireland and England first
year or two you know a good chunk of Florida just gets wiped out yep but they keep rebuilding we
would have the same problem if we didn't have our dice and stuff like like apparently England
also has it their their coast kind of disappears and they can't do anything about it and it's like
one of the Tom Scott made a video about it that like big cities or stuff are literally sinking
and yeah it also with the VODN Islander they are literally moving to I was at the east I'm
pretty sure it was to the east the we we have the start of the VODN Islander which goes all the
way up to like Denmark a lot of your cities are sinking but Chicago yes is literally sinking and
they will literally build the roads on top of the roads every year as they sink down that's
pretty cool to be on the set that gives me more pork vibes they put the front doors on the
second floor of buildings of new buildings on new ground so that way it can sink and eventually
the front door will be a ground level that that that that's that's just I'm more pork you're literally
just describing I'm more pork yeah water is a problem but our history is literally without our
water it say dog or land didn't sink we wouldn't be the Netherlands we would just be an extension
of Germany I'm not even sure for we live this above or under yeah we're like I'm wasn't one meter
above sea level or one meter above and I pay because I don't know and that was also when I was
and it's a big difference once the dykes break because with rising sea levels there is a point
where we can't fight it anymore and some people have suggested literally just causing off the
north sea which might actually be necessary if we want to survive but then the land was under water
yeah but the problem that's the problem here at the whole west of the country so everything's
attached to the sea is pretty much a city stuff and in the east of the country where it's a little
more solid might survive they've just got little pounds here and there's yeah we built
we built our places in the most economical place economical being middle ages economical
which is boats and it actually works out pretty well we we've got roster dam it's the biggest
it's the biggest harbor in Europe for such a tiny country such a big harbor it says lots about
countries and harbors um yeah and we're actually expanding it just expanding the land in the harbor
to make new harbor because we're dutch and that's what we're doing we made an entire new province
just from draining the sea um but um uh without our water we wouldn't be we we wouldn't have um
we uh our our our economy would sink would collapse would not be very great
with the water and if if the water gets too much we would die we would not exist anymore and well
yeah what can you do against it you can't swim it there's a reason the delta works were built
and it was because of um of uh break breakings of the dams and stuff it great floods there was a great
flood in um i don't know i think was it the 50 somewhere um 19 in in in in the in the last uh the
century before this century um right when a tv became more popular yeah i think it was the 50s
there was a big massive yeah there was a big massive flood in in the zealands which is like um
the zealand which makes a new zealand new that zealand original zealand what the original zealand
the original zealand it's a province not a uh country and it does actually exist
seeing a lot of memes be like um that that that zealand doesn't that zealand doesn't exist and for once
for once they spell zealand like zealand like wrong they spelled in the Anglo sized way it's
actually um a z-e-e-l-a-n-d i'll type it like that um might have made a spelling mistake who knows um
i don't think i did though is that the original um because i'm pretty sure original okay
because i know like new zealand they render it with an a before the l yeah no but that's just
that's just new zealand it's it's it's got two ease because the it basically says sea land
it's the land of the sea because you know it's like um well like like uh basically strips of land
and water intertwined if you look at a map it's the um it's the southwest corner basically of the
Netherlands just pull up a map and then like the Netherlands provinces or something and then
yeah or just look up zealand and it's the uh southwest province and um basically it's uh there's
a lot of borders which are like um uh bits of sea drained way or bits of water which were uh drained
way and um protected with dikes and stuff um and there's lots lots of stuff there basically
and lots of water which is very important now the dikes are supposed to keep the water out but there
was um there are two things which happened that that day and um one was a spring fruit and
other was a storm flutes those are both floods a storm flood is pretty obvious there's a storm
and it blows the water towards the land the spring flutes is basically translates as jump flood
basically um the moon is in such a position where it um heightens the water more than usual
oh i think it's in line with the sun or something yes the lunar tide it's the yeah high tide and
uh in line with the sun or something and basically uh greater gravitational pull so it's higher
and those two happened at the exact same time looks bad i'm looking at photos like yeah that was the
moments when the Netherlands thought we have enough with the we're and we're gonna fix it right now
and they did there were there two major um two major uh water stopping things um there's the stuff
around the isomere and there's the delta works the delta works were um i'm pretty sure they were the
only ones in response specifically to this um might have been both but um the delta works are like
if you've seen any cool opening uh stuff um in the Netherlands it's probably there those are the
ones that open yeah there's like massive sluice gates which usually are open but when it storms
or when there's a flood something in it'll close um basically that's a really cool um uh way of
making it possible uh because the zeland was basically like the um uh lots of trade of course
because lots of water so um and lots of fishing and we noticed uh when we were making when we
were turning the zardersay which is the south sea into the isomere that um lots of fish died in the
making of that uh lake because it turned from salty to uh not salty and um basically um they didn't
want that happening in um zeland so they made like big massive doors for water and stuff so that the
water um yeah so so that it uh there wouldn't be such uh thing again and and has worked
until now so yeah and there's also um in the isomere i've been mentioning the isomere but basically um
the south sea used to be a very treacherous sea and um there used to be a couple little islands there
with like villages and stuff and um i actually don't live to uh my school is like in a village
in a village well it's a bit bigger now than used to be but it used to be like a coastal village
but they built a massive uh massive dike in between um north rulans and um and um uh and uh
freesland which is um the uh the last uh the last place of the freesland the old people who used to
live um here in the Netherlands uh from the roman times even yeah that it's pretty cool but
they're also pretty weird speak their own weird language um which is actually fun fact the closest
current language to english apparently and the second closest is dutch i'm pretty certain
so that's that's a cool fun fact but um they built that dike and they uh planned to dry the whole
thing to make the whole thing dry uh instead they just made flavolons which is like there's two big
ones two two big parts of it there's like um the little bottom parts and the top part and the top
part is connected to the rest of the country um just with land and the other part is just like
has a little bit of wall chair in between um and they just literally made the 12th problem and they
just were like we're gonna make that and there's now a nature um there's actually a really cool
nature thing there because they uh planned to make a whole factory thingy but that um that
there was uh not put into action so now there's just swamp and we actually get to have
eagles and stuff so it's has some pretty cool side effects yeah yeah we guys want to know more
about physic as i can talk a little bit about that as well um i haven't been talking enough
so if i'm not mistaken you talk about physlin right uh our phrysian that's um i thinking that's one
of the ancestor languages for english yeah well i think i don't know it's very similar yeah it's
from the same kind of family like english english is the weird kind of cousin like which which
technically is part of the of the germanic family but like very much um like very much is inspired by
romanized languages like there's a very heavy normand influence it's like uh old english mixed
together with um with normand uh with with french normand french and um there was no the one
can't remember exactly and then a little bit of a dutch in there as well um yeah so the it's
it's it's uh like all the languages clump together in a big mess which nobody can really understand
so it's technically the closest related and stuff so tech it's technically still part of the
family and where the closest related one so the dutch and phrysian geno actually the phrysians
get their own language but the but um the um the death people don't and there's actually like um
there's actually a very like good reasons why um uh barital um signing sign language um we already
have like a dutch sign language it's just not an official language yet and um apparently my
mother uh who can speak sign language and shane can also speak sign language and now she she'll
she'll speak sign language a bit thank you shaneid um now you said that there is not an official
dutch sign language there is a dutch sign language but there isn't it's not an official language
it's not that used like gsl then or as i think it's well we use dutch sign language so it is a
different sign language uh yeah which we just use in netherlands but it's not i think
what poch was trying to say it's not registered as a official language but it should there's
literally when press conferences there's someone signing on the side doing like all the signing
hand wavy stuff being like um a sign language and there with all those press conferences with
coverage she's just been there she's been doing the sign language stuff so there's literally no
reason why it shouldn't be an official language while frisian is like it's only people in frisland
who speak it or conductors who are often in frisland but they're usually frisian too so yeah
it's a it's a it's a it's a bit unfair so hopefully that'll get rectified soon but yeah
you have been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work
today's show was contributed by a hbrlisman like yourself if you ever thought of recording
podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hosting frisjbr has been
kindly provided by an onsthos.com the internet archive and our syncs.net on the sadois status
today's show is released on our creative commons attribution 4.0 international license
