Episode: 3814
Title: HPR3814: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3814/hpr3814.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 05:57:42

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3814 for Thursday, the 16th of March 2023.
Today's show is entitled, 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 3.
It is part of the series HP Our New Year Show.
It is hosted by HP Our Volunteers and is about 121 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is 2022-2023 New Years Show where people come together and chat.
Didn't you just go make coffee?
No, I took the 10-minute AFM, AFK to go and have water drip.
Dang it, George!
You gotta make everything creepy.
I know.
I felt like I was starting to smell because I did walk 50.
Question, were you jogging near a beefy rat choking?
I wasn't not out of jogging, you know, I tried a jog, but my legs are all men.
Try to walk as many as you can, at least 10-10.
Oh, I used to, another thing that drove my boss, not early in my career as a security girl.
We had these big, deadhicks, clocks.
You had to go and stick a key in them and turn the key and it would make a mark on a paper disk.
Paper disk would be turned by the clock.
Well, early in my career when I was much younger and far more foolish, I said, wait a minute,
the best security for this operation is not to go from any regular pattern but is to bounce
around and do basically a drunkards walk all over the property.
Now, this is theoretically true, however, the client and my boss were used to beating the
pattern of a fairly regular or a subset of, you know, going building A, B and C up and
you go to the top and you go floor by floor and you, whatever, a very sequential standard
group actually doing it random was a little out of their wheelhouse.
So I ended up just going, you know, we had a half dozen patterns and they became recognizable
and everybody was happy even if they didn't provide too much security.
Oh, I have about a gallon and a half a milk and a ton of chocolate powder if I get desperate
before it's time to get the coffee.
Black toast and tolerant.
I guess I might have developed it but I read a tree hug and hippie became a vegetarian
but also over time, I've almost become vegans, I prefer oat milk.
But if I have too much dairy, I believe that.
Well, I can understand that, unfortunately, the only vegetarian that I had much to do with
was my former friend who triggered my PTSD as a test of my logic.
Also, she got her PhD without getting a master, that's a warning sign, folks.
No more like an entire Kremlin, thank you.
She was a liberal and she had a PhD.
I did not graduate college and I was conservative.
I was also the patient and since she knew everything there was to know about my particular
situation, including how I should care condition a house that's impossible to air condition
and pay for, I should rewire a house on social security.
And many other miraculous things, anything that I said came out as a distortion or otherwise
incorrect, basically heresy because she was a liberal and she and I was someone that
should be managed by a liberal, by liberal.
Also, my first problems with dehydration were going to those sessions and one time in
Park Street, I collapsed because I was dehydrated and the MTs came and I spent overnight in
the hospital.
Thank goodness I was carrying water because the hospital would not allow me to take anything
by my own so that I could get hydrated again.
So I actually had to hydrate myself with my own water much at the time because they couldn't
get approval for me to take in.
My shrink did not find the fact that I had weak glidal signs to be like that.
I believe the MTs were of a different opinion, which is why I ended up in university hospital.
The second, I would in order to endure her treatment, I was suppressing myself to a
high degree and the second time I collapsed trying to get to her layer.
I sort of decided maybe this treatment is good for me.
An interesting parallel was that I got PTSD across the dinner table talking to my father
who's graduate of a high school in West Virginia around the end of World War II.
Now, the interest in bringing the graduate from the high school and the graduate from
the PhD program both believed that they knew everything that was to know.
And if I just listened to them, everything would go wonderfully, especially if I didn't
talk back.
So I was being treated by a rigid psychologist for being raised by a rigid gentleman.
Also, when one Monday morning I entered her office, this is what triggered my PTSD.
I entered her office and she wanted me to justify the Orlando attack on a gay club since
I was known to believe that the second amendment was a reasonable thing.
And I gave her several reasons that a legal ownership of firearms was perfectly okay if
they were used properly.
Under her interrogation, I ended up getting rather emotional, which she found quite interesting
but she did not believe in giving quarter.
Now, so I got down and my PTSD took over, which trained by my father.
I have under PTSD conditions, I can have a very sharp tongue and that's all that happened
but it was not fun because the surviving veteran is a very toxic part of my personal.
Yeah, I'm with you.
I was.
Well, I had anxiety attacks earlier in my, before I was doing security and stuff, I had anxiety
and stuff.
I was raised by a nasty alcoholic family.
But my dad, who was raised by someone who believed in physical discipline, razor strap style,
he was more sophisticated, he would melt you down emotionally with job logic and then
he could say I never laid a hand on you, which was true but not necessarily very relevant
when you were, you know, when you were about to know your arm off to get away.
And of course, I'd been a little done shy of dreams ever since.
And when I was about to start looking again for further treatment, our friend COVID showed
up.
Yeah, slow response, helping a friend in telegram, he's sending me picture of his Android
TV not connecting.
I don't know.
Probably.
I'm like, thanks for everyone who supports me.
No, you're a staff of the cat.
That's pretty much.
If you look through YouTube, you'll find that many projects, whether they're farming,
hot rotting, whatever, a lot of them include significant fuel lines of provision.
Absolutely good for now.
She's gone up to her room, but she used to be the guest room.
Yeah, that reminds me, we had a cat here, little gray, short hair.
And my mother had a wedge, Thailand white, spits, craws, 50 pounds.
And the cat ate either a cat soaking wet.
When I would take that dog to a walk, the cat would walk along with it most of the time.
Sometimes she would pick her spot, let us walk up by and wait until we were coming back
to the house.
But it was fun to walk the cat and the dog together.
The dog was on a leash, the cat wasn't, but when the cat got in the house, if she wanted
to sleep under my mother's bed, the dog would, if she wanted to sleep in the dog's bed,
the dog would, the cat, the dogs were the same way, or the cat had her dog pussy with.
But that's like little cat quads and was perfectly willing to use them if necessary.
That's fairly standard cat dog behavior when the dog is not allowed to eat that cat.
I've not heard anything good about AT&T to be perfectly honest with you.
I think if I had it, and that may be, I would probably force it.
And you know, me, I like to use a V, sure they're routed.
Meanwhile, I've been probably hearing me typing furiously.
I have a tin set up on this old laptop for reading news groups.
I just subscribed to that news group, the sort of therapy for exisabins.
And I was like, oh, you know, for some reason I can't reply, I can't follow up to these posts.
I was like, well, you know, I probably should set this up in Neomut and just have it in my male browser.
This is an example again of where the documentation is just rubbish.
And documentation on both sides on my, on my user net provider and on my, on Neomut side.
It's like, here are the things you can fill out.
And it's like, okay, can I have an example, please, of how I might set this up?
You know, this is ridiculous.
Well, they did say that that group is moderated.
So that may be fun.
No, what's happening, because I can't reply to any groups on EMACs I can.
And then the news has some additional magic that it's doing that makes this work properly.
I'm trying to do it in tin and then Neomut.
So essentially what's happening is I can read my, my news groups read only.
I just can't post to them, which means somewhere along the line the authentication is failing.
But I don't really understand why, because in my news or file, everything is correct.
According to the documentation provided by my user net provider.
This is just a case of one of these programs is lying because this works with news.
It just doesn't work with kin or Neomut.
And I need to understand where in their sort of offense case and authentication procedure.
Have I not filled in the correct thing basically?
It's very annoying.
There we go.
This is what you get for trying to use, you know, ancient technology on more modern machines.
They're just not set up for it.
They work around.
Hey, come put in that fix for me.
Heck no.
Heck no, Joe.
All right.
It's not Joe, is it?
I'm literally Joe.
He's Joe.
I saw.
I just had to go.
Heck no, Joe.
Because I'm sorry.
We've got Joe's in our group.
And like now.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
We should pimp out.
We're with tech and coffee.
Oh, cool.
The old Google plus group that used to be big.
Now we're just only a couple dozen of it's still a second coffee.
Yep.
Do you remember us?
Some people do.
We don't.
No.
We're not this famous George.
This isn't the Google plus days.
Well, no, but we've had people join us.
And it's like, I think I remember this in Google plus.
Yes, we were semi second coffee.
Google plus back in Google plus days.
We had one of the biggest.
It's dead.
So so are we.
Wait, what?
Back in the dawn of time when telegraphs and telegrams were still common.
I belong to a alternate lifestyle group that would be shaded for a today.
And Yahoo.
Had a lot of groups of people of similar interests.
And they decided to shut down their chat groups.
And a lot of the people from Yahoo joined the bulletin board.
I was on.
It was fairly universally hoped that these Yahoo's would return to Yahoo.
Yeah, two two two a piece and stuff.
And we've done this.
Actually, we've done this in Google plus days.
We had an IRC room.
We have discord that links back to our telegram.
So who don't want to join telegram can go to art.
And then yeah, and then we have telegram to the heart of them.
Telegram bridge for discord.
Yep.
Yeah, we're using what we use.
It's a cold.
I know.
I know.
I know.
I can find it.
And I think it just all intact bridge.
I can run the Docker file here.
Teddy cross, it's called.
But the plan is next year or this upcoming year.
I will basically sit down.
And we're going to use a matrix room as a conduit room because unfortunately.
Telegram does a very silly thing or a very sensible thing depending on how you look at it.
But basically when you bridge into telegram, it's a bot.
And the problem with that is you can't bridge multiple things in because bots can't talk to other bots.
So if somebody messaged him from discord and the discord bot posted the message and telegram.
If we bridge telegram to IRC, the people on IRC would not get that message because the bot would not talk to the other bots.
They would ignore to each other's messages.
So instead, we're going to set up.
We've got a matrix room and we will basically have everything feed into there.
Because matrix handles integrations much more sensibly and create users for them as opposed to bots.
So you can have multiple things, IRC, discord, telegram, etc., all funneling into matrix.
And it will actually feed back to every single connected service just so that we can have one place for everyone to come in.
Because I'm more of an IRC user or if I'm telegram annoying, I'd like to not be notified of messages.
I'd just have it sat there idly.
I turn off all notifications.
That's the first thing I do with every group, including our own.
I love them all, but I'm sorry, I need to sleep.
It gets to be too much.
No, I understand.
Because I have a telegram and a discord, everything else.
And yeah, they're the reason that my phone automatically goes on, violent at 10.
And I don't get pings from telegram at all anymore.
So tired of it.
I put a URL in there if anybody wants to check it out or join or what.
People are usually friendly in there.
We do have two maintained public rooms for one semi-public.
And we have Rosebot, so you have about five minutes.
But we also have another one called Thunderdome.
And so the main room, we don't allow public, we don't allow politics and religion to be talked.
So, you know, just basic tech stuff.
And then the other one, it's Thunderdome.
You can talk about anything you want.
You can post anything you want.
And if you don't like it, you just leave.
Alicia, have one of my podcasts listed there on the podcast page.
Oh, do we?
Which, oh, HBRs?
Oh, Mintcast.
Oh, Mintcast.
Yeah, no.
Moss is one of our key members in tech and tech.
Oh, cool.
That's why it's there.
Because, you know, if anybody has a, if anybody in our group has a podcast, doesn't matter
even if they're just interacting it slightly, we just throw it on there in the front.
Awesome.
So, because, you know, I interact with a lot of HBR people.
I just threw you guys.
Yeah, you got Distrooper's Digest, Full Circle Magazine, all Moss' stuff.
Pretty much.
Moss, Moss, he likes to be.
Cool.
Yeah, we have a couple of Linux lads that hang out and take a coffee.
We're more of a generic tech thing, so we don't like, you know, I mean, I'm pretty much a
Linux evangelist, but I don't, you know, forcing you.
We talk anything.
You want to talk Windows, whatever.
Coffee.
You're going to Sam's Club, you're in a minute.
Can you pick me up some sales room?
I'm almost out.
I have no idea.
I've never been there before.
Oh, Sam's Club is.
How awesome.
Oh, it's awesome.
It's just large, but with big boxy type of heel to it.
Well, there are some things that it's just playing better to buy in bulk.
But I was going over there, inventory online and, yeah, there's definitely some things that are missing.
I can't believe the freaking price of eggs right now.
Oh, yeah, everything is good.
Luckily, the stuff I normally eat has pretty much stayed the same or going down, where it used to be the more expensive.
I'm okay.
The rest of you.
Surprisingly, well, egg cartons have, like, doubled or tripled in price.
The cartons of egg whites is stayed roughly the same.
I'm trying to think of the one liquid fake vegan egg.
It's pretty good, actually.
I can't think of the name of it.
I can picture the bottle in my head.
I know the one you're talking about.
Yeah, the yellow bottle.
That's tough.
Awesome.
To me, it tastes just like eggs, but if I ate real eggs, you'd kill me.
Yeah, I know the one you're talking about.
And I think it stayed roughly the same price.
Yeah, it's always been about $4, one target.
Well, yeah, and it's about half the size of the egg whites bottle.
And it kind of looks like a decent sized bottle of mustard.
Yeah, they have the folded over ones in the frozen section.
So you're going to, like, put in sandwiches or look like it goes into an egg McMuffin.
I'm sorry.
I think I got us off technology altogether.
Oh, no, no.
It's still a good topic.
I mean, the show goes on for a really long time.
So you know, you got to kind of spread things out.
I was going to branch from there and be like, well, because I tend to do a lot of low fat items,
I tend to try out at least some of the vegan stuff.
So I'm going to ask right now, is one of you either G-Love or...
Is one of you what?
Well, two people just follow tech and coffee.
And if it's one, also we have hacker G and G-Love.
And toward up Fedora Red Hat followed tech and coffee just within the last five minutes.
And if it's any one of you's, I'll follow you.
I followed a minute ago, but that should be Joe.
Hold on.
I have toward up at put to Gspot.LOL and G-Love at the same place and hacker G at hacker zone debts.
Really, I did it under my name.
I mean, here.
I'll join as the mid-cast.
Well, I think the problem is, too, is between servers.
It takes some time.
Some people tell me they join and I see it like 10 minutes late.
I could join as tech and route or as tech notes, if you want.
Admin on a lot of crap on Facebook.
Oh, is this Facebook?
You're talking about...
Yeah, we do have a Facebook entity, too.
I think...
Yeah.
Nobody really.
You can...
I'm talking...
I'm talking mastodon.
Yeah, the Facebook one or two of us admin for a while, but they have lives.
Yeah.
We do have a shared password vault that Karen actually set up and some admins have access to that stuff.
So if they felt they wanted to do the...
I mean, I might jump in every once in a while, but...
But yeah, I don't know how the Facebook gets.
Yeah, I should probably be doing more with midcasts, Facebook page, or just...
I've kind of faded away from Facebook in the last couple of years because, well, it's Facebook.
Yeah, I'm with you there.
I just gave up on it because I felt like...
Well, I was doing it quite a bit until Google Plus came out and then...
I don't know.
My family's all on there, so I would jump in everyone, but I don't know.
It became annoying.
I'm sure mastodon will do the same to me.
I'm supposed to be setting up a new admin in the Facebook page anyway, so I've changed everything.
We had a real problem with Facebook, actually, because we have a Facebook group and a Facebook page.
And because of how we set it all up originally, the page is owned by the group.
And basically, this is something that Facebook has since changed and don't do anymore and stuff like that.
And basically, it means that we can't access certain administrative features because they just never thought about how to migrate old pages away from this structure.
And you just like, they clearly don't care about like historical pages and stuff.
Yeah, awful, awful.
And we have been pimping out.
Every chance I get, I pimped out HPR on the mastodon, I'll pimpe out.
Now, I just need you guys to wear a tube top and plather me.
Always with the leather mini skirts.
Plather, not leather.
Oh, sorry, yeah, of course, vegan.
Seeing if anyone's awake, I guess.
But why are you vegan?
Oh, I'm married to hippie, kind of.
She was really into, she was a vegetarian from teens up.
She was brought up in California.
And I probably, she passed away seven years ago.
So I probably could have stopped doing it, but I kept doing it.
I'm that way and I'm also kind of hippie.
Yeah, I was a, I was a vegan for two years and I was a vegetarian for about four or five years.
And it is a, you know, why several reasons.
One I had a vegetarian girlfriend at the time and it was cheaper to cook one set of meals.
Vegetarianism is generally cheaper.
Yeah, the reason, the reason I stopped was just because I like to travel a lot and a lot of the best food that, you know, is culturally important that you want to try when you travel somewhere.
Often contains meat and, you know, I, I don't eat much meat in my day to day life.
I do at the moment because I'm not my parents and they don't, you know, they, they have a lot of meat in their diet, whatever.
But generally speaking, I like to be able to go somewhere and try be sort of, you know, what is considered a, a staple dish.
So it makes sense.
I still avoid beef mostly because just beef's environmental impact is devastating.
But other meats, I'm not really that bothered, like chicken and stuff like that.
Yeah, it's, it is what it is.
Okay, I was just wondering.
Yeah, no, I think in both of our cases, it's women.
Yeah, both of us women and our lives.
I mean, geez, I mean, I hate to do this, you know, but my wife used to love to cook the cook.
So, so and I was, when I went to school, I was, I went to school near the CIA, culinary institute of America Central Agency.
But I went to school at Mara's College.
And, you know, I, most of my friends knew how to cook and do things.
And so, roaming and living with some of them, you kind of knew how to do it.
Like, you know, I knew how to properly use knives, all this stuff, even though I didn't go to school there.
So I learned to cook pretty well.
I mean, I wouldn't say chef like, but I mean, at least I knew what I was doing.
And when she would cook, it was okay, but I was like, let me do that.
So when I had to cook, I'm not going to cook two meals, like Karen said.
I'm going to cook one meal for both of us.
It's much easier instead of making one for me, one not.
When we were getting, though, I wasn't vegan or vegetarian.
But around the time we got married, I just made it easier because I did, I'm going to say 90% of the cooking.
I made her lunches, I made me lunches, I worked from home for years.
So I'd make pack her lunch and make her a coffee and send her on her way and not going to go buy two from market.
Like almost anything that she could pull out of the refrigerator, she could eat.
So that's kind of like, you know, for women, we did it for women.
I was going to say I wasn't exactly the same position like my ex girlfriend when we moved in together.
It was like, she didn't really know how to cook or do anything like that.
And I had some basic knowledge. So it was kind of like, well, I'm lazy.
I'm not cooking twice.
So we're just going to have just vegetarian meals and that's just going to be what we do.
I went the other way with that.
I have some specific dietary requirements for myself.
It's basically, well, most of them have the exact opposite dietary requirements because they're underway and I'm trying not to be overweight.
But like my son, we keep feeding him and feeding him and feeding him and he keeps staying under like 10% body fat, which isn't healthy when you're 12.
So I cook my meals my way and at the same time, I'm cooking my meals.
I'm cooking their meals their way.
I do cook everything twice.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, I did that a little bit so much it one way that way.
Nobody argue.
Nobody agrees with me anyway.
I do think there's a difference between having like specific dietary requirements for, you know, health reasons and a dietary choice like, you know, vegetarianism, whatever.
Like, you know, if you have allergies and stuff like that, it's like extremely important that you make sure everything is separated out and don't do everything.
Whereas like, it would be perfectly feasible to to make two meals one with me to one with that, especially if you carefully plan, you know, what meals you're making and make something where the meat can be added or something alternative can be added.
And that's how you kind of like with curries and stuff, a particular good for that kind of thing.
But yeah, if you've got sort of dietary requirements, it gets a bit more complicated and quite often you end up having to separate things.
Yeah, that's true too.
With the, with the whole, I would probably be vegan now and most of my house as far as the stuff I buy.
But the only reason I'm vegetarian is very similar to why I eat meat again is because I, if I go out with friends, I mean, I was like, I'm in the South.
Ninety percent of the stuff I can eat in most restaurants, vegetarian.
There's very rarely a vegan item.
So I can at least do vegetarian.
Yeah, because if you've got cheese or I don't ask too many questions.
I can understand why it would be a little bit hard to verify that everything was vegan.
Yeah, and the one that gets me is that there are different interpretations of veganism.
So there are some vegans who won't eat, for example, honey because they consider that to be, you know, an animal product and a product of animal suffering and whatever.
And I was always one of those people.
I never had a problem with honey.
Even when I was vegan, I was like, I don't really see how a natural byproduct of bees, which they would produce no matter what is going to be a problem.
You know, I don't really understand that.
I see much more, much more argument in fact for not eating things like avocado, especially in Europe where it doesn't grow naturally in most of Europe and Northern Europe in particular.
You know, ship it all sorts of places and, you know, yeah, then you've got loads of bees having to keep them keep them.
Policies, it's ridiculous.
If either one of you had said that it was the ethics about veganism, it had been an entirely different conversation.
And it never ceases to amaze me how the ethical vegans and not to think about, you know, the consequences of the actions that they want.
The only way to be ethically vegan is to only eat produce from your local area.
If you're really concerned specifically about environmentalism.
Well, yeah, environmentalism.
But, you know, the whole issue is that, you know, you're talking about when it comes to environmentalism, you have all these livestock that are an issue.
Now, a lot of vegans, their whole thing is is, oh, we shouldn't be killing animals, but then you don't want there to be a market for all this livestock that's already there.
So what, you want all the farmers to kill all their livestock?
Yeah.
They're not going to continue to pay for them if the livestock's not going to make them money.
The fact of the fact that matter is like the way that the entire system is set up is to, you know, to cater to an omnivorous diet.
And that's fine.
I believe that you can, and I believe that possibly we should be reducing the amount of meat we eat, but more important because I come at it at like more of an environmental perspective.
We should be reducing the amount of imported food.
Oh, yeah.
Like I say, I mean, I live in northern Europe.
I live in Germany.
We don't grow avocados in Germany.
They're not from here.
And we import so much stuff.
And the one that gets me is when you get like a box of pre-cut carrots.
It's a plastic box.
And the carrots were grown in France, which is fine.
You know, we have no border with France.
We're very close.
It comes over on a train.
Lovely.
But it was packaged in Singapore.
So it goes from France to Singapore to Germany.
France to Singapore.
They're back to Germany.
I'm like, we're only 2,000 kilometers down the road.
You could have just chucked into the chucked into it.
So yeah, I'll give you a plastic box, if you like.
There are some interesting studies there about the amount of methane that cows produce.
And the best ways to actually reduce that isn't to just, you know, kill off all the cows.
It's to change what they're eating from feeder corn, which is actually extremely bad
for the land, but every minute subsidizes it, which is why most farmers tend to either grow feeder corn or soy.
If you switch it away from feeder corn and move it to something like seaweed, then just that change in diet
would greatly reduce the amount of overall emissions from farming.
Yeah.
My whole perspective on all this kind of thing is there are people out there who know much more about this stuff than me.
And I will leave them to it, because I don't know.
I was at one time, and I will farm boy granted at one time I also, you know, lived in Germany.
I started kindergarten in the early 80s.
Well, mid 80s.
What's the key to?
And whereabouts were you in Germany?
I heard it took an ad hoc.
Okay.
Yeah.
I wasn't there for long.
I was only there for three years.
Yeah.
My brother seemed to like just time in Germany.
It is a very nice place in general.
I moved that specifically because the UK's tech industry kind of fell apart after we left the European.
So I was like, well, bye.
Well, he had a couple of bits of excitement.
One, he was driver or co-driver on a five ton record.
And for some reason, it couldn't stay on the road.
And it decided to go one way off over.
I don't know what it takes to total a five ton military record, but I suspected substantial.
Yes.
Can't imagine it's a name that happens too frequently.
Otherwise, I'm sure we'd hear about it.
It'd be surprised.
And toward the end of his tour is exit from Germany was accelerated by being put on guard duty.
When the East Germans decided to try their luck at coming over the wire.
Very high explosives and so on.
And my brother, a piece of my old mannered mechanic was one of the couple of guys to raise the alarm.
And he would act these unwanted guests.
So once something like that happens, my brother's exit from Germany was expedited.
And the captured fine personnel were handed over to the German authority.
I don't know where they were, but as he was signing off my brother allegedly heard that these gentlemen
got lost on their way to jail.
The German authorities having a limited sense of humor when you're when somebody tries to disturb a person.
So still away.
So these people just stayed it off into the night.
Without further bothering the German authority, except for perhaps picking up their brass and reloading the warehouse.
Yeah, it was part of the Cold War that wasn't quite as cold as most people thought.
I suspect there was a lot of stuff that didn't make the papers.
Oh, for sure.
And there are also things that would have made the papers in Germany or East Germany.
There wouldn't have made the papers elsewhere, you know.
To all dependent on what's what's convenient and proper to show your particular audience in the rest of it needs to stay hidden.
One of the things that I found from YouTube was a peculiar provisioning problem that the allies took advantage of.
The Russians evidently did not provide toilet paper for their troops.
So the Russians tended to use communications forms for toilet paper.
Now since this communication forms were usually interesting communications if you're an allied intelligence person type.
Some poor, unarmed, unwanted, unlawed, British persons had to go through Russian trash and pick up their use, communicate, their twice used communication forms.
Despite of them having been ordered not of roses of blood.
Also, I understand that after reunification, some of these gentlemen went back to the village in the eastern part of Germany.
And had a nice chat with some of the civilians who helped them on their way when they were trying not to disturb the East German authority or the Russian authority.
But the Germans welcomed them quite warmly after reunification when it just as they had back in the battle days when these people were much younger and things were much more dangerous.
And it was an interesting little bit of history.
It also said, provide toilet paper for your troops and burn your damn use sensitive documents.
The evilness in me, I've sent him to act this stuff. This is the 18th.
I just said, here's AT&T's number. Have them look at it.
Besides, it's rainy out. I don't want to go.
Somewhere I was reading about somebody doing tech support, got a phone call.
There was this emergency where someone was waving an eye around in the server.
I don't know. I don't break down whatever. And the guy on the telephone said, well, this will just take a minute.
Sorry, I can't help you. Somebody is acting up in the server. Well, this will just take a minute.
No, not quite.
I'm creating a pinpap.
Yeah, I try to get peace at least.
Of course, back in my days as a security guard, things were occasionally exciting.
Especially when you're wandering around for the lower levels of the parking garage.
A weasel with racing stripes decides to come across your path.
So that tended to change my patrol. If you left me alone, I left him or hurt.
And then there was the one that I wrote up that our logbook said, well,
a particular bit of urban had a rain with porch stickers.
But we had all kinds of wildlife go come through our area of responsibility.
So you know what we have probably talked about? I got it. So what distros?
Well, a lot of us are so demanding goodness. In fact, one of the gentlemen, sometimes seen around here, podcasts about it on the mint podcast.
Yeah, I've been using mint.
Yes, I like mint's freedom from snaps.
I've used Linux Lite. I think I use Sparky for a time.
And what do of course?
Of course.
Back in the time I used, I think it was a red hat.
Maybe tried some slackware stuff I got out of folks.
I was running a 386 Essex 40.
Wow. That's back.
Well, the Essex 386 was a snap. Now an Essex 40 was a racing.
And I had full 16 megabytes of memory.
Oh, well, I built them an AMD 133. I think I had 30 because I had I started with eight
until I was flying. And of course, I used this tower.
And I was living at I was at home. Well, I bought this Ohio called note would sell you.
I bought a case not thinking because I knew I needed more bays.
So I ordered the largest case they had. And when it got to was at school at this is college.
I called back my mom. Did you order a child's coffin?
Because that's what looks like that our door rate.
Yes. Yes, I did.
Yeah, I think that had like 10 or 12 bays. I mean, it was tall.
And I only use like two of them. So what made everybody's two hated windows and went right into
Linux around 95. But I still supported for most of my well, I was much later for me.
I mean, I think it was eight and somewhere in there where I finally made the last switch over.
But it was because that was what I think was the windows eight era.
The 8.1, but eight and I just got annoyed with windows.
And I was planning I was in college at the time. And I'm planning on, you know, working in technology.
And switch over to Linux so that I could learn it easier.
Well, I was quite happy with windows seven and Microsoft was not happy that I
that I went to choose my operating system among other things.
So when they started doing all of their seed, we're going to click to the windows 10 type shenanigans.
I said, well, I've got some fairly deep and hardware rather lightweight, but I will move, you know, I will like what I'm hearing about windows 10.
And I don't like to be strong, but I had gotten my Ethernet network up basically at the time.
So I decided that I would go jump finally jump to Linux.
That's what happened. And that's what I went from Windows 11 to Linux.
And I know I know Karen was born with a Linux computer.
Incorrect.
I was a Windows boy. I was born in 94.
So my first operating system that I interacted with was around 1998.
My parents had Windows 95. I was raised on that.
And then, yeah, Windows 95 and 98.
We skipped 2000 millennium edition when straight to XP and Windows 7.
Actually, I had Vista on my first personal laptop.
And then I was, I would experiment with things like Ubuntu, Red Hat and that kind of thing that never got very far with it.
And then when I was in university, my roommate in uni, because I was, you know, in the halls.
He was studying computer science and he sort of saw me with my gaming rig.
And he was like, hey, you know what you should do is install Linux on this.
And he gave me a USB stick with Arch Linux on it.
And I then proceeded to brick my computer entirely, because I couldn't figure out how to get grubbed to work and detect Windows.
And I couldn't get it to boot into Arch either.
So I then got curious about it.
And that was where my life started to go downhill.
Well, actually, I thought your life started going downhill when you met us and I made you an admin.
I mean, don't forget George, this was around the same time because...
In 1998, I think I was getting Microsoft certified.
Yeah.
Brandon, I graduated from high school in 1999.
I got...
You're just a baby.
I am transferring to Microsoft.
I've got Microsoft training.
I never bought a game certified because I was too lazy.
But I have like Microsoft was a server 2012 R2 installation and configuration training.
So I could take an exam as a sys admin.
And then I just...
I was so put off by working as a Microsoft sys admin.
I actually quite enjoyed it, to be honest with you.
I quite enjoyed some bits of it.
But mostly my job working at the college was talking to...
Because we were Microsoft's flagship educational establishment for Europe.
But we were then most sort of most integrated college.
And that meant I had to have lots of conversations with Microsoft directly about how we were using their products.
And I just remember so many of the conversations would go...
I would go to them other problems, such as we build devices off of a CCM.
And we want to continue to do that with laptops.
We want to continue to build them off of a CCM.
So they have all of the college accredited software and stuff on them.
And then hand them to Intune,
which is their sort of new configuration software.
How do I do that?
And they just said you can't.
It's not possible.
And I'd be like, OK.
And then go away for about a day.
We've come back with a PowerShell script that does exactly what I just asked them to tell me to do.
And just be like, why did you tell me you can't do this?
It's clearly possible, computer.
You could have just told me...
You could have just told me which bit I needed to uninstall and which bit I needed to install.
Because you need to pay the SCCM client off because it's authoritative
and then install the Intune client.
That's all you actually need to do.
So just having a bit at the end of your SCCM task sequence
that runs that PowerShell script is trivial.
Why did you tell me it was impossible?
And they're like, oh, well, I guess you could do that.
I'm like, what do you mean?
It's ridiculous.
I hate it working with them.
They just have no curiosity at all.
Actually, I was also Microsoft trained on Windows 2000 systems.
Mass rehab sent me to a quickie course to turn me into a secretary.
I got up to 25 words and then I'm typing with maybe a beacon buggy,
maybe because somewhere along the line,
it wouldn't let you progress because there was a bug in its algorithm somewhere
if you've got over 50 words of event or whatever,
it shouldn't be difficult like that, at least.
In one, in one, in one series of lessons,
you might have been able to work around it,
but the bug was fairly famous.
Also, by being a curious computer type,
I think I crashed access.
And my instructor who had been carefully taught by Microsoft said,
oh, if you crashed access, you must have been doing something wrong,
which was the...
Actually, I didn't even get to use access
because I asked Microsoft Word to convert a word table back to text
and it found that indigestible.
I mean, it turned things into a nice table
and once it had done that,
you weren't supposed to try to get the data back out of it.
And according to our training,
anyone who found a bug in Microsoft's software,
of course, was doing something wrong,
as the case had said at the time.
Then after my training,
I went to a...
what we would call an internet cafe
that was being run on a budget
that was probably a couple of pieces of spaghetti.
We forgot something is wrong as a huge thing.
And we funded our necessities
because we were housed by Somerville for free
and we had re-internet through them
and we would get together these scrap machines
and put them together
and we would sell them for a couple hundred dollars,
or for a hundred dollars a piece or something.
With a copy of Office 2000 and Windows 2000,
if you wonder why XP had serious license verification installed,
it was because of operations like ours.
That copy of that CD of Windows 2000
and Office 2000 magically appeared
on every available machine that went out of control.
Of course, that's also where I got my P1
that I have saved for using on Credo
because it only has 32 megs of memory
and 133 megHz processor
and Windows 2000 would run on a lot of things
but it wouldn't run on something that tiny.
It would run on a 64 megbillion
if you had a 300 megHz processor or something.
It's sort of 2000.
I'm also LotusNodes certified blackberry certified
which just died this year.
What else am I saying?
All the guys are Lotus 4.6.
George, you're just certified.
I'm sort of file boom.
By the way, who is the gentleman who ran OS 2?
Well, that would be me.
In fact, I even have a virtual dynasty right now.
Oh, you haven't looked around it.
I forget the name of it but there actually is a current life.
Oh, no, I have that installed too.
The newer version?
Yeah, you know what though?
Back in the day, I loved OS 2
and I was kind of, I worked for the company
that had the three initials we all know.
I worked for them for years and that's why I knew it.
But that's what we used.
And in one day, they marched in and were like,
hey, we're going to move to this new thing called Windows.
And we had kind of a Windows integration in OS 2.
So we kind of knew what it was.
But yeah, when they moved to Windows, all went.
I remember my first Windows machine was Windows 95
and it had a remarkable ability to try to just randomly
chew on the operating.
I had some massive issues because we used props and lotus notes
and all the other fun things that nobody else used.
And OS 2 had a lot of that built in.
Peacom and stuff like that was pretty much part of the OS.
But now I had to install it as a separate entity
so I can make MBS and it was Mongolian cluster, you know what?
Well, you know, yeah, also IBM was or a part of IBM
wanted to keep networking as a terminal connection option
only.
So they had their token ring cards for your PC and your
even your PS2 PC, which you know,
just.
Yeah, members.
IBM.
Fairly powerful.
The only problem is that when the workstation division came out
with the RIT workstation, they could not use,
they had to use the crappy PC token ring cards,
which were made to be cheap, but not efficient.
So they were sort of the real tech version of the token ring.
And it was well known as the disk division
and other parts of IBM said, excuse me guys,
you guys by limiting what can be done by interconnecting
our machines are causing us to lose to people who can actually
use Ethernet and link their machines together efficient.
Well, there's massive problems with token ring.
The first part was if something's uncapped or there's a dead
machine on the network, the whole network, and you would have to
go around and you could put tornadoes on it, because the
original token ring was being sneaked.
And so when they started using what looked like land checks,
it became a little bit better because when you switched
over our networks to actual cat room for whatever it was,
when we switched over most of the network over it started,
you know, I was better. I mean, I understood it.
But in the early days when I worked in upstate,
they would, I had on left side, they would send me like things
like token rings, they would actually be token go.
And it was interesting. I learned networking is network.
You're saying even IBM cat, obscure networking?
Well, IBM switched over from token.
When they switched over around the probably,
I'm going to say just before they switched from windows,
like our Pikipsi and East Fischkill plans.
That is if I worked for IBM.
But those started moving into changing to like normal
land connection.
Slowly, but surely, but they left all the other cables in place
because why would they remove them?
So the ceilings I always felt were going to get heavy.
Yeah, no, I mean, you're going to think of the years,
but yeah.
Now, if you read that Ann and Lynn Wheeler site,
the during the token ring period or whatever,
IBM declared that a properly programmed ethernet connection
with a tremendous amount of, I think they were 44, 30,
or whatever processor.
And IBM had somebody actually programmed a TCPi stack.
And they got the performance that they obviously expected.
The Wheeler is produced their own TCPi feed stack.
And that stack was used a fraction of the CPU power
that the official stack demand.
I don't know.
I took it and I found it quite an interesting,
most of them, even normal, normal.
What is normal?
Really normal?
Actually, what was what I found interesting as a young kid,
I spent a summer up in Maine, my father worked for Raytheon.
And this was around the early 360 era, I would say,
because my dad went up to Pikipsi when they were working
on early solid state devices.
And so as a souvenir from this,
dad had a lot of these little silicon wafer
with metallic stripes on them and little black dots,
which were the transistors and resistors and whatnot.
Because IBM didn't etch its stuff,
it fills it up by hand and was soldering the street microscopic
discrete components instead of etching them into the,
onto the substrate or whatever.
And people with more traditional ICs were doing.
And then I, years later, I picked up a book on early 360
and 370 systems and low in behold,
I see those same little waferies and whatnot.
I said, gee, my dad was part of that history.
Of course he was also, he was part of Raytheon's tube division
until tubes went out of, mostly went out of that thing.
And then he worked up at Lowell,
had Raytheon missile division for Sidewinder's Farrow.
My dad was a prey, so I was pretty much the only.
Well, my dad didn't like my,
un-fiking for computers except when it was time to brag
to his buddies or what have you.
You don't want to give praise to your kids
because that will give them,
they might start thinking they were something,
they'll start being annoying and whatever.
But it was one of the things that was interesting
was that one of his buddies was on the union side.
My dad was a lower management,
actually quality control.
And he said they had,
they had to test the missiles on a vibratory machine
to see that they would survive being shipped,
you know, rattled around the world,
shipped to God only knows where.
And they said that depending on whether
how much rework the union people wanted,
the testing, if they didn't want to work the overtime,
they would check the missile components slightly.
If they wanted overtime to rework everything,
they would check the missiles until their teeth rattled
because that was all within spec.
But the person running the test,
of course, could randomly choose
whether the missile was cropped like a baby
or like the 1916 San Francisco earthquake.
One of the interesting things
because he was always the one who had to answer
when somehow something had gotten out of spec
and how corrective action in one.
He was a perfectionist
and teaching him about how people make mistakes
and the probability of mistakes
just confirmed his basic belief
of the human race is a bunch of screw ups.
But this one particular February,
the government got a little upset
because there was a cold front had gone through
and the atmosphere had gotten in the region,
land had gotten too dry,
and what not, and it was out of spec
for bend your factory in the missile.
So my dad had to answer,
get an answer to this problem,
why Raytheon was not keeping its factory within
what they considered tolerance it.
So he contacted a local TV weather personality
who pointed him at Logan Airports
National Weather Service office
and the weather service said
because of the cold weather
and the extremely dry winter condition,
it would be impossible for Raytheon
to have met the spec for that atmosphere.
It was a very rare situation
and if they tried to meet the spec,
it would have had just known
inside the plant or something.
And they set this letter
that my dad could send on the government
and they charged him
$4.25 for the letter.
Raytheon had a real problem.
They didn't know how to pay
for something that was $4.25.
If it was $400, they could probably
they would write the check on the problem.
$4,000, no problem.
But for bucks, they just did not have
an accounting or nobody knew
how to write a check for $4.
Raytheon didn't have petty cash
in their government missile division.
It's odd for that year.
It's easy.
They could come up with cash.
They just didn't come up with small cash.
Well, I mean, so $5.50?
I'm sure they bought like $5.50.
Also, this was in the battle days
of the typing pool.
And I was told this was in the 70s
which is when women's liberation
were reasonably needed in certain circles.
That one of the typing pool managers
would pull one of the ladies
out of the pool just to sit in front of his desk.
I did not have a degree.
He was both loyal and effective
which meant that he was used
by the company like a regular user.
I'm trying to get one of our writers
in this group.
He's using something called
no bearer, which I guess is
Just use arch.
Just use arch.
Just use there being
I know.
They're all nephews and nieces.
Some spent so long
just fapping about
with different operating systems,
and I always just end up
coming back to the root
distro that it's based on.
It's never quite as good as the root.
Well, I never was able to
really settle down with
devian devian.
I like, I'm trying to stay away
from pure Ubuntu.
But devian, raw devian
is just a little
here night.
You still get along.
I love devian on servers
in particular.
On older machines, it's fantastic.
Where I have a problem with devian
is if you try and install it
on a newer computer,
you're going to have some fun.
Just getting the Wi-Fi drivers
working and stuff like that
because of the
not shipping non-free software.
For those kinds of things,
Fedora, if I want a good,
you know, nice,
pretty graphical user interface.
And arch,
if I want to be able to customize it
to my liking, basically.
At the moment, I tend to use
a very simplistic setup
with arch Linux with like DWM
to keep it as lightweight as possible
because this machine that I'm currently working on
you probably can hear me tapping away on it.
It's a 2009 ThinkPant X200.
It can't deal with much.
But while you were talking,
I did manage to get news groups
working on NeoMunt.
So there we go.
It turns out,
it turns out September's
documentation is utter trash
as is NeoMunt.
They just don't tell you
how you're supposed to form
out these strings.
It's very frustrating.
You can use and go for it.
You can use and go for it.
Then they get you on Gemini
using news waffle.
Oh, yeah.
Wait.
News waffle on Gemini.
I need to install Gemini.
Because I love those screen.
Yeah.
So that's a browser called
Amphora.
That's the one I tell you.
I guess I noticed when I was looking
at the Gemini,
we still have your bio.
All right.
Hold on.
It's great.
I'm using the,
I'm going to have to release my
button because I'm actually
using the tab button button.
Yeah.
The show notes are going to have
to have the Zs removed
because I'm using all Zs
might push the top.
You don't want to turn off
push the top.
I don't like to use the
spacebar because I'm always
typing.
So I will always unmute.
So I try to use tab,
but then I realize I use tab
a lot.
I don't think they know
anything about sister
quest or one of those
while stuff in the
Boone keys either.
So you can't even use one of
this, you know, one of the
keys that theoretically
would actually work
great as a push the top.
I care.
I'm looking at,
there's four graphical
clients.
And I'm trying to stay away
from this.
The terminal clients.
Amphora is the one you said?
Amphora.
Yeah.
Because it says,
fans.
And I like to see.
Is it fancy?
It's, yeah.
It's actually Amphora
fancy is the build.
That's why I'm looking at
I'm at Gemini
that circumluner.space
slash client.
Yeah.
And for, yeah, it's,
it's fancy in the sense
that it supports the entire
spec, including TLS certificates.
Bombadillo is also quite a
nice one.
Because Bombadillo can also
do go for really well.
But I just installed.
Yeah.
Bombadillo can do both.
You just
pick it in there.
So apparently,
so does I for and they,
they're, they're
sit on email.
Alpha.
Yeah.
Alpha.
Yeah.
Because Emax can do
everything except that it
text.
I've just invited some more
people.
You know, I'm trying to.
I love that the,
um, I just love that
Neoma doesn't actually tell
you what any of it
variables mean.
It's really,
it's really helpful.
Like they make
absolutely no effort to
explain what a variable
means or what it does.
It just says,
there's a variable
called I news.
Cool.
What does that do?
It doesn't say by default
attempt.
Okay.
Check the man.
Wait.
Why?
It's not in the man.
That's what I'm looking at.
What?
Fudge.
It's absolutely ridiculous.
It's just like you just
need to have.
Have you,
have you checked the
info pages?
Yeah.
I'm on the reference
pages on their website.
And they don't,
they say, you know,
it's there.
But, ah,
here we go.
Right.
If set,
you need to go to a completely
different reference guide.
Cool.
If set specifies the
program and argument used to
deliver news posted by
Neomut,
otherwise Neomut post articles
using the current connection
to news server.
Uh,
okay.
Uh,
that actually
confused me.
So I don't even know what you
just said.
I think basically what I'm
saying is if you want to use
an external,
um,
external account,
um,
to post news,
um,
to a,
a user net server,
you can specify it's set up
in there.
Um,
but by default,
what it will do is just use
the sort of sntp server
that is currently in use
when you switch over.
So if I post it just
automatically uses my,
the current sntp server
I've got selected,
which is what I wanted to do.
So that's fine.
Oh,
then, um,
then we started blocking it
because people used it
to put by now.
Yeah,
I miss a lot about that.
Yeah,
down because I don't know, FCC raids or whatever. I don't know why they closed down, but they
closed. Then, so now I find free ones, which they block by an air, which is okay. I'm not looking
for the binaries, but it seems like half the groups are gone now. Like you can't see anything,
anytime I join one of the free ones. So do you pay or do you want a free one? Okay. I'm on one
called eternal September. Okay. And that's fine for me. So everything, you know, what we mentioned
today, what was it called? You know, the news group that we were talking about just now, the
system says admin recovery. Well, that's available on there. You know, it works. I was just
literally fiddling. I couldn't get it to work in Neomut. Like in something like Thunderbird,
this works perfectly. It's just instant, but Neomut, it's like because their configuration is so
poorly documented. And similarly, eternal September doesn't actually tell you different ways that
you might want to, so it says, if you're going to eternal September, you get a username and password.
Fine. And then it says, if you want to set this up, you put it into, you know, put in this
server name, put in this port blah blah blah. Now, what you actually need to do is put a string
together that that includes your username and password and you then need to go into Neomut, put that
in as the server URL and you need to say that your authentication mechanism is quote users,
which they don't mention anywhere in their documentation, which is cool. I love it.
It's great. Yes, we go to authentication. I've thought about joining a
use net company, but I never really got got around to do it. I've got too much stuff on YouTube
or whatever to consume to go back to. I don't think it's just going back. I think my first
experience online was more or less an AT&T BBF because to me, that was this close to chat. It was
like I was using my email client. I could go out. I could find a group I was interested in.
Subscribe to it. Look around at what people are talking about and then post something in there
and maybe a day or two later, an hour or two later, somebody will send back to me. It was nice.
And I mean, I guess Google Groups is the next progression of that, but I kind of miss it because
I went off BBS's right to like AT&T world net and I'm dial up setting up a done and that was
available to me and then it was taken away because of the people buying it. Yeah, I mean,
Google Groups is basically just a frontend for what used to be using it. I mean, it works exactly
the same way. I just find it particularly ugly and poorly designed frontend personally. I want
to look at these things as just email. I don't want because the way that I don't know what it is
about the way Google crushes up responses, but it's really difficult for me to follow threads in
Google News. I don't know. And Google Groups, it just drives me a bit crazy.
So when I get emails on them all the time too, so it's like I belong to two or three like open
zoos say ones I'm still in and other things, even though I don't use open zoos anymore, I still
respond, but it's in there and it's weird because now I have to go look at it in my mail. Then I
can go bounce over to Google Groups, see what they're talking about. 90% of the crap is spam now.
I'm just like, I don't know, I'm going to start leaving. Like with everything, people ruin it.
Anytime people join something, they, people just ruin it. I need to make every time I
stay out, I wasn't thinking about it. It's just now mess. I wish there was a true
any key. I mean, I guess I could remap the super key slash windows key to this.
I mean, I just have to disable it. So next thing I'm going to try and do is see if I can add these
to the side. So besides being in here today, what are, what is everybody? Or I think I just heard
trick, etc. Yeah, I've got no plans. I mean, you know, the whole point is to see, you know,
to start the years you mean to go on, for me, that means being a hermit.
You've been a hermit, the 11 year, I mean, you do go out in the world sometimes, but only when
people drag, but only when my girlfriend forces me to, yeah. Exactly. It's like, oh, we're going
to go shopping. It's like, oh, I don't feel like no, we're going to go shopping.
Well, it is afternoon heater net. And by my ruling, not anyone else's real ruling, just my,
don't turn, I can now crack open. Yeah, go for it.
I've got to say, I'm disappointed with the Star Trek news group, not being
busier than it is. I'm going to talk for sure that Star Trek is going to be in Star Trek.
People would be exactly the kind of nerds who would be into news groups.
I know you go. So if you're mad for anyone in the Southern Georgia and
you're in Jack's firewood, it's pouring out right now. Good luck with that.
Last time, violence. Okay, PTSD.
I don't know what your financial situation is, but I can definitely recommend
something like an HP Elite Desk, one leader, there are systems behind your monitor.
They will provide plenty of horsepower for a relatively modest price.
I just picked one up and I'm just reaching to get in and consider it.
Yeah, I have my couple of the small little heavy metal like things. They're nice.
I'm using just, it's a, I posted a screenshot earlier and it actually has my,
if you look way up to me logging machine, I'm on the name of the machine, I'm on because it's a fake
knock. I call it C. So it's got my username slash
Yeah, well, it's here with a mastodonic. I'm kind of cleaning floor and talking doing stuff.
So I keep running over.
Now, I'll admit that I have a week's broadened my heart for flow power systems. I have
I have a P4, I have a couple of, I have a Celeron XP laptop that I'm hoarding,
and I even have a 46 laptop that I'm hoarding. But yeah, it's for some stuff you do need a little
horsepower even running running. Oh, and when listing the dogs, I didn't include my Sembron
1250 single core 64-bit half-bond.
Yeah, one, I have this M2 set as a D that I
really hope works in in my new machine because again, when I looked around, it mentioned the M2 slot,
but it took a lot of digging to find out the M2 slot is both SATA and NVME compatible.
Rather, it is reported to be both SATA and compatible. Since I haven't tested it, I have to withhold
it. I have this feeling. It should not have crossed my room while I'm
trying to be really, it'd be worse than hearing
me. I am, I just a little lobby, we're not going to
start it again. Oh, awesome, maybe we ran candy, we run out of space.
Did George break it again? It's literally always my fault, always blame. I mean, even if I'm not
even in the room, didn't have anywhere near it, it's always my fault. Absolutely.
All right, I'll, I guess I'm supposed to send honky a rocket, but
well, this is going to be interesting. I send honky a message that recording may have
stopped and I don't know if he's around to respond or what. Well, I said it stopped recording
and it started again. Looks like it says it's recording on mine. Oh, yeah, no, it says my bad.
Yeah, it's pretty much immediately after it stopped like three seconds away.
I think, I think Ken's in the middle of a party, so he probably saw it on his phone, went,
oh, dang, just started recording it again. You know, hopefully it won't happen again,
because I'm sorry, Ken, I know him, because I, I mean, I would, I know you would, but you never,
every time I say, come to our cab, you say, I'll be there and then you never show.
Yeah, so you point me? Nothing, besides, but I'll list.
Well, my friend, I received some time ago, a small, well, laptop and it's got a nice
high five in it and everything. And if I was a better person, I would donate it, but I'm not a better person.
Right, I'm going to have to retire to go and get some food, so I might be back on later.
Well, our door is always open. All right. See you all in a bit. Bye, bye,
boy. There's some cleaning upstairs, but I'll still stay in here, but I'll be AFM AFK.
There is an interesting project I just ran across. It's called the old U-Snet project.
Evidently, someone has a website where they carefully will send you
post-dated U-Snet posting that are like 25 years old, so that you can follow along with the
old discussion. Hello, Ned Miner. Happy New Year from Thailand.
Hello, finally, something worth waiting for. I must say that the saying Happy New Year has
has run aground on the fact that we haven't had a decent Zulu clock, so instead of continuing to
screw it up, I'm skipping a lot of it. Absolutely, everyone in the area had bought their own
fireworks, and we're setting them off. Their fireworks everywhere.
El's brother was setting off fireworks about 15 meters away from us. It was a very loud experience.
Yeah, around the Fourth of July, fireworks are going off all over the neighborhoods around here,
even though Massachusetts is at no fireworks, and one other guy who showed up here for
the podcast as PTSD, so he and fireworks don't get along. I understand.
Well, with no live persons here, I may have to crash out after a bit. If there were customers,
I would hang on. Everybody's gone about their business.
So I missed some of the conversation earlier. What was the reason why FTP with TLS was preferred
over SSH? Generally, because if you drop a certificate into the FTP server, you're pretty much done
because you have the TLS encoding, and that's about the only security that I'm looking for.
Okay. It basically turns FTP into something. It's just like shifting HTTPS into HTTPS.
Heck, it's actually the same sort of system that's being used here on Mumboot.
I probably will naps it, but I'm going to stay in here. I've just been cleaning all morning,
and now I'm like freaking tired, and of course I walk away.
Yeah, I may take it enough, and I'm probably skipping a lot of stuff, but right now I'm just
getting burnt out. Now I got you, man, and I feel you on the fireworks. I have PTSD too,
and fireworks drive me nuts and thunder, and we have the worst thunderstorms, probably in the south
down here. I'm getting better. I've worked on it, and I've done that. We were freaking flashing
late to touch there. I don't know. Well, my PTSD is from a verbal or so, not from anything military
or whatnot. Oh, neither is mine, but it's apparently I'm triggered by, I don't know what.
But like, I used to love fireworks and thunderstorms and now it's like every time like a loud noise
or something, it just, it's nothing to do with that. No, no, it's, it's more like, you know,
has a deal with my wife, like how I found it. We won't go into that. That's kind of
oh bad, but I am feeling the tired though. I am feeling the tired. And it's rainy here today too,
and I really feel like going for a walk and maybe taking you guys with me. Of course, we're not in
a videotape client when seeing you, you know, this morning I took you for a walk when I was kind
of like walking to my coffee. Well, well, I don't want to say too much, but I say damn it, man,
my heart goes up to you. Oh, yeah, no, yeah, no, it's just, it's what it is. So, I'll go ahead.
But I will say that because of my situation and a lot of stuff, such a partner is not in the cards
for me, so I'm glad to hear that you had kind of what you had. I'm sorry, it's your loss, that's all.
No, no, you don't worry. I just, that's probably why I can't like keep our relationship longer than
a couple of months, because I don't know, maybe I'm expecting my wife out of them or something,
and I just, so I've just kind of given up. I just hang out with my cat, work on computers most of
today. That's pretty much what I do. I retired myself last year, December, actually on my birthday.
So I retired myself, and I also took my three, why I had five weeks vacation by a three weeks coming
to me. So I took the rest of December off as my vacation, and then I retired right after that.
I'd be no one's to my company. I mean, they knew it was coming. I contacted HR, but I didn't really let
too many people know, because when I left, it was just kind of like, as soon as I left, I got phone
calls. It's like asking me like, if I could consult or do stuff. So I just like, nope, nope, I'm done.
But I kind of left because of the pandemic. I know that sounds bad, but I was pretty much the only,
I was covering people that didn't get vaccinated, and they let them go. And I was the only one
vaccinated out of some departments. So I was just like, and I was working from home. So who cares if
they're vaccinated or not? They were working from home too. So I was like, you know what? I can't
cover everyone's job. I'm out. Yeah, they were. And of course, they wouldn't pay you anymore for
doing everybody's job. Well, the problem is I'm salary, right? So they were paying me a little
extra. It wasn't like a crazy amount, but because I was salary, but they would be like, hey, look,
and it's not like they would ask. I just get stuck in these loops. But most of the time, they'd be like,
look, we're going to need you to try to work to seven or eight o'clock tonight and it's middle of
pandemic. So they knew that I could probably do it. And they took advantage of me being widow
too. Because I knew there was no family nearby. And they would just be like, hey,
mark the holidays. Do this for us. Do whatever. Because other people have families.
I was like, I'm not working for this company. And this is like about five, six years in. I was
like, okay, I'm done. I can't do this anymore for you guys. You guys. That's the way my
dad was. He would go, he would cut his vacation short. He would do everything. I mean, towards
the end, his alcoholism, he was taking time off because of his alcoholism. But when he was healthy,
he was, he was a company man to the last digit. And of course, people who didn't know half as much
as he did, but had degrees in botany or something for his bosses and took full advantage. And there
were people who would sign off on reports he had to send to the government. And this is paper
because there was no email at the time or to leave the company to use it. They would hang on
to stuff or require changes just to show their power. It was annoying. And I wasn't working for
me. Anyway, take your nap and I'll hang in here listening for incoming traffic. And if I need
to crash, I will. You know what? You're good. You can crash. We can both crash. I'm probably,
when I say nap, I mean, just lay down, watch a movie and probably not nap at all. Besides,
I have a cat staring at me right now. So I think she wants her third breakfast. Well, no, actually,
it's lunch. So first lunch. Yeah. Well, I may just hang here waiting, like you taking down time,
but not necessarily crashing out just ready to, ready to respond if somebody shows. Got you. Yeah.
Well, I'll be kind of listening, but if it sounds like it's something I can jump in. Of course,
I'm the worst techie in the world now. I'm so far beyond the times in technology. Well, you know,
the lug cast group here is pretty easy going. And seriously, it's more about having a bunch of
good friends getting together than the techie stuff. So yeah, that's kind of why I like tech and
coffee. We've been doing that for so many years. It's just like, well, I'm just talk every day. I'm
just saying, uh, you're very, very good. Come to our party whenever. I mean, I'm going to mute for
a bit. And I'm maybe in an hour or two. I'll come in. I'll stay. I keep my entity in here,
though. And I might just go for a walk and take you guys with me. I might join as another entity
with the same name Geospart. And that's actually, um, everybody asks, well, they'd nobody asked
this time, but like what Geospart means. And so I bought pretty much everything that says Geospart
on the internet. And then I will go and grab it when new things are available. So I usually try
to grab that Nick, no matter where I even own the domains. Well, at least two of them. But, um,
it's the first three letters of my initials along with my old tag. I used to go as Spartacus
back in the 90s. I just Geospart. Cause, you know, Spartacus little, you know, everybody else own
that domain. So there's no way I could buy it. Well, take care and enjoy your downtime.
Okay. I'm going to mute everything. And I'll return so much shortly. Good night, net minor.
Yes. Take care of yourself, friends. Please do. We will. Thank you. Hello. Hello. Sorry. I've just
been recharging. I've been minding the store for a while. This is my first time joining the
chat room. A lot of people are leaving their identity here and will be stepping up. So what are
your interests? My name is net minor and, um, just, uh, I'm glad you decided to join us.
Happy the first time I need chat room. Stash, I actually named given to me while I've involved
in general. So what did you do in the Air Force? That is actually short story. I was,
well, I don't want to press for anything that might be private or classified, but, uh, just
that I had an uncle that served in World War II and up until his retirement. He was at Air Force
and Air Force and full-time air guard, uh, playing mechanic. Well, we can get off the ground without
their mechanics. Uh, that contribute from my side of that. Yeah. Well, it was interesting. Uh,
he was, I visited him up in Maine, uh, when he was serving at Van your Booster International.
Uh, he took me up line with him on a fire patrol at a old town. Also, one day he had to check
in on one of the ready birds, the F-101 Buddies. They were on, uh, alert at the end of the runway
in a shelter. And, uh, I was in one of the Air Force pickups in the middle of the seat.
And they radioed the tower for clearance to get down to the shelter. Uh, we were behind a taxi
pretty loud. And the, uh, tow, uh, we asked the tower to say, again, he said, follow that noisy thing.
So I've been one of the relatively few people who was tailed gated at a jet airplane,
a jet fighter on this one. Yeah, this was at the end of Vietnam and some of the reconnaissance
foodies were coming through to have their lower time parts swapped out from the higher time parts
of the air guard bird. Okay. I never served in the Air Force or Army, uh, a lot of physical flaws
and never was in shape for it. My brother served, uh, in a hop unit and with the first unit
over in Germany. Uh, during his time it's first unit something happened to
who the Cold War wasn't quite as cold as people think nor is feasible. That's definitely an area
history that I do enjoy reading, especially the technology. Well, you did have a little excitement
like one time they had a drill where, uh, they were supposed to signal to destroy the
perturings on their launcher. But somebody forgot to put in the extra signal that said that
this is just the drill on when they've made whatever, uh, whatever horn or whatever they were
hitting. So somebody had to go over to the, um, a pack of C4 and pull out the fuse and throw it
up in the, throw it away. I'm told that the fuse went off just as it reached the peak of it
of the throat. Things could have gotten. I've always wondered. I've always wondered why, you know,
they have to, they have, they can't just use out of them. Have to deal. Well, if they're dealing
with a improvised device, oftentimes there, there might have an anti-temper secondary fuse.
Okay, well that's fair. And that's why they would treat the whole device as, as a complete
dangerous unit. Although recently on YouTube, I saw somebody, uh, clearing a road of anti-tank
mines that had been laid on it. The narrator explained that it takes a thousand pounds of
force to trigger these particular mines. So a guy walking up to them and gently sweeping them off
through, off, out of the way with his foot was, was not in danger. They were, they weren't as sensitive
as anti-personal mines. Still. That was, well, I guess compared to the other stuff, this guy was
facing mines that are, that he couldn't set off by jumping on wood. We're, we're trying to
low risk. Uh, one of the interesting photos I saw was the backseater in a voodoo, he must have
lost his pencil or something because he was head down and butt up and I do mean butt up how he ever
got into that particular position in, in that type of space. I never, I'll never know.
Those are guard guys must have been really flexible. Yeah, I'm sure they were aging by then,
but they were still, uh, on, on pad alert, a pair of birds at the end of the runway in the
filter. Also, the, uh, the hangers still had, were originally designed for probably C-97, the,
tanker version of, of the B-29. The doors had doors in them so that they could keep the tails
of this C-97. I think they're C-97. The, the prop tankers sticking outside while all the
rest of the plane was serviced in the hangers. Yeah. Well, I've seen video of the C-97,
yeah, huge, huge planes and they were, when refueling jets, the jet would be just about stall and
the C-97 would be at, you know, close to the wall while they were doing their fueling. So that's
why the KC-135 that was the Boeing 707's precursor was, was invented. Our, our was ordered because
they needed jet tankers to keep up with jet speed. That'll make it. I hope asking about your service
didn't bring up any unpleasant memories. No, my, uh, I've, I've, I've come to, and I am, I,
I am very happy with where my, the, the turns of my life. Well, I know, uh, well, I hope you accept
that, uh, your service and your, and the side effects are, are respected here, at least by me.
Would like to have, and by, by group protests. Yeah, well, uh, yeah, the, when my brother was in
Germany, he's, at the end of his tour, he had an incident where, well, I'm not going to say, but
as I said, the Cold War wasn't as cold as people think. And my brother was just a mechanic
most of the time. For the particular aircraft, a lot of very, uh, uninvited. Well, a lot of
the regulations, at least for Vietnam, and I would say that they probably haven't changed, were,
were far more advantageous to the enemies than, than our flyers. Especially with the flyers,
Jabu. I know that one. Um, also making our groundguides safe is not necessarily a popular part of,
with certain parts of the Air Force. Anyway, net minor. Well, I'm, I'm, uh, on disability at the
moment, which, uh, I lost my job in 97. And after a few years of assistance, hunting for work
from my mother, this would be hyper critical, so that if you was really scared that if I got a job,
I could move out. She'd lose, lose her caregiver. I ended up going to mass rehab, and they found out
that I had clinical depression, Ashberger syndrome, with a side order of domestic PTSD. So if I hadn't
been disabled, and my mother went into a nursing home, I would have been on the street. Now I've
got a very modest and social, uh, disability pension and, and the house. Anyway, uh, I do,
Linux, I do some writing for my own entertainment. I do podcasting up here at the, uh, Linux
logcast group a couple of times a month since I've been in computer, since I was young.
Which is in the 60s. Uh, I'm sort of the reference for a lot of these stuff. I had an account on
a machine on the internet back when it was still mostly government control. Yeah, we usually have
been saying Happy New Year at the right time, but we've, we've had a bit of a problem this year because,
uh, we haven't had anybody around who's got a season of cloth. I, I have a, I have a raspberry pie
here on my raspberry, not only a cronometer, daylight, and a night of chattering. If I'm reading the
notes right, reading to India's Syria, Lankan, New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, and Bangalore,
next room going to package between you and me. This is about as close as I want to do.
Pakistan. Yeah, it's not exactly friendly country for Western friendly time.
One of my uncles worked for Comset and because of the world situation that was developing in the
70s and 80s, whatever the, uh, government was developing satellites that would, uh, take a data
blow from a friendly ground station, probably on the, in the US, you'd send it up to this satellite
and the satellite when it got close to the target satellite would relay the information. These relay
satellites were replacing ground stations because ground stations were often in politically
questionable areas at a long reach of satellites. Yeah, well, it was interesting.
My uncle worked out of Goddard Space Flight Center, Maryland and I'm told that he did a lot
of the unmanned launches. The man launches being done out of use. I need to step away for a moment
on our rewrite. I hope I haven't kept you too long. All right, things were pretty quiet, so I
decided to take a break. This is my first time I needed a couple of episodes. I have a couple more
on my laptop, a problem to edit that I'm fairly busy. And today, right now, is it? Well, yeah,
life happens. Uh, I'm sure HPR is going to be very happy with when you can drop off your,
your episode. I've got a, got a couple episodes impiling new firmware, and I've got another one
replacing the ignition. But like I said, it's really a problem with getting two young kids like
that. Are you a single father, sir? I am not. I do have a wife. But things can get busy anyway.
I understand. With them being as young as they are very difficult, both of us, we have to
tag team. Now, I say from personal experience, it is quite heartwarming to hear a couple who's
raising kids who are working as a couple. Uh, my family history, my dad was an alcoholic and my
mother was very co-dependent. Uh, it was very toxic situation. I, well, you have an independent
woman from Maine, where family structures tend to be matrilineal, that is to say the wife handles
the household and husband handles, you know, either the farm or whatever, making whatever
income is required. My dad came from the mountains of West Virginia, which is very patriarchal. His
dad was king of his castle. And every, when he said, John, everybody said, how high on the way up.
And when, when you got married, dad said, Oh, God, I'm going to have my own kingdom. My mother
didn't exactly volunteer for that among other things. And my brother and I were in the middle.
Again, I could even fathom that, but I do. Well, I have survived. Now, now I just have to
break some of the bad habits of the survival years and start living.
That's, that's definitely something I want to pass along, how, how to work together, how to.
Well, also, with everything looked at as power etc.
Teaching kids survival skills was not considered useful.
Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. We have a staff.
There is an echo. There is not an echo. I'm just saying everyone's saying, wow.
Sorry, I should not. It's like shouting fire in a crowded theater. Who's got an echo?
Oh, where's my microphone? Very much. Hi, Joe.
Well, I managed to wake up finally. There's really gloomy outside, which is weird because it's
in the 50s. My wife wants to go out to eat in a little bit, but I figured I'd get in while I
could, and then I'll be back in later. I hope. It's got back from Am's Club. It was a mistake
for the Sam's Club. I can imagine. I need to avoid that. Yeah. Well, we got a free membership there.
My wife's parents got her brother a membership and added us onto it. We'll be able to get
gas from there. I can hear you. What did you say? That's how they get you.
Yeah, we'll be able to get gas from there. I think we're going to, if we get anything else from
there, it's all going to be ordering it from online. Yeah. May I know where you live in Vietnam?
I am currently residing in the state of entrapment. We're in the state of entrapment.
Well, I'm up in Massachusetts, so I wonder which of the liberal entrapment states you're in.
The land of, we lovingly call it end of entrapment in New Mexico. Where in New Mexico?
Southern. Southern.
Alamagordo. Alamagordo.
Alamagordo. Because I used to live in El Paso. And I didn't.
Yeah, I'm sure you're glad to be away from El Paso right now.
Yeah, my brother had some fun times in El Paso with a green suit and even more fun
up in New Mexico with white sand. Yeah, I used to hang out there quite a bit too.
Well, I've been shooting down the drone. I haven't been to Southern New Mexico, but I've
been across most of the rest of it. Fortunately, I haven't lived there.
Spent quite a bit of time in Los Cruces. I had friends there.
London Park, because, well, yeah. My, my brother's now a long, long trucker. Whenever I think of him,
I think of the Johnny Cash Swan. I've been everywhere because he bounces from Washington state to Florida.
Says out of Northeast, but he was raised, but about everywhere else.
My friend and co-host Dale is a long, long haul trucker. And then on Mintcast,
Bill is a medium haul trucker. He gets home every weekend.
Yeah, my, my brother's been a long haul trucker and it hasn't been good for his married life.
However, however, he's now married and his wife seems to be adjusting to living in the truck
pretty well. Well, Dale is not married or in a relationship for anything like that, but
we basically, yeah, well, we basically record distrahoppers digest when he plans to get off the road.
Yeah, what week are you going to be home? Yeah.
Uh, our next one actually is going to be Tuesday.
We tend to do 10 or 11 episodes a year. I think it's been 10 every year so far.
We missed December all together. We had one at the end of November and now we're doing it
beginning in January. The concept was monthly, but we understood it was me and Tony Hughes started it
and we're a couple of old guys. So we said, let's not stick to a schedule. Just do the job.
That seems to be the good survival strategy for a lot of podcasts.
And when Dale came on, we pretty much had to do it because yeah, he wasn't going to record on the road.
And Dale has been a big help to our podcast. Our numbers went up 35% when he joined us.
We're a niche of a niche podcast. Uh, we now are up to five whole episodes that have had
over a thousand downloads on archive out of 38.
So at a time, I was just dropping quite a bit, but now I pretty much settled down to
mint. Yeah, I pretty much have settled down, uh, but I dual boot to Mint and Bodie.
I'm a supporter of Bodie. Uh, but, you know, there's still something to look at and there's always
new new distros coming out. I think this month, I'm going to be reviewing Storm D OS.
Um, Storm OS is an arch distro storm DOS. They took the same concept and applied it to Debian.
Now that sounds interesting. Um, it's easy to use. I'm liking it. Okay. I'm not going to change to it
anytime soon. Have you heard of Titanic? No. Oh, well, no, there's actually a Titanic. I think it's
Titanic distro. I'd have to look through my list of, uh, uh, channels on YouTube. I ran across it.
I think we reviewed Titan OS, but I don't know about Titanic. Maybe that's the one.
I think Dale did that last month. I'm slightly dyslexic. So sometimes when I reach into my
memory, I pick up the wrong. I, I have lost by one error.
Gotta get that parody flag checked. Oh, for decades, my memory was strictly a right only device.
As to what my mouth used to be. If it forms in my brain, it's out my mouth before it hits a filter.
Well, I'm, uh, I'm also have Asperger syndrome and subtle, subtlety is something we retrofit.
I thought they phased Aspie out of the jargon. I am also autistic.
High Parker is no longer a thing. Well, the thing is it got taken out of DSM5,
but DSM5 itself is a joke. So a lot of people that just got used to calling themselves Aspie's
decided to hang on to it. It's no longer useful to the Franks. Now it may be useful to the patient.
Yeah. Well, the whole thing DSM5, uh, well, Dr. Francis, who, uh, managed DSM3R and DSM4 has come
out and said DSM5 is a joke. The idea on DSM4, he, he said outright we do not have, uh,
data to support some of these, uh, diagnoses, but we hope to over the next decade come up with
that data. And when DSM5 came out, he said, there's no new data. Why are you guys just making up new
new, new diagnoses royalties? They literally were paying doctors to come up with a new diagnosis
for DSM5. Well, I threw away over, well, something like 15 years with a certain, uh, expert,
psychologist. Uh, she was someone, someone who really didn't need patient input for her treatment.
Yeah, I fired my psychiatrist back in, uh, 03. I haven't taken a psych drug since then. They,
they had me diagnosed on so many things and taking so many, I, I call it the medication guinea pig
dance. They have to be able to sell drugs to call themselves real doctors. So they do. Well,
uh, I've had some life situation problems. And when my MD shrink said, well, I really can't
help you with that. I can just help you with the pills. I said, all right. Yeah. And, and he's,
he was, he's, uh, he also has, we, we did a few, uh, telemedicine sessions over the phone,
but after mass general decided that COVID was okay, he no longer needed to tell it. He,
he wanted face to face, which is, you know, I have to spend five hours going in for a,
for a half hour visit that it is actually how you're doing. You're still alive. Good,
bye. Yeah. Uh, having any suicidal thoughts. Do you feel like you've just, just,
detached from your body any time recently? Uh, yeah, I know how that goes. Um, I just, um,
the problem is that their medical diagnosis is based on keywords. They literally have a checklist.
If he says this, this, and this, he gets this diagnosis and we give him that drug. If that doesn't
work, well, here's these three drugs that are similar to it that we can try.
Also, uh, I can shut up about this any time. This is a personal soap box.
Actually, I've got a story from mass general. I had a very stubborn thyroid. I had it reduced in 87
and removed in 97. I said, gee, while I'm in mass general, they have a psych department. Maybe I
can arrange for some treatment. And I wake up from my operation. And here's this lady who
wants to give me a personality evaluation and says, are you planning on harming yourself for
this or that or the other thing? No, I said, I'm here. And I thought that I could possibly
try to find out what kind of resources might be available to someone with at least clinical
depression. I didn't know at the time that I'm with Sashburgers and whatnot. Yeah.
And here I am on who knows what drugs coming out of surgery. And she wanted to evaluate my
personal with with paperwork. I said, I don't think so. This is a nice place to visit, but I wouldn't
want to live here. Yeah. Well, I, I self-diagnosed at 812 and I'm not 812 anymore. Let me tell you.
And the doctors said, oh, no, you're too smart to be autistic, which prove they didn't know what
they were talking about. Yeah. Well, the, the, the thing that I discovered is that in the hospital,
there's East Drink and West Drink and they don't really communicate. There's the in-house
drinks and there's the outpatient drinks. And the outpatient drinks don't talk to the in-house
drinks because they're, you know, they're, there's the drinks for those people who need hospitalization
and then there's some drinks that for those of me. Ted, I just thought it was a monolith,
you know, I didn't realize there was East and West. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I have a friend who's the
lead psychiatric RN at the mental wing of a hospital in Denver. I'm sorry, in Asheville. I'm really
confused today. There, anyhow, she, she is in Asheville and she's been a close friend and,
in fact, she's the priestess that married my wife and I. So, um, and she is met with me on
a number of occasions. It's just, yeah, hung out with me for quite a while and she's, she's quite
clear that I do not need the drugs anymore. So it's nice to have verification from someone who knows,
but it's really hard to go it on your own when everyone's trying to tell you, well, you need to see
this doctor and listen to that doctor. Well, I'm taking a handful of pills that I've
touched about as much as I could close it, that bridge near my house and I've come to believe that
a lot of the power of these pills is, is it supposed to work? Mm-hmm. But of course, if I take my,
if I get off my medication completely, there, um, I'm on disability, there might be some
questions raised. Well, I was afraid they were going to do something to me when I took myself off,
but they seemed to ignore me. I went in for an appointment and I said, well, I'm not taking the
drugs anymore and they said, well, uh, you'll relapse it and you'll come back to us and beg us for
the drugs. They literally said that to me and I said, well, don't you want to know what I'm doing?
Oh, we're not supposed to talk about those things. And so I said, okay, bye. Haven't seen one
since. I've seen a couple of psychologists, but they don't try and push drugs on me. Well, the,
one, uh, drink, living in a casual type house or mansion on top of the hill in Brookline,
head me go over once a month, including in the wintertime. I don't drive.
Climbing the top of the stupid hill and he was falling asleep during our sessions,
but if I didn't go up monthly, I didn't get my pills. So, therefore, you know,
yeah. Well, as I say, I've been off all the pills since 03 November of 03. I am taking a blood pressure
pill right now. I'm getting an injection because my, uh, body is stopped, uh, manufacturing
its own testosterone, but that's all the medication I'm taking. I am doing a lot of supplements,
but that's my choice. What was your, your numbers for the testosterone? Uh, it gets down to
almost, uh, zero. I've had, uh, 12. I've had a 25. And so they, uh,
how's that free test or overall test? I do not know. Uh, I just go in and they do the test.
They go, oh my god, they say, well, um, now when I'm, um, they wanted me to do one
milliliter every other week. Actually, they wanted it every week. At first in my, my, uh,
um, hematocrit kept going out of whack. Uh, I'm doing, uh, I was doing half a milliliter for a while.
I think they boosted me to one milliliter anyhow, but I'm only going in every three weeks.
Oh, okay. Well, it's actually supposed to be better to do, um, shorter times between shots even
if it's smaller amounts. So you're, you're not, you know, going up and down and up and down
and up and down, but so you're more level. Uh, apparently I hold on to levels when I'm getting it.
It's when I've gone without for like two or three months, it starts dropping again.
Okay. And I can hang on to what they stick in me. I just, uh, don't create any new.
Um, start lifting weights. Ha ha. Now that you're saucy.
Um, yeah, I've tried to get people to look at my testosterone, but
I like the testosterone's low, but I can't convince my doctor to
don't give me the shot. Yeah, well, I can't convince them to even do a decent test
from what, from, from my experience. Yeah, well, you can, there are places you can send
off to to have them do it. And, um, I don't know, just a proper endocrinologist would be nice.
Yeah. Well, I had a problem because as, uh, that I had a testicle that never dropped. And, um,
when I was, when I got to college, it appeared that, um, my body created a sack of water just to
have something down there. And when they removed that, uh, because it gave me symptoms,
like hernia, um, they said, wait a minute, there's no testicle down here. And they had to dig way up
almost to the bottom of my lung to find it. So I've been a little short. And then, uh, I've been
developing other cysts. And they, well, last time they removed those cysts, they completely
shocked the testicle. And it just never, the one I have never produced again. It's still there.
It's still whole. It just, um, I'm doing a job. Okay, we can stop talking about that now too.
That doesn't bother me. I find the conversation interesting.
I mean, I've been getting my, um, testosterone checked every six months for, um, the last few years.
And, um, it recently just got back up over, um, 300. Now, it was around 230 for a while,
which is low. Anything below 300 is considered low. 300 is considered the low end of normal.
Like 700 is what it should really be at. But yeah, well, I, I was always low, uh, very low end of
normal. Um, but that's okay. Um, I, I, I never needed to go beat people up anyhow.
Well, it's not just about, you know, beating people up. It's about, you know, having energy,
having focus. Well, the thing is as low as mine as they say, uh, my bones, uh, start losing
density. Yeah. And they already have lost density in my jaw. That's why I don't have teeth anymore.
Exactly. Uh, the doctor could have put implants in and he says there's not a, not enough bone
density to sink them in. Yeah. But it also helps you heal quicker, which is one of the reasons
that I would like to get on testosterone because my tendons are just like falling apart here instead
of actually healing and timely manner. Maybe you should stop lifting. Right. So I fall apart
even quicker because my, my, my shoulders screwed up, my hands screwed up, my ankles screwed up.
I got to keep all the muscles built up around those things or I fall apart a lot faster.
Like my hip if I don't work basically, uh, legs and, and glutes and lower back,
then my hip just keeps getting worse. So I get to work out until I'm dead.
Probably be working out to kill me. Huh? Have you tried kinesthesiology?
Kinesthesiology tape. Yes. It's, uh, it's basically workout workout tape. I use it on my knees after
I go for my, after I go for runs and it's, it's got elasticity. So you put it on and then it
contracts a little to help, uh, tendon. I think I've seen people use that on their shoulders
and stuff. I'll, I'll have to give it a look. And I've had to be careful with my knees lately
because my knees have felt a little wobbly. But, you know, I like heavyweight squats.
Rising. Yeah. I, I tend to go for long distance runs and get back my very, very wobbly.
Some tape on my knees and within a minute, I feel like I'm back to my old self again.
Well, I, I had an auto accident a couple of years ago as Joe knows and I have not come back.
It's just, it took 80% of my strengths out of me. I can't even walk 40 steps before my, uh,
butt muscles start aching. Well, hopefully, um, with the treatments, I don't know how long you've
been on them, but hopefully that starts clearing up. No, no, I've been on the testosterone for years now.
Oh, okay. And it's not helping. No. Something to run your numbers out.
Tell them you don't only need testosterone, you also need, uh, HGH.
Well, I don't think that's something I can get.
Uh, without paying a whopping amount for it.
No, insurance will cover it. Long as you can get your endocratologist assigned off on it.
Hmm. Don't have an endocrat now. Well, I can't even say it right now.
Um, I actually have an FNP and I've got a, uh, uh, nephrologist because, you know,
my kidney said you and nobody else in the room knows that my kidneys are damaged.
The doctors did that to me. Another reason I don't really listen to doctors that much.
I saw a blue light on mobile magoo. But didn't hear anything.
Is no voice.
Sporath is typing.
It's most card.
Gotta go find some food. Yeah, we're gonna go out, um, restaurant we haven't tried before.
We, we had the idea it was out of our price range and we're finding out it's not and,
and people really like it. So, and then on our way back, we picked up from pieces so we don't
have to go out tomorrow. But the question is, what is for? Well, whatever we like to,
that's, that's on the menu. This place has salmon tacos. I've had fish tacos before and I've
had some really, really good ones, but I never thought in salmon a little upscale for my to.
Well, it was upscale for my taste. Uh, we're finding out it's not as upscale. Uh, as we thought
it was, like I said, but my mother died almost two years ago now and, uh, her bequest to us is
being paid out in a monthly installments over five years. So we've got a little more to,
to do things with than we did. We are trying to set things up to reduce our overall expenses.
So when it goes away, we won't be dead.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads. Hosting for HBR has been kindly
provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net. On the Sadois status,
today's show is released on our Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
