Episode: 3241
Title: HPR3241: HPR Community News for December 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3241/hpr3241.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:27:26

---

This is Haka Public Radio episode 3241 for Monday 4 January 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HBR Community News for December 2020, and is part of the series,
HBR Community News, it is posted by HBR volunteers, and is about 68 minutes long, and carries an
explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers name, tonejet, and can talk about shows released, and comment
posted in December 2020.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair, at An Honest Host.com.
Hi, everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and you're listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio.
It's HBR Community News for December 2020, and joining me this evening is...
Hi, it's Dave Morris, and a very, very cold Edinburgh.
Very cold, or not very cold?
No, cold Edinburgh says minus one centigrade, so that's very cold.
I'm sure there are people over the last couple laughing at you right now.
Yes, that's too cold.
A T-shirt, whether it's bathing costume, whether, yes, yes, I know, cold here though.
Good, good, good.
So for those new to this podcast, this is the Community News, which we do every month,
first Monday of every month, it's released and recorded the Saturday prior to that, which
is proving pretty difficult to schedule, but...
And we go over the news that is happening in the community for the last month or so,
bringing you up to speed.
One of the things that happened was we were mentioned on Hacker News, so I know for sure
that we have additional listeners, so this is the time where we, as volunteers, go through
each of the shows to make sure that if you have missed any of the shows, it gives a quick
summary of what it's about and how interesting we found it.
HPR itself is a community podcast and that's where the shows are submitted by listening
very much.
Indeed, absolutely identical to you, so might say, yes, you should be submitting a show.
Yes, you should.
And the community itself is managed by...
If you go to the above page, this is all done there, but the decisions on HPR are made
by the community on the mailing list, so if you want to be part of that, there's links
on every page.
So pretty much the summary of that, Dave, is it?
I think that pretty much covers it, yes, indeed.
So we've had new hosts, although this one, yeah, do you want to introduce the new hosts
first?
Yes, we have Pat from TLLTS, and TLLTS is the Linux link tech show.
Pat's a very long-term host on that particular podcast, so...
I think he's visited in the past, he's been in other recordings and stuff, but never
produces his own show, so...
Forage?
No.
Forage, we are indeed, yeah.
But he's got host ID of 11, because he transferred over here when the Gratirinium occurred today
with a techie, Tagger Public Radio, he had host ID 11, so he was a prolific contribution
to today with a techie, and I was glad to see him join us over here now.
Yeah, yeah, TLLTS, it's been around for a very, very long time, is it similar sort of
HPR older?
It's older.
Is it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
On one hand, I want them to stop, so that we'll be the oldest, but on the other hand,
I don't want them to stop, because it's such a good show.
I think I'd prefer to listen to them in about 2005 when I first discovered podcasts,
so I think they were in their early days then, but yeah, very good.
So by tradition, we go through the shows that have been posted in the last month, and
on the 1st of December, in our series, Hobby Electronics, we had a Sump Minion, my first
Internet of Things device, without using Python, and this was from Brian in Ohio, and it
was about putting in a Sump pump, and I couldn't believe this, actually, when I was posting
it, because at the very moment, I wanted to do something similar here to see how the Netherlands
under water, etc., etc. I wanted to see where exactly the water table was, so I had drilled
a 1.5 meter, I was about to drill a 1.5 meter hole in the sand in my basement, take up one
of the tiles, and it was a cold bunker, not a cellar to be brutally honest, but to drill
a hole there, and to see the water level, I'm just as this would come in there, and I was
thinking, yes, I'm going to do this exact thing.
That's great.
That's great.
I live on a hill, so I don't think it's an issue.
We have water running down from the top of the hill, but we don't have, I think the water
table is fairly low here.
I don't know.
Never dug for it, anyway.
Anyway, it's essentially a raspberry pie, and the probe is just forwarded from wires,
and they cut as different lengths, and then they have an LED with a buzzer, and you can
hook it up to your internet of things all the rest, but yeah, an ingenious little idea
for that.
As it turned out, I didn't hit the water table as one and a half meters, so I don't need
this, which is kind of good, and also a bit disappointing, but no doubt I find some reason
for it.
Yeah, to have some sort of light system that's warning you, the water is rising, or something
to that effect could be quite similar, or, you know, if you've got an oil tank or something,
you could do the reverse, you know, to elect you when you're 75%, 50% or 25% or something
like that, yeah.
Interesting stuff.
Although sticking electronics into an oil tank might need to think about that one.
Yeah, yeah, depends what sort of oil I would imagine, but it turned us into an incendiary
device or something, but okay.
The following day we had an introduction to Dark Table by Paul Quirk, a brief introduction
to raw photography, the Dark Table application, and then sheep migraines may safely graze.
Yes.
It's, yeah, this Dark Table sounds interesting.
I made a note to go and look at it, but I haven't done it yet.
It sounds quite cool, actually.
It's something I quite like to be getting into, so thank you for the heads up.
And Kevin O'Brien left a comment for that, another great show.
I am enjoying Paul Quirk's shows, and I'm looking forward to more Dark Table sounds
like an interesting application that I need to check out.
So yes, that's pretty much what I said.
It was a Ray Achimian, I think it is, says would have been useful to have this podcast as
a video instead.
When talking about GUIs, it would have been a lot more useful to have a video podcast
instead, seeing it in action would have then have been possible.
To which I replied, supporting video high rate.
Thanks for the feedback.
Hitchbier is an audio only podcast, but I think Paul did a great job in describing the
tool.
He was able to follow along with our problem while I was in the bout.
If you're interested in helping out, feel free to record a screencast of the steps Paul
took with the show as the audio track.
And then we'll happily link it here and release it.
Or if you release it under Creative Commons license, we can add it to this episode.
Actually, he would need to release it under Creative Commons license because that's the
license of the audio track that you would be using.
Yes.
Yes.
Good.
So, look forward to getting that in the future.
Absolutely.
So, the following day, how to place fake prank calls into podcasts and what does T-text
to speech have to do with this?
Obviously, the Linux in-laws season one, episode 18.
A lot of interesting links in this.
So much so that it attracted some spammers.
You're right, actually.
Yes.
Yes.
Somebody trying to tempt us to do some site that does tedious things, I think, but yeah, they're
not in the list of comments, let's put it that way.
Yep.
Just if that was a genuine comment, then can you please repost it and just with a justification
as to why we should be looking at that link because there was nothing on that website
that would suggest it was in any way related to the philosophy of hyper-public radio.
No.
Indeed.
So, the next day, we had PixelFed and look at the federated alternative to Instagram.
I'm sure you're on Instagram daily, Dave.
Well, never will never suffice for that answer.
But you know, there's lots of food photos up there, I see.
My daughter's a great Instagrammer, but I can't, but I can't look at her stuff very easily
because I'm not signed up, which is one of those things that irritates me, so I don't,
I don't want to sign up to it.
The exact same reason I had done sign up, there was, they had this really irritating thing
that they did that covered half the page and you couldn't sign in, and then it's a lot
less now, but there was a time where, and even now, the after a period of time browsing
on the website here, not allowed to view it anymore, so it's just scroll down, it suddenly
gets in the way and stops you.
Yeah, then it's not a website, it's a wall garden, you can keep it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I don't follow the philosophy of these things, but there you go.
My daughter's getting against the shoulder, you should forward it on to her.
Yeah, absolutely, yes, yes, I haven't mentioned it, so, but all her followers are on Instagram
of course, so she's an artist who, well, I mean, she's trying to grow an artistic following,
so that's probably a reason we're placed to go for that, but we shall see, we shall see.
And Sassimi Muko said a complete and conclusive report, thanks for your show about the Fediverse,
I think I'm going to have to check it out.
I've always pronounced that Sassimi Muko, because that will be better, but I've never heard
him speak, so I don't know how he says it, hookah says, you're most welcome, I'm glad
you enjoyed it, please do check it out, I'm finding the Fediverse very congenial.
Cool.
The next day, the community news, Dave, nothing controversial, either, no, no, we must
say, say some rude words or something like that, right, breaks it or something like,
oh, I said it, I said it, I said it, I should have met you, fill in the visa, come on over
here.
Oh, God, it's amazing, I can go over to you without any formalities, but you can't come
to me.
Yes, surely you can dig off an Irish, Irish grandparents, I'll try, I'll try, I haven't
found many, tend to be sort of farming folk from England mostly, but that's where all
the navies went through, embarrassing granddads, but some weight on the railways, but I'm not
sure that makes you, Henri Irish or anything, does it, no, which works the trade, sure.
Anyway, next day, you run a button, musings about writing a book and the old old software
suite.
This, yeah, jumpstart your business with old old, you wrote a book about it.
Yeah, it's very cool, thank you.
The whole idea of doing this with ASCII Doctor, I think it's what he used, wasn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
I just can't see it written down here in the notes, but he mentions it, and yeah, it sounds
really, really quite good to what he's doing there.
It was good as Wyke from Dylan, and told him to stop thinking of another as a writing
a book, and that's, as a business model, getting somebody to pay you on a daily race to do
it, albeit a cheaper daily rate, it was a good compromise to come to, somebody wants to
write the book, somebody wants the software, and somebody is willing to pay for it, and it
gets into the open.
Yeah, yeah.
Very good.
I don't know what the license is, but still the book is there.
Indeed, my Covid year summary, by be easy, and I was out on my Covid exercise while I
was listening to that particular show, and where he goes through how, getting data out
of one site and putting it into another site, very, very impressive, sure.
Yeah, I find this fascinating, actually, I did do a certain amount of this in my work,
in life, years and years ago, and it's quite a challenge, it's amazingly challenging,
and I think the challenge to be easy is describing it somewhat larger than what I was playing
with, but still it's fascinating to hear.
I'd love to know, you know, it gets some more details of what it's like on the cold face
of this type of thing, you know.
Exactly.
And it seemed to be important information that they were gathering here, the basis on which
they're going to be decisions about life and death situations are going to be met.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Important stuff.
And, yeah, the point about it being formats and so forth, lots of different formats and
why.
It's an excellent question, and it's the case all over, isn't it?
It's still like that all over the world, I imagine.
So Brian in Ohio says, compliment, good to hear from you, I appreciate the show, thanks
for the insight.
Could you do a show on the mechanics of the PCR test?
Also I hope the show doesn't be people to think that centralized control governments
are the solution to any problem, open standards, decentralized solution, liberty and freedom
for all.
Yeah.
Well, quite.
Be easy says, re compliment, I will definitely do a show on PCO.
So I agree with you, the open standards and decentralization are good things.
However, without the open standards and a cohesive unified plan, decentralization leads
to all the problems I've described here.
Yeah.
That's a good comment.
I like that.
Yeah.
22.
Yeah.
I was thinking during our walk, during the walk today, that's a mandatory exercise.
I was thinking about, you know, if this was the Hollywood movie, we would all, you know,
things would be put in, planning will be put in place for the eventual next virus that
comes around and all like they, I'm when I compare it to the amount of investment that
has been done during the Cold War with nuclear bomb shelters and missile control systems
and thinking alert systems.
If we approached medical, medical pandemics in the same way, you know, you could, you could
be more prepared for it as a globe.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There you go.
But the fact that these vaccines have been created with such incredible speed shows that
there are all manner of skills and abilities that could be, could be used in that sort
of scenario.
But also.
Yeah.
On one hand.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I didn't talk to you.
No.
No, that was pretty much the end of my story.
That was discussed yesterday.
I was saying that it wasn't done with speed, you know, shortcuts haven't been taken.
It's just the shortcuts I've been taking on the order of which the things are released,
which makes me think, you know, there are other vaccines that go through this slow process.
But surely all vaccines should be processed this way that you examine the, the, so for
these vaccines that were able to speed it up by virtue of the fact that they were doing
ongoing assessment as opposed to, you know, miles to all assessments.
Well, I heard it put that because the genetic structure of this virus was available very
early on, courtesy of China, I think, is fair to say, then the, it was possible for people
who were already working on these MRNA-style viruses to say, oh, okay, then all we need
to do is to take that bit out of the gene sequence and plop it into one of our MRNA delivery
systems and away we go.
So it was relatively quick.
It was done within, within a few months.
But then you've got to go through the full one, two, three levels of testing and so
forth, obviously, because otherwise you could be killing people with this stuff.
Yeah.
And they were able to speed that process up by doing the continuous assessment, rather than,
you know, waiting for the trials to be fully finished.
So it was, yeah, it was, it's a serendipitous element to it, but also, you know, the fact
that the science had reached that base was very, very important, which is another issue
that politicians don't seem to want science to be proceeded with, unless it has some sort
of direct financial reward to it, where this was basic science, you know.
Yeah.
And in fairness to the US and other countries who produced the vaccines prior to them being
approved.
So, yeah, otherwise, you know, if they hadn't been approved, then all that money would have
been, all those vaccines would have had to be dumped if they didn't, you know, approved
to be working.
Sure.
Sure.
Credit recredits as June.
So, adventures in a retro computing with the Mac plus, never had a Mac.
Well, it's not, that's not true.
In school, there was Commodore's and Mac's, but they, you had to press a button to eject
a floppy disk on the Mac's.
Yes.
Not all of them.
And that frustrated me.
Yes.
Yes.
There was a guy, a consultant who was working for us when I was working, I was working with
the mayor of Borra's mainframe.
He was a consultant on those things.
And he had a Mac plus, which came in its sort of strange carrying case, like a sort of
beer chiller type bag thingy.
It was, yeah, it was, we were all very impressed with it.
It looked really, really nice.
We did ask him, what happens if you drag the desktop into the bin?
And I think he tried it and it didn't have quite the effect that he wanted.
But because we were, you know, the early days of those sorts of desktops and drag and
dropy stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I lost a few projects that way by, you know, the old disk deleting and happily deleting
and I couldn't get my disk back on the old IBM PCs.
You could just press the button if you're fast enough before overwrote your file.
Oh, yes.
Good times.
Anyway.
The following day, we had a grill repair, which is not the grill of your car.
That's your barbecue grill, routine, I believe.
Yeah.
It's one of these strange differences in terminology between country, because a grill is not
quite the same thing in the UK is, you know, sort of, anyway, it doesn't really matter.
It's just, it's just being thrown to the top of the, that's right.
That's right.
It's the thing that throws me very slightly until I have to reset my brain slightly.
It's what we call a barbecue, but that's just, yeah, it's part of the fun of communicating
with our friends across the Atlantic and stuff.
And the barbecue is the thing where you're standing outside and it's raining and the smoke
is coming in and throw the dust as a bread.
That's one, yeah.
And the chicken is not done in the middle.
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
You don't have often enough to practice your skills, you know, once you, indeed.
But it's an insight to me that you can go down to the, to the local DIY shop and by replacement
components for a barbecue that, that just is a completely different climate entirely.
So that's where I've ever lived.
Yeah.
I know.
I do know people in this locality, you have these sorts of fancy gas-powered grilling
thingies and, yeah, and it's quite, quite convenient for an actin' school thing in a hurry.
Yeah.
But they're wrong with it.
No, far from anything being wrong is as I would love to have the opportunity to do it
more often.
But yeah.
There you go.
I don't know.
Yes.
Using task barrier to scrutinize your work.
Wow.
This is an amazing little tool.
Again, a urune show.
And John Colp says, I like it, but probably won't switch completely.
This was a great episode.
I really like the tool.
I downloaded, tried it out and it worked just as advertised.
I don't think I'm going to be using it as my primary to-do list since it would require
me to be sitting at a terminal to access it, but I'm glad I know about it.
I mostly use my tiny to-do list CHPR episode 1899, which I have installed on my VPS, virtual
private server, and can access from any web browser.
I'm also used the task application in Office 3C X5 for certain tasks at work since that's
the platform our university uses.
I definitely find task warrior repealing, though, and I'm amazed at the robust feature
set.
Thanks for this introduction.
And I said, right, Emmanuel, great show.
See what you did there, Dave, I've tinkered with task warrior for years, but never used it
in earnest.
It's been around for quite a while and has developed a lot in its lifetime, but I've
never quite found that it could do what I wanted.
I think this is vital because you have to explore every nook and cranny what it offers
before its usefulness becomes clear, or maybe I mean I have to do this.
I've always found it's documentation to be a bit difficult to penetrate because of
the way it's laid out, and I haven't persisted.
I mainly use the task capabilities of Thunderbird to remind me what I should be doing.
However, I'd like to master task warrior and look forward to reading your book about
its smiley face.
I'm actually using it now because the documentation has got somewhat better, and the hints here
about how to do some things, got me hunting more seriously.
I think in the early days it was quite basic in its content, and I did struggle with it
a bit, but now it seems to have developed a lot, and it's actually really quite cool.
Very clever piece of code, since it interprets what you want, even though you don't necessarily
lay it out very well, did you really mean to do that, did you mean to delete that, or
whatever it is.
It's cool.
I thought Structurize was a typo, by the way, using task warrior to structureize your
work, but it just goes to show I don't know a lot of things I think I know I don't.
Structurize is a valid word, very, very strange and lumpy word to my taste, but it's just
an alternative way of saying Structurize.
Okay.
These things bother me.
Oh, I know Dave.
I know I have a wardrobe here full with emails that you sent me.
Let me just check the weather weather.
It's been, and I'll see you all know, actually I was missing one the other day that I didn't
print out the effect, the effect one.
Oh, yeah, yeah, that's what I think that was in the show.
I need to do one on the various spellings of rain, because I see so many people say I'm
going to rain this in, and they put R-E-I-G-N as in what kings and queens do.
As opposed to rain, so the things you control a horse with, so it's a horse related expression.
And the stuff falling from the sky.
Oh, yeah, that stuff, yeah.
People don't usually confuse that one, though, not in my experience, anyway.
Lovely.
Moving on.
Fresh water aquarium basics by Enigma.
This is one that I managed to get him to do.
Ha, ha, ha.
If you ask, they will come.
John Culp says, pictures, great episode.
I really enjoyed it, but a major componing miss through missing pictures of your fish and
tanks.
I keep wanting to see these looking forward to follow the ups.
Good for John, yes, yes, yeah, very true, very true, it would be nice to see that.
I thought it was fascinating, I like, not a hobby I've ever got into, but I've worked
in animal laboratories and stuff where there's loads and loads of fish, tanks and stuff.
Stonehead.
Stonehead.
They're cool, they're good.
Yeah, indeed.
My brother and I, kids have aquariums, it's kind of cool.
As I said to my children, I don't like keeping livestock inside.
No, no, it's, we did, in my degree, we did quite a lot.
So a study of guppies that do interesting behavioral thingies, and they're, I've, we've
sort of been fans of keeping some of them, little teeny tiny things, but they, they display
to another and do sort of complicated behaviors and things, but yeah, it's a big responsibility
though to keep them, keep them alive.
Yep, Yamal basics on the other hand.
It's a big responsibility to try and get Yamal working.
Ha, ha.
Not too, we'll help us with that.
Yeah, this is good, I enjoyed this.
The only thing I disagree with them that there are no Yamal police, yes, there are, you
haven't spoken to Dave Morris yet.
Ha, ha, ha, no.
When, when have I ever criticized your Yamal?
Come on.
You're a quick searcher, but you will.
Usually, yeah, the things that you use for a Yamal, it's a little bit, a little bit
frussy though, isn't it?
It does tend to, to bite you and you don't expect it to, but Clout is comment about using
the Yamal Lint thing is, is very, very helpful to us that will lead you out of all the
tangles, I think.
Yeah, exactly.
I personally don't see, I use Yamal a lot for work as well, it's everywhere, but I don't
see the reason to use Yamal when you can use Jason and, yeah, just makes, just makes
more sense always.
Yeah, I think, I think you're right actually, because you can easily be trapped in the, the
nasty tangles of the maze of Yamal, if you're unlucky.
So Jason is more forgiving on the whole, I think.
Yep.
And the following day, we had the Linnixin laws peeps with an interview, Redis.
Can you say the name, please, because I think I would, whatever about butchering our, butchering
our own horse names, they understand my problems, but I don't want to butcher somebody who's
kind enough to be on the show as a, as a horse as an interviewer.
I think it was, well, it to my, Hayba or Harba, I'm not sure which, I don't honestly remember.
It's a European origin, so probably Harba, I'm not sure, but yeah, very interesting.
It's still not quite clear under what circumstances you use, Redis.
Is it like the BSD, I forgot my name of it now, that there's been a tag and value type database
available through the BSD project, failing to remember.
And this seems to be in the similar, but more advanced version of the same thing.
Yeah, it's like a Norseical database, just addictionary and stuff.
Yeah, yeah.
But this preceded NoSQL, I would imagine, it's, it's, it's that sort of tag and value
stuff has been around forever.
We used to run LDAP, big time at my work, and LDAP underneath is using one of those to
hold all of its data.
So it's not a database for say, yeah.
So because the way that LDAP is structured, you, you have tags and values basically, and
that would map onto, onto these types of tag value, databasey things.
And of course, you can index them powerfully through the, through the tags.
Yeah, sorry, what you're going to say.
Yeah, normal, calls around, comes around here, but that didn't, that didn't, that
a relationship that, that LDAP is like a, in Norseical database, it's just mind-blowing.
Yeah.
Well, if you look at open LDAP, it will sit on one of these things, but also on top of
the database, and there's bash underneath it as well if you want to, it's, it's very,
very powerful.
That's what we used to run.
Yeah.
I mean, just check and see if there's any shores on that too.
Who wants, who the hell uses LDAP these days?
Does anybody use LDAP?
Everyone do.
Do they really?
Why do you think all the authentication engines use?
See, I was, I've been to tons of conferences where they talked about DAP, which was the, the
predecessor, the big, the big one, was it OSI 500, was it?
Direct access process protocol, which got really, really, really complicated.
And then LDAP was invented, and, which is a much lighter weight thing, I think the
old central lightweight, actually, and so, so yeah, the, the, but that was, yeah, that
was back in the day.
I sort of just meet, I'm just seeing it from my point of view, I don't use LDAP anymore.
So, because why do you need it in your, in your house?
Well, all the windows directly stuff as such, yeah, so although they tried not to, to
let you know, or they, there was a time it was really hard to, to use your heart weight,
but absolutely.
They bent the standards, they fiddled with the standard, it made me so annoyed, because
they said, oh, yeah, we're using this standard as defined here, but we've just changed the
lengths of these fields and stuff.
So, if you were, if you were interfacing between open LDAP and their, their stuff, you had
to put filters in that, that, that changed the formats between the two, that caused me
a low pain over the years.
Embrace, extend, an extinguish, folks, kick them in the head.
But yes, yeah, one more evolve on technology, that's what it is.
But yeah, I could rent, in fact, I just did, so yeah, shut up.
Anybody else out there thinking nobody would be interested in the show like that?
Did you even hear of that?
I don't know if I was pressing push to talk for it.
Yeah, you went silent for a bit, I thought you were, you were, you were, I was covered
in coffee.
It would be great to do a show on that, open LDAP, introduction to how to install, setting
up a local authentication for your home network, that sort of thing.
Next slide with shared authentication, blah, blah, blah, blah, sharing your vendor.
Can you go around that with the LDAP work with next cloud?
Is it?
I don't know that, Dave.
Is it?
That's what I'm hoping somebody be able to tell us.
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
It does, but I haven't configured it yet.
That will be a towjet.
Hi, towjet.
Welcome to the HPR community news show.
So I'll sign towjet there up to that show and look forward to the series.
More than three shows and only topic is a series, just heads up.
So the following day we had layers, the most important concept in using GIMP by a hookup.
And actually, I go further, it's the most important concept in using any of those graphical
tools.
Particularly in a skip.
Yep, yep.
Now, this is, I'm enjoying this series.
It's great.
It's covering areas that I sort of vaguely knew, but didn't know I knew.
And it's just to open in my eyes quite a lot, this is very good.
When Aluka does something, he does it properly, it has to be said.
Very detailed, very thorough, absolutely.
This weird guy called towjet, did I show about USB keys?
I was bored.
A brilliant idea, brilliant idea.
I was thinking I actually want to do this for, if ever we're back in work, you know,
just to be able to pull out a key and automatically lock your desk.
Oh, this is great.
Very, very impressive.
For those that don't know, it was a show about having a USB key that you got locks and
unlocks your, your machine, Linux machine.
And when do you go out to comment?
Do you want to read that, Dave?
Yes.
I'm just fighting with a cat who wants to climb over my keyboard.
I can do it.
It's okay.
I can, I think she's, she's been deterred.
When do you go, says great technique.
This technique seems like a great way to allow my loved ones to have an emergency skeleton
key for all of my computers in case that hypothetical bus ever shows up.
Thanks so much for the tip.
That is a very good idea, actually.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Uh-huh.
That's a good point to take away.
Do you use this a lot, towjet?
Yeah, I set it up because I'm often working in a place where I want to have my computer
just sitting there, but I don't want to keep locking and unlocking it manually.
So I can just plug the key in and walk away when I'm, and pull it out when I'm, walk
away.
Very cool.
Strap your belt in one of those chin things.
Very good.
Any more shows in the pipeline, other than the LDAP show that you're planning on doing?
I'm going to have to work on the LDAP show and I still owe you one about that you, my podcast
feeder.
No rush, no rush, you know, just leave that there so the guilds will constantly work.
No.
It's only five years overdue.
Yeah, that's nothing.
My satellite show was ten years.
Speaking of Next Cloud, Tlatou, our friendly neighborhood alien, provided us with Next Cloud
is easy and you should try it.
And I did and I posted a show and there were lots of people responding.
Can you do the first one, Dave?
Yeah, Tom.
So the pro says, this is a nice group.
This is very nice.
So, well, it's good to know.
Thank you very much.
And I replied going upgrade via the UI.
Hi, Tlatou.
I have used the UI for upgrading.
You go to profile settings, administration, overview and upgrade is the only reason not
to do that.
Do do that.
I'm amazed if you spot that type of not to do that.
I don't really look at comments that closely.
Thank you.
Your name is Associators.
If you want to be a moron fine, thank you very much.
I didn't see.
Yeah, the UI upgrade for Next Cloud works pretty smoothly.
Yeah, it wasn't horrible, actually.
And if you ever runs into errors, it has pretty much a link there.
Press this button to find out what's going on.
I may end up opening you another episode, but you can also schedule the app updates to
be run on a cron job.
So it does that automatically.
Oh, look forward to that yours all.
So Kevin O'Brien said, good inspiration.
Thank you for this information.
It's getting me thinking.
I've been, I have an account on a web hosting service and it sounds like maybe I could
install an instance there, but I wonder if I should create separate domain for that.
My sites are on WordPress, and of course, I have my SQL databases for that.
Can you have both the WordPress site and the next cloud instance on a single database?
I don't see why not.
I don't see why not.
I'm not breaking up with her.
I had a bolt running on a scene URL before and I had a lot of trouble with the Next
Cloud URL with the redirection, so I'd recommend if you can put a separate URL just for the
next cloud.
Yeah.
But the database itself shouldn't be an issue.
Database should not be.
There are separate instances.
Yeah.
There are separate schemas.
Hmm, using database words there, Dave, did you notice?
Absolutely.
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, good stuff.
Yeah.
I better watch this.
Before I get another episode.
Yeah.
Oh, I couldn't possibly think of a show to do on HPR five minutes is talking to me and
you know, you got the database.
HPR RPG club reviews should run five e cyberpunk plus magic and a fistful of D6.
Oh, excellent.
This is basically the book club for RPG's brilliant lovedism.
Yeah.
It was quite a conversation they were having there, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Lots of interested people talking about the things that interest them, so it's good to
listen to.
And it's from my point of view, it's good to know what ones I definitely would not like.
I have the feeling that there's some RPG out there that, you know, I will fall in love
with and it becomes the uber nerd on.
But this one ain't it as yet, it's getting close, but not just it.
No, I don't think my brain is quite suited to this stuff, but there you go.
So the next day we have Swift 110 with the Apple products I have owned and a review of
said and say, I've never opened an Apple product myself, I must admit it.
I've got a, got an iPod that I got second-hand to run Rockbox on, but that's that's some
total.
Got a divided house, half of us have Android, half of us have iPads.
My wife has an iPhone from Rock, but that's what it is.
My son's quite a Mac, Devity, because he was doing a music degree, that was pretty much
a prerequisite, he reckoned anyway, but yeah, there's iPads and stuff around, but none of
which I use.
So the following day, soldering tips from operator, some very good ones, especially related
to taking batteries out of old stuff, that one has come back to both several terms, I
must say.
Oh, yes, yes, not doing it, definitely will, I will mess you up.
Yeah.
Don't remind me of an interesting project that may or may not be ended on the EEB blog
where he has had long-term projects where he's put batteries in, alkaline batteries to
see, under what conditions they spill and leak and stuff.
Don't tell me if it's over, because I'm nearly two years behind on my podcast, listen.
Yeah, I know about proper.
Every time I catch up, he releases another three shows, so I'm always about 500 shows
behind.
And then following day, we had Patrick Deville and Claudia Miranda, the state of Linux
are audio apps in 2020.
And it was really good to hear these two guys back, because I hadn't heard either of them
for a while.
No, I've just…
Yeah, yeah.
I've heard them talking about these types of things quite a lot in the past and learnt
a fair bit about these, about some of the things they're talking about.
But it was really refreshing to hear them covering this subject again.
And the stuff there that I had never come across, and really must go and find out more
about.
What was that podcast that we were all about?
Pat had about the Linux, the TV, mid-TV cast.
Yeah.
Back in the day, mid-TV.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm confusing.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, I did listen to a little bit of them, and they talk about it on TLLTS sometimes.
And it's references to it, and it was Dan Fry was involved in that as well, wasn't he?
Yeah.
So my daughter is just wanted to record some of her music, she's written some music, and
I told her, as you know, the keyboard that you're using as a MIDI keyboard, what's a MIDI
keyboard?
Oh, no.
Actually, does anyone know basic introduction to MIDI and stuff?
Some shows and that would be absolutely awesome, very timely as well, because I've got a MIDI
keyboard.
I plugged it in.
It came up as a USB device, and now I don't know what to do.
So next steps, please.
Yeah, yeah.
I'll tell my son, but I know he probably too busy.
Get him back.
That is not the answer.
So John Kolb, long time no here, cloning a hard drive with clones, oh, my heart went
out to him on this, particularly as we, a few days later, had our own particular piece
of hell with a hard disk.
Yes, indeed.
Nice to hear, John.
Yeah.
It was an interesting show.
Very, it uses clones.
It looked to back up as hard disk and to an external SSD, so it always has a, the latest
copy.
It's a good idea.
And the final one of the year was a Christmas special from the Linux outlaws, where they're
going through predictions and stuff, and some history of things.
Yeah, a lot of stuff covered there.
Yeah.
I didn't realize, I didn't realize that Jeff Bezos wasn't Jeff Bezos' name, that's interesting.
So the final one of the year was community project proposal.
So Enigma is discussing a project proposal called hacker exchange, a proposed content
sharing size that would aggregate audio and video and text-based tutorials.
If you're interested, join irc.fridon.net, hashtag hacker exchange.
Yeah, it sounds, sounds very interesting.
I haven't looked into it at all, yeah, but be fascinated to know more.
Yeah.
Following on from the digital dog pound and bin red stuff, and so, yeah, good place.
And that was us.
You're filled up, and suddenly 260 new slots become available to you, funny how that happens
every year.
Haha.
Yes, yes.
So, yes, so we need people to fill them pretty quickly, actually, yes, yes.
Yeah, new hosts would be awesome.
So there were a few common some previous shows, but I think we've already covered them.
Or however you know, location computers on an enterprise network.
Wow.
Hey, operator, just wanted to let you know.
This is probably my absolute favorite HBR episode today.
It's very good.
Let me want to go to get more into networking, thanks, and keep up the good work.
That's great.
That was fun.
NSTR.
Mhm.
Yep.
It's a fairly frequent comment.
We had somebody called Crust Punk, who commented on Cedric De Roy, his name we don't yet
fully know how to pronounce, but thanks for a wonderful episode.
They say it amazes me that there are actual people out there having this as their job.
This is fingerprint access control, a story from, exactly, exactly, it seems like a dream.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
It's quite a tale.
It seems like a dream come true to me.
Here I am unemployed at the moment, trying to scrape by this surely puts one's life into
perspective, low.
And the fireside chat with Enigma, operator, commons, old days, great episode last
time I talked to any of those folks was years ago.
I think I ran into troops more than five years ago.
We used to have a local group that met up at Fry's Electronics called Hack Alt or something.
I'm waiting to start up a local meet up here in Roswell, GA.
It was GA.
Is that Georgia?
What would it be?
Dunno.
Do anyone that fits in my mind, but that means nothing, really?
Georgia, it is.
Yes.
Well done.
So we've covered all the other commons and mailing this discussions.
So as I said before, policy decisions surrounding HBR are taken on the community as a whole.
This question takes place on the mailing list, which is open to all HBR listeners and
contributors.
And discussions are open and available on the server under mailman.
So some changes to the website, let's all get better go through that cause.
I met some changes following on from lots of commons that people have met on before
on the mailing list.
I just wanted to make sure that when I did update them that I cover them all.
So syndication we had references to MP3 has been on encumbered, removed Google Play, changed
the archive.org link, added links to iTunes, Google, podcasts, Play, FM, Spotify, Cloud
Mix.
If people have more of those services that are using or that we're on, please link them
to us.
Some changes to the contribute page and stuff you need to know page to clarify our policies.
They were previously discussed, but better do them here.
We are not community podcast network, we're a community podcast.
The outro still needs to be updated.
Your show will not be moderated has been changed to your audio will not be moderated.
To stuff you need to know page, we organize some sections.
The maintained hacker media site has been removed and free culture podcasts have been
added.
The links have been changed from HTTP to HTTPS.
The audio for your show will not be moderated.
We've changed.
We do not vet, edit, moderate, and anyway sensor shows on our network too.
We do not vet, edit, moderate or an anyway sensor, any of the audio you submit.
We do transcode the audio into different formats.
Please note that this only relates to the audio you upload.
The rest of the metadata, branding, summaries, tags show, etc. are managed by the HTTPS community
and may be edited.
The show, HTTPS 2210 on Freedom of Speech and Citizenship, describes the agreed approach
to this topic and we added keeping accessibility in mind when you include services about
putting links in about the screen readers, the discussion we had last month about adding
more description in the click part instead of click here for more information on this topic
click here.
So the whole thing, but that's pretty much it and you come on some update.
No, no, that was some helpful pointers there.
It's great to have new eyes scanning this sort of stuff and spotting some of these things
that you just missed because you've looked at them so many times.
Well, a patenting confer thing only disappeared last year.
It was still hanging around in some jurisdictions, but last year it kind of disappeared and
never really got around to removing this so it's a good thing to do.
And the clarification about not updating the audio while we had a long and eased discussion
on the mailing list and on the community news shows about just formalizing it in words
is no harm to do on the website that people understand that we're not going to edit
your audio.
It's a bit disambiguous, sometimes we use the term show for the audio that you submit
and show for the entire thing that gets sent out so no harm to split that up.
We were offered because of our exposure and account on rsync.net.
I tried to set it up and run into some issues, but with everything else going on, I haven't
had a chance to get back to it yet, but we'll do.
The HPR mumble server, there was discussions coming up to the new year show about upgrading
that and I don't think it was clear to me what was being asked.
Basically the mumble server is a hosted service, a bit like WordPress is hosted on WordPress.com.
So if you've got an instance of WordPress.com, you have no ability to upgrade your WordPress
instance on WordPress.com, you have no access to the operating system, you have no access
to anything, you're just subscribed to WordPress.com.
So I don't have the ability to upgrade the mumble server and the reason that was an issue
is some of the windows times we're giving an error certificate or which happens.
Of course, on new years, which is boggles me why everybody decides to renew their certificates
on the one time of the year when you actually, when the vast majority of people are celebrating
a holiday, but okay, indeed, 12 noon on the 1st of April sounds fine to me, you know, that's
yeah, pick a time. Anyway, long story short, I've disclosed this on the community new show,
but are on the HBR new year show. By the time you hear that might be July,
but any who summary is, we're not sure who exactly is using this server and if it's just
hacker public radio, we're more than happy to move to Delwin has offered us a server as has
Dave from the podcast, the award-winning podcast. So we have, you know, there's no reason
paying money to somebody for a service that isn't been used anymore when I could give that money
to somebody else. Yeah. So the decision was taken to stay with the current server for the
community or for the HBR new year show. And the last thing was they, we got
can't requested by Fostem if we wanted to do a boot, what they're offering is a position.
So Fostem is going ahead online this year and obviously there's going to be no boots or
or anything around. So they are going to do it online. So a position on a special stands website
for you to introduce your project, you will organize the stands per theme like they normally do,
hosting for a webpage with several short videos where you can introduce and demonstrate your
project and show people the latest features, discuss your own role map, etc. And a chat room
facility to allow visitors to interact with you details will be confirmed closer to the event.
Now as we have known when we apply as hacker public radio ourselves, we have been rejected.
When we have applied as the free culture podcasts, we have been accepted and free culture podcasts
is a project which I set up for this very reason, so that we could not only promote hacker public
radio, but all the associated projects that we have featured on hacker public radio, all the
podcast recommendations of create covering the podcast that we've had. And it gives us more scope
to promote other shows, not just hacker public radio. If this is not your thing, maybe crazy
science fiction stories are your thing or open metal music is something that you're into or you want
to listen to the min cast or you want to listen to the RPG shows. So that's what I would suggest
proposing, but we would need people to do this because it will take time and it will take energy
and it's all very well saying I'm going to do this, but there will be, there's a lot of work involved
in coordinating this, which I'm not sure I have the energy for to be brutally honest with you
after this year. Yes, yes, I think that's pretty likely to be a common response. It was on my part,
am I right? Yeah, but on the other hand, if there are people who want to take the lead in this,
I'm more than happy to help direct you in, yeah. I think we missed the deadline anyway,
isn't it? That was responses by 25th of December. Oh, right, so much for that. Okay.
I think I saw that in the first week. Thank you, Dave. I'll just edit this out.
Yeah, deadline 20th of December. I see it now. Yeah, so thanks for telling me about that.
I only just saw it five bloody days after we suddenly used to share. Hey, it takes a load off
of your helmet to decide. Yeah, that's true. I might send it in anyway, but I don't know.
Okay, so what else? Anything else? Nothing else?
Tags, Dave. Tags. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So switching tabs here rapidly, I see that we got three tags
added to shows in the last month. And this was courtesy of Windigo who sent stuff in on the
last day of December. And I didn't manage to do any at all in the entirety of December. So thanks
to Windigo for just keeping the project going. But hopefully 2021 will see some more rapid progress.
But yeah, and we're good. Added tags to the main menu on all the pages. The pages are a bit
clunky at the minute and we'll work on that later. Yeah, I've just been doing some work with it
actually to make it a little bit tidier, but we probably ought to make it more usable and explain
how to use it. What I didn't do for now is delete the tags.php and add it as a simlink to the one
that's linked on the main page because that will make more sense. And then if you want us
we can split it off later than there's a separate page. The split off one is actually just a subset
of the report that I originally did. So yeah, it's actually just linked to the report.
Yeah, if you want, if you want, it's linked to the section. That's certainly one way to do it.
So yeah, okay, Doug, but the tags are there and quite useful.
Right, just did that. Yeah, that's a lot that's a lot better. Yeah.
Right, good, good, good, good. So we're done. I think that's it. There's not the community
calendars pretty much empty. So the point we're looking at that for January. So yeah, so that's
us then. Okay, how do you think they're told just? No, other than thank you Ken for coordinating
all this. Hi, I'm just a front-end for Dave. Yes, yes. How do you?
All three episodes that I owe you to my to-do list now. Excellent, excellent. What to-do list
software are you using there? You might do a show on that as well. Oh, I'm just using a evolution.
Evolution. We haven't had a show on that in ages.
What, using evolution? I can do this all day, folks. Tidy the next cloud on the back end.
Yeah, okay, cool. So you use an evolution tied to next cloud.
Yeah. Okay, actually do do a show on that because, and are you able in evolution to change the
format of the dates to ISO 8601, which is your year year month. Did it?
I haven't had to miss with that. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Listen to the HBR New Year show
for my many and multiple rounds on that particular topic. Meanwhile, June and tomorrow for
another exciting episode. By the way, I imported the upcoming recording dates from your ICS
on the website for the community news, and it pulled in no problem and it adjusted for the
time zone without issue with evolution. That's good job. I'm using it as a much more...
Okay, ready for the outro? June and tomorrow for another exciting episode of
Hacker Public Radio!
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
