Episode: 3868
Title: HPR3868: News.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3868/hpr3868.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:56:09

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3868 for Wednesday, the 31st of May 2023.
Today's show is entitled News.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 12 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Scotty reports the recent FBI criminal reports and other news.
Hello and welcome ladies and gentlemen to an episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet.
Today I'm reading more news, but I don't want this type of news to be under the old
no news brand because this is going to be a little bit more explicit and I don't
know how the community will receive it just yet.
So if you guys do like it and want to hear more of this other type of news alongside the
old no news, it'll be separate, but you know, you'll get more of it if you like it.
Please leave comments.
Also I'm going to need a name for it, so I reached out to the community before we rebranded
what was once called HPR news and it became the old no news thanks to some lovely suggestions
from the community.
I believe Dave Morris had the best name.
We came up with some really great names, but Dave Morris one, it ultimately I chose
it and you have to be careful when picking names, one of the funny things that happened
was a suggestion came in for some news on the internet because I'm some guy on the internet.
So this would be some news on the internet.
I'm thankful that it was discovered before the name was chosen, but my name, some guy
on the internet spelled Scotty and some news on the internet was spelled snotty.
So that's why we didn't went with that's why we didn't choose some news on the internet.
So I'd love to hear from you some of your suggestions and now let's get started with
the news and this article.
I'm in charge with conspiracy to commit healthcare fraud.
Alright, so Pennsylvania woman by the name of Florentina Mako says here age 39, she was
arrested in charge on one count of conspiracy to commit healthcare fraud for defrauding
Medicare and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services between the years 2007 and
2019 in the story says that she was submitting medically unnecessary urine drug tests for
chronic opioid patients from a medical clinic where she was chief executive officer.
So apparently she was sending the medically unnecessary urine drug tests to a lab in which
her company had control over and then they would bill Medicare for these tests.
Now what they said is Medicare ended up paying out approximately $10 million over this
two year period for medically unnecessary urine drug tests.
Now this is at a time when we have an opioid crisis.
So this was a little easier for her to hide but she must have got like super greedy.
Yes, so they threw her in a slammer and now she's facing what looks like up to 10 years
for this.
Yes, it says the maximum penalty under federal laws 10 years imprisonment.
So she makes millions of dollars, should have her lawyer argue it down, she'll probably
get like two years in prison and probation and she'll still come out of millionaire.
For our next article, Congressman George Santos charged with fraud, money laundering, theft
of public funds and false statements.
Wow, I've been hearing about this George Santos guy for a while, embezzlement and all kinds
of things like that and I thought they wouldn't get him.
You know, they normally don't prosecute their own kind unless he became stingy and didn't
kick up.
Now, when you're in the United States government, you have a license to steal as much as you
want, but the more you steal, the more you need to kick up.
That's the rules.
If you don't kick up, well, we get headlines like this.
So the 13th court indicted him in the United States District Court Eastern District of
New York in the third district of New York with seven counts of wire fraud, three counts
of money laundering, one count of theft of public funds and two counts of making materially
false statements to house representatives, not White House, just house of representatives.
So apparently, uh, looks like main knife, the indictments came in, but they were sealed.
Santos was arrested in that morning.
I know he was arrested on May 10th in the morning and arraigned before the US Magistrate.
And of course, they got the, uh, the usual statements to how the FBI remains committed
to holding all equally and accountable under the law, which we all know that's horse
crap.
If you ever remember certain events in the past where certain officials housed sensitive
data on their own personal servers.
And when they were asked to turn over that data, they used bleach bit to wipe it out and
all of that.
I'm not a political guy.
I'm not here to make political arguments about which side is right and wrong, but I'm
just letting you know, it's a dual rail system.
Some people get to play on the fast rail.
Others are forced to play on the, on the slower, you know, dilapidated rail.
All right.
So they're saying that back in September, 2022, he operated a limited liability company
and that's what he used to defraud prospective political supporters.
So I'm guessing, you know, campaign, uh, contributors and things of that nation.
He was just stealing the money.
And again, it's okay to do that so long as you kick up.
Now the unemployment insurance fraud scheme that looks like those PPP loan type things that
happened during COVID-19, oh no, no, no, it says that he allegedly fraudulently received
more than $24,000 in unemployment insurance benefits.
This was between March 2020 and April 2021 and will this guy has been lined since day
one.
So, you know, the false statements to the House of Representatives, I mean, we enhance
he not lied.
That's that's kind of the part of the game these days with these, with these congressmen
anyway.
So I'm not too interested in that.
But I want to follow the story up, but I've been waiting for a while to see his name
and headlines in this article, New York man admits credit card fraud and man by the name
of Robert Lorenco, age 52 from Queens, New York, pleaded guilty in a video conference before
the US judge, Joseph Rodriguez.
Now Lorenco allegedly opened up 23 credit cards using the identity of three victims he had
befriended.
Two of these victims are senior citizens.
One of these 23 credit cards that this man opened up, he made purchases of up to $400
in $23,000.
He also got a hold of one of the joint account cards of one of his victims and spent another
$57,000.
So on May 10, 2023, he was charged with access device fraud, which carries a penalty of
up to 10 years in prison, and a fine of up to $250,000.
He scheduled for Senate saying in September 14, 2023, on next article,
Okay, this is somewhere in Oklahoma, I can't even pronounce the name properly, it looks
like, uh, okay, I'm hopefully I'm saying that correctly, if not, it'll be fine.
But a man we're gonna call Lewis here, Cameron Lewis, that's his name and article age 28.
So very young.
He got sentenced to 223 months in prison, Lewis pleaded guilty to the charges brought
against him, which was second degree murder, apparently occurring on September 30, 2021.
The investigation of the case revealed that Lewis beat the victim to death with a television
and a coat rack after a evening of drinking in the victim's apartment.
So apparently some drunk and rage boiled up and the guy flipped his wig and destroyed
another human being, 223 months in prison in our next article, California man convicted
of health care kickback conspiracy, a California man by Stephen Donofrio, 49 years old, was
found guilty by a jury on May 5, 2023 during the two week trial for what is being reported
as health care kickback schemes, sometimes, some type of fraud.
So it says here that Donofrio conspired with others to pay and receive kickbacks in exchange
for referral of and arranging for health care business, specifically for pharmacogenic
PGX tests, we're just going to call them PGX tests, that's Papa Gamma X-ray tests.
Now these PGX tests, they're genetic tests that identify genetic variations that affect how
individual patients metabolize certain drugs.
They said an article that this man racked up $28 million in illegal kickbacks with him in his
conspirators. One of his conspirators, Vincent Marchetti, was found guilty in December 16, 2021.
He was sentenced to 48 months, you know, millions of dollars, 48 months, you have four years,
come out, you know, he probably won't even do the four years, he'll do like a year and a half,
come back and he's got millions. Another conspirator, Nicholas Arroyo, was sentenced to 21 months
and Kimberly will yet sentenced to only one year and one day. There's a few other names in here,
they were ordered to pay a fine of like $100,000 after they defrauded millions.
And then you got to think about how much did the investigation cost to track them down and
ultimately try and convict them. So you have more than $28 million in illegal kickbacks,
break that down against it like, I don't know, six, seven people or something like that.
They got a few names in here, but I'm not going to bore you with all the names to have them okay,
pay $100,000 in the fines, spend a couple of years in prison, get some probation, come out of
millionaire. I'm sure they had to spend some on lawyers and things of that nature as well to get
that kind of a sweet deal, but it doesn't sound like the punishment fits the crime. All right,
and that's it for our news block ladies and gentlemen, just let me know what you think.
I held back on a lot of the more gruesome news, so like a lot of the murderers and things that
I mentioned one, just so you can hear what type of news is out there. And I have numerous other
sources of information that doesn't necessarily fit into the old news category of tack and tack
related things, but still perfectly good news that I read on regular. And because we have this
constant issue with shows being low at certain times, I figure if I can create a bank of these
type of shows, even fill a few of the emergent, fill a few of the emergency show gaps, this will be
a great source of more shows. So let me know what you think. If you like it, give me a thumbs up,
leave a comment, maybe send an email, catch me in matrix, or even mastodon. And if you really like
it and you want to hear more, help me come up with a name. All right, that's all I have.
Catch you guys in next episode.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads. Hosting for HBR has been kindly
provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our things.net. On the Sadois
Stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
