Episode: 3927
Title: HPR3927: Audacity Update 20230702
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3927/hpr3927.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:29:21

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3927 for Tuesday, the 22nd of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Audacity Update 2 July 2023.
It is hosted by Avukar and is about six minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Reserve Show, Audacity has been having problems lately.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello.
This is Ahoca welcoming you to Hacker Public Radio and another exciting episode.
This is an emergency episode and so if you're hearing this, that means the Q has run terribly
low and Ken is getting desperate for shows.
So if you're out there and you are listening to this, record a show.
It's actually extremely easy to do, you'll find there's already a whole bunch of shows
have been recorded about how to record a show and how easy it is, so you know, do that.
The only bad show is the one we don't receive.
So with that, I want to give an update on something that's happened with Audacity and I
recorded a show.
It's number 3900 for Hacker Public Radio about my workflow for preparing podcasts for
listening.
I download a ton of podcasts.
I really like them.
The problem is that when you have that many podcasts, you've got to kind of do some
prep work on them.
So that show is all about how I prepare the podcasts for listening and that includes
speeding them up, normalizing and you know, boosting the volume a little, etc, etc.
And you know, it's a workflow that has worked very well for me for a long time, except
lately something has happened.
And I don't know what it, I've got a hint as to what it might be, but all of a sudden
podcasts that had been working fine for many, many years, I would try and import them
into Audacity and you know, loading a file and Audacity is importing.
And that's step one of the process.
You've got to import the file before you can go through the rest of the processing steps.
And Audacity was just choking on the import and throwing out error messages.
Now some of these were things about the you know, bad Huffman code, another time bad file
length or forbidden bit rate value.
Now it's entirely possible that these are real errors of some kind, but are they really
bad enough to just refuse to load the files?
I actually don't think so.
In fact, I did a little online searching and that disclosed that Audacity decided to
enable error checking in their decoding library, which is called lib mad, which it had
not done before.
But they realized it was picking up a lot of really minor stuff, so in the next version
they may relax the error checking.
I hope so, though I note that some of this information is from 2020.
Then again, I note that the version that I am getting through the repository is pretty
out of date as well.
Problems, problems, problems.
Anyway, my work around is I use online file converters.
And now the online file converters load the files just fine, which is one of the reasons
I think Audacity is just being a little too nitpicky here.
But anyway, I go to them, I load up the MP3, which I upload to the site, and then just
convert it to something like, say, Ogg, and then download the converted file.
The files are probably all in MP3 to begin with.
There are very few podcasts that don't send out MP3 is the default.
But once it's converted to Ogg, I can download it.
And then my Audacity script will run on the converted file just perfectly.
Now I found a couple of sites I like, and it's not to say that there's any shortage of
converters out there.
But two of the ones that I've used are Converquio, Link in the Show Notes, and Online Audio
Converter.
Again, Link in the Show Notes.
Now they're both fast and easy.
And I note that both have now added some simple video editing tools, which I'm going to check
that out too.
You probably wouldn't use them for really serious work, free online video editing.
You're going to want it to use it on very short clips, but the kinds of ones that I might
take with my phone.
Sometimes I'll do a 40-second video, and the last couple of seconds something went wrong.
This might be a good way to just do a little cutting clipping of the video.
So for stuff like that, or maybe taking two video clips and combining them, I think it
would probably work just fine.
So anyway, a couple of tools and some ways to use them.
So this is Ahuka for Hacker Public Radio, signing off and encouraging you as always to
support free software.
Bye bye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
Thank you for watching for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet
archive and our sims.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
