Episode: 3526
Title: HPR3526: HPR Community News for January 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3526/hpr3526.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:00:43

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3526 for Monday the 7th of February 2022.
Today's show is entitled HDR Community News for January 2022 and is part of the series
HDR Community News. It is hosted by HDR volunteers and is about 44 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HDR volunteers talk about shows released and comment posted in January 2022.
Hi everybody my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio Community News this time for January 2022. And joining me this evening is?
Hi it's Dave Morris. It's not evening here but that'll do.
So HBR Community, HBR is a community podcast that has been running for over 16 years
and where all the shows have been submitted by listeners very much like you. We have call for shows open
at the moment. We would like people to submit shows and I've asked the regular hosts not to submit
shows more than once every two weeks as was our policy on this. It gets really really really urgent.
So what I've seen over the last period of time is that regular hosts have been
coming in, showing up the gaps and I think that will lead to burnout from them. So I'm quite
concerned about losing regular hosts. So if you're new you are new to this whole concept of
Hacker Public Radio and you haven't introduced yourselves. I wonder if you could do that.
Just five minutes show telling us who you are, where you're listening from and the journey that
brought you to tech community in general. That's a great show to start with. Dave I would normally
pass you over to introduce the new hosts for this month but alas, there are none. Sadly,
sadly. So let's do better next month folks. Let's do better next month. So if the people listening
to this could record a little show and send it in, it's not that hard, it's not that scary. And
yeah, it'll be grand, sure. Think of us like a Hacker Space. You wouldn't just walk into
a Hacker Space and just sit down and start listening to people without saying hi. I'm Bob
or Mary or Alivell or whoever. And I'm new in the neighborhood and I'm just listening in my
interest hour blah blah blah. Correct Dave or not? I would agree with that. Yes, for sure.
It's yeah, even if you're not a very talkative person, which is the thing I suffer from when I go
into a room for the people. It's a thing to, I mean, you would feel, you know, I'm kind of
join this group. So yeah, let me just break through the barriers in my head and try and say some
stuff to introduce myself and stuff. Yeah, yeah, a good point. I feel free to be anonymous. So come
up with an interesting handle. If you're worried that all the people will know you are plausible
to know them, please always an excellent thing. Anyway, last month, the first show. So what we do
in this show is we kind of wear the janitors. We don't make the policy. Just go to the above page
and HPR and you'll see all about that. I won't go into it here. But what Dave and I do is go through
the news. Anything that's been happening with HPR in the last month and we also go through
every show just to make sure that everybody gets some feedback and we'll read the comments that
have been posted to those shows. Well, we start with green she news for December 2021 and there
was a last, no comments to that Dave. There were no comments. No, no, we were so uncontroversially
these days. That's the way of things. Are they the level for controversy has increased so much
that's what we say. It doesn't enter into it. Yeah, yeah, we must think about ways of being
monthly controversial in future. So next day, we had one of our regular hosts who has
stepped into the breach many times, Tony, Tony News and give us a little rundown on a new
on his new June all PC, which he got before Christmas. Oh, and this looks very nice, very nice
indeed. Yeah, absolutely. I had to rush off to the website to see what else they had there.
Yeah, I'm probably going to be in the market for something to, because my
reliable old nine-year-old I-7 is not being reliable just a day or two ago. So yeah, but yeah,
sounds great and really a good choice is made there, I would say. Oh, I'm on the nuclear
bill to the door of back in a second. Delivery of culvertestive.
That's what we live in. Oh, indeed, indeed. Too big to put through the letterbox and I don't.
So yes, this looks like a nice little BC, actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. My only thing against it
is I quite like having large boxes that I can put lots of other gobbins in the mood takes me.
But that's probably where I've gone around. So yes, the next one released on the 5th of January was
one produced prior to the HBO New Year show. And we used it as an updated version of our
mumble how-to. So no comments on that. Hopefully it was self-explanatory. Yeah, yeah, it was good,
it was good, very, very timely as intended of course. So yeah, in fact, I just referred to it
because I'm using my laptop today and it still had the old address and stuff on there. So I went,
oh, Ken did that. I'll go and read that show and that'll tell me what the name is.
Very, very good. Well, that's just boring how-to's. We got them.
Following day, we had your show with McNalloo, Jim's web telescope. And I know this one had
a comment because I was laughing about it. D&T said that your show was about the recently launched
when we were recording this. Jim's web space telescope, which was extremely exciting.
And D&T said Mission Control, great broadcast and in quotes. That's the main engine I think and
that's the booster. Wow. And there it goes. Goodness me. Is one of the audio clips that we will hear
for generations to come. I suspect many of the same phrases we heard as Mission Control that
day, such as, I don't follow, understand how Lagrange point works. And you want to do that,
otherwise you end up in a rather wishy, washy bit of turkey touch.
I thought it was, it was sort of, yeah, stream of consciousness stuff and
ambient science stuff. So it was a live stream. It was, it was. McNalloo was cooking turkey
for his, his guests. And it was doing this in between, which was great. And so, yes, we had
a little bit of discussion about turkey cooking along the way. I'm a rather peeved, you knew very well.
I was available on watch that day. I was peeved not to be included. Obviously, you're keeping
a scratch on anything. One of the legacies of breakfast from Brexit.
I didn't actually realize that you, well, there were two things actually. First,
back pedal, back pedal, back pedal, back pedal.
Andrew said, just out of the blue, I'd said to him, were you watching the James Webb thing?
He said, oh, yeah, should we, should we chat about it on mumble? And I said, yeah. And then I said
to him, shall I record? And he, what, oh, we're making a show then, yeah, okay. And at that point,
I think we sort of, we then fell into the whole process of launching. So it was all a bit
last minute. The idea was created and executed within a relatively short space of time. So
not having all that many brain cells thing. Yes, yes, it would have been fun with three, but there
you go. And the following day, we heard an interview with Benny, who recently got his
hand radio ticket in Switzerland. And there was one comment to that show.
Right in, excuse me, Baffle said, nice show. Hi, Ken and Benny. It was a great show. Thank you.
Things have showed change since I got my ticket. I'm looking forward to future episodes in this
series. Yes. And if other people out there have recently got their amateur radio tickets in
other jurisdictions, who are very, very interested in hearing, hearing from you, much preferred to
interview actual listeners who's done as opposed to contacting the haemorrhido organizations,
which I will be forced to do because nobody has stepped forward to be interviewed.
Mm hmm. Yeah. It's great. I enjoyed the shows. Yeah, they're an insight for us, non-hami people.
So the following day was a very interesting one, H3R contest 2020-01. Operators given away
$50 microphone to Ani New Horse, who's joined. So this is something that he's running. So
great idea. Absolutely great idea. Considering how few hosts there are, get your show in now and
you win by default. That's very kind of, but I must say, I don't think we thank the community enough
for all the stuff they do, like the stickers and the banners and the domains and all the rest of
that stuff. A lot of stuff for HPR is provided by the community just as it is. Yeah. Yeah.
It's definitely a thing we should make more fuss about. And then, possibly one of my most
interesting episodes, because I'm heading down this track myself, was USB turntable fix and sound
journey, where Archer 72 uses a record, a sound and an FFM peg to record an album. Yeah, yeah,
I haven't completely absorbed this yet. It's definitely something I want to do, although I gave my
record deck to my son, who is quite keen on vinyl and stuff, but I shall have to borrow it back
off. Actually, I've got a young man's early record player thingy up in the attic somewhere,
because they're extremely cheap, oh, one sounds I'm disparaging my parents are buying it for me
and my teens. I wonder if I could repurpose that. It's probably got real valves in it somewhere.
Cool. Boom. Wait, 15 minutes for it to warm up. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I ordered a, I know you're talking about vinyl, but I have a whole box of cassette tapes to do
first, and I ordered a USB, you know, like a Walkman type format with a USB connection. I'm
wondering how crap it's going to be, or whether I should just use my H2 Zoom, which short, you know,
good audio cables in between, but we'll see closer to the time. In any event, on that happy day,
I will be referring to this episode. Yeah, yeah, some great stuff. I just, some of you
too has done here, and documented for us. That's amazing. Yes, that's the best of all.
Following day, we had Tukitoro, though, back with her show on the differences between C-sharp
and Haskell, and I like this because it kind of gave me a grounding on what the hell Haskell was
all about. Yeah, yeah. I know it's, I've said before, my friend Tom, who's a computer scientist,
absolutely loves Haskell. We don't use it much, but he just regards it as the most wonderful thing
ever, and I think it is, it's sort of a platform for learning about programming, I guess.
Yeah, absolutely. Sorry, go ahead or work. No, no, I just to say, I think that comment was made
in Tukitoro's show, but I didn't make a note of what she said, but yeah, it's, it sort of set
the set of marker in the in the sound, sorry, as I was concerned, too much so I forgot.
I see that computer files use Haskell quite a lot, one explaining some of the topics sometimes.
Yeah, yeah, I don't fully understand what they're talking about, because it was one show
what's a monead. I went into that thing at all, that'll be an interesting voyage and I came
at going, I don't understand. So yes. So the following day, we had the Matrix project without
Neo. So this was about the Matrix Foundation, some a team by the Linux and laws, obviously
an interview with them, and it was Neil Jensen, VP of engineering and element, and we use this
every day. So grids, little too, grids interview. Absolutely, absolutely. I don't know if Neil
Jensen is whatever go ever went to Old Camp, because there was a Matrix presence at Old Camp,
I think maybe a couple of years running, and lots of people were going and quizzing the people
at the desk there, as to what was going on. But yeah, so maybe we have met Neil at some point in an
Old Camp context. Yeah, yeah, really good. But it's quite an impressive thing.
It is, yes. And those of you listening Fostem is coming up and they, if you really want to see
Matrix at its best, have tuned into Fostem and you will see all the things that it can do.
Yeah, I know it's, is it, is it this coming weekend?
Yes, this weekend. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, absolutely. So yes, Master, let's go and
well, watch some of these things. It's cool.
Yeah, some facts, switches and help, and the interest from the whole dust thing do.
Don't ask, don't ask. It's, yeah, I just have, I'm so proud to just about these things because I
went through it to a certain extent and came at the other end thinking, well, thank goodness
that's over and I can go into a proper way. You asked me that, because you knew I was going to say
something like that, but I don't have any nostalgia for these things to talk. In fact,
my friend who I used to work with is very, very keen on open VMS as an old, old operating system.
But and I ran it for, ran, ran an instance for many, many years, probably about 10.
But I have no desire to go back to it. He, on the other hand, set it up on Raspberry Pi's
and stuff and messed about with it and things. So I just want to move on.
To tutorial on the other hand, said this brought back memories. This was fun to
listen to and remember how my first PC was handed down IBM 088 that I got from a local metal shop.
It had a whopping 640 kilobits of memory and two floppy drives. No hard drive at all.
There were no fan skill graphical user interfaces around the thing. All interaction was text mode
with keyboard. Yeah, yeah. Been there done that sort of thing. The following day we had
podman like Vigrant. And this was an episode from Latu whose show notes I must say has been
proved over the years so much so that I have been using this extensively. This is genius.
It allows you just to run a little container and it just opened up the world to me.
Very, very good show. I've referred several people to this one since.
Yes, yes, yes. I can see the use in all sorts of contexts. I don't necessarily have any need
at the moment that I can discern but that might just be my short-sightedness but good to know
should I ever encounter the need. Well, yeah, I use containers quite a bit.
And this just made this a lot easier. Yeah, um, following day we had Jezra,
flappin gums about old hardware and how I use it. And this showed everything.
Music, ducks, what's not to load? Yeah, yeah, yeah, typical Jezra.
I missed this show. It has done some jams in the past. This was a jams. Fantastic.
I must say I've gotten my own tool to migrate photos of SD cards.
Amazingly overkill. I think I've already done a show about it way back.
I just never really liked the idea of removing the files before. I was 100% sure that they were on
the destination. Yeah, yeah. That's a good point. Yes, I tend to keep them on.
I can't look quite a lot of the time. No, I mean, Andy, I don't swear.
Yeah, yeah, good luck. Good luck. Three, three off-site locations, no doubt.
Well, yeah, yeah, they're not in the camera. Yeah, so they're just in the camera.
Yeah. All right, you know, no, no comments on that. No comments on the next show, which was
somewhat on the air, a combination of mountain climbing and amateur radio. Basically,
you leg it up a mountain with all the kids that you need to transmit and you transmit stuff
when people listen to you. What could be simpler? Absolutely, absolutely. It's a great thing.
I had no idea that people did this sort of, nor did I, nor did I. Trust Benny. Exactly.
Well, it sounds altogether too much to fit for my too much exercise.
Yeah, yeah, I have trouble getting up the hill to the bus stop these days, so
I ain't going up no mountains. Bring a radio with you and we'll call again.
Andy, who, hatching stories, soft drinks, these are always popular, all pentast stories by
operator. And you know, you're in trouble when the link to the show notes links to the script that
says how to mass or lock all the accounts in the organization, you're pentastic.
Mass, PowerShell or lock script. That's a good, a great show. If you haven't listened to it,
give it a listen, folks. It had me in stitches. It's tremendous anecdotes about doing that sort of
work. Apparently, it's a lot more common, so it's great on the HBR of initials level,
but also I find them quite interesting. Yeah, yeah, it's a, it's a world I know nothing about really.
So yeah, it's a great revelation, as far as I'm concerned. So the next day in all comments,
either on my show about Android debugging and SCR CPY. If you have an Android phone, this is
absolutely useful for you. The show I talk about how to connect to Android debugging tools
remotely over the network, so you don't have to be plugged in on the USB cable. And then how you
can interact with the UI, like a VNC session or something like that with your phone as well.
Very, very interesting. Yeah, yeah. I need to get into this stuff myself a bit more than I have.
Yeah, yeah, good, great resource there. I found that the Android debugging tools are the only way
to reliably get files to and from your machine. ADV, space, pull, and then the destination
from where you want to get it on your phone, and then ADV push, and then the destination where you want
to put them. Because everything else is lying to you with simulings and permissions and simulings.
So one user has seized this view of the world and the other sees the overview of the world.
But with Android debugging tools, you're straight in as you're writing them where they're going to be.
For the most part, there are simulings as well, but at least the files over you expect them to be.
I just tend to use KDE Connect for my phones these days, but then I'm just shifting photos or
the sort of stuff off the thing. So the next day we had another one in basically a rant by operator
that could feel his frustration, particularly as look would have it if I was coming back from
getting a prescription from our own system here in the Netherlands. And we have it set up that if
you go to the doctor, then it's electronically goes to your chemist, and then your chemist will
put your prescriptions into like a ATM machine on the wall, and then you can go to the wall 24-7.
You get an email to say it's ready, and then you go to the wall any time I put it in your pink
cord and then get your medicines in gold. Wow, that's quite, that's quite sophisticated.
The way it's done here, if you've got repeat prescriptions, which I do have every 56 days,
I can repeat prescriptions. 56 being 228s, I guess, and pills coming in 28s quite a lot.
Then it just automatically gets filled by the pharmacist. So I have the one pharmacist who
have the deal with, and then I just go and collect it a day or so after the fill date.
And there you go. And of course it's free in Scotland, not in England, but prescriptions
are free, have been for quite a number of years. So I cover by health insurance here, so the bill
all goes to the health insurance provider and then they can they find it. But anyway, that's
irrelevant. But operators experience it in their original. Absolutely. So I'll read the
comment from Jane, who says empathise with you. Dear operator, I've prescribed the medicines
you discuss. It's a big old pain for doctors too. The Lord changed in 2021 that you're not supposed
to fill control substances with a paper prescription only electronic. I see my ADHD patients every
three months. The patient's called my office every 30 days in between for a refill and the refill
is done electronically from my desk. My patients don't have the problems you do. There should be a five
day leeway before your RX runs out. I use good RX for my own family's prescription. Makes a big
cost difference and I do not know how good RX works either. In order for the control substances
to act to change, it will take an active congress. So contact your congress member. It's well,
what can you say? It's a horrendous system. It's not perfect elsewhere, but wow, this this
is just dreadful. I think there's a read, the opiolites crisis. There's probably a very good reason
for doing it that way, but it's very frustrating, I can imagine. That would be the reason, I guess,
but to. But I mean, I think the USA has become a lot more cautious about this sort of stuff.
What is it? Sood of Fed, which is a thing that you take for allergies and that type of stuff,
which can, if you're up to doing the chemistry, be turned into an opiate of some sort.
So it's quite heavily restricted in the USA. It's restricted to some extent here, but not
anywhere near as much. Okay, it doesn't all that. I don't know the details, but I think if you
look it up, you can find quite a lot of information about how this is handled in various parts of the world.
Then the next day we had GWP with HP Steam Stream laptop under Ubuntu, and he's also talking about
Pine64, and I must say I agree with him. I have, I love Pine64 as a company as a concept. Well,
I've had very, very bad luck. The Pine laptop that I got the keyboard is you just cannot type on
the keyboard. I don't know what they thought were thinking, and I got the PinePhone and it overheats,
and they got the PineForting keyboard, and it doesn't work. So I just throw in money, because
that's a shame. Yes, as you say, the concept is great, but the reality doesn't, if it doesn't match,
then what's the point? It is the perfect like the PinePhone and the keyboard. It's like having a
sion in your hand. It's absolutely perfect, but I just plug it in, and then it doesn't work, and then
the next thing you're looking at is shimming the pull go planes and different operating systems,
and you do everything to see if you're doing the right or not, and then it turns out, yeah, yeah.
All right, Jess has a comment. Monty mint form. Did your Monty mint form ever come in? I remember you
mentioned it in a previous episode. Would love to hear your experiences with the phone. You and I
mean. So the next day we had the big blue button and NAS, and there's the outlaws again talking about
trying to configure a big blue button or behind network address translation, and once you start
dealing with turn and stun servers and all that sort of stuff, it is a pain in the water.
Yes, that can be a pain. Well, it's a solution for most people's network, set up of course,
but it's also a pain in other contexts. When I worked at the university, we used to have
constant battles with departments who decided they didn't have enough addresses and put a
and that router in. So that meant that we could no longer see their devices and addresses and
stuff like that, and it caused all sorts of problems with our DNS and this sort of stuff.
It just came. It meant that there was sort of stealth element to it, which was quite
quite prone to being attacked. We thought. So the following day, we had Rust 101, episode two,
rolling with the errors. This is where black colonel was taking a leaf out of tattoos and writing a
sample dice program as an example of how to write a rust program. And I enjoy this due to the fact
that he left in the errors as he was going on. Yes, yes, absolutely. That's a really necessary
thing to be able to see that it isn't a state of achieving perfection just straight out of the blue.
It's a thing where you sort of poke at it and it doesn't work until you think, oh, I know what,
I did wrong, I'm so on and so forth. Yes, I thought this was brilliant. It's really well done
show. I thought I liked the get lab content and the reference. So I was sitting and had the time
to sit down and look at it while I was listening. I'm usually putting around the house with headphones
on, but yeah, and he really explained it well. You could see, you know, as he did an approach to
the final program step by step, sometimes with errors, as you say, and you could see how it was
all going to come together and stuff. It's an odd, it's a sort of slightly weird language by my
standards, but of course, my standards are old and crusty. That's your excuse, I don't know what
I'm on. But it looks like something I should really have a go at using myself just to get the hang
of what you can do with it. Yeah, very, very cool. The thing was, I'm now looking at the source code
for the first time and it is exactly what I had in my head. So that's kind of cool. Yeah, yeah,
just he did an excellent job of tracking it and telling us about how it was assembled and the
thoughts behind it. And that was that is really high quality tutorial material, I would say.
Absolutely. And we had inversion lyrmord Steve, part of the GIMP series, and what I found
interesting about this one was that he also explained what's happening with the maths as he's
doing this. Yeah, yeah, there was also a little bit of a practical example mentioned. I haven't
been to the website to look at it, and I'm pet you, there's some good stuff there, but I haven't
had a chance to do it yet. But yeah, why you would want to do this is always the question. And of
course, it's due to lack of experience or imagination. Oh, yeah, but you know, I enjoyed the
reference to how you might want to use this. That was good. No, excellent. He does not get enough
credit for this. So people who should get credit for shows this month, Part 722, is or aspire
five slim, some serious upgrades going on here. Nice photos and everything else.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everybody on the 2D Future except me, Dave. Yeah, yeah, well, and me.
I did get a Raspberry Pi 0 W2, the intent of making it run Octoprint, but it's not
to do it yet. Anyway, not very exciting that one. And that was it for our shows for this month,
if I'm correct. That's right. Yes, I believe so. For once they stopped until.
I'm suffering from a single monitor, having been so used to having two,
about between tabs here, like a man thing. There were additional comments.
There was one to an episode from Clatoon back April of last year. And it was tune system performance
with tuned D, tuned, lost you, Dave episode. I was surprised to hear you say that you've never done
an episode on you, Dave, because I distinctly remember that episode you were discussing,
creating your own dev rules to automatically run tasks upon inserting a USB drive.
It may be that you've never done an episode on the HP R about it. I can't find it for the life of me.
Either way, thank you as ever for this episode. And when to go there was definitely an episode
about that, because I remember hearing it while I was on the bus going past they going from work
back to the airport, where I work as the airport is a train station. And I was just at a point
where an aircraft was landing over us. So I had to rewind it. There you go.
Well, I remember this as well. And I had a quick scan of the database. I couldn't find any
keywords like you Devon stuff. But yeah, but his own shows are the new ones are slightly better,
but the old ones are terrible. There's no metadata associated with them at all.
I used to tags as well, but nothing happened. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I certainly recall that because I
was struggling with you, Dev, at the time, and thought I got my head around it. But
Clatude was was ahead of me with that one. And so I remember using what he was talking about
to do my own things. I cannot remember what they were now. It's quite a while ago.
Yes. Yes. There's there's there's there's a lot of numbers. Yeah. Some comments, please.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I didn't tell for members it would be.
But yeah, there's a lot of work to be done still with the tagging of the shows. I mean,
they are all tagged, but sometimes the tags need further, further work.
Yeah, it's more a duplicate snail did. But it should have shown up by now.
Yep. Yep. So hopefully we will get this cleaned up a lot.
Right. Next comment was a comment on your show about 50 years since the first edition of Unix
was published. And it was from Why Not, who says, thanks great show.
I agree with previous comment. Listen to who just turned 51. So it's about how old you feel.
If you look back, those 50 years. And this person has just turned 51.
Once again. Yes. I know the feeling. How I record HPR episodes by Norris and just as a quick recap.
He had a script to that you run against a
markdown for. Thank you for this program and the introduction as a podcast. I just downloaded
the zip from GitLab. While trying the commands, I realized a section with dependencies is missing.
I think PIP is too large. So I usually do run it in a virtual environment. In other Python projects
like, and there's an example, there's a requirements.text file. I wonder if you would consider adding
one. That's retro. That's actually a good tip there. I find that very clever on PIP's part
that it was massively downloads to dependencies if you put them into the text file.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's quite good actually. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Fine.
So the last comment on past shows is on the big Christmas New Year bash with the grumpy's
from the next in-laws and operators says, love this show. Reminds me a little bit of Dev Random
Podcast. This one had a lot of laughs. You guys are my friends for now. Mine won't do anything.
All the days are hard for some most people. Shooting this shit and rounding are my favorite podcast
episodes. Thank you every sales. You're the only you you have. Excellent. So, was there any
mailing this discussion, Steve? Not a lot. Call for shows, unfortunately.
Very cryptic call for shows as maybe. I went through and met a note of all the times
I called for shows in the last 10 or so years. And Archer had a question about
to show the calendar on the main page and it is there it's a bit not obvious. It's called
the upload page and it's on the main menu so it's on every page. Yeah. Yeah.
It's if you don't if you don't realize what that is and it's easy easy to do what you did that.
Yeah exactly. Tuck-off 51 had a comment on our matrix channel about the having basically
a talker container which is where I use that pod band thing from tattoo show as a by the way.
And that allows you to download that and then you're running a little instance all configured
and you don't have to deal with the libraries and all the rest of that code.
And basically I was looking for some feedback on that.
And I put together a so migrate big supporter of the eSpeak voices.
And I put together a link there with a with a an org file of the four three or four different
voices played as a normal speed one and a half times two two and a half three three and a half
four four and a half and five times the speed. And basically leaving it up to people to decide
which one they prefer. So I'll add that here what you think Dave.
Mm-hmm. It took me quite a long time to develop a voice and now that I have it I'm not going
to be silent. It took me quite a long time to develop a voice and now that I have it I'm not
going to be silent. It took me quite a long time to develop a voice and now that I'm going to be
silent. It took me quite a long time to develop a voice and now that I'm not going to be silent.
It took me quite a long time to develop a voice and now that I'm going to be silent.
It took me quite a long time to develop a voice and now that I have it I'm not going to be silent.
And Nigel expressed his preference, which I won't say yours for fear of
taking your opinion. And again, where amazed at how fast Mike can read.
Yes. Quite a superhuman effort.
So that was pretty much that for the comments, I think, David, wasn't it?
I think so, yeah, the mailing list. There's not much on the events calendar thing, except
proposed them coming up. And a few days from our recording time, it'll be passed by the time
the show goes out there. I have an item here on just the track of the older shows that I'm
uploading to archive.org. I managed to do 120 this month. So that leaves 124
still to do. So hopefully, I think it's crossed. Get that 124 done before the next community use.
But don't, yeah, don't hold your breath. Very good, very good.
Okay, so that's it. That is it. Yes, yes, this is nothing else to discuss. Oh, look at.
So that's fine. Okay. People who often submit a show so far this year, please consider doing that.
New hosts, please come in. You always get priority. Pick the first available slot.
And tell us, tell us about yourself. And if you don't, I will be very disappointed.
And I will talk to your mother, slash parent guardian. Okay.
All right, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR is kindly
provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net. Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution, share a like,
and that will offer a high sense.
