Episode: 3324
Title: HPR3324: Infosec Podcasts Part 1  News and Current Events 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3324/hpr3324.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:48:48

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3324 for Thursday, the 29th of April 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Infosic Podcasts Part 1 news and current events,
and is part of the series' privacy and security it is hosted by Trey,
and is about seven minutes long, and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, presenting my favorite information security news and current events podcasts.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello again, this is Trey. This is part one of a six-part series related to information security podcasts.
Why am I recording this series? Well, the topic, what podcasts you listen to, was in the list
of recommended topics. I'm very passionate about information security, and we desperately need
people to fill information security jobs in many different specialties. Infosic is a rapidly
changing field, and it is critical to stay current. As a result, I listen to tons of Infosic
related podcasts. Because there are so many podcasts to list, I will break them down into
six different episodes based on the topics. Part 1 will be Infosic News and Current Events.
Part 2 will be General Information Security Podcasts. Part 3 will be Career and Personal Development
Podcasts. Part 4 will be Social Engineering. Part 5 will combine three different topics,
hacks and attacks, technical information and learning, and Infosic Community and Social History.
Finally, Part 6 will be Information Security Leadership. So let's get started with Part 1.
Infosic News and Current Event Podcasts. Why would you want to listen to them?
Well, first, you may want to stay current with what's happening for your own personal growth.
Or if you already work in IT or Infosic, you can have early awareness about attacks to look for,
and how to find indicators of compromise or what those indicators of compromise might be.
You can also learn new tools and techniques. Sometimes these can even give you a head start answering
questions from leadership when they ask you about what they've heard on the news or from up here.
So without further ado, let's get started on the list.
The first podcast I recommend to anyone in Infosic is the Sands Internet Storm Center Stormcast
hosted by Dr. Johans Ulrich. This is a daily podcast that drops early in the morning
eastern time. It covers the latest cybersecurity news. It is the first information security podcast
I ever started listening to, and it's still the first one on my playlist every day Monday through
Friday. You can find it by googling Sands Internet Storm Center Stormcast, or I will have the link
in the show notes. The second podcast I recommend is Cybersecurity Headlines. This is also a daily
podcast dropping fairly early in the morning eastern time US. It covers the latest cybersecurity
news, and it caps off every week with a Friday podcast that covers the weekend review and has a
special guest that discusses some of the topics they've covered during the week. This is part
of the CSOS series of podcasts. You can find it by googling Cybersecurity Headlines, or the link
will be in the show notes. The next podcast I recommend is the Cyberware hosted by Dave Bittner.
You will find that throughout this series I referenced several different podcasts hosted by
Dave Bittner. He's a great presenter and has a number of podcasts that have made my list.
The Cyberware is a daily podcast Monday through Friday, but it drops in the afternoon US time.
It covers the latest in cybersecurity news, and sometimes has interesting interviews.
You can find it by googling the Cyberware, or by clicking the link in the show notes.
The next podcast I recommend is the shared security show hosted by Tom Eston, Scott Wright,
and Kevin Johnson. This is a weekly show with news, tips, advice, and interviews with cybersecurity
professionals, and privacy experts. Just google shared security show, or follow the link in the show notes.
Next is another one of my favorites, the Transatlantic Cable Podcast. This is a sponsored show,
sponsored by Kaspersky. I will try to make a point of noting sponsored shows anytime that there's
their sponsorship by an organization, because that can induce a certain bias into the show.
The Transatlantic Cable Podcast is hosted by Jeff Esposito and Dave Bustin. It's a weekly
podcast that covers infosec news, discussions, and any other topics they may find of interest.
They also may interview other people from Kaspersky.
To listen to this podcast, simply google Transatlantic Cable Podcast, or follow the link in the show notes.
One of my very favorite shows is Security Now, hosted by Steve Gibson and Leo Laporte.
This is part of the Twitch TV network of shows. Steve Gibson is an amazing individual. He has been
around for a long time. He's the man who coined the term spyware and also created the first
anti-spyware program. He's the creator of Spinrite, Shields Up, and a number of other tools to really
help our lives get better. The show delves into hot topics in security every week. It is a weekly show.
The Spinrite tool that Steve Gibson invented has helped me salvage many a hard drive over the last
few decades. I'm a big fan of Steve. He's one of those people that continues to do all his
coding directly into assembly language. He does a great job of simplifying technical topics.
You can google Security Now, or you can visit the Twitch TV network or follow the link in the
show notes to get to that show. The next one I recommend is the Security Ledger. This is presented
by Paul Roberts. It's a weekly show. It kind of has a feel to it like National Public Radio,
just with the tone and the way it's presented. It's a weekly podcast that gives a mix of news and
interviews. You can google Security Ledger or follow the link in the show notes to get to that podcast.
The last one to round out my news segment is Risky Business Podcast. This is hosted by Patrick Gray
and Adam Buello. It's a weekly podcast and they discuss the week's cybersecurity news with an
interesting international perspective as they're coming from the Land Down Under.
They also have periodic vendor interviews and other things like that and there's snake oilers
segments so you can be aware of that. Also one thing to be note, sometimes because this is an
international topic or international podcast but many of the topics relate to the United States,
there may be some political discussion in them where their perspectives may differ a little
from those in the United States about whom they're reporting. I hope that this episode has
introduced you to some new sources of information. Give some of them a try and I would love to get
your feedback. Thank you for listening.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a
podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
