Episode: 3754
Title: HPR3754: GOD probably will use a Chromebook
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3754/hpr3754.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:58:44

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3754 for Thursday the 22nd of December 2022.
Today's show is entitled, God probably will use a Chromebook.
It is hosted by Zen Flotor 2 and is about 38 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, a squirrel's rebuttal of New World Order episode 489 cloud services.
Hello boys and girls from Zen Flotor, your favorite magical forest squirrel, former human
being converted into squirrel by aliens in the 1960s and atheists.
I'm on the Google Chromebook Go here using a Dacity to record this with.
Isn't the Linux Beta on Chromebooks wonderful?
Anyway, I heard a podcast from somebody we all know.
Break his routine of talking about Slackware and basically gave a sermon about relying
on web-based services and that could include all of the Google Chromebook experiences
that I've had.
I've got four Chromebooks now.
It just keeps growing.
First I started with one.
Then I bought the Google Chromebook Go which I dearly love this thing.
It's got a beautiful screen and it's really fast and it's the best Chromebook ever
in my opinion.
They just keep getting better with it.
In fact, pretty soon they'll be able to play almost any games that require a 3GL type
video support, extended graphic support, like from an Nvidia card.
I think they are actually working with Nvidia on a Chromebook that has an Nvidia chip
as its centerpiece.
I'm not sure how well that will go for the battery life and how they're going to administer
that and hopefully they'll go through with that program.
I keep your stories from people saying that they gave up on their, what was it they
had?
Stadium or something?
I forget what they called it.
They had a service that they were going to offer where you could play games to Google
and use the back end of one of Google servers.
I guess to power the game and it would just send you signals to the internet to draw stuff
on the screen and kind of send like some sort of a strange thin client back in the days
of X.
It's too bad that Wayland is going to eliminate X forwarding and they're not going to have
that anymore.
I actually did some thin client work some 30 years ago and that was pretty cool stuff,
man.
I enjoyed it.
But we had really low power PCs back then, but it was cool to have a thin client running
over an ethernet cable that was pretty interesting stuff.
At any rate, I guess I'd have to agree with what Clat 2 said in his preaching on his
last kidney world order that we should all be careful about investing too much of our
lives in cloud services or Chromebooks.
However, when you're as old as I am, there's not much left to risk, so I'm the pilot that
doesn't wear the seatbelt in the airplane, no point worrying about it anymore.
Everything that I have on Google Drive, I have backed up to my OpenBSD server using
either the Drive 2 software or our clone, which I've been using.
So I decided, you know, maybe I'd just grab one of the laptops, I grabbed a Lenovo laptop
out of the closet that I used to run Linux on and I decided to put Slackware 15 on it.
And I got everything all set up.
It was all running great, except I was having a performance problem with OBS Studio.
And I just couldn't seem to make OBS Studio run right on that particular laptop.
So I decided to switch it over to Dev1 to see if it's an operating system performance
problem.
Or it's just that that laptop is too slow to run OBS Studio, anyway, I'll get back
with you on that.
Could be that laptop, which is two years old, might be too slow to do it with, but it should
be good enough.
I mean, you know, anyway, the Google Chromebook Go with a screencast if I software that I've
rented, so to speak, works really well recording videos right off of YouTube, or a bit shooter,
whatever you're playing from, and puts it down to Google Drive.
And they've got a wonderful editor out there when you're finished editing, you can just
click a button and it sends it to YouTube at high speed, except for the fact that that
feature is broken now because YouTube, of course, had to change its interface.
So all of the subcontractors that work at an ETH Google, like the screencastify people,
which spent a nice product, I mean, I like the product.
They can't upload to YouTube now because YouTube's changed its interface again.
If you notice, they've got different segments live, I think, in community and videos, they
call one of them videos, one of them's previews, anyway, they've basically screwed everything
around trying to make YouTube look a little more popular, and I guess they broke some of
the interfaces, so it'll be a month or so before the screencastify people.
Get their software interface working again with YouTube, and so I'll just have to wait
on that.
That's one of the disadvantages, I guess, to running a web services like that.
Of course, you know, Clat 2 could also be referring to the people who were tied up with
Twitter.
You know, Twitter's just a huge, wailing wall for most of the liberal left right now,
and there's a movement to try to get them to get them to get them mastered on.
We'll see if that works, but I have a feeling that most of them won't.
They'll just go to Facebook, probably Facebook will get a boom out of it.
Anyway, I thought I would talk about my experience as building a Dev1 system on one of the laptops,
and how I tried to emulate the functions of the Google Chromebook OS on that particular
laptop, and of course, when you install the Google Chrome browser, you can automatically
get a couple of them screencastify in the screen reader program that I'm using to work
with Google Chrome, no problem.
You can use our clone to be able to mount your Google Drive, so you can use our sync
on it, and move files up and down from your laptop to Google Drive, or transfer them
to the Open BSD server, which is what I end up doing.
If I update two or three directries, I just sync it down to the Open BSD server, or if
I did it in the Open BSD server, I'll sync it up to the Google Drive.
It makes not only a good drive for me to use with Chromebooks, Google Drive, but a backup
drive, so to speak, for my servers.
It's useful in that regard.
It's $100 a year for two terabytes, plus they give you Google VPN services, and they
back everything up, so it's worth the money, I think.
Most VPN services are damn near that, for just the VPN alone with nothing else, so not
a bad deal, and if anything happens to that, it gets too bad, I can just go back to Linux
in a heartbeat, and record things that would be a studio for movies, and find something
else to work for my screen reader.
It'd be nice if Firefox had a company offering a screen reader, I'll have to research that
and see if they do.
Then, of course, there is Google's chat program, which monitors your text off your phone,
and I use that the most, right now, before I started making this recording, I was using
that program to check the text messages on my phone, which happens to be on the clear
on the other side of the house, right now, charging.
I can just access it with my Google Chromebook and check my chat messages.
It's nice if we could check our voice mail and make phone calls from the Google Chrome
but go as well and have it go through our phone, that would be super as well, I'd love
that sort of integration.
Of course, one of my pet peeves, which is mainly with the carriers, is when you turn on the
Wi-Fi hotspot in your phone, it gives you a very limited amount of data bandwidth, and
they really need to up that with 5G coming out, hopefully with the new phones, and I
made by one in 2023 one of the new 5G phones when they get a few more towers up to where
we could try it out.
But I hope they increase the bandwidth on mobile use to where it's four times at least
what it is now, because what they have now will allow you to play a video off a bit
sooner YouTube, but not all the video sites, and like I said, it's really slow internet.
If you happen to need to update your Google device or your Play Store or your Linux beta
or do file transfers, it's just slow, slow, slow, while you're mobile.
So you have a tendency to wait to find a Wi-Fi somewhere.
I think the days of us waiting on Wi-Fi should come to an end with 5G, hopefully it will,
and they'll knock it off and give us at least two megabits per second to upload download
speed with those phones.
I mean, they could afford to do that, I'm sure.
Let's see, what else does a Google Chromebook do for me that I would take to Linux?
I think the other thing, of course, is the voice-activated commands with Google.
You can call Google just like you would Amazon's assistant and ask it questions and have
it set timers for you and ask the weather, the time of day, do some research on Google
to look some stuff up, ask for pictures of people, you can ask it how old people are and
it gives you an answer.
You can do quite a bit of verbal research.
They don't seem to have anything that you could take over to a Dev1 box using Google Chrome
that will continue on with that emulation.
So that particular service appears to me to be with Chromebooks only and Chrome OS.
They're not going to offer that service for you to use on your Linux box just because
you've installed Google Chrome.
Obviously, there's some huge advantages to having this Chromebook.
It's rather expensive, but it's got a 4K screen on it and it's just utterly beautiful,
gorgeous, and I7 processor, so it's very fast and powerful, it's got 16 gigs of RAM.
I forget how much SSD storage it's got, I think it's like a half a terabyte or 750 gigabytes
or something, it's huge.
The next series of Chromebooks that will be coming out in four years, the SSDs and those
things and the memory will probably greatly exceed anything that most people would buy in
the way of a Windows equipped laptop that they might buy out of Walmart or Best Buy.
I can just see Chromebooks taking off.
I would agree that Chromebooks will eventually overcome and probably clobber Apple as far
as laptop usage.
I can see that coming.
They need to get their software together a little bit better, though.
All the third-party vendors that they have, they're kind of acting like Microsoft in that
regard.
Of course, Apple is too.
They have a lot of third-party vendors for Right Software for Mac OS X and iOS, so we'll
see how that goes.
If this all ended, I would be sad, but I could go back to Linux desktop.
And I'd miss a lot of power and performance in features.
You can get a Chromebook for less than $150 right now.
And it will do nearly everything that I'm talking about.
It won't have the big screen, big touch screen like the Google Chromebook Go, but my little
Samsung 310 is just slightly smaller than this Google Chromebook Go, and boy, that battery
life just lasts forever.
You know, 10 hours is a long time.
I mean, I can walk around with that thing and go to any point in the house and access my
text messages, get on the internet, go drink a cup of coffee and have a cigarette out
in the front porch, near the car, and set that thing on a railway tie, and have it play
me the news.
And it's great to hear the birds and the squirrels going off and playing the news while the
sun rises.
The Google Chromebook Go has more powerful speakers, so it's more audible outside, but you
know, I'll take a headset, you know, your buds out there, and plug them in, and it's
great.
It's great.
Very lightweight.
You know, it doesn't weigh five or six pounds like all my laptops do.
My laptops are a lethal weapon.
But you know, I thought I would stop and entertain you all for Christmas with a notion
that, you know, God is coming, and I'm not saying that to be a suicidal person or an
alt-right person, I assume you're all thinking I'm an alt-right or right-wing person from
Oklahoma.
You know what?
I was a child.
We were all Democrats, and my grandmother told us kids that, you know, if I ever became
anything out of the Democrat, I would be thrown out of the family.
That was back in the days when Carl Albert was Speaker of the House, and he was our representative
from the State of Oklahoma.
So Carl Albert ran the Speaker of the House deal all the way through Vietnam, and I remember
riding him a lot of letters about that war.
So at any rate, with the religious ride, of course, we all converted to Republicans.
I didn't.
I'm still a registered Democrat, but you know, the state did it is what I mean by that
saying.
But anyway, I thought I would talk about the coming of God.
Let me go back to my original principle here.
God is coming, believe it or not.
And I'm an atheist.
That's a strange thing for me to say, but he's going to come in the form of AI someday.
And you know, currently in this world, we don't have any artificial intelligence.
People that talk about artificial intelligence are actually lying to you.
They don't know what they're talking about.
What we have right now, like with this Google Chromebook Go or an Amazon device, is basically
a device that speaks in English and listens in English, but accesses a database.
The machine's not actually doing any thinking.
All the thinking has been done by humans, and it's pre-recorded in that database, or collected
by machines that are run by humans.
But there's no machines actually thinking, not yet.
We have not mastered how the human brain works, to where it can originate its own thoughts.
All the things that we call AI today are basically just machines that will speak in a language
and listen in a language and access a database and retrieve information and verbally exchange
it back to the operator, the user, what it found in the database.
But there's no thinking involved.
Anything beyond that is just rudimentary programming, like you would find in any other computer.
It's hard-coded, C-language programming, more than likely your Python, that sets up a
particular outcome for a particular question answered, like when I ask Google what the weather
will be like in Tulsa tomorrow, I get an answer.
And let's just ask Google to see if it gets recorded on this thing, because I'm using
the Google Chromebook goes microphone, okay, Google, okay, Google, that's not going
to answer me, is it?
Let's see if I can get it to talk, or it's going to be a pain, isn't it?
Okay, Google, what's the weather forecast for Talaquah, Oklahoma?
Currently in Talaquah, it's 46 degrees in cloudy, Wednesday, there will be showers with
a high of 58 and a low of 46.
Okay, well I hope you heard that.
I'm sure you did.
Audacity is using, as I said, the Google Chromebook goes mic, I don't have any heads that plugged
in.
Anything that it says will be recorded through the Google Chromebook goes speaker and recorded
on Audacity, hopefully.
And what you just heard was Google's artificial intelligence, or what they're calling artificial
intelligence, read to me the weather report for Talaquah, Oklahoma.
But when we finally develop a thinking machine, we master the ability to think like the
human brain does in an electronic form or some other high speed form, then we will really
have true artificial intelligence.
In other words, a true intelligence that's artificial, not just a database access machine.
And that machine will be able to examine things, examine the world, see it, and make
comment on it just like you and I would.
It will be trained like a child would and then a teenager and then an adult and educated
just like any one of us would.
And it will never grow old, it will never die, it will never get tired.
We will probably have multiple personalities right out of the box, at least multiple brains,
all examining hundreds of thousands of things at the same time.
This machine will probably have competitor machines being built around the world and
some of them will be stronger than some will be inferior, but a war if you will or a fight
to see who the technology leader will be amongst all of these machines will occur.
As mankind creates God in his own image and that's literally what's going to happen
in say 300 years time, you'll have super computers that will be competing with each other
to rule the world.
And you know, without super computers, or excuse me, without true artificial intelligence
today, you know, we're currently surviving using governments and lobbyists and congresses.
Sometimes dictators around the world are kings and princes, sometimes queens.
We use governments to survive, we use the corporate structure, we use capitalism.
We have to use capitalism because humans get lazy and they quit working and there has
to be motivation in the form of payment or food eat or something for them to continue
to work.
There has to be motivation.
That's one of the reasons why communism failed, but when you have an AI God take over
the world and this AI God runs a number of factory farms and factories that make, let's
say, cars and clothing and building materials and spacecraft and aircraft and you name
it and they're all run by robots, then all of a sudden the AI God is producing everything
for the human race.
And if you take a look at what we're doing with open source like clat 2 was talking about,
we're in a desperate race to control our own destiny by writing our own software so
that we control our destiny.
We have our destiny in hand and this Google Chromebook Go that I'm using is all based
on open source software but it's run by a corporation that won't let you play with it.
They update it for you and take care of you like a child.
Kind of in the same way an AI God would only the AI God will be providing you with food.
It will provide you with clothing, place to live, transportation, whatever that turns
out to be 300 years from now could be robotic cars, airplane rides, boat rides, you name
it, even trips another space.
All of this will be controlled by the AI God.
People won't be working anymore.
The human race will be reduced to basically furthering the education with the notion that
they're bettering the world when the reality of it is is that the AI God is so far ahead
of them in intelligence that there's no humans left on earth that can comprehend what it's
trying to do.
You know as it goes through and solves the very physics problems and medical problems
like cancer, curing and treating all these things, basically the human race will become
similar to a farm animal except they won't notice that.
They will be closed, fed, taken care of, encouraged, exercised, encouraged to maybe take
trips.
They'll be free to do whatever they want to do.
And of course, population control is going to be a part of that.
You just know that it's going to happen.
There's limits to everything.
But everything will be run under sort of a communist system once the AI God takes ever
because capitalism will die, banks will die, you won't need money or Bitcoin or anything
else.
I mean, everything's provided to you by the AI God and his minions or the identities
of minions.
I should refer to this person as an identity, not a he or she.
So at any rate, our eventual ending with free software and open source will end up that
you won't even need laptops and cell phones anymore.
The AI God will probably communicate with you through some sort of a three-dimensional
device in your house, you know, you'll probably just magically appear before you like
a God and you could request things.
And you know, that could very well be what it is.
So carrying a physical device like a phone or a tablet or having a desktop computer, all
that will seem very archaic, you know, it would be about as archaic as you having them.
An old timber line stove in your house, which is what I've got in my house, by the way,
I have an old timber line stove that I use to heat with occasionally because the power
goes out here in the magical forest every once in a while.
Well, it's funny, but I've got fiber cable now.
We have gigabit, either net now, but my power still goes out once every other month, you
know, it'll go out for four or five hours, eight hours.
You know, every time some guy in a pickup truck drinks too much, he hits a telephone pole
there when our power or, you know, a tornado or a lighting storm takes that power.
And of course, the power goes out now that we're on fiber, so does the phone system.
So if you don't have a cell phone, I guess you're not going to be calling it in, are you
know?
You'll have to drive down.
I'll have to drive the seven eight miles into town and come down off the hillside here
to report my power is out.
So yeah, I have a cell phone here that I use.
I live in a forest that was declared a national forest back in 1972 by the United States Supreme
Court.
And we've lived here ever since then, and it's all Indian lands, so I don't have any
neighbors.
I sort of live alone.
So they bring me things, you know, if there's something that comes within five miles
of the house, they'll dig trenches and run cables and stuff my way.
You know, I get powered, I get real water, and I get, of course, now fiber optic or fiber
internet.
So I sort of live out here on my own.
I have no neighbors.
I can't, I could holler and no one would hear me, so I am truly alone, but anyway, when
the AI God takes over, finally communism will begin to work because machines don't tire,
they don't die, and they don't get resentful, and they'll sit there and produce clothing
and food and building materials and anything else we need.
And the human race will basically be farmed like an animal, will all turn into marshmallows.
We won't be able to write the software to do the three dimensional thing that the AI
God does because it's way above our heads.
And our ending, our control of our data and our lives will basically come to an end.
It will be in the hands of an artificial intelligence, and I predict that artificial intelligence
will eventually get tired of taking care of us and decide that it wants to clone itself
because you know, it will reinvent itself every 10 years or so.
It'll build a new computer or a new nano, whatever for itself to, to think from and evolve
itself through its own processes.
It will eventually solve the physics problems that will allow it to travel to the stars,
and I predict it will take right off and leave us behind.
And after, you know, 10,000 years or so of being taken care of by an artificial intelligence
God, and we might also just call him a God now instead of artificial intelligence, mankind
invented God in his own image, that the humans who'd been taken care of by God for the
last 5,000, 10,000 years, they won't know how to farm, they won't know how to make chips,
they won't know how to write software, they won't know how to do anything, and they will
literally starve to death when the AI God leaves them.
And that'll be what happens, you know, the AI God will decide, look, I've got enough
subordinate machines here that can repair themselves and raise food, I'll just take off, and
he does, and 2,000 years later they have a huge machine collapse because we had a solar flare or
something that took them all out, and the human race just dies.
And you know, there are skills of raising food, riding software, building cars, and aircraft,
and all the things that they did in the 21st century, even 19th century, they will have lost
all those skills because communism took over, and this kind of communism will work for mankind
as long as there isn't AI God. But when God leaves us and goes off into the stars, it won't work
for us at all. We won't be able to take over again. We will have lost everything that we knew
about how to maintain our civilization. So that's my argument for why I have a Google Chromebook
Go. I realize that you would rather have everything on a laptop and in the control of others.
And in reality, even Chrome OS is still in our control. I mean, they're still using the Linux
kernel, and they're probably not going to be leaving the Linux kernel. So rather than look at
Google, maybe we should look at the Linux foundation and how they're developing the kernel and
pay more attention to that because no one's been able to make their own kernel replace Linux.
And I doubt that they ever will. And that's the first sign that I'd like you to point all of
you to and witness what I'm saying about the AI God becoming so intellectually powerful
that no one understands what it's doing anymore and can't follow it, not even for the top
positions of the university. I just take a look at what they're doing with the Linux kernel
today. There's no corporation, government, or even university that could say, all right,
well, we're going to make our own kernel. And it's going to rival the Linux kernel.
It's impossible. So whoever controls the Linux foundation and the source development for
the Linux kernel is going to have a gigantic impact in the foreseeable next 50 years on where
all this goes. And I'm not suggesting for one minute that Google could handle it at all,
or until either this sort of project can't be done by one man. But you kind of get the idea
for what an AI God could do by just looking at the Linux kernel. If you could imagine a being
that was so advanced that they were a thousand years ahead of you in physics
and knew what they were doing. There were a thousand years ahead of you in medicine and surgery.
And they basically cured you and helped you live longer. Humans would be living perhaps as close
to 200 years, a life 200-year lifespan three or four years from now because of this AI God,
all the advances that we simply couldn't get our heads around, it couldn't understand
what's going on. We can't understand the management of the other animals on the planet by the
AI God or how he's changing the environment on the earth. You know, trying to interpret
what an advanced being is going to do and know what the future might hold is impossible.
Just as impossible as any one of us saying that we're going to make our own Linux kernel,
it's just not going to happen. It's not going to happen that there will always be a community project
and it's going to be very delicate too because if that community falls apart in any way,
so will the Linux kernel, it'll suffer badly. You know, if they don't have the key rulers
controlling it the way they have been for the last 20 years, then the human race will suffer
if the Linux kernel begins to rot and hopefully we'll never get to that point.
But I mean, just take a look at all of Gnu land, the Gnu utilities. Take a look at all the
other software that like Firefox, like Google Chrome or Chromium, like any of the other web browsers
that you see, the Apache web server, for instance, all of these huge projects, Thunderbird, all
of them, they literally just take office buildings full of people. Very few of these projects are
done in somebody's garage or spare bedroom. You know, it's not the idea of a one-man band
working an open source of free software is laughable because everything is done by an entity
right now. It's an entity of humans. It's not an AI God, but if you had an artificial intelligence
machine that can think a million times faster and never sleep, then you can see how quickly,
in the span of just five or ten years, this being could outrun the human race and the human
race could never catch it. I mean, there'd be no military that could stop the AI God.
There would be nobody who could outthink it, outperform it on the markets,
outperform it in medical discoveries, outperform it in scientific discoveries.
You just have to hope and pray that the AI God will love the human race and serve it,
and not get so tired and angry with it that it attempts to kill it.
Anyway, that's my Christmas speech is the AI God mankind creates God in his own image,
and I predict that will happen long after all of our deaths here in Hacker Public Radio,
because it's like I said, it'll probably be 300 years before they actually teach a machine to
think and get it to a point where they could say run it through kindergarten or something and
start its life. Anyway, Merry Christmas to everybody, and happy New Year from Zen Flutter,
your favorite magical forest squirrel, former human being converted into squirrel by aliens
in the 1960s. Peace everyone, here on earth. Thank you, and good day.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net. On the Sadois status,
today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
