Episode: 3926
Title: HPR3926: Karate Do: An Overview
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3926/hpr3926.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:31:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,926 from Monday the 21st of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Pirati Do An Overview.
It is hosted by High Pernick and is about 45 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is.
Pernick talks about Pirati, its meaning, and some of the things he has learned.
In today's episode, I'm going to talk about Pirati.
I haven't recorded episodes for almost a year.
Since then, many things have occurred in my life.
I'm now in college. I'm studying computer science.
I know that I have organized my time.
A lot better.
I'll be recording or I'll be striving to record an episode monthly.
I have very interesting topics to share with you that I have learned in college.
I will be talking about them in future episodes.
Today's topic is Pirati.
I don't have a really fine structure for what I'm going to say.
I'm mainly going to say what Karati means.
He is really about Karati and some of the translations of Karati are words.
I'll also talk about the basis of Karati.
And some things that I have learned from my sensei.
As I'll introduce new concepts, I'll explain them.
And yeah, so let's start.
What does Karati mean?
There's a great analogy from Gishin from Akoshin.
He's the father of mother Karati.
He was born in Kinawa in 1968.
And he's one of the key people that introduced Karati to all of the world through his exhibitions.
Another thing I want to say before moving on is that the words and some of the things I'm going to say
are right then down in the show notes.
So you can understand more concepts I'll talk about.
And also see how the words of pronouns in Japanese are reading.
In his book, it is called Karati the Keohan.
Gishin from Akoshin gave an analogy of how he's a Karate.
Karate is someone who practices Karate.
That's how he or she is called.
Okay, so he says, does he's like green bamboo stock?
Hello, Karate inside, straight and with knots that is selfish, gentle and moderate.
Okay, Karate though, or Karate, literally translates the way of the empty hat.
Karate means empty.
As in Karate, the means hat.
And though, it's white, so the way of the empty hat.
Empty hat, it is because Karate doesn't use any weapon.
You just use your body and your hands.
But also it has a more profound meaning as Gishin from Akoshin.
Karate is about being empty and hollow from bad thoughts, being selfish.
This Karate is about striving to be better, having courtesy, being gentle.
And something that Gishin from Akoshin emphasizes a lot is being humble.
So even though you know a lot of things about Karate, you don't come saying to others.
But you know, yeah, being arrogant.
Well, something I forgot to mention that I've been practicing Karate since I was seven years old.
But it's until now that I am really interested in Karate.
It's until now that I really understand what Karate means.
My parents brought me to Karate classes because of the values of Karate.
Discipline, yeah, as I said before, being gentle, being moderate, being humble.
Also being empty of laziness, which at the beginning, well, at the beginning when I was starting practicing Karate,
I wasn't very happy to wake up early in the morning and to practice Karate.
Sometimes, yeah, sometimes I had laziness, sometimes I was lazy.
But I have learned a lot of things and I have advanced through this way.
I am now a purple belt.
I literally talk about the hierarchy of the color of the belts.
Well, yeah, that's what Karate means.
Karate, it is also something you don't only practice in that.
Though you do, there is a physical place where you train.
But rather, as Kishin for Akashi said, every place can be a do you.
So every place is good to practice Karate, to be humble, to be gentle.
Not only practicing Karate physically, but practicing those values, those key values in Karate.
Well, Karate, there are some misconceptions about Karate that I want to clarify.
Many people practice or they begin practicing Karate because they want to learn self-defense.
They may have been attacked before they want to learn how to defend.
But that's not maybe the purpose of Karate.
That's like a bonus.
Karate, I can bet that many of the grace and say of Japan never used Karate in a real life situation.
Like Kishin for Akashi and the other grace and say of Japan.
That is something that reflects also in a phrase of Kishin for Akashi.
One of his 20 percepts that I later put on the show notes, holding Q to them.
It is the percept says there is no first attacking Karate.
It is really any Kishin for Akashi's thumb.
And that reflects in Karate.
There is something called Katai.
Katai is one of the three bases that I later talk about.
And Katai is a series of techniques that simulate or symbolize real combat.
And in every Katai in the Karate, there is always the first movement.
There is no Katai that is charged with an attack.
That also means that well the best fight is the one you avoid.
I agree with that.
You should always be careful with using Karate, using practical things about Karate, the movements, attacks, the defenses.
Both because you can well injure a severe warrior person and may even kill that person.
And also well because...
Well yeah, that is not the purpose of during those attacks and defenses.
Things Karate is more about having peace during self-defense.
That is like bonus.
And also well, it depends on the country you're leaving.
But if it happens that you fought with someone, even if it's a thief or someone who attacked you first,
and you injure that person, severely, he's very bad.
He's very bad state.
You could get into trouble with authorities because well, you knew Karate.
You know Karate and a lot of people didn't.
So that's disadvantage.
You could get into trouble.
The first thing that...
One of my, since I said the best thing you can do is just...
And also depending on the situation, the best thing you can do is just rehabilitate that person if that's a word.
Yeah, let me, sorry, let me cherish, so I can confirm.
And then yeah, you just run.
Oh, well, there's a translation and not sure if that's the correct word.
But it's like disqualify, or let me write some other thing.
Yeah, like, no, it's a disabled person.
Yeah, you disabled that person.
You just punch him, or you make him...
Sorry, there isn't a word for that.
You like, yeah, like you take out his breath, his air, and then you run.
Okay, so moving on the topic.
Something interesting about well Karate is that it doesn't matter your age or your gender or anything.
You can always practice Karate at every moment in your life.
Many of the Sunsays in Japan, the first Sunsays in Japan, they are all old.
Because well Karate is a way, so you age practicing Karate.
And it doesn't matter people, I've seen, or people that...
It's very Karate when they were younger, not so young, they were old.
It doesn't matter because Karate adapts or you adapt Karate in the training to yourself.
And as you improve Karate, you also improve your physical condition.
So that's something great about Karate.
And that's another bonus you improve in your physical health.
Okay, so another thing about Karate.
Well, yeah, Karate has influence from China.
Karate was developed in UQ Kingdom.
It was a kingdom in their UQ islands from 1429 to 1879.
It was, yeah, it has been developed the modern Karate by Kishin Funa Koshim.
And he introduced it to all of the world.
Well, let's talk about the main basis of Karate.
Karate has three main basis.
They are Katan, that I mentioned before, Kihon.
And Komite, well, Karate Katai, I already defined it.
And Karate, in Shuttagane style.
There are other styles, I'll tell you about that.
In Shuttagane styles, there are about 19 katas, if I'm not wrong.
Of those, I only know around half or a little bit more.
Well, in Katan, yeah, as I mentioned earlier is a symbolic fight.
And it's also similar to Kihon.
Kihon is also a series of movements, but they are all in straight line.
And they are mainly used to practice your position, your form, your dashes,
or the positions of your legs.
So there are different positions.
Some examples are synced to that, qi, qi, qi, qi, qi, qi.
And Kihon is used for improving those areas, those positions, techniques.
And it is also used when you're being evaluated by your sensei
to continue advancing through the belts.
And last, it is, it's combat.
I know that I said before that Karate is not about.
It's not focused mainly on self-defense, or like that combat part.
But it is also important to be skillful that even because it's not the main focus of Karate.
But it's, as I said, as I said before, it's a bonus.
So it is important.
In Komite, there are two categories.
So when you're starting learning Karate, you just practice basic Komite, basic combat.
You don't have, like, not physical contact, but you don't...
Yeah, the best way of seeing it is with the difference with free combat.
So in free combat, you name implies you're free to move and you're free to attack as you want and defend as you want.
In basic combat, there are pretty fine structures.
And there, that's the Komite you learn when you're beginning.
In competences, and even in the Olympic Games in Japan,
that's when Karate was first introduced into Olympics, into Olympic Games.
Karatecas, or practitioners of Karate, competed in the two categories of Kata and Komite.
Because, well, as I said before, Kihon is more used to evaluate you.
So yeah, those are the three basis of Karate.
Before moving on, I want to say or mention the Do-Yokuun.
Do-Yokuun is the set of rules for when you're training.
Do-Yu, as I said before, is the place where you train.
Well, I'll be alternating between Japanese and English.
So the first, they are five rules.
So the first one is, he does Jin-Kan-ku-Kan-sei-ni-nutsu-tomoroku-to, that translates.
So yeah, that translates to a strike for completion of character, or a seek perfection of character.
He tells you, Makatonomishi-omamuro-koto.
Be faithful, protective way of truth.
Be punctual, that's something very important.
He tells you, do-Yokuun-no-sashino-jashino-koton.
That's like, each person must, and they are fostering the spirit of effort.
Hitatsu-rayon-no-suro-koto, respect others.
And finally, Hitatsu-keki-no-jou-e-mashi-muro-koto, which translates to,
which translates to, refrain from violent behavior.
As you may have noticed, every, each of these rules starts with,
Hitatsu-to-hitatsu-word, that translates to first.
And that means that every rule is at the same level.
All of them are important.
And, well, this do-Yokuun, the do-Yokuun, reflects the values of karate,
reflects the values of karate.
What I, yeah, some of the things I mentioned before,
refrain from violent behavior, striving to be better, having discipline.
Well, yes, I wanted to talk about the hierarchy of the belts.
So, the first belt is white belt.
All of these belts have, all of these colors of the belts have,
belt colors have meaning.
And it is not casualty that the first belt, or the first obvious,
this setting Japanese is white, it's like the beginning being clean.
Of everything, it's starting a new path.
Then every belt has its meaning.
Then we have yellow belt.
Then we have orange belt, blue belt, green belt, purple belt.
Then we have brown belt, black belt.
Those last ones are important.
When you get to the black belt, you listen and say,
you're the master.
You can be the master of some of others.
And, brown belt, when you're in brown belt, you're as in white.
And that's like preparation from being the master of others.
So, when you get to that point, that point, you must give a good example.
You should also have train others because you,
part of karate is also helping others and teaching them.
So, when you get to brown belt, you must prepare to teach others and help others.
I don't remember if I mentioned it before, but I am purple belt.
No, I think I didn't.
So, yeah, purple belt.
What my belt or hobby means, or emphasizes in,
is common controlling yourself.
And that's also something related to what I said for karate.
It's about searching peace and having an auto-control.
Yeah, I think that's a word over yourself, auto-control, yeah.
Well, other words, karate, karate, that's a uniform you use when practicing.
Well, something really important is that when you get to brown belt,
there are three different brown belts and they are all,
you friendship them with a term you call dash,
sorry, it's a first-dan, the condan, third-dan of brown belt.
And in black belt, there are ten dance.
So, well, it's a whole life.
It's like third or fourth-dan.
And it's a whole life, it's a path.
And there are many things to learn.
Something may say, yeah, say, that black belt is just the beginning of the,
it's kind of the beginning.
So, yeah, there is a lot of learn to learn.
I think I may hopefully go to a next year to brown belt,
and maybe since now four years,
four years since now, I'll be black belt.
Yeah, it's all my, I want to practice all my life.
Karate.
Well, something that I just remember is that Karate,
one of the concepts of Kishin Funakoshi is that the beauty of Karate
comes from practicing it every moment of your life.
That's where the beauty of Karate comes from.
Well, let's talk about styles.
There are different styles, depending on the sensei.
The style that was developed by Kishin Funakoshi Shota Karate style.
It is called as that, because Shota was the nickname of Kishin Funakoshi.
And Karate is like a house, or tell you.
So, people say, well, let's go to Shota Karate to the house of Shota.
And there are other styles I don't know their name.
Right, they defer mainly on the katas performed.
Mainly on that, and maybe some of the techniques used for the katas.
Another thing interesting about Karate is that there is Okinawan Karate and Japanese Karate.
They defer mainly on the dashes.
If I'm not wrong in Okinawan Karate,
the dashes are the positions of the legs.
They are little, or more little.
Because they focus more on being, that's called, sorry.
Yeah, like, practically.
I think that's the word.
Yeah, like being practical and performing the techniques.
Something to mention, or you have to mention about Karate,
that Karate also focuses on being like the beauty of performing the techniques.
So, Germany techniques are a race of moving your body that doesn't matter how you perform there,
because they are not part of the attack or the defense itself.
But with Kalman, having control over yourself,
you can perform them in a beautiful way.
So, that's also beautiful about katas.
And well, let's talk about some of the katas, in short, the Kune style.
There are, yeah, as I said before, 19 katas.
The first three of them you learn when you begin practicing Karate,
are the Kikushion, the Kikunian and the Kikusandan.
The Kikuku means first cause.
And it's also, as my sensei said, the last cause,
the sensei is from Japan, world sensei is with the highest that,
with the tendon of black belt, a practice, the Kikushion.
It's like your first and last cause.
Then there are five heian, heian, shon, heian, heian, shon, heian, shon, heian, golan.
You may have noticed that at the end of the names of the katas,
there are the words shon, heian, shon, shon, heian, shon,
well those are how, that's how you count in Japan.
In Japanese, sorry.
So, the first number is each.
Then you have Ni, Sam, Chi, Go, Roku, Hishi, Hashi, Kyu, Yu.
So, yeah, there's the last heian, heian, go, heian, golan.
There are five heian, heian.
And heian means my name, peace.
And heians were given right from a cataclet called Kankudai.
Kankudai is, look at the sky, it's like looking at the sky.
Yeah, look at the sky, that's how it translates.
I think I'm not sure, but yeah, those are short words for the large meaning.
Look at the sky or heian, just a word for a mighty peace.
But I think it derived from pro-mother names,
but that's the simplified version of saying them.
Okay, so Kankudai, it's look at the sky.
And it's called like that because of the first last movement you perform.
The first movement, I'll post in the show,
some videos of Kankudai, heian, and heian, so they keep the cookies.
So you can see them.
In Kankudai, you start with your hands, hands down, and they're from a triangle.
And then you slowly move your hands upwards until you see the sky through the triangle.
And then you separate your hands, and then you continue.
You later see some of the videos.
And there is another cataclet, Basadai.
Basadai translates entering or penetrating the fortress.
I just go like that because of the strong movement performed at the beginning of the cataclet.
Well, Kankudai and Basadai, they have like brothers.
So there is Kankushion, Basadshion.
They are like little brothers.
I think if I'm a hero, you learn them in black belt.
I am in purple belt, and I learned Kankudai in green belt, and heian,
I am now learning Basadai and Takeshion, and something before moving on with Takeshion.
I said that Kankudai derived five hands.
The reason for that is that Kankudai is really difficult.
There are Kankudai consists of 65 techniques, 65 movements, and if you don't control your breath and your energy,
you will end up without air and performing back, back, wrong.
So it is difficult and it was separated into five hands.
I don't remember who, who, what's it say, separated them, post dating the show notes.
He separated into those five hands so people could learn them first and then Kankudai.
Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takeshion, Takes
There is one called MP, there is another one called Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Gank
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, G
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku, Ganku,
cake, something another thinking pertaining karate, or in, and also in, yeah, Katan in
Komite, because while the archetype is like a stimulated combat, is the, are the, the
stability you must have with your legs, so especially for example in Kankudai, there
are a lot of little things you even have to jump, so you have to have a good
stability, yeah that's another thing very important, something well now let's
talk about things important in Komite, in Komite it is really important to, to
shout, yeah to shout, so when you perform, when you in, even in, in, uh, basic
Komite or in pre-Kmitai, combat, in pre-Kombat or in basic combat, you, you have to
shout, you, there are different types of ways of shouting, yeah shouting is, sorry,
yeah shouting, you say something like, yeah, you shout that word, I don't, I think that
word has a meaning, but the point is like, like when you shout, you have, you concentrate
all your strength, and it is important in Komite, sometimes if you don't shout, the judges
can notify your, your point, another thing important is the being quick, like, like a cat
for example, there's an analogy that makes it and say it taught me, if I, if I
broke false to, towards you, yeah, normal people would move their arms to that
head trying to protect it, but while the rock will still break it, or, yeah, keep them,
and even kill them, and you think that maybe a Karateka would use a technique like, I
have a letter, a letter you see with an image what, I have a case, you decide offense, you
think that a Karateka will use like a kind of offense with the arm to protect from the rock, but
anyway, you will break your arm and die, so the best thing you can do is to, and the most
intelligent thing that you can do is just move to one side, that's the easiest thing to do,
and people don't tend, and even Karateka doesn't tend to think on their legs, because, well, we,
we have like, the arms more close to that, head to the brain, our brains, that, that, our legs,
sorry, so you don't think a lot about using your legs or moving with your legs, and that's something
should do in Kumite, you should first think in the legs, in a moving towards the opponent or, our
backwards, and something very interesting, there's a movie, sorry, I'm just checking the name,
yeah, there's a movie with Tom Cruise called The Last Samurai, it is from 2003,
yeah, there's a great scene, I'll try to find it in YouTube and post it in the show notes,
so you can see it, there's an interesting one, Tom Cruise, he's practicing with
wooden sword, and he's like losing the combat, losing the simulation, so there's a Samurai that
says, says to him that he's having a lot of mind, mind, opponents, mind, short, mind, opponent,
no mind, Samurai said, so that's something important in Kumite, you don't, there's, you enter like
in a state where you don't think, yeah, something like that, you're empty, and it's like
through instinct that you defend and you attack, you don't think it'll be a pony, you don't think
on your fists, you don't think on people watching you, nothing, that it's an interesting
state of mind, it's like relaxing, a combat, it's like a dance, you must be relaxed, there are
some times where you have to, sorry, I was searching, I've received from Kishin for Nakashi,
the mentions that something similar to what I am saying, yeah so there are moments where you are
tense, some moments where you are relaxed, I'm searching it, sorry, yeah it says something like
the main point of Kumite is interchanging, like bouncing between
relax, positions, relax, yeah, relax moments, moments where you have to put all your force and
all your energy, that's something very important, well I say of these things about Kumite, but I have
never been on a free committee in a free combat, this month will be my first competition with
free combat, I've been practicing but well it's very different from when you practice from when you
yeah compete with a person, where you can attack him and he may attack you and even
injure you, so yeah I think I hope I am prepared and yeah I think it's more of relaxing yourself,
I think everyone has fear but if you demonstrate it you lose, yeah I hope I offer from well,
what else can I say, something interesting that you can learn to differentiate some
defense techniques and some attack techniques is that defense techniques tend to end with
okay work, so there is a okay that I mentioned it before, so okay we should get should okay
and defense techniques tend to end with a Ushi board, so there's MP Ushi that's
kick with the elbow, MP means elbow, there's also that tsuki which is like like a kick with
um yeah like you were that's a hammer, yeah that's a way you how can you differentiate techniques
well yeah that's the main thing I wanted to say about karate, there's another phrase from Kishin
from Akashi that says from of the universe's emptiness and emptiness is from itself, it is something
you must see when practicing karate like being empty, think when you're doing things in
and in general you overthink a lot, you think a lot and you it is better when you don't think
and you just do the things, my sensei had a seminary last year in which he practiced with
Japanese sensei and that practice he was performing he was performing a lot of katas and he ended
and he started over and many times and in your mind as he was thinking he was very tired and
but everything is in the mind, pain is in the mind, so you have the ability to continue, there's also
something that reflects that it is reflected from from the doyoku fostering the spirit of effort,
so even if you're tired focusing endeavoring fostering, yeah well um yeah those are the main things
I wanted to talk about karate, I want to encourage you to to enter this and to start walking through
this path, this beautiful way, it doesn't matter your age, you can always start practicing karate,
it just takes discipline and effort, but you later begin to love karate, um well to end this
episode, I want to thank klatu for the episode, for the episode about how to make friends, I used
the trick or the trick or tip of complimenting, yeah giving a compliment, last week I went out with
Gerala and I gave her a compliment on his quotes, and yeah that was a good tip to to break the ice
and also to keep, it gave another topic to talk about, so it was cool, so thank you klatu for
that, and yeah well I hope you have enjoyed this episode, I'll be recording some other episodes on
my topics, some computer science topics, or if you want to hear more about karate just let me know
in the comments, um well thank you very much. You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio, does work, today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself,
if you ever thought of recording podcasts, and click on our contribute link to find out how easy
it really is, hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive
and our things.net, on the Sadois status, today's show is released on our creative comments,
attribution 4.0 international license.
