Episode: 3682
Title: HPR3682: 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3682/hpr3682.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:00:55

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,682 for Tuesday the 13th of September 2022.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Public Radio 2021-2022 New Year's Show Part 5.
It is hosted by Hum Kimagoo and is about 186 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is, the HP, our community comes together to chat.
Yeah, sorry. That's a little late here.
It's well early here, but I've been up all night so then that makes it also late.
It's nearly half a, so it's been up all night.
Well, I think my wife probably would like to have me go to bed sometime.
How late is it over there?
That's only 123.
Oh, yeah. That's round about when I started talking.
I started talking about at 115, so yeah, not that late.
Your wife might have a different perspective, though.
Well, I rarely actually go to bed. I got in an accident a year and a half ago, and I have not been able to sleep in bed.
But we had a vacation a week or so ago, and I found out that if I use enough pillows and sit up, almost sit up straight, then I can manage to get through a night.
So I might try it.
If you have problems like that, and you think you found a way of sleeping, have you slept the last couple of days?
The last couple of days?
I've been sleeping okay.
If you have problems with sleeping, then I would suggest sleeping.
Well, I have problems with sleeping in a bed, which was the point.
That is a good, very important to distinguish.
Sleeping upright is something which is actually that I used to be way more common.
Well, I have a recliner that I've been able to get by in, and I've pretty much worn it out by now, but I can still get by in it.
So recliner, we'll start again.
That's the type of chair, right?
Big home feature that reclines the tilt's back.
Nice.
I am one of those, those are pretty cool.
I got a reclining couch.
Yeah.
Okay, well, I'm going to get out of here, and I hope you all have a good year.
This could be my best year, I don't know.
Your best year is your best year, Moss.
No, it isn't.
Your best year yet?
Well, this past year I lost my mother in January, so that did not make for a good year.
Okay.
Apart from 2021.
It's in the name.
It's 2020 has won.
Well, now we're in 2020 version two.
So who knows?
Well, actually, 2020 is version three, but because zero was version one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, well, I'm getting out of here.
I shall talk to some of you sometime soon.
Probably Joe on Saturday.
Yeah, you mean today?
Today is not Saturday.
Is it?
Uh, three o'clock, my time.
Oh, yes.
All right, I will try to be there.
Yeah, me too.
Okay, good night.
Good night.
Good night.
Yeah, I might try to crash here shortly too.
Yeah, nobody else doing an all night here.
Like, just me and Schneid.
Schneid, wait, what?
Kids went out.
I got a way for them to get back before I can go to bed.
Yeah.
Schneid didn't even plan on going to sleep.
Not going to sleep, right?
No.
I planned on going to sleep and we're talking.
And I joined and then stopped.
Yeah, what was it again?
Ike.
Something with the Netherlands.
We never got touched on what, what like, um, European stereotypes are.
No, no.
And we'll know some good European stereotypes.
A lot of tea and you can't get any good coffee there.
That's just Britain.
Yeah.
Yeah, Britain has a loss of them.
I already have quite a loss about Britain.
They're, um...
But Patrick, you don't even like, and you don't coffee.
So, really, not the best people to judge.
Probably.
Yeah.
Yeah, let's think about all the stereotypes I know.
The thing is, I'm wondering about all the stereotypes I don't know.
Those are the interesting ones.
The ones that affect yourself.
You don't know those.
Well, I guess what the American stereotypes are.
Yeah, well, those are very easy to find.
You already know what those are.
Yeah.
I do know how to shoot a gun.
All you have to do is aim is what point aim and shoot.
Right?
Well, there's a bit more to aiming, but yeah.
Ah.
Just because I've also interested in the right direction.
Okay, I got my first shot gun when I was 11.
Okay, that's a very...
Just American stereotypical sentence right there.
You won't.
You won't probably not hear European say that.
Yeah, I got my first shot gun when I was 11.
I shot my first pistol when I was 12.
Let's see.
I shot my first 50 cowl when I was...
I shot my first 30 out of six when I was 16.
I shot my first full auto when I was 18.
It's a full auto 50 cowl, also 18.
My first rocket launcher, 18.
My first hand grenade, 18.
This is you were in the military.
Do you really shoot a rocket launcher?
Shot a rocket launcher, yes.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, well, sometimes some people got to shoot an actual rocket launcher.
And then some people got to shoot the mock-up one that shot nine millimeter rounds.
But then, yeah, getting to throw a hand grenade.
Everybody got to throw a hand grenade in basic training.
And then I fired off my 40 millimeter rounds.
I think I was 20 when I got the fire off of.
But I got the fire off my first missile when I was...
I would have been 19 during my first life fire missile exercise.
I fired one shot and...
First time I got a gun pulled on me.
I didn't have my driver's license, yes.
So I had to be 15.
Wow, I never had that.
Me either.
I shot paper mousse with an...
I think it was...
Well...
What was it called?
Airsoft?
It felt like a real gun.
But then again, I have no experience in real guns.
And that was the only thing which vaguely looked like real gun.
Probably airsoft.
Yeah, airsoft.
Airsoft.
That was it.
At least that's what mom said what it was.
And I'm pretty sure that would have been great.
The recoil is a little different with a real gun than an airsoft gun.
Just a little.
Probably.
Yeah.
But what...
What America has with guns, like if it should be a loud or not,
is basically what we have here in the Netherlands with knives.
Well, if you're really with knives, it's a major issue.
It's all the knives.
And it says that everybody is using knives to rob people because nobody has guns.
Yeah.
Well, you don't, I think, a knife is preferable over a gun because you can run away from a knife but not from a gun.
Yeah.
But you know, it's a lot safer to shoot back than it is to get into a knife fight.
Yeah, that's true.
And when I've heard of the good old good and dark...
It's basically or like a walking stick.
A walking stick is a little harder, but like if you make a walking stick with a...
A shalei.
What?
A shalei.
A shalei stick.
My Irish walking stick.
It's also used for beating.
Oh, one of those things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Basically like that.
But you should never bring a knife to a gun fight.
Hell no.
That depends on range really.
That depends if they're wearing, um, depends on what you're wearing.
Like if you're wearing, um, if you're wearing a knife is going to go through a kevlar better than a bullet will.
Yeah.
But once again, that's the function of range.
But you should make, um, like a really tough nesting needle and just get it and spike it through like even knife resistance stuff.
Spikes.
Spikes can get through more.
The narrower the point, the more focused the force behind it.
Man, I googled what some of the shaleis look like.
They got some spiky ashaleis too.
Yep.
They are evil looking.
That's fantastic.
Look up.
Houdindach.
Spell G-O-E-D-E-N-M-D-A-G.
I'll, I'll spell it in chat.
I'm going to try that again.
Good day.
It literally means good day.
Yes, in German.
No, in Dutch.
Oh, you're right.
It's good and tall in German.
Yeah.
This is, um, this is Dutch for good day.
It's very similar though, uh, both Germanic, um, languages and the Netherlands is like, like very similar to Germany.
I can understand, um, uh, parts of German, just from being Dutch.
Um, the German can't understand me though, but that's because, yeah, uh, still different.
It's on their spark.
Yeah.
Probably if they, if they tried hard enough, they could probably find some meaning in my words.
Well, if you listen very carefully, kind of here.
Yeah, this is exactly the type of weapon I'm looking.
Uh, I was talking about pointy stick.
Yeah, but it's like stick club.
It's like, like, uh, uh, pointy stick club.
It, it, it's really good.
And if the force behind the, um, oh, there's this weapon.
There's this video explaining the weapon.
And it is, um, and it's very funny because the guy thinks he made a good version of that.
Or at least a decent enough, uh, thing so it won't break.
Um, and he's like, yeah, I think the, uh, thing around, uh, I just put it in the wood.
But I think they did it around the wood to give a bit more, um, have more power behind it.
And then at the end, he goes to swing, you know, one of those domains.
He's been stopping the dummy the whole time and that worked fine.
But when he goes to swing at the dummy, um, the spike literally flies off.
And it, and, um, that's because of the sheer amount of force.
He used just with it, just with a little swing, just a little whack across the face.
And he just used so much force that the, that the spike flew off.
That's the kind of weapon we're dealing with there that they literally had to make it around this thing.
Around the stick to, uh, to, to make sure it stays intact.
And I really like that. That makes it really epic.
Way better than the flail, who literally it says it in the name is a failure.
It's a failure to everything it's supposed to do.
Now see a flail actually, um, turned a halfway decent fighter into a good fighter.
But it'll turn a good fighter into a terrible fighter.
Um, and flails have specific uses specifically, um, they're made to wrap around a shield and yank it.
Well, I'm not a history expert, but, um, yeah.
Well, how are you going to do that?
And which shield specifically?
Well, really any shield, it's, it's made to catch at the top of the shield.
Either that or to go around the shield and smack someone in the head, whichever works better at the time.
But can't you like just hook the shield with a hook?
Well, if you had a hook, um, axe, for instance, has a little thing underneath the axe head.
You could hook the shield.
Then you've also, they've just gone rid of the shield and that's your problem fixed.
And if you're, and if you're unsure enough distance, you can just stab them right between the joints of their armor
or like, uh, you can just hit them with the axe or, yeah.
Or you can go around their shield and smack them upside the head.
Yeah.
Like with a mace, if you're kind of, if you do want a long throw or something, you could have a mace or even better, uh,
hudundah, which, um, where you, for instance, uh, another point to the hudundah, you can say,
good day, sir.
And that, it's a pun.
So you can, it's an automatic pun machine, basically, just by,
I said good day.
Working people.
Yeah.
I said good day, sir.
Perfect for that kind of stuff.
So it was actually a reference to that 70 show.
I have no clue.
I just, I, I, I, I, I just.
It's a show called that 70 show.
You should check it out.
Okay.
I literally thought you just meant a show, which you didn't name.
Just the show from the 70s.
Well, it's actually from the 2000s, but yeah, it's called that 70 show.
Okay.
But yeah.
And it's got Tommy Chong in it.
So you know, it has to be good.
It's Tommy Chong.
Yep.
Listen, I like Tommy Chong, but that 70 show was okay for like a few episodes.
And then I just, how many seasons did they have?
Quite a few that I didn't watch.
Exactly.
It made a lot of decent actors famous, but that way.
Did you try to watch that 80s show?
No.
No.
No.
That was a distinct no.
No.
Um, yeah, I remember watching a thing called the Goldbergs.
The Goldbergs is okay.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then they had like a 90s version.
There will always be a show, which references nostalgia.
And when they run out of actually nostalgic decades, they'll get nostalgia for the nostalgia
of the things.
You can have nostalgia just for those nostalgia shows.
So they're basically printing their own money right there.
Yeah.
It's been off.
Yeah.
It's been a forced wall break inside a fourth wall break.
Yeah.
For instance, you're a young kid, right?
And you watch this thing called the Goldbergs.
Well, that's for nostalgia.
And even if you haven't been there during the time, it's still nostalgic.
Because that's all point.
It's specifically made to be nostalgic.
So when you're later grown up, they'll come a time when the show industry decides it's
time to rip you off now.
And then they'll make a show, which encapsulates the nostalgia you had at the time, which is nostalgic.
So that's how they'll grow.
That's how they'll continue existing forever.
That's their plan.
It's been off some respawns.
Time it.
Yeah.
Well, in continuations nowadays, leverage redemption.
How is that?
You know, it's not as good as the original leverage.
To be perfectly honest, I thought leverage was a good show, but it was kind of like the same
thing every week.
We've seen leverage.
I concur.
We've leverages like where leverage redemption kind of lost the production value and the editing
that the original leverage series had.
Leverages right with the like the team of people who tried leverage is basic basically
the oceans 11 serialized.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I've gotten a bunch of oceans 11.
I think I've watched the leverage you're talking about.
There's like this guy who used to work for a company thing.
And there's also the like the tech guy that do good things.
Yeah.
I'm just trying to figure out which show we're talking about specifically.
Yeah.
The group of thieves that do good things.
Yeah.
The group of thieves to do good things.
Yeah.
And then hackers from that went on to do librarians, which was basically the same thing except
with the library and a whole bunch of magic.
And then they came back not long after that and you know started doing leverage again.
Okay.
So the librarians was basically leverage meets warehouse 13.
Yes.
I think it's a lot more warehouse 13.
It's only somewhat leveraged by the fact of the the characters.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They're the actors for that matter.
Yeah.
Both warehouse 13 and well all three of them are fairly decent shows.
Like I said, leverage is just 13.
Where else 13 was fantastic.
I still haven't watched that much of the librarians.
I gotta go back and watch some more of that.
The movies are good too.
The librarian.
One, two, and three.
Did you ever watch Falling Skies?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I watched a couple of episodes of Falling Skies.
Am I the only one who loved Falling Skies?
You are the only person on the planet that loved Falling Skies, which is why I got canceled.
They didn't get canceled.
They finished it.
Oh, did they?
It still sucked.
They played that thing all the way out to the very end.
I really dug the whole beginning part.
I mean, a lot of it was very like post-apocalyptic, like zombie world-esque, but with aliens.
They were roaming around from place to place.
They tried to set up a home in a school for a while.
It was really cool.
Did you watch Sanctuary?
Yeah.
I'm gonna have to look it up.
I want to say yes, but I don't know if that's right or not.
I haven't.
I got the right show.
Because there was a sci-fi show.
I don't think I did.
I think I did.
I think I did.
Team punky, the record of my thing.
Yeah.
And that one was good, too.
This wasn't the one I was thinking of, but yeah, Sanctuary started out really good.
It started out as actually as a web show, and then became a TV show.
And it was good until like the last season.
And then, yeah.
I remember like web show.
It wasn't what was called a Doctor Harv or something?
something. Dr. Horrible, I just recently watched that. That was good. That was
horrible. Sing along, sing along vlog. Yeah. Dr. Horrible sing along vlog. I like that.
Patrick Harris is awesome. Yeah. It like I was like, oh he's that guy from how
I met your mother. And then he's the guy from doogie house. That's right. He's
doogie. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I only started watching. I was a kid. So long before you
were a twinkle in your parents eye. Yep. And I remember I probably watched all of that
show, but at the same time, it doesn't necessarily make it a good show. Yeah. That's true.
So right around that, watching that, like the wonder years. Yeah, not necessarily great,
but it was okay. How many are mother, right? How much of a vlog is funny, yeah? Yeah, it was funny.
But the ones that really like were to slap like the there was a thing a couple episodes
at it where you where that guy who played Dr. Horrible was was basically being getting
a slap. And for like, I know some kind of holiday thingy. And the third one was just so epic.
I had to watch the other ones and that's how I kind of started and then afterwards I didn't
really do much with it. Yeah. And it wasn't really that interested. It was just those episodes
were specifically cool. Just the finale. I like epicness. I'm a sucker for epicness.
Like Mandalorian, just the ending of the Mandalorian is, for instance, that's epic. How am
I not going to love that? Is it? Is it? Oh, is Mandalorian over now? And now we're
just, no, what is it? No, that isn't for. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm pretty sure Mandalorian's over now.
No, man. The Lord is not over now. Is it? Is it? Is it? Oh, yeah. Okay. And the show that I was
originally talking about was actually defiance. Oh, I wanted to bring up. If I
started out is another show that started out great. But then they gave control to the people
playing the game and they forgot that trolls exist and completely ruined this TV show. Sounds
like D&D and where the DM just like tells the players to figure it out in your own and then
and then it just disappears. Yeah. Well, deciding how your television show is going to go by what
people do in the video game that you created for it when they basically, you know, destroyed
the game. Yeah. That that's not good. It's not like you can't make a like a Minecraft TV show and
then do it in 2B2T, which by the way is for anyone with context. It's older son of Christopher
and Minecraft. The reason it's important. It's because all the hackers are on there. And anytime
something happens, which disturbs the happiness of those hackers in that specific server, they
flock out and then it's the end of the world for, well, for short while until it gets better,
which actually happened recently again. It defiance had that, I have serenity in my head. What was
the name of the game show? Firefly. Firefly. Firefly. Firefly. Firefly. Firefly. You'll
to it. Because it's it had that that western that like futuristic western to it. Yeah.
That is cool, but still. Thing with kill joys. Kill joys was very let's take firefly and slap it
together with cowboy bebop and see what we get. I still have not seen kill joys. Dude, kill joys was
good. Yeah, I got to find them watch it. I haven't finished watching firefly. We should
finish watching firefly. Oh, you mean watching firefly? No, we should. What were you looking for
season two or something? No, it's we have it. It's just. You don't have season two. No, it's just
that we were watching it together like as a family. That's also why I'm not far in Star Trek.
Same exact reason. All the good side tracks. I'll have to watch you. You can watch Star Trek.
Yes, I know, but it's it's become a thing now. It's become so far. We're so far.
Star Trek like from like way back when the 1960s. Yes. Like first. You were you were going to say
you were probably next going to say that TNG was way back when too. Well, yeah, but what was
for him? Well, TNG next generation. Oh, yeah, that's probably also way back when.
Yeah, my friend who I've recommended it to has. There's so much Star Trek that if you don't
start watching some of it concurrently, you're never going to get through it all. Yeah. Yeah,
the thing is that I might not want to get through it all. I'll just get to the point where they
kind of affected it all up and it's not it's not this good. I didn't know my friend said that
was the time. I mean, there's Star Trek. There's Star Trek. The next generation. Star Trek
next generation was really good all the way through fifth season. Although some people would argue
that there was a steep fall off after the end of second season because of the introduction of
the board, but the board really brought the show together and saved it from cancellation. I don't
think he meant that. I think there was another point because he said the next generation was really
good. So that must be me. I don't. Deep space nine deep space nine started out really strong. I
thought it was really good. No, wait a second. We just started out. No, no, no, no, no, no. In fact,
at the first episode, they treated Captain Picard like a bitch. Deep space nine for the first
season or so. I consider deep sleep nine because it was the most boring goddamn thing and then
everyone to consider it the best season ever, the best show ever after about season one or so
or Apple. The war broke out. If you can make it to the point. No, no, no, no, no. It's a great,
apparently a great show. I have never made it to that point because the first season was so bad.
Well, I'm saying just the opposite. Once it got to the war, it kind of lost its focus. But,
no, there were parts of it that are just deadly boring in those first couple of seasons,
like where they're trying to explain what's so great about baseball. It's the first the first
season was just bad. All right. They're like, how do we make this better? War.
Well, yeah, how do we make this awesome? Not only do we need a war, but we need to take it far,
far away from deep space nine. Right. That's no longer space nine. And then there was
voyage. A good show, which like that really just just really good. The orbital, I think, was cold.
Oh, yeah. It was fun. Yeah. And then enterprise. But then do you watch enterprise before you watch
the original series? No, and you really can't. Enterprise is okay. I still haven't watched
all of it. I've tried to make it through it, but it's just, well, it's another it's another show
that does the whole, okay, well, we didn't, we wrote ourselves into a corner. So let's do some
time traveling, retcon, everything. All right. I'm going back in March. Is it going to be on
just on Hulu? It's like Eureka was a good show, but you know, they kept writing themselves into
corners. And so they kept destroying the universe and starting it over again. Yeah. Yeah, but
Eureka didn't away that it was okay. And they and Eureka was was was was meant to be funny at
the same time. So it was all okay. You know what? Doing it once is fine. But when that's like
your whole setup every time it gets a little annoying. Dude, I watched like, what is it? 16 seasons
of supernatural and everybody. Okay. Basically, everybody died and then came back from the dead.
And heaven and hell is just kind of like some place they kind of go. They're like, hey, look,
we're going to go to heaven. We're going to pull this person back and grab on back here.
I only made it to like season seven. So I get to sit down and go through the whole thing.
Different universes. They did. I think they did time travel. Yes, they did. Do they do time travel?
Probably when they were finding out how the gun works or something or something.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. What's that? I think it was one of the earliest occult
revolver. Yeah. Oh, yeah. They did do time travel because they went back in time and saw their
father and father and mother before they were before everything. I know that because then they
went up pulling their mother back from the dead and she went the last like three seasons she was
in or something. The whole thing. And then they killed God and they killed a devil and they killed
death. Okay, you killed death. Satan. Well, you can kill death because there's several other deaths.
You have to watch the show. Oh, like that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. There's like one head of death or
grim reaper. And then once one if one dies, then another, another grim reaper or death would take
over here. That fell into the spot. That's just like the pierce squirrel. Well, the
discord has its own death. And well, I'm not going to spoil it, but it sounds very similar.
Hey, speaking of time travel, I think I have time travel partly figured out. So I can't travel
back in time, not at this point, but actually I can move forward in time. But the only problem is
I can't control the speed at which I travel forward in time. And I can only travel forward in time
at the same rate that everybody else does. Well, that sucks. Well, there's relativity. So you could
slow down how fast you're traveling through time by increasing your rate of travel through space.
Of course, isn't it speed it up? Well, your perception slows down, but the time relative to your
perception speeds up. So basically, you think you think nothing has happened basically, but
meanwhile, there's been the three world wars. Yeah, something like that. Which means that you're
going through time more quickly, even though yeah, yeah, you can make an entire like space flight
thing with just a ham sandwich. You know, a good, a good series, which, which does that.
I heard there's a certain, I know if there was a new book, but like, I am Bob. We are Bob,
we are Legion. That's the first book of the series like Bob. There is a book written by
the book is called Project Hail Mary. And the author is Andy Weir, the guy that wrote the
Martian and that discusses relativity. And it's actually a really good book for Soast the Martian.
Yeah, in, in basically like the Bob thing, let's just call it the Bob trilogy or the Bob Chronicles.
Bob Chronicles, that's a good one. In the Bob Chronicles, he's like, he died, but he had one of
frozen brain things just before he died. So they managed to turn him into an AI. And
yeah, he's supposed to be like one of those self-replicating spacecraft, basically. And
well, one of the bigger things they actually deal with is that very annoying thing. The very
annoying thing which scientists for some reason, like great filters and stuff, you know, what's
that called? The thing with the great filters, air. No, like with that life, which tries to explain
that we haven't found life yet, which could just mean that we're looking at things the wrong way
or so. Personally, I think that before we think of something like, we're immediately going to die,
we should look at, are we going about this the correct way? Or search for extraterrestrial
intelligence? Yeah. Well, what? What? Okay, let's go back to the book. In the book, it doesn't
do that. They just want to colonize space because war and stuff. It's actually a very interesting
setting. But yeah, there's a yeah, not going to spread, but there's like the deal with the great
filter principle as like big boss. So that's interesting. Cool. Roger. What? Does this push to talk
work? Yeah, we can do. Yeah, how cool. So I was just thinking on the subjects of relativity and
time travel about relative technological advancement of the conscious entities surrounding one. So
to get to the war and cooperation thing. So imagine you've got a planet where there's just water
and you've got tentacle creatures called them octopuses and they're on the sea floor and
their bodies become toxic so that other animals can't eat them. This is how we get around
like killing each other to eat the bodies. And that means they have to basically farm the area
around them and then you come into sharing between creatures. I think that involves a number of
factors which relate to in whichever bodily form you are. If you're not the only conscious entity,
then you need to relate in some way to the other conscious entities. So it comes to either sharing
resources or fighting over them. Yeah, but the thing is though, we are not yet very fully
developed. We've hardly made it to our own moon. And we're trying to, we're currently trying to
build a permanent base there. But we keep thinking of like aliens and stuff as the enemies,
like movies basically. They say like aliens, bad aliens gonna take over bloody blood. No, they
just want to probe you. Or they want to probe you. It depends on the alien equally as bad.
Just relax. You know, it's only a couple of for a minute. All right. Yeah, the base will use
the loop. You're good. We treat aliens. It's still a very us versus them mentality. Yeah, very us
versus them. And but we think of it, we kind of also justify that with very primitive thinking,
we think of it as a forest. And with the most like like you said, squids, stuff like that.
Well, in actual fact, it doesn't necessarily have to be that way. Maybe aliens have got to figure
that out. And they've moved past the simple like the simple parts of of their like, which is
like of their mentality, which is still in the in the caveman era that if that's the case,
then cooperation is more favorable for us as opposed to them. But well, no, for us as opposed
to them, if they're that technologically advanced, then what do we provide other than, you know,
natural resources that they can simply take from us? That's true. But then again, you're thinking
in a you're thinking in the short term, very, you're still thinking in basically. No, my point
there is is if they're that technologically advanced, what do we, what would we have to offer?
Nothing. Do we have to offer? That's the question. In order for it to be an equitable exchange
for everyone, then you have to offer something short term. That's the thing. Well,
will we be offering him a long term that they don't already have? We might have
insights in our, yes, friends, allies, friendship. Like, why would someone have a puppet state,
for instance? Why can't you just own it yourself? Well, there's a loss of reasons. For instance,
rebellion is one of them. If you're brutally subjugating the people, then you're spending more,
what? They're not worrying about us. If they're able to travel that far, and then that far
advanced, they're not worried about us. They're like, look, you got some water and you got some air.
That's what we need. But even if they don't decide to take it, why even stop?
Well, if you're an air, is they, right? The most common things to find in, well, whatever resources
they find. It's hydrogen and oxygen. Okay. So they don't very hard. But let's say that they don't
want anything from us. Then why even stop by? Right. Yeah. Exactly. And we're not, nobody has
stopped by it. So, because I agree with you. It's fantastic. That's funny, because I'm surrounded by
species of war like apes. Yeah. But have you guys ever watched Red Dwarf? I know. I think I should
watch it. To be honest, I think I should watch it. Yes. Everybody should watch Red Dwarf. It's
awesome. Yeah. Everybody should watch far escape. That's awesome. Well, okay. Everybody should
start watching, start watching, start escape, far escape. You don't have to finish it.
Definitely finish it. You don't have to make it to the Peacekeeper Wars. You really don't
watch the Peacekeeper Wars. It's a good movie. You don't need to watch the Peacekeeper Wars.
It's a good movie. It's a good movie. That then completes everything. We'll agree to disagree.
Okay. I think you like the beginning of Deep Space Nine. You like the end of Deep Space Nine.
I never saw the end of Deep Space Nine to be fair. Okay. Well, that was my point.
I was saying the first season was so bad I couldn't make it to the end.
But yeah, you definitely don't need to watch the eighth season of Red Dwarf.
I don't know why I just couldn't get into Red Dwarf. And then you don't need to watch back
to Earth. But then the new stuff you can watch that. Yeah, I'm going to go back and rewatch it.
But when I watched it, it just couldn't get into it. I really like it. But, you know, I also
got into it when I was a kid and couldn't sleep. And it was on public broadcast with Dr. Who.
There you go. I still haven't really watched much of anything from Dr. Who.
Never watched Dr. Who might just, but usually when I want to watch something, I watch from the
beginning, but Dr. Who is. Yeah. Yeah. It's that would be impossible. Also,
well, some episodes are lost. Well, yes, but you can still get them in the audio version.
And you can also get the animated versions of them animated. Yeah. Well, they had to recreate
them somehow. Yeah. And a bunch of them were recently found. What was this bit of series called?
Which one? K-9 in French.
Flash. Flash.
Torchwood. Torchwood.
The thing is, Torchwood, I was thinking of.
I watch the first several episodes of Torchwood. Torchwood.
The first season was good. Second season was okay. And then third season now.
Could I introduce Robert Marie Smith? Yeah. Robert Marie Smith. Hello. On the subject of Dr. Who,
because this guy, like, he sort of invents things, he's got a YouTube channel that makes
batteries. But I found this video of him talking about a small, was it not a fusion device?
It was a nuclear little nuclear reactor. I might do a show about it to translate it because it's
in bad quality. But yeah, if you look on YouTube, Robert Marie Smith, I know there are many things
on YouTube. But for a battery tech. Like, he's got a big warehouse and, yeah, too much to try
to describe. But that guy reminds me of sort of a cross between Dr. Who and a physics teacher.
Like, he's really quite intelligent. Yeah. I see his channel.
If you have a link, put it, if somebody has a link, put it in the show notes, please.
I can't hear you. I like to put it in the show notes because they don't have the show notes
brought up. But I'll let you put it in the show notes.
Oh, thanks. I knew you'd appreciate that.
What were you going to tell the link to Robert Marie Smith's YouTube page?
I think the fusion reactor worked on bromine or something and you said it would fit on your
kitchen table. And just the way he talks through it, it struck me that sometimes someone will come
and tell you something. And like, they could walk off, say an alien could come in and give you
the answer to something and walk off. And a lot of people would just not know what to do with it,
you know, they might even just forget that that happened. Yep, that's definitely what happened
to all of us, right? Aliens come in, they tell us the questions to the answer and then we don't
know what to do with it. And then we forgot. And now we just know the answers. Yeah.
Now answer, of course, is 42.
Only if you want to restart the universe, find the question. Yeah, context shifting.
How about California Cation? Anybody like California Cation?
Music. Never watched it. David Dukovny. I don't watch too much TV anymore. I'm a bit mean
either. I generally like the only thing I try to keep up on a bit, which I'm always lagging behind
for some reason is a Minecraft. It's just some people chilling and playing Minecraft.
How about Mr. Robot? No. American Gods? You're a Neil Gaiman fan.
Do you guys play Minecraft? No. Neil Gaiman brings about. I've read a book. I've read Good Omen's.
Have you read American Gods? Have you watched Good Omen's? No. I've watched Good Omen's.
That was one good show. It stuck exactly to the original book. The show, I haven't seen
revenue in the book in Good Omen's, but the show Good Omen's was awesome. And the book.
Yeah. It takes to the book really well. The book's still amazing. The book American Gods is fantastic.
Oh yeah. The book American Gods is awesome. The TV show does deviate excessively from the book,
but it had to update some and they really wanted to do, you know, multiple seasons, so they had
to really extend things out. Do you know which things sucked? A what? Like what? It was the watch.
We're already mentioning it, but like the watch from supposed to like first to get an idea,
it's like it's like guards guards, but then yeah, it just goes a bit over place like people controlling
dragon blob and instead of yeah. Let's take it way back. Does anybody remember a TV show called
The Pretender? Yeah. No. Want to say yes? It was a good TV show. Basically, it was this guy that
could pretend to be basically any. Now, I don't want to say a specific person, but like he could
turn himself into a doctor. He could turn himself into a rocket scientist. He could turn himself into
a veterinarian, whatever. He could just turn himself into a race car driver if he wanted to.
And yeah, it was just episode after episode of him trying to track down his family while also
taking on all these different roles. It's a really good show, but it's an old show. Yeah.
Oh, and then let's take it back even farther. Who remembers Parker Lewis can't lose? How do you
expect me to remember something? The only one on the show. I know. And hockey's my age. He should
he should remember Parker Lewis can't lose. Ordinance, he's older than me. What's they have?
Parker Lewis can't lose is a teenage drama from Canada. Basically, it was based off of
Oh gosh, what was that movie?
Bueller, Ferris Bueller's Day Off. Oh, yeah. So it was a TV show made to resemble Ferris Bueller's Day
Off made in Canada and just a kid going through high school and just shenanigans. It actually
more reminds me of rock and roll high school forever, not the original one, but the sequel.
It's like that period where a child has realized that people also have their own opinion and ideas
and knowledge, you know, and they're testing how far they can lie to you. It's like children
growing up and testing boundaries or something. Yeah. There's some really cool, nonexistent tech
in the show. All right, go on. Give us a good idea. Oh wow. But one of the third kids that hangs
out with Parker Lewis has a trench coat and the trench coat is just full of various gadgets in
order for them to be able to do things like cheat on test, skip school, get rid of bullies,
things like that. Are you talking about Parker Lewis can't lose? Yes, Parker Lewis can't lose.
Oh, someone recognizes the show. So he was like Inspector Gadget? Sort of. He could solve the issues
that face, you know, the important issues for the subject. Yeah. Now what a parent would say is
if they if they spend so much energy trying to avoid, for instance, homework, fine, don't just
do homework. Oh yeah. But what are the alternatives? I think the point of, if the what's the word,
the device is the thing that makes the problem go away, that gets you in a story, it gets you
to the place you want to be. It's a bit lazy, maybe. And the other side of it is, are there any
alternative ways? Like, maybe there is a way I can not do my homework or maybe homework is
actually nonsense, sometimes. Yeah, homework sometimes definitely is nonsense, definitely.
Did anybody ever watch Into the Badlands? Yes, I watched the first two seasons. Yeah, those were
the better, the better three seasons. How bad, how bad were they or what were the badlands?
Into the badlands is kind of like a post-apocalyptic version of Journey to the West.
So about genocide reminds me of Mesa. Well, it's post-genicidal.
Oh, post-genicidal. What a shame. So everyone can see the genocide.
Who genocide did who? Basically, everybody genocide it everybody else. It doesn't really get
explained. So it's after a major world war and large portions of the world are supposed to be
unlivable, supposedly. We don't ever actually like see it or anything. So it's like full-out
basically. Not that I've played any full-out game. It's just that it's very hard to ignore full-out.
Yeah, that's another post-apocalyptic style adventure. But there are these random looking for
families houses, rubes, gotta go up against each other,
by control and power, victims, yeah, essentially, and vassals. And then there's the enforcers for
the people that control everything, the overlords, whatever you want to call them. And it's mostly
them going around and kicking each other's asses, yeah. Until the mystic powers start kicking in
and then things get weird. Okay. A bit of mystic powers. Reminds me a bit of just the word mystic
reminds me of there was a TV show, something to do with the Dark Crystal. I've never watched
a new TV show. I've watched a TV show. What do you say? Oh, look, let's... The Dark Crystal,
I haven't watched the TV show. I did watch the movie. I don't remember it all that well though.
I know it's a very positive one. The TV show is really good. There's there really
epic things. Like, yeah, I just, like, you think the skixies are slow and stupid and self. But
really, if you have a look at it, if you have a look at the TV show, it's actually, they're really
scary. Depending on which skixies you're talking about, like some are lame and stuff, some are
really cool and epic. Some make really cool and epic stuff and some are just very sneaky and
like to go... A lot. So, who's watched Nightcourt? Well, Nightcourt was never on PBS.
I've seen Nightcourt. What's PBS? A public broadcast services. Yeah. And what does the Skycourt
do? Sorry, you said Nightcourt. I've seen Skycourt. It's a Russian thing.
Nightcourt is literally that. It's a court that's at night and all the craziness that happens because
it's a very late night court. Okay, but based on judges, lawyers, alists. Is it like real thing or
is it just like... It's a comedy. It's pure comedy. Comedy. Yeah. Yeah. You always just have to
check with that kind of thing. If it's if it's a real documentary or no. No, it's not a documentary.
No, but sometimes you have like documentaries which have similar kind of names or similar
descriptions. Yeah. And sometimes fiction gives you a more complete diagram of what's happening
than a documentary can. Yeah. About Metal Her Laugh. Is that Mordancy? It's said, yeah. It's said,
yeah. Good show, wasn't it? What? What's the lowdown or how? Okay. Have you ever read Heavy Metal
Magazine? Nope. Did you ever watch the Heavy Metal Movie? Nope. Heavy Metal 2000? Anyway, Metal
Her Laugh is a was originally a French comic book that well magazine that got turned into
Heavy Metal Magazine which takes collections of comic writers, mostly non-professional comic
writers and gives them a place to showcase their work. And then the movie Heavy Metal came out.
I don't know how many years ago, 80s came out in the 80s. And Heavy Metal 2000 came out I think
in what late 90s. But those had that same feel as the Heavy Metal Magazine except they also gave
an overarching story. And then more recently Metal Her Laugh, which was a French TV show recorded in
English was it only lasted two seasons, but it gave that same thing an overarching story. But
each individual episode was also a self-contained story with different actors throughout the whole
thing. How it start? Heavy Metal was about like, layered and gold. No, not Heavy Metal Magazine.
Not Alchemy then. Not in music though either. No, not music either. No, it's about heavy
metals, metals for the loss of heft. They're doing change. Anybody remember the total recall TV show?
I heard about it. I heard about a lot of things but not usually haven't seen it.
How about Sapphire and Steel? I don't know that one. It's maybe 1970s UK.
Joanna Lumley and David McCallum. It had an interesting principle like it was clunky. It was
like Doctor Who in the early day sort of theatre set, so not high tech. But essentially
from what I could make out because I was a child, Sapphire was the character, she was the female
and Steel was this other character and they'd turn up to a situation where spooky stuff was
happening and then they'd sort it out. But they're like not, it's like the ex files but not quite
because they and you kind of got the idea that at the beginning it starts quite good. It
goes through like various metals, not metals, what you call them, elements. Only even at that
young age I knew that Sapphire and Steel were not elements. It's just that gold would make an
appearance once in a while and it was a limited series being the BBC on a low budget. But I just
liked the idea that somehow like reality was mediated by characters like consciousness,
conscious entities, people all sort of embodied but they were kind of the elements.
It turns out, because I looked them up on Wikipedia, that they also had a series of Sapphire and
Steel also had a series of audio dramas produced by Big Finish from 2005 to 2008. So there is
some more recent stuff for them. I'm okay, interesting. I'm not sure how it went or how good it was
and when I watch them now I think, well I'm not watching that. It's just the idea that you have
as well as when people are paranoid about bad people watching them or coming after them or
that bad entities in the universe, that there are also these like not angels exactly but they're
like the people who come and look around your house and tidy up to make sure there's not a buildup
of like not trans-Uranic elements but you know, whatever the bad thing is, it could be the violence.
Good experience. Did anybody ever watch Dinosaucers? No. Hockey, did you watch Dinosaucers?
I can't hear you, Hockey. I see you popping up blue. How about Bravestar? How about Super Ted?
Can I not hear anybody anymore? No, you're fine. It's, I don't think.
Super Ted was actually more popular in the early 80s, but it was popular in Europe and Germany
more than it was in the US. I only saw it in the mid-80s in Germany while I was living in Germany.
Yeah, who's actually around now from from where again? I live in Texas now. Yeah, Texas, I heard
yeah, some people already answered the thing before. I lost my push to talk, sorry, I'm in the UK.
Yep, UK. And I see us by the accents. Super Ted. Ask them what?
Denver, the last dinosaur. Oh, okay. Now, did you say you'd watch Super Ted Spoon?
Yeah, in my childhood, that was on TV. Yeah, I figured you were around that time frame considering
you were talking. It was you talking about Sapphire and Steel, right? Yes. Right. My wife, Jackie,
has asked if anybody watched Denver, the last dinosaur. Denver, the last dinosaur?
Yeah, there was a movie and it was a TV show. Actually, I think it was a couple of
it's so long. I honestly had more than just being a jerk. No, but I really enjoyed Super Ted
when I was living in Germany and for the life of me for like, you know, 35 years, I could not
remember the name of that TV show. And then I see one of the YouTubers I watched wearing a shirt
and it was that character and it said Super Ted right across the top. I may have watched
Denver, the last dinosaur, but I watched a lot of cartoons growing up. Yeah. Mummy's alive. Okay.
Anybody watched Mummy's alive? No. Oh, um, what cat? Definitely didn't see Mummy's alive. What was
the other one? What cat? Is there a theme or are you just you're locating what are you doing?
I'm just asking. Oh, my wife, I was talking TV shows and then the wife started bringing up cartoons
and so I started bringing up cartoon. What was the last one? What cat? Swat cat. Swat team.
Swat cat. Well, I'm now imagining like those internet cat, which always, I don't know that many cats
apart from the ones who try to invade the garden, but that's army cats totally different matter.
I'm now thinking of like like cats being like FBI open up, you know, that pretty much. Yeah,
that that to be honest, that would be something depending on the quality. Yeah. Yeah, just get
like make it look like real cats in SWAT gear or get real cats in SWAT gear. Like cats maybe.
I want to say that I knew that the show was on, but I don't think I ever watched the show. I like that.
Yeah, you might. Oh, let's see. That was a 93 to 95. So you might have been a little old for it.
That's fair. I used to watch how to train your dragon a lot. I used to be like,
my kids watch how to train your dragon. Yeah, I used to be like the dragon expert. I have a book
about D&D dragons up there. I like that book. It's it's a prize of my collection. But yeah,
I always love dragon. The books are actually, I think the books, they actually had a D&D cartoon.
D&D cartoon. Yeah. Yeah, usually when it's not like, usually when there's like D&D,
like stuff like that, I'm kind of bit suspicious if it's like a like a D&D story.
And then the dragon, the cartoon was good. Okay. Well, not bad for a cartoon when you've got
nothing else to do as a kid. It introduces you to stuff. That's pretty good. When when was this
1990? 1990. So that would have been like, I didn't know specifically the versions, but like
would be first edition, second edition, I think. Well, I'm looking up. Yeah, season one came out
in 1983. Well, audition was prevalent back then. Well, they wouldn't have been first edition
because first edition would have been late 70s. So this would have been second or and you know,
it doesn't matter because it's not like they followed the books anyway. Yeah. Okay, but what
did it, what did it follow? How did the story line? It was basically just they created a bunch
of characters and put them in this medieval world. That was basically about it. Yep.
Yep. Seems bad, right? Yeah. Nowadays you'd have like, if you were to do a story about D&D,
you'd have to have kind of like, well, I think, well, I'm a three point. No, I'm a fifth edition
player, another 3.5 player. So I know all the fifth edition books by by hard, basically,
all the stuff. Well, there's also a lot of things which when you're playing D&D or when you're
involved in D&D, you kind of automatically do like, don't have a clue how passive perception
actually works. Never use hit dice. Don't counter ammo. That's a big one. Never don't keep track of
your ass or better yet play a spell, play a caster and then you don't have to keep track of arrows
because you don't use them. That's easy. Did that show start off with they went on some
carnival ride that actually sent them back into the dungeon dragon's world? That's actually in the
opening of each episode. All right, except I'm looking through the the images and one of them was
the the them going into the carnival ride. I'm like, oh, that's how it's all began. Yeah, I remember
watching that. I used to watch that show a lot. Good show. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I'll make my kids watch
all the cartoons that I loved as a kid. So, you know, chip and down rescue rangers, tailspin.
My kids love tailspin. Yeah. I tried. They got someone in a tailspin. Darkwing duck.
Haven't tried darkwing duck with my kids yet. When I was a bit younger, I used to love watching
octanolts and that was like it was very it was like a like pretty good children's just thing.
Was very educational too. Like most of the animals see animals. I just remember from octanolts being
like, oh, yeah, that's the that's that specific animal which came in that specific thing. Yeah,
I know that. Yeah. Okay. When I was the equivalent age for like octanolts, we were watching things
like Woody Woodpecker. I once in in like a shop segment shop thing. I found a one of those
comics of that. It was old, but it was still in pretty good shape. That was it wasn't that bad.
Woody Woodpecker comic would probably be pretty bad. It was amusing partially as a show,
but as a comic, I can only imagine how crappy it would be. Yeah. Well, to be honest,
it wasn't that bad when I first found it. When I first found it, I was very young and I was
still I was quite like like Donald Duck comics. So if it was not that bad, that means that
in one I'm talking about nowadays, it would probably not be that great. So do you remember, Joe,
do you remember the so all of those things were on what was called the Disney afternoon,
where it was duck tails, darkwing duck. It was a Sunday morning lineup. It was every day in the
afternoon. Oh, yeah, yeah, you're right. So they also put out a little magazine. You remember that?
Acly. Like very vaguely. I couldn't tell you anything about it. They had a book that they had
like a little book that they put out there. But the size of like a reader's digest that had like a
bunch of comics of the the shows that they do on the Disney afternoon. I remember I used to get
that. I don't think I got a subscription wise. I used to pick it up. It's, I really remember that
and I had a bunch of them. To be honest, that might be something like I found. I know. But I think it
might have been in Dutch, but I know duck tails. That's very similar to the comics we have here in
the Netherlands. The duck tails, they also have a modern version of duck tails, which the artwork
is terrible for. But that might actually be more similar to one of the characters. I think the
modern duck tails might be more similar to like the comics we have here. Because they like, for
instance, I saw some images of like all duck tails. It's in English, she's called Scrooge
McDuck, right? Yeah. So we just go and talk about duck, like original name. Wait, wait, I prefer
that. But Scrooge McDuck is also a very accurate name. Well, they call him Scrooge McDuck because
he originally Scrooge from a ball, basically a retelling of the Christmas Carol. Right. Yeah.
And they put them on, yeah, then they gave them his own show with duck tails, where it was
Huey doing Louis, which was his nephews. Yep. Yeah. Who were the children of Donald? No, well,
they were never Donald's nephews. Oh, yes. We don't know who was children they were. No, I thought,
I thought they were. No, they're not those kids. I definitely know that. Yeah, we called them
quick, quick and clock. I think or I know they were something like that. Basically the sound
of duck makes that's basically what they were called. But Donald actually, you know, has an official
military rank. He has? Yeah. Let me look it up. Why? Because, um, well, basically he was US war
propaganda. And then he also, um, when he came back from the war, he, he very much personifies
someone with PTSD. Really? Hmm. But I've seen a comic of, um, well, not like comic, I've seen, um,
like one of those old, um, propaganda things like, um, uh, from, uh, way back when I'm pretty sure.
Still pretty good old, you know, and stuff. Yeah. So what was his rank? I don't know what his rank was.
Um, he didn't, but, um, I did find a page where it says in 1984, the US government gave Donald
Duck an honorary honorable discharge and honor of his service in World War II. Oh, as a
bucks sergeant, the US Army, the US Army retired Donald Duck from, um, active duty as a buck sergeant.
Buck sergeant? What's a book sergeant? Uh, it doesn't exist anymore. What used to be a book sergeant?
I think that was just a regular sergeant, so that would be three stripes. Okay. You know,
but in his later appearances in the show, he was a seamen. Oh, but they don't say the rank in this
just that he was honorably discharged from the Navy in 1984. Okay. Yeah. And yeah, it does talk about,
um, let me post this article that I found and add it to the show no talking. And it does specifically
talk about, um, his anger issues, um, him suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.
Yeah, interesting. But like, I want to end like the doctors, right? Was there
Bruce Huluk, which is like, um, the cousin of, um, Donald and he, instead of having bad luck
the whole time, he has good luck. Well, the, uh, Gismo Duck had, uh, bad luck.
Like, yeah, the, the, the, the, the one with the little light bulb as a companion. Well,
there is a, there's like a duck with a, um, which, which makes a lot of Gismo's and stuff
inventor, uh, can't remember his name exactly now. Well, I don't even know if he was a duck,
but it is similar to a duck. Um, and he had a little light bulb as a companion, like a,
a, a, a, a little robot with a light bulb as a head. Now, Gismo Duck was basically, um,
Robocop, except in duck form. And without, you know, the major trauma that caused it. But, uh,
no, Scrooge McDuck had a, um, lucky dime. Yes. Um, extremely lucky. Yeah, it, it,
air was called, uh, look, yeah, uh, I, I know, it's like, double. So, um, exactly the same,
extremely lucky. It's, it's, I think it's literally just the same, the same concepts,
maybe not the same stories, but yeah. Now, which was first the Dutch comic or the, um,
the, uh, duck tails. I don't know. I'm going to Google it. Well, duck, duck, go it.
Duck tail would have been worse. 80s or 90s? 80s? Yeah, I don't know when the comics started.
Okay, 1987, the 1990. What? Duck tails was 1987 to 1990. Good night, hockey. Yeah, okay. Um,
hmm, okay. Don Duck is a, the Dutch flagship weekly Disney comics magazine first published on
October 25, 1952. Well, magazine wasn't originally published by the staff of the women's magazine,
Married and every Married subscriber received the first issue for free. The comic is mainly in
that younger children and includes a letter's page from readers. Yes, uh, can confirm.
In 2019, the magazine reached its, uh, 3500th issue. So that will be your, um, duck tails.
Very interesting. So we can assume, based on that evidence, based on the evidence presented
to court, we can assume that, um, the Dutch comics were first and the duck tails was, um,
something, um, something derived from that. Um, no. Uh, okay. The comics did happen first,
but, um, it's owned by Disney and, um, Walt Disney created them would be my guess. The
when Donald Duck was created. Yes, but the, the vague plot thing is also owned by Disney.
It's also Donald Duck. This is just two versions of Donald Duck. Donald Duck was, like, it
literally says Donald Duck was vague plot on, on the link I sent in, in, in the chat thing. Donald Duck
was, what? Oh, God. Uh, Donald Duck was definitely created before the first comic, because it
otherwise there would be no Donald Duck. Donald Duck was, his first appearance was the adventures
of Mickey Mouse in 1931, created by Walt Disney. And of course Walt Disney was an American entrepreneur.
Yes. And so yeah, it originated from the best comics. Yes, but, um, we'd have to have a look at the
US comics if it's similar with, um, uh, with the Dutch comics, because, yeah, I haven't read those.
And I have seen pictures and stuff, uh, from Doctals and I haven't watched it though. So, uh, I
think I have watched my guess would be that the Dutch comics are reprints of the US comic.
Might not necessarily be so, but it's, I, it's, uh, definitely Dutch. Well, I don't think it's, um,
reprints, because there's lots of Dutch stuff, like thrown in there. It's like, it's so Dutch
stuff, like it's half-dutchified that it's, like, definitely American stuff. That's like there.
Saying that because there's American themes in the original Power Rangers series. But he
borrowed the original Voltron series. What? Okay. Um, the original Voltron series is, um,
Japanese anime from the 1980s. 70s, excuse me. But it got brought into, um, the US and it was
extremely heavily adapted for US viewers. Yes. But it was still a Japanese show. Now,
not debating if Donald Duck is, um, American or not, because he's American. But it wasn't
redraw, what I'm saying is Voltron was not redrawn for the US. It was just, um, when it, when it was
recorded over, it was, um, American fight. Yeah. The nature versions at least, once I read which were
like old posts, well, most of them are post 2000. So the, I think at the beginning, they were
copies of the American comics. But then later on, it started getting more traction, because this
is something, um, there's literally an entire section at the library where you can just get these
comics, a couple other comics too. But these are the most important ones. So, um,
it's definitely an important thing. And so it's made way more duchified. So it's
gone to a point where it's, where you kind of question if he lives in America or in the Netherlands,
because it definitely looks entirely possible that there's, you know, a Dutch comic maker
that has the rights to make a Dutch version of the comics. So it's just generally, um, it's easier
to take something that's already been created and then slightly modify it for, um, the different
audiences. Yeah. Well, yeah, maybe. But like, yeah. But the such, the, well, depends on the comics.
Like, like, some comics are like, could literally just be modified, but some are to such a degree
that it's like, yeah. And don't let me get started on the special ones where it's like,
literally he tours the whole, the entirety of the Netherlands, basically. But like, for instance,
if it's center class, that's not celebrated anywhere else, except for Netherlands, basically,
not center class, specifically with the specific stuff. There's similar stuff, but it's not center
class. Um, but there are, uh, center class, if it's center class, or in the center class time,
then there will be a center class comic. So stuff like that, for instance, it's definitely,
we can't, um, we can't deny that there is a heavy, heavy American, um, it's definitely
come from America and it's definitely an American thing. Um, but I still think it's a bit more than
just something American, um, uh, adapted to the Netherlands. Yeah. You know, this might be just,
like, national pride or something for, uh, for our, for our specific version of Donald Duck,
who knows? Um, not sure. You'd have to like, actually look up who the publisher was and then see
if they're doing their own artwork. And my wife, Jackie, was, uh, also making comparisons to, um,
like, uh, Rinton Tint, which was all the adventures of Tintin was a, um, French comic that was very
Americanized when published. Yeah. And then it, well, was it French or was Belgium? Um,
but yeah, in that case, you have a unique, uh, version of, uh, the comic base, you have,
or you have an unique version of that character. It's not the same. Like, if you change, it's so much
that it becomes, um, like, so if you change it so heavily, then it's like a different version
altogether. Like, yeah, this was literally, I think that if I can remember correctly, there
were literally sometimes, um, like, I, I think I already mentioned that there were, um, letters sent
at the stars and there would be some. Um, but I think this specific, uh, thing was also mentioned
there. Like, are you American or are you Dutch? And yeah, basically what they said is, well, I
can't remember, but like, something, something live in America, something, basically that, I think
they were trying to communicate that it's, uh, he's American, but like, well, I don't know.
So you guys go with the American, uh, the motto, we're all Heinz 57. We're a little bit of everything.
Never at that before. Okay. Well, there's 57 ingredients in American catch up.
Didn't know that. Thanks for the information. That's, that's how America, American likes to,
it's kind of like the English language. It's like, it's like, it's a little bit of everything.
Yeah. Yeah. A little bit of everything. Yeah. And I was talking to my husband, Joe, about like,
how the cartoons I grew up on the border. So I was used to seeing stuff and, uh, a lot of the
international shows in Mexico and in Spanish with, or with the, the dub in Spanish. And they were
completely different, getting to watch them several years later in English because of how they
changed the plots and they changed the wording and they even changed the characters personalities.
Yeah. Like, so earlier, that was mentioned like a kind of Robocop thing. That one didn't exist in
the comics. It just didn't exist. The closest thing you got was a genius inventor. Just didn't
exist. And there's like all arsenals of different kind of tears of characters there. How close
they are to, you know, Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck, basically mostly Donald Duck. So yeah, there,
I think also if you have a look at the Wikipedia, it literally says that the Prime Minister
was honored because he appeared in Donald Duck. I think I got that version. Yeah. Yeah.
I'm gonna post it in the chat. Yeah, it's posted in the channel already. Post it in the chat.
I'm handing you back to Joe. I was just told to watch the heads that permit it.
Hello. I still talking about Donald Duck. Man, you know, it's actually pretty cool that, like, you've
got something which is like just a duck. It's literally just a duck when like a top and no pants.
And yet it can make you feel so prideful as a child to have this special little version of them.
And then even when you're older, you can still feel that little, like, it's mine. It's ours. It's
special. No, but we need to poop. Didn't care much for we need to poo as child. It's still another
character that wears just a shirt. Yeah. What do so many characters go with a shirt, but no trousers?
I don't know. Our trousers just that hard to draw or is it honestly? No, it has to be difficult to draw
trousers on a duck. Yeah. Well, no, because don't the female characters off trousers, though? No,
they have skirts different. Oh, yeah. But when they go swimming, they literally have swimming
trunks when they go swimming. Yeah. And other. So half of the time, right? So when they're swimming,
they have swimming trunks, but no, like top clothes. The other half of the time, they've got top
clothes and no pants at all. And then when they've gotten, then they, when they haven't got either,
they're naked for some reason. But they never have both. They never have both. Like Goofy has both.
Didn't launch pad have pants? Pad McQuack? Who?
Much Pad McQuack had pants. Who, who's that? Can't you describe the character?
Plains in duck tails. I haven't watched duck tails, remember? Can describe him? He was a taller duck
wavy hair and flew planes. Doesn't exist. Well, I think I, yeah, I saw a
version of that in just like the stuff I saw from the duck tails stuff. Yeah. But doesn't exist in
the comment comics. Did you ever watch tailspin? Nope. Which is all the characters basically from
the jungle book. I have none of them were pants either except for some of the female's war pants.
Yeah. Why do females? Sure. Sure, Colin also war pants. Why? Because he was also,
sure, Colin was always in suits. That's why he war pants. But, um, balloon, um, never war pants,
and, um, being Louis never war pants. I don't think we're all other types of clothing.
So, because basically what we're learning here is that as long as you have eight
piece of clothing on, like, like, if you have half, if you have half of, um, your body fully closed,
it doesn't matter which animal. What? Anger. Anger and anthropomorphic animal. That too. That's
a very important step. Yeah. Then you can just go out. Yep. Yep. To, to be honest, it might be
because they're, they are half animal. So they should be. Maybe they're whole animals. They're not
half animals. They're just anthropomorphic. They're, yeah, that's true. They're not half animal
half human. They're, yeah, that's true. They are just, yeah. Well, they kind of are half human,
because they, they, they're animals given human-like characteristics, which is anthropomorphic.
They've come there, like, um, didn't Disney have that, like, their own funny little name for them?
Anthropomorphic? No, no, not anthropomorphic. It's like, um, funny animals. Or so, I don't know,
it's some silly little name, but that helps distinguish them from actual animals, silly animals,
or something. I know. Disney is taking control of lots of stuff. You know, it'll come to it one
day that Disney won't have anything to buy anymore and that Disney will be forced to buy Disney
from Disney and stuff and it will all be in the name of all Disney. My wife had some commentary
about anthropomorphic animals and the lack of pants and she mentioned mascots. Generally,
don't have pants for, like, teams and things like that. And she also, some teams do. I wouldn't
be familiar with that. But the people that prefer furries, do not. Furries, furries. Furries, furries
are taking a lot of liberty with the fact that they are allowed to exist and pull their other
people with that. Like, you just, you know, you know, um, what if we put all the furries on a big
furry ship and sent them off to furry planet and bit, you know, a big asteroid field around them to
make sure anybody that's ever done any type of cosplay really can't say much about a furry thing.
I haven't done anything, so I'm fine. I'm telling me that if you went to Comic-Con, you wouldn't
dress up. No, if, uh, well, I haven't been to Comic-Con so, um, but if I did go to Comic-Con,
I might go to Comic-Con. What happens to Comic-Con? Stay is a Comic-Con. Good point. But yeah,
as long as they don't bother me, I guess. Yeah. You know, sometimes it's more like a laugh when
the furries don't harass me. They can do whatever hell they want. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes it's more like
laugh. I don't actually have any trouble with furries. As long as they don't bother me, yeah.
As long as they stay away from me. Do you have problems with life size anthropomorphic
animals? I do when they get right up in my face. Well, really depends on the type of anthropomorphic
life size animal. If they're just a chill one, so just are just normal people except they
in a giant fur suit. That's fine. If they want to get up in their face and start waving their
arms and being jackasses, then yeah, you know, it's a good time to have a problem with them.
It's a good time for them to be put down. If they want to be an animal so much, they have,
they have their right to be an animal then. Well, to quote the movie Goonies, you know, Wolfman got
an arts. Sure. Have you ever watched Goonies? I seriously doubt it. But, you know, Wolfman
didn't kick in the nuts. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, generally, you know, generally, I don't know.
He dressed up for a teen wolf. He was not in teen wolf too. I didn't really get that even
at the time when it was the whole thing in the school and everyone was panicked that the furries
were gonna invade. I didn't really care. It's more that it was a joke and it's funny. It's funny
to be to be usually when I don't like something on principle, it's because it's a joke. I generally
am fine with whatever people are doing. As long as they don't bother me, are actively harmful
or they make shitty content, which I have to live with. But that's that's harming me again. So,
yeah, that's affecting me again. So, yeah, yeah, already covered. Well, it is 215. 919 here.
I'm getting a little tired, so. Yep. Might also go f off somewhere, I know. But, um, because the
sun is already out and I can see it from the basement. All right, I'll talk to you later. Yep,
my bye. Hi, KDG. Nice seeing you again. You, you do realize your, your mic is turned off.
Serious shout. Shout just narrate everything. KDG has said so far. KDG has said bye and you too.
That, that's all you need to know. Oh, and yeah. Yeah, why is your mic turned off?
Can you help me? Yes. I can. I didn't have my mic connected. Ah, that would be a good reason not
to not to be able to hear you then. Yeah, so if I know if I don't have my mic connected,
it's better and muted, so all can on the sun. I go, go and knock and be the dog. Yep, that makes sense.
I joined, yesterday, Joe was still around here. Yeah. And that doesn't think he's slept in,
does, doesn't it? Well, I haven't slept this night. It's already morning. We're already
nearing where I left off last time, which is in like half an hour, around about somewhere between
a half now and like an hour or something. But you didn't go in there early, yesterday.
And what? You didn't go in there, yesterday, I think. I didn't see your name, I think.
Well, I'm using dad's setup right now, because the other setup is right in above the bedroom.
So I was trying to sleep while I'm talking. Yeah, that's it. Yeah. And say I would want to switch back
to watching some Star Wars Bad Badge. Then I would go, do, do, do, do, down the stairs, do, do, do,
across like the whole way of all the bedrooms, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, all the way
through, down the stairs in through the sliding doors. And then, yeah. Yeah, you wake up, each
I'm, you move back and forth. Yeah. And then everyone would be very angry on me, because they wanted
to sleep in, but they couldn't. Yeah. They wanted to sleep even people nowadays, asking to sleep.
Yeah, that's why I had had the hard time understanding who was who. I was wondering if you was
then the person with the other nick last time I talked to you. What? You used your other account
with last time we talked. Yeah. Yeah, last time. Yeah, we had a complete redecorational
of the house. So the things have moved. And now I play D&D up in the attic. So my, so my accounts
is basically in the computer up in the attic. So I, yeah, I can't really use that one. So I'll
just use that one down here instead. Also, the, the, the, the basement is basically designed for
this. It was always the idea. I'm pretty sure that that was going to be here and doing stuff and
talking. Yeah. So as long as he doesn't intend to be here, you can be here. Well, yeah, I'm
pretty sure he's asleep right now. So yeah, yeah, but pretty late night last night. And there was
no fireworks in them. Well, there were like all, most of the neighbors in our little section of
town boggared off somewhere. So we had just a couple people in like a corner of the neighborhood
and just just like nearly the entire neighborhood which was left just in one corner. And then
not really doing much. So we were basically just a blind spot, dark spot in. And while otherwise
was just, if, if a little less, just like a normal Dutch, um, exploding, uh, fire, good thingy.
Like the exploding part. Yeah. So this is a new membrane. Are you doing with D&D in this room?
I did look for it because normally, um, first year of day, normally many people joining the
other room. And I thought to join it, I find out it didn't exist anymore. So, um, what are you saying?
Like you're drawing the other room, but that didn't exist. I didn't find the other room.
So I went looking on Dr. Goh and found the new one and doing it yesterday in Australia.
Okay. Yeah. Good. Yeah. Um, I'm really known that stuff. Uh, there was something, something,
but I can't remember. Uh, here I talked about, uh, moving the room. Uh, yeah. But yeah, it never
seemed to be going moving. And I was away there in London. So when I come back, of course it,
I get off it as I moved. Of course. I should have done that happen. But, uh, of course,
when he left the door, uh, reason to keep room. Yeah. Yeah. So I can try to, so, uh, what day
are you doing your D&D? Uh, Wednesdays. Wednesdays. So the same day as, uh, first time, um,
a year ago, uh, but yeah, just same day, uh, same time, well, slightly different because of,
you know, the whole, um, stupid summer wintertime. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. We're actually, um, this might
be our last adventure, because well, with these characters, because, um, uh, you know, uh, we're
getting to that level now. We're getting to, um, we, some of us are nearly to 12, uh, to 20th
level. Some of us are trying to catch up as quickly as I can. Yeah. Because I didn't know if that
was last time, but my character died like halfway through, um, like at level 10. Um, so I made new
character, which was the warlock of, um, the previous warlock characters. So we have a warlock chain
going on. Um, yeah. And, um, uh, so I've now got some to like pretty higher levels. I'm, I'm
nearly catching, I'm nearly catching up, nearly catching up. Well, you didn't stop because
I vanished here. Yep. And it's good to test my mic, Susanberg. Yeah. That's always very useful.
So I want to use talk about living. Oh, I should test it, put on my mic so I can just test it before
you leave. Yeah. There wasn't all discussion about Donald Duck just before, and before that,
yeah, there was a lot of conversation already today. Things like, um, like, uh, um, uh, world
building stuff. You should all, the, the keyword world building is make sure you've got your files
on, um, software on, uh, not old software or like, um, open source software stuff. Now,
basically the more of the story. Um, then there's, um, then there was stuff like, um, a very long time
where people were talking about lots of different shows I've never even heard of. And, um, I,
I joined and left. Yeah. That, uh, talk. Yeah. And I, I, I, yeah, wasn't too long ago, right?
Now it was, um, yeah. That you, uh, like, uh, for, uh, no, uh, one hour ago. I joined,
I found out I would see some TV shows instead. Yeah. I was considering, was considering,
when I thought, maybe I'll just stick around and grab some, um, magic, the gathering lore stuff to
read. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I'm very confused about the whole states of magic and D&D. Are they
the same universe, different universes, same multiverse universe stuff? Like,
Rabbnik has the one which makes it all very complicated because there's a source book about
Rabbnik, right? Yeah. You probably can combine them if you do that. Yeah. Oh, better. Yeah.
And the thing is they're made from by the same company. Yeah. So you probably can combine them.
Yeah. Yeah. I would like to actually see an in a strad, um, in a strad, uh, uh, book,
because I've, I've mostly been reading up on in a strad lore quite like in a strad. It's like, um,
it, it's like gothic horror thing. There's, um, there's like, uh, six different kind of
factions if you count angels and demons. There's like, um, humans, werewolves, ghosts, zombies,
and then angels and demons. Yeah. And there's like, lots of different types of
also depending on the color and stuff, but yeah. Yeah. Um, but yeah, like, basically in the world
of in a strad, um, very evil, lots of stuff, then suddenly angel appeared on religion based on
the angel, angel gone crazy, turns out evil like space thingies, not so gothic horror anymore,
more like cosmic horror. And afterwards, um, vanish it to the moon, which might not be smart,
because it's like the most important celestial body on in a strad and, um, deal with the consequences.
That's basically the, the entire storyline so far. Yeah. Pretty good though. Pretty good.
Would suggest a quick read. Yeah. There were just like two, two, um, different sets released as well.
Nothing, not so easy read. What? If you use two books, you can then read it through.
Yeah, it's, um, it, it's like, um, there's a website. I'll have a look if I can find it.
Not, not for my sake. I'm not really interested in the Indian, just interesting talking to other people.
Yeah. Okay. So then people meet up, the Indian is done. I can probably talk to some people
before I start. Yeah. Yeah. But then you know when the show is, then you intend to play on
enough. And so I don't enjoy it. Needle in your session. Yeah. And the subject. So I need to just
calculate and kind of listen, being quiet, listen. What do you talk about is the Indian. Okay. Then
I live and try to go back. Yeah. So have a basic understanding. Usually we talk, usually we talk
before Dindy though. Yeah. Which like, it's actually easier to know because we, we don't have to
quickly go off or something. Um, we, we usually, as long as it's, uh, go, as it's actually going on,
if it's continuing, um, the only times are when somebody is delayed, which isn't very often,
or when it's canceled, which also isn't very often. But, um, then it's just, uh, well, 1800 for me,
but that would be like somewhere like, um, 1700 UTC. Yeah, 1700 UTC. So there was, uh, what
country did you live in again? Dutch. Netherlands. Yeah. Netherlands. Is that the same time so, so
Germany. Um, this, um, what do you mean is the same one? Um, Bali in time zone. Um, no, actually it's
so it's a different time zone. Different time zone. It is the one, oh, different, isn't that?
Um, uh, or it might be the same time zone. It's either a London time zone or Bali in time zone,
I think. Well, it's, it's, um, it's like, um, London time zone, but more like, uh,
Reykjavik, because that one doesn't have like summer winter time. Oh, yeah. Well, plus, um, at the
moment, it seems like plus one. And then, uh, in the summer, then it would be of course plus two.
Yeah, so it's one or two different for me. Yeah. Because I have a Bali in time zone. Yeah.
Yeah, I usually also have problems with the changing of the times. It's very annoying. They should
just like, it's such a simple thing. Everyone hates it. Everyone actually just hates the switching
thing. Yeah, it should. What you are most between the world. Yeah. Fewer time zones. It helps
very much. Well, time zones aren't necessarily bad because they reflect. Well, politically change
time zones can be very annoying, but, um, uh, that, that depends. Um, it's the fact that there's
like summer and winter time. That's the big problem. Because you really, you've used, uh, when you
start something, you figure it out. And in other words, it's all fine because you figured it out
already. Yeah, you need to calculate it each time it's some more wind up, because then all
things change. Yeah. You have to remember that it's changing. Again, you forget. Yeah. I haven't
done 12 times too. I don't think it's opposite direction. What? I think because I live in a place
that has the time zones too. So I think I probably move the same direction as your time zones.
Yeah, probably. So, but I don't know. Just one or a different between you and there I am.
Okay. It's close to 10 o'clock there I am. What is close to your clock?
Uh, it's 940. Oh, it's same time zone. Same time zone. Yeah. Yeah. And you take your time to
calculate seven hours difference. When you talk about it. The moment I understand you
calculate the two man hours, okay, it probably think I live in you say. No, no.
Hmm. Maybe you'll remember the next time you talk I am the same time zone as you. Yeah. I thought like
one, one time zone next to me, but I'm not very good with all those time zones and knowing that
usually just look it up before stuff. Yeah. So Germany and your country had the same time zone.
Yeah, I think so. That would make sense because Germany is the biggest economic partner of the
Netherlands. Yeah, you probably are neighbor in complete. Yeah. Neighbors not too, yeah. And if
Germans speak German, we can go into half understand it without needing to ever have heard
German or even know what German is. If you can speak your own language, it's close, no.
Yeah. German can't understand those, but that's their problem. Yeah. But you can understand them.
That's good enough for you. Yep. Well, you can get the gist of what they're talking about.
You need to speak English to them, but they can speak German. Yep. Exactly. And, um, yeah.
And I guess Belgium speaks, well, the same language, but that's only half the country and it's not
the half that that's, um, facing you. Yeah. Well, it is half that's facing us. That's true. But
also they talk a bit weird. They have like, they're on the verge of trying to have their own language
basically with like, very, very big accent. Yeah. So it's going that way. It's the same for language.
Yeah. It isn't worse to speak a, um, to speak the same language, um, to speak the same language,
super duper differently or, um, or to have a completely different language be quite similar.
Yeah. And then just talking about like, understandability. Yeah. That's a bit different from
between Dutch and the other country. And the Netherlands. Yeah. Netherlands. And, uh,
other countries, like that. Luxembourg. Luxembourg, yeah. Luxembourg is the same thing.
Yeah. Luxembourg and Belgium, but, um, Luxembourg for a longer period of time used to be one country,
Kingdom of the Netherlands. The Kingdom of Netherlands still exists. It's still like the
governing body of like, Netherlands and a couple of the, um, overseas territories and stuff.
Because did you know the Kingdom of the Netherlands has a border with France?
Yeah. Yeah. It's true. It's in, um, it's in a little island of, uh, often like, um, new world,
that kind of stuff. As simple as I think it's cold. Or I don't know, maybe not. I,
I can't remember those tiny islands. Maybe they're very big islands, but I can't remember them.
No, fine, fine enough. I get it too quickly. Yeah. But, uh, to talk to you again,
you need to go to the toilet and you probably want to go to bed. Oh, I'm not going to bed.
Oh, well, I'm going to watch something action-filled in Action Park because I'm nearly falling asleep.
But this is, um, let's see. So I went from a quarter past one to, um, quarter to ten. So that's, um,
about nine, uh, nine and a half hours of me just talking. So I, I count that as a win.
Death and an increase from last time. Yeah. I was, uh, her last year, yeah. Yeah.
We talked a lot. Yeah. If anyone's watching later in July and in, like, the summer,
I would suggest checking the, the, the other one out as well. Yeah. I'm the other one. What is the
other one? Last year's. Oh, yeah. Yeah. If you're going to be listening that, like, you might as
well just delay it until, uh, new, new years, but then listen to the old new years. Yeah. Yeah.
I, I know. Your new year is the same time as my new year. What? I think we both have,
we have the same time zone. So we have the same new year. Yeah. But why have you met Schneid?
Schneid. Schneid say hi. She's my sister. Schneid. She does, she's not responding. Yeah. Yeah.
She's that one weirdly spelled name with an S, that one. Yeah. The other one that is, um,
hello on the count in this room. What? She is the other one that is registered inside this room.
What? What? She is, uh, registered, uh, as registered. The name. The name is registered. Yeah.
Oh, yeah. Is that, is that very hard or something? Because, no, it's very easy, but you
know, the retirement name. Oh, cool. Yeah. I didn't know that. Well, anyway, um, nice talking
thing I might go now. It's really like 950, basically. Yeah. So it's very close to that. Yeah,
it's like, it's, it's, that would make, that would make it like me talking, basically, be like,
uh, eight, eight math. Um, yeah. This is how it's been. Yes. Yeah. So 50, 50 minus one and 50,
50 minus 10 is 40 minus 35. I can do it in late and see if you're going back to this room again.
Yeah. Yeah. I would check that. Yeah. Yeah. My good night. Yeah. Good.
Oh, yeah. Good night. Good day. Yeah. Because neither I, uh, I just woke up and doing
anything. Yeah. So yeah. See you later. Bye. Are we actually, yeah, left. Well, anyway,
yeah, it's 50 now. So 950 and you had one 14 and 950.
Yeah.
No one got their aids on.
Hello? Hello, who is that?
This is Clackay. Clackay. Where are you, Clackay?
Currently in Sweden. Sweden? Oh right, I'm in the UK.
You've been here all night or you just got on just like... Oh no, no, no, no, no. I just got
got out a bed about an hour ago out of a really deep sleep.
No, I hadn't slept for the last two nights so I got a good night's sleep for you.
Now I bobbed in for an hour or so yesterday and I thought I'd bob on this morning,
see if there was any here hangers on, still knocking around. Yeah, I jumped in just after the one o'clock,
it was some people. Yeah, I don't do all this new year stuff so we were in bed by 11 o'clock UK time.
I'm getting older, I can't take the pace these days. Yeah, so how has your hacker year been in?
Well, it ended very good because I just got a new computer. So,
put in. Getting a new computer is always nice. Oh yeah, it's the first new computer I've had for
just under 20 years. The last 18, 19 years I've mainly had second... Well, I have had second
hand stuff. The only new technology stuff I've got, it has been tablets and mobile phones but
PC wise and laptop wise, it's all been second hand stuff. Yeah, well I just got a new old phone.
So Galaxy S6 from six years ago. Right. Well, I've just successfully managed to put
Lini into a mess on it. So, what have you put on it? Liniage? Yeah. Yeah, I had Liniage run it.
I've got what they call it. Ubiports running on a couple at the moment,
but still not ready for day-to-day use. Oh, really? I thought it was. Not really. It's very
dependent on the web. So, unless you've got a good data connection with your mobile provider,
it can be a bit hit and miss. So, if you rely on using it for satnav and stuff like that where you
because it's it uses Google Maps for things like that or you know, and it needs a data connection,
then unless like I say, unless you've got a really good package with your mobile provider,
you can be up the creek without a paddle. All right. It shouldn't be a problem either because
in my home city, I have an unlimited. All right. Okay. I don't do too bad. I've got
I've got about 15 gig on mine. Well, that will take you. I could go all out and get unlimited for
a few quid more, but for what traveling I do at the moment, it's not worth it. I spend.
Well, this one is pretty good. It's less than 10 quid and then the amount is unlimited,
but then the bandwidth is, sorry, the amount is unlimited, bandwidth is limited.
All right. So, what do this ruffle you to? I think it's about to megabyte per second. So,
it's anyway. I was going to say, I remember when I, I would enjoy the first time I got a
two meg hardwire connection to the house. Yeah, yeah. That's not that long back.
No, it was clear. My first connection was a 56k modem. Yep, same, same.
288 actually my first one. No, no, I wasn't that early. No, I bought a new PC when I was living
down in London in 1998 and it had an internal modem and it had 28, 56k modem in it.
Oh, built in. I think I never had it. Yeah, it was. It was built in modem to the PC.
So, what's your new set? It's actually the very first time I've gone out and specifically bought
a Linux computer. I was hoping to buy an Entraware one, but Entraware have been having stock problems
and the computer would have been twice the price that I eventually paid for this one, but it was a
full workstation PC, quite a big tower and it would have cost me over two grand for it, but they
didn't have it in stock and I wanted Ryzen. I wanted a Ryzen 9 and so, someone suggested I'm
going to look at Juno computers. They've got base here in the UK. So, I went over to theirs and they
do some of these little tiny, tiny PCs that you can use for media centers and things like that
and they add one with a Ryzen 9 on it. The Brutus 5000 and I ended up speccing that out with
32GB RAM and a 1TB NVMe drive and I got a discount for Black Friday. Got 10% discount and yeah,
I'm really happy with it. It arrived just before Christmas and got it all set up and in the real world,
it's about five times faster than the old generation 3i7. So, doing photo editing and audio editing,
is a breeze now. And specifically, support Linux. Yeah, it came with the Ubuntu 21, sorry,
2004, but I've stuck, I kept a small partition with the 2004 install, so I can boot into that,
ever want to, but as soon as I got it, I'm a Linux Mint fan. So, I stuck Mint Marta 20.2 on it.
In fact, I need to go and investigate whether the upgrade to 20.3 is available yet,
doesn't look like it or it's not coming through the package. Yeah, additions and stuff.
It cost me, with postage, it cost me just under 1300, but when you spec out what's got in it,
it's it's not about price at the moment considering all the problems we're having with logistics
and all that. It should have been just over 1400 plus posted, so it should have been nearly 1450,
and I got it for just under 13. But yeah, it's a good deal. The one like I say, the one I wanted,
which was a full tower PC, with a graphics card and everything, that would have cost me
nearly 2.5 at the specs I wanted. Yeah, but this one actually does just as good a job.
The onboard graphics on the AMD processor are really good, so I'm quite happy with it.
And like I say, when I've done real wheel tests using Gimp and Audacity, it's a lot faster than
the old i7. Yeah, it's not like a real dude hacking. Yeah, so the only limitation is because of the size
of the box. The reason that many USB ports on it, so I've had to go out and buy a USB 3 hub
for all the peripherals I've connected, and I've already filled it up.
I got one with 11 ports, but three of them are USB power ports, and I thought they'd be data
and power, but they're not, they're just power. So I ended up with only eight usable
actual USB ports, but it means I can plug things in for charging up and stuff in the other three
without without taking the data ones. You're going to use all the eight.
They've gone, like I say, it's full. Wow. The only two spare ports I've got, because obviously
one of the USB 3 ports on the back of the PC, I've had to use to connect the hub.
The other ones on something, I can't remember what it is, it might be me, my actually.
So the only two USB 3, well, these two USB 2s on the back as well, and they've got me mouse and
keyboard in them. So the only two USB 3, and they're actually USB 3.2s
around the front of the PC, which is really handy for plugging in just stuff that I only need
temporarily plugged in, and it's got a USB-C port as well at the front, but it's really compact.
In fact, obviously it's not got a DVD drive in it, because it's so small.
So it's currently sat on top of a five and a half inch caddy with a DVD drive in it.
That's bigger than the PC.
Because I still do occasionally rip movies and stuff, so it's handy to have a DVD caddy.
Yeah, that's the machine gear.
Putting?
Does the computer get hot when you use it for an audacity?
No, it's got a really good vent on it. Sorry, spoon, we can't hear you.
Yeah, it's got a really good vent on it. It's got a really good fan inside it on the process.
See, I can sometimes, when it's working hard, I can feel that the air coming out of the vent is
quite, it's warm, but not overly warm, but at the moment it's running, because I'm not doing anything
really task oriented, it's running really cool at the moment.
Right, sounds cool.
I'm going to drop off the ruby and then pop back a bit later.
Okay, no problem.
Happy new year, spoon.
If you tried configuring your audio in the mumble system to see if you've got a problem.
Mike, check.
We can hear you.
Maybe it's the button on my, like I've got a button on the headphones halfway down the cable,
it gets pressed accidentally.
I've never known it to function.
Yeah, it's amazing what these headset things do.
I've got a little, a thing that turns the volume up and down on the side of my head
phones and sometimes it's turned right down and I can't figure out why I can't hear anything.
Right, I did wonder if I could use it as a push to talk, but I don't think it did work.
I might try that again.
I've got my, I've got a keyboard shortcut to mute my mic if I need to, but you can mute it manually
mumble anyway, sir.
Anyway, where, where are you from, Spoon?
UK.
Oh, right, whereabouts?
That's where I'm from.
Midlands, Midlands.
Yeah, I'm in Blackpool.
I went there a couple of times, I think, as a kid.
Yeah, most people have, especially when the kids.
Do you listen to any podcasts, Linux related or anything like that?
Yeah, HPR clearly, I did, I got bored of them to be honest because I'm more interested in
deeper technical stuff than what gets talked about.
Like I'd never want about the Linux kernel, but mainly they're talking about user land.
Right, yeah, I know what you mean.
I do a, well, I used to be on Mintcast and I've got a podcast called Disra Hoppers Digest that
I do with a couple of guys from America.
I have heard Mintcast a couple of times and like I used to have a look around on
Distrawatch, the website.
Yeah, you're basically a shield only.
This whole thing is an advertising platform for you.
Me?
Yeah, search engine optimizes it.
I don't do that.
I just speak into all my HPR episodes as well now.
That's just what you do.
It did work last year, right?
I tried Mintcast after last year's HPR, so.
Yeah, they've just, apart from Jero, it's an all new crew at the moment.
So they've got people literally from all over the world now.
There's one of the guys Nissan is in India and Norbuts in Yugoslavia.
Is it Yugoslavia or Hungary?
I can't remember, but yeah, so it stretches right across now.
It's a bit of a nightmare getting everyone together.
Yeah, because of the time, because Nissan's like five and a half hours behind UK time.
In front, in front of UK time.
And of course, the American guys are like five hours behind UK time.
So this is or sex, depending where they are.
So there can be nearly a 12 hour gap in time zones.
So how long did you stick around yesterday, Ken?
Oh, not too long.
I was there during the day and then I did the thing in the evening.
Just found anything.
All right.
And then when we went to bed pocket, come on.
So you can tell exactly how long I stepped by how long he's been.
Taking on all comments.
So there's still hallelujah to go, I see.
And two more hours.
Yeah, we're coming up to 10 o'clock UK time, which will be.
Yeah, that's hallelujah into.
And then 11 o'clock UTC is the last inhabited place to observe New Year.
And then 12 o'clock UTC is the last uninhabited place to observe New Year,
according to what I'm looking at.
And that's Baker Island, which is an uninhabited atoll.
And howland island and an uninhabited coral island.
Okay.
What are you reading?
Um, um, worldtimezones.com.
Oh, cool.
What's that?
Do you want me to put link in there?
Yeah.
Put them into this.
Yeah, since they eat a pad, please.
Oh, am I on these?
I'm not on these.
A pad just a minute.
Okay, I'll go get some breakfast and coffee and I'll drop down.
The laser.
Talk to you in a while.
Yeah.
Okay.
Um, let's see if I can get away.
It's a pad.
I've been running Devawen to know like, because I wanted to ditch system,
system D for a while.
Oh, right.
But I'm running the plasma desktop and it can be a bit, I don't know if it's
Devawen, a bit chunky sometimes like things freezing everywhere and yeah.
That's not a reflection.
I don't know what level that's happening, but yes, that's an issue that gets talked about
in distribution programs that talk about distributions and yeah, that kind of thing.
Well, I use system D because if you haven't got system D, you can't use snaps.
I was just finding it to annoying like I try and shut down my machine and it just wouldn't.
All right.
Okay.
Plus a few other things like it just, it seemed to have
taken control away from, maybe there was a way like I just didn't know
it's magic words, um, but it was too much of a, um, like I didn't know what it was doing.
It's simply tangled up in there, you know, yeah.
I'm not technical enough to understand all the workings behind it.
I just use it.
Exactly.
I think it does work really well if you looking for that front end,
but I'm usually trying to cobble something together to do some task which might involve like
a lower level because I came in via sort of system administration or learning it to use tools
like, um, electronic tools.
So you're operating system just, um, it coordinates your peripherals, doesn't it?
And that's the level I came in at.
So if I'm building something I'm more likely want to just have seven things on the
go than the full user land.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, um, now I've got this new system, um, this new box, um, it, it's really powerful.
So, uh, I've got boxes installed on it.
And I'm using that for running any other OSs.
I want to either try out or just have to hand it on it.
Um, and, uh, so far, they feel pretty well like they're on bare metal.
Even though they're in a virtual machine because this piece is quite powerful.
I do run, I've been running genome boxes and I've had a few issues with it.
I don't know if it's, um, well, apart from running out of space, but I solved that by, you know,
just remounting another disc where it should, that should go because it uses a fair whack
or a disc space, but also they just shutting down by themselves.
Like I'll be in the middle of something which requires that they be running like maintaining
a node somewhere.
And, you know, I'll go back to it to have a look and it'll have shut itself down,
which means it, it can't synchronize properly, which means you have to, you know, close down
and restart the whole system for the, for the node to re-synchronize.
And I don't know whether that's just like a, because that's within a Ubuntu.
So, system D was required for that, uh, application annoyingly because it was built against
system D and it couldn't be used in any other, I couldn't get the builds, uh, like built,
um, software packages for non-system D systems, and therefore I was using a Ubuntu in this.
So, I think it might just be the power saving within the Ubuntu image, uh,
that would shut it down.
So, maybe that's all it is, but it's, uh, I need to fix it.
Yeah, well, I got the new boxes.
It's taken, virtually, taken away the ability to share, um,
files and folders across your PC, uh, across the host.
You can share clipboard, can't you, in the settings.
I'm not sure about that, but, um, it used to be, you could add,
you could add drives and things like that or folders that you wanted to share,
but it, it seems to have got rid of that.
The only thing you can share is you CD drive, if you've got one.
That's the feature, of course, but, and I imagine the solution is networking.
You have to set up networking properly, like between hosts,
but between your virtual machine.
I'll, I'll, I'll have to learn networking.
I know I have to go and switch on the clipboard, like enable the clipboard sharing
to copy things into the virtual machine.
But the previous version of the, that I was using, you could, you could,
while the machine was running, you could go into properties and you could,
um, enable share between thousand folders that you got, uh, on the host.
So it, it basically was setting up network, you know, automatically,
gotcha, like a samba share or whatever.
Yeah, um, and that was one of the things I used to like about virtual box,
that you could get, get it to, um, share drives.
I'm glad when they don't accidentally do that from the outset, because if I'm using a virtual machine,
the main point is to isolate it.
Yeah, you've got to enable it, uh, yourself.
Well, like I say, they've taken away the ability to do that.
Like you say, they probably want you to, um, do it more network-wise.
I suppose it's safer in a way, because you can't accidentally delete a drive, um,
that's external to the virtual machine, uh, from within a virtual machine.
Also hacking, because you don't want some script to do it either.
No. Yeah. So I, I can, I can understand why they've done it.
They make it so that only those technically, uh,
able can, can do it through networking.
But, uh, so if you're, if you're just an ordinary user,
you can't accidentally do something that's going to damage your real, real world PC,
or your, your real world technology outside the VM.
Right. And also really the escalation of privileges.
So if you, you as root, obviously, if you root, you can do anything.
But, uh, it's really important if you're sandboxing or if you, you know,
virtualizing, isolating that you, that it can't be done by a script.
Like the reason I was using Ubuntu for the, for the node I was running was that, um,
I found that it required escalation of privileges outside of it.
Like, um, it's one of the, uh, settings for, what is it?
Um, essentially, it comes outside.
It was capable of coming outside of its, uh, process zone.
If you were just running it within your, um, operating system,
like just installed it as a, as a, as a package,
therefore it had to be within because, like, it, it could take over the whole system.
And that's, and it, that was related to the system D issue.
Like they, they, uh, it's complicated.
But that's why it ended up in there.
I thought, I can't just install this node on my system because it's going to,
it's by default able to escalate outside of its process, uh, yeah, process confines.
Just give me a couple of minutes, Boone.
I'm just going to, uh, go and say hello to my wife.
She's just coming from the part run.
Much more important.
And I'm going to make myself another cup of coffee.
So I'll be back in two.
I spoon if you still there. I'm back.
I yanked my cable.
Oh, yeah.
Earlier on, I was trying, trying to ask Clackett a question about, um,
Haskell.
And I just couldn't become audible.
And then he left just before he pointed me.
Yeah, I've got a top up on me coffee, which is good.
I'm in and out with coffee.
Like I'll, I'll go at it.
If I think I've got something to do, I usually related to reading.
But I know it's bad, bad for, I guess it's bad for me.
I call it coffee, but it's actually, uh, decaf coffee.
So most people, it's not real coffee anyway.
All the bad taste without the good stuff.
Pretty much.
It's still about one 5% caffeine or something, isn't it?
I mean, not 5% caffeine.
Isn't it about, um, there's a percentage of caffeine.
How much is it?
Like 5 milligrams or something compared to a 50 or 100?
Yeah, something like that.
You never get it completely out.
Yeah, it's fair to take the edge off it.
Yeah, I do occasionally still have a cup of tea.
So I'm not completely coffee,
coffee free, coffee free.
I'm far from caffeine free.
And if I give up coffee, I'll allow myself unlimited green tea,
which involves a lot of like kettle and toilet all day.
Yeah, I had a drink decaf coffee or red bush normally.
Or Rio bush, if you're going to give it real name.
Yeah, that rue bush, it's got quite strong taste to it.
You can kind of, yeah, it hits the spot sometimes.
I tell you what, that's funny story, though.
It took me a while to get ready and get the first time I encountered red bush tea
was at a camp where they had these enormous dug out latrines.
And like in the, in the UK, and like the strong smell that I could,
like what is that smell that was around the latrines,
which I just thought was like a latrine smell.
And I later on, like when I tasted red bush,
I think possibly for the first time.
It's like, oh my god,
that is the stuff like it just is carried directly in,
like smelling or right through your urine.
So clearly it took me a while to get over that.
Yeah, I like that idea.
Yeah, it's amazing what comes out when you,
when you, of what you eat and drink comes out when you're in it.
Well, that smell, I reckon, is untouched, like barely touched.
This is going to be an interesting one when the, when the people listen to the
podcast of this recording, it's not all put in, is it?
I think so.
It's a good reminder.
People say one of the bad things about caffeine is that it's like a diuretic,
but the good news is that it usually comes with a cup of water, doesn't it?
It's an issue if you take in light tablets or something,
because you can see if you don't drink, you've had it.
Yeah, no, actually, most of the, most of the dieticians say,
unless you're really drinking really strong coffee and you're drinking more than about
four or five cups a day, that's tea and coffee and stuff like that,
a claster's part you fluid intake.
Yeah, I heard a thousand milligrams for caffeine was bad for your liver, you know,
abuse, because some doctors were drinking like 20 cups of instant.
It's about 10 cups of filter, 20 cups of instant, to get to a thousand milligrams,
and that'll damage you long term.
Yeah, no, they do say try to limit you, you cups of coffee to about five or six a day,
but if you're in America, it's probably one large two-pink container.
All right, I remember it's a methylated something, and I probably said this last year,
I don't know, I repeat myself, but caffeine facilitates the uptake of oxygen by the ATP receptors
in your brain and muscles, so you, like, it does, you, I was thinking it probably, you know,
homeostasis being what it is, and your body tending to get back to its working limits,
it might just depress your breathing if you use it for a long time, and if you are anchoring
for caffeine, maybe if you just take a lot of really deep breaths to flood your body with oxygen,
then it might help you to feel as though that oxygen's, yeah, getting to where it's going with
the caffeine. Well, that's interesting, I'm not that one before. So it does help for, like,
so if it's facilitating the uptake of oxygen to your ATP receptors, like, apart from making you,
you know, oh, it does this other thing, like, there's a cascade relating to a denazine or something,
but it's good for physical work, so caffeine for, like, digging or physical labour is probably
quite a good thing, or obviously swimming and running and things that it can help.
Right, yeah, see, you learn very, very intelligent things when you come on the Hacker Public Radio,
New Year's Day chat. I hadn't heard that one at all.
You do get some good information on the shows. It's great to have that, I'd listen to it at work,
can I just have some, you never know what's going to be in there, do you?
Nope. No, it's, oh, there's not a show today and tomorrow, because it's Saturday and Sunday,
but the first show of the year is going to be the community news.
Right, I only just learned that people can just rock up to that if they've listened to the episodes.
Is it a mumble or is that a Zoom or what?
Yeah, it's on this channel. Yeah, Dave and Ken may know.
I didn't, I didn't realise that, but I don't suppose you do until you start looking.
Yeah, no, are you on the email circulation list?
I think so, yeah, I'm getting emails.
Because about a week or so before they're going to do the new year,
the community recording for the community news for the month,
they usually send a mail out on the mailing list to say,
I guess so, yeah. That's where I read it, that must have been.
Yeah, and they give the details about the mumble and how to log on and say,
if you want to join us, please listen to all the shows and have a few notes about your comments.
Plus from the past seeing the email list haven't been on an email, read an email list for quite a while.
Like usually emails might direct me to some slack thing, you know,
but I remember back in the day, like reading through email after, you know, that stack of emails.
It still works. Right. Although I've been looking at IPFS recently,
if you're seeing interplanetary file system, it's got a great name.
No familiar. It's just sort of hashed, it's content, it's like a swarm, I suppose it's like
a torrented swarm of files that are hashed so that you, they're content addressed in other words.
So rather than go to a website, you request from a swarm of nodes,
the content which could resolve into some kind of program which can be resolved by your web browser
as a web page, but it's content addressed, with an explanation on a program, I imagine.
Well, this is get ready for Thursday, if you want to record something.
Yeah, I was wondering like, but how quickly can I actually sit down and not get distracted?
Well, this is afternoon, I'm sure, I'm sure you're free today.
I want to make a noise. I'm waiting for people, I'm giving people grace before I get the power
tools on later on after all their fireworks last night. What, what are you doing?
I'll clean off, clean off some steel to weld, weld a bit.
All right. Okay. I do feel guilty about the noise. I try and break it up into,
or if someone else is mowing the law and then I'll dash out and do a bit then.
So what are you making? What are you welding together?
I've done some like six millimeter steel for axle stands before and I'm going to try,
I did that with a 6010, like arc welding for simplicity and transferability and plus you get,
well mainly for the reproduced ability like farm. See, there's another good structure.
That may be a good show. So I want to try 6011 and just keep my hand in, you know,
practice once in a while because I don't do much of it at all.
Right. I haven't done any welding since I was at college 40 years ago.
I have fixed the like a garden fork with it so I've done a useful thing.
I didn't think that would hold because you know when you snap a tie enough.
I was looking at it and I thought is that cast?
Or has it just bent so many times that it's con-granulated?
So I gave it a go and I thought there's no way this is going to hold,
you know, in this 40-year-old fork it must be, but it hasn't broken since.
Good for you?
Well, good for steel.
But yeah, good for like trying.
What you obviously did a good enough welding job for it to weld together.
So that's two shows you can record. One about welding.
I'm not doing welding.
I might do, I saw online because I thought about welding rods and I've seen
like some people who got stuck in the middle of nowhere.
They got all got their car batteries out, joined them up and they used like a co-tanger
and they poured sand onto it and they got a weld that, you know, they got back home with it.
So I looked up because I learned when I was trying their 6010,
like for penetration and like deeper welds.
They use it for pipe lines and I, so I was trying to make axle stands and I didn't want,
I didn't like the market versions.
They looked a little way too weak to me.
So I used over, you know, over engineered some 6mm stuff,
but to get in deeply enough to make a proper weld.
This 6010s, it's that cellulose actually on the outside of the metal
that's really just making carbon dioxide as the shielding gas.
So it sounds a lot like sawdust, you know.
And back in the day, I imagine that's what it was.
So I looked up like DIY welding rods, not that they're cheap enough,
but sometimes you want to play, don't you?
Yeah, I restore die cast model cars and sometimes I just pull things apart
and play around with them just to see what I can do.
As a kid, I've got a story then.
We used to, obviously, we'd throw the odd one because we had coal fire back in the house.
Those shook them on and there'd be a little pool of molten metal in the ash afterwards,
wouldn't they? Like solid metal.
Yeah, I made a metal conquer out of a plaster scene with a lollipop stick,
one of the paper-round lollipop sticks through the middle and poured in,
like it wasn't a full conquer, it's like half three quarters of a conquer shape.
And I just said that I'd sprayed a conquer silver.
So you cheated at conquer?
Very much so.
Yeah, it's got the metal that they use for die cast cars.
It's got a very low melting point.
So you've got to be really careful because I use a little blowtorch
for warming up the metal if it's bent and stuff,
so straighten in it.
And if you get too close to it with the blowtorch,
you end up with a puddle.
I've seen some people working, a video of someone working lead flashing on a roof,
and apparently you can weld that stuff if you're careful,
but seriously, you've got a very careful, yeah.
Leads really low melting point.
I think it's about 450 self-cius or something.
It's not very high at all.
And well, very poisonous.
And very poisonous, yeah, so you don't want to be breathing in the fumes.
Yeah, wash your hands after that stuff.
Well, the old matchbox metal that you used to use.
I don't know whether you use it on modern, it's the same on modern die cast, but
the die cast material that you used to use on the old matchbox was,
oh, what was it?
I think it's a nickel.
Academy them in there as well.
I'm not sure, I'll just let me...
Well, I was told to keep away from that most die cast stuff.
It's a Z-maker, I think it's called.
No.
There we go.
Google's great if you know the search term to put it in, but
if you're not sure who you search term, it's really hard.
It's increasingly annoying, isn't it?
Yeah, Google.
I've tried some other, you know, specifically scientific
search engines, but I lose them.
Ah, here it is, found it.
I've seen stuff fixed into walls as well, like there'd be a hole in the wall,
and they've put some fixture in there, and then they've just filled that hole with lead,
to kind of wedge it in.
Yeah, it looks like it was a Zinc alloy with a real low melting point.
Zinc is really reactive, isn't it?
If you're melting that, even in an alloy, I know you can change the properties when you alloy
things, like they can melt lower, can they?
But still, when you get oxidation and sort of powderiness.
Yeah, the alloy they used for matchbox, it does corrode.
I suppose technically it rusts, but if you leave it in a damp environment,
you get loads and loads of corrosion.
So when kids use to play with the toys in the
sand pit and stuff like that, or they got lost in the garden,
you find them 10 years later, and the metal is in really poor condition, because that...
Doesn't say what?
This is a particular name for the metal.
I can't remember what it's called.
Let's see, what Wikipedia says.
Ah, that's it.
Zemak.
Oh, my...
Zemak.
Yes, that.
Z-A-M-A-K, or M-A-Z-A-K, it says called Mazak in the UK.
It's an alloy of zinc, with small quantities of aluminium and copper,
lead, lead or iron, or O-O-Rinput purity, that must be careful avoided in
Samak, because it makes the metal deteriorate.
So you've got to avoid lead at all costs.
Especially for kids' toys, because they're going to be in the mouth,
something.
Yeah, that was one of the things about matchbox, even back in the 50s, when the
dangers of lead were only just starting to come through.
They... all their toys were lead free, so...
Because a lot of people still think that collecting the old vintage
die-casts, they're collecting lead and they're not,
not unless you were very early on, but post-war, it was always Z-A-M-A-K.
Right, too.
And is that hobby for your, do you just really like them, or do you like them,
the modelling aspect?
I like the modelling aspect.
When I was a kid, I'm in my 60s, and when I was a kid we didn't have the cash to
go out buying matchbox and thinking and all that, so I had very few, when I was small,
and then I retired a few years ago, and I started watching YouTube videos of people
restoring them and I thought, hmm, I could do that.
In my first career, I was an engineer, so...
Dude, if you're going to...
What are the... like, do you do, interestingly, engineering?
Do you do any of that as a hobby?
What kind of engineer?
What was it just to...
I was a marine engineer.
My first career, I was in the merchant navy.
Okay, so you've got no C to do that in, but...
Well, no, it was engineering because we used to run the engine room and all the engineering
services, the power plants and everything.
Right.
Generators, fridges, the whole works.
If you were on a fridge ship, you'd have fridge engineers, specifically.
Did you offer an air scrubber?
I don't suppose you would, up there, would you?
Well, it depends what you mean by an air scrubber.
We add filters and scrubbers that, you know,
for pumping air into the big diesels.
Right, about ship engines.
They've been told, like, you can pour anything in there.
Well, how big were they?
Well, not quite.
Not quite, but they use the big marine diesels,
the docks and the big ones, you know, things like that.
They used what they call the heavy, heavy end of the distillation process of crude oil.
Not tall.
Was it black or?
Well, it's virtually tall.
Not quite.
Did the engine run fairly, you know, state?
Was it, did you have to clean it out very often?
Was that just general maintenance?
You do regular maintenance, pull the pistons,
and I'm talking about pistons that are bigger than a person.
But the thing with the fuel oil that's big, the big marine diesels use,
it needed heating up to get it to flow.
So it went through a process where you had massive fuel heaters
before it got injected into the,
all right, to the engine.
I've seen that for biodiesel vehicles,
there's one system or there's one way of doing it where they do pre-heat.
And of course, if you live in a cold country, you might need to do that anyway.
But to make some biodiesels work, they have a pre-heater on.
Yeah, because the viscosity of the oil with biodiesel is thicker than with mineral diesel.
All right, so did your stuff move before you warmed it up?
Or is it pretty like move over a thousand years kind of viscosity?
I don't think we ever let you get cold,
because your dad heaters in the fuel tanks to keep it fluid.
But it needed to be warmer than it was in the fuel tanks to get into the engine,
because obviously it's going through smaller injectors and things like that.
There's a lot of energy there, isn't there moving the sugar?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, believe it or not, the marine industry is one of the biggest
producers of carbon.
I do believe it.
In the world.
And do believe it.
I mean, for a start, you know, even if you could get the thing going,
there's a whole lot of moving not in your direction in that water, isn't there?
Yeah, it's surprised to get anywhere.
There are already trials of marine propulsion systems that can reduce carbon.
Carbon output.
I see no, it's flying boats.
They just sort of left right up out of the water and the more of a, you know,
sailboat sailing, what do you call those?
Catamaran's.
Something like, but they're left to like sky planes or something.
They've got an underwater wing that lifts them up.
And other ones you may.
Very impressive.
But yeah, the marine industry is is a very big
greenhouse gas producer.
I think it was raised at the, where was it?
It might not have been.
It might have been the cop recent, you know, the climate thing, the COP,
where a journalist asked the American representative about, you know,
the American militaries fuel consumption.
Because like it's bigger than most nations or something.
Like are you taking that into consideration and they, you know,
you're all stumbled around whether they were going to talk about that or not?
Yeah.
Well, it's not just America.
No, no, no, no, it's most, most countries with large military
and they include ourselves with that.
Yeah, for sure, it's a remarkable how much energy goes into that whole fear
and potential situation.
Yeah.
My, my push to talk stuck now, so I'm going to have to sort that out.
I don't use push to talk.
Sounds like I'm getting an echo there.
Was that you, Spoon or was that someone at that?
Right.
If there's no one got the reason I'm going off to bake some bread,
I shall be back shortly.
Enjoy.
Oh, the hey, cheers, Spoon.
Hello, Spoon, I'm flaky.
Hey, Clackay, I wanted to ask you about Haskell.
Oh, really?
I can't say I know much about Haskell, but it depends on your question.
Oh, I thought you did a, uh, shut up on it.
Why go?
It's not you.
No, it was.
Oh, okay.
Oh, that's why I was going to ask you the question.
It's about, uh, yeah, it's about functional programming.
Functional programming I can do as long as you have school specific.
No, it was just, I wondered if you, uh, um,
because I've taken an interest in, um, uh, uh, I don't know how to say it without
boring people, you know, um, uh, a blockchain technology.
It's, uh, uh, uh, Kikudano, which is the network,
but they use Haskell, basically.
They did lump the, and they all aboard us.
They do, and they're developing like the plutus programming languages,
for, uh, writing smart contracts on that system.
Um, so I just wondered if you, uh, but if you're not
in Haskell, then probably, um, you won't have been exposed to that.
I do own some aid, actually, but I haven't done programming.
I sure I was listening to a program like yesterday, and I thought it was you.
Nope, sorry.
Hey, no worries.
So which programming language, uh, would you describe, would you use, which is functional?
I've been doing a scheme.
Actually, I was working in the project that was kind of Cardano adjacent.
So that's where I own, uh, and we were using
Racket, which is super like scheme.
I've not, I'm not fluent.
It's been a long time since I, uh, applied myself to a language,
like I read the Java manual twice after I qualified for, uh, Solaris system
administration, but I've never needed to use, uh, computing language to, uh, money.
So I therefore don't do it because outside, because I can still walk around, you know,
yeah, yeah, having it as a job certainly helps, uh, uh,
giving things done.
Right, but occasionally, you know, I sit down and I know that these things can be done,
and I know that I used to know how to do it.
And then when I come to apply myself, like I don't know the words,
like I, I know that it works.
So now I'm going to do this little course, um, for Haskell, I guess.
Okay.
Are you doing learn you a Haskell?
Or, uh, interestingly, I don't know if it's because, uh, the,
cadano, is it IOG or AOHK, whoever is running the Plutus Pioneers program,
they want like 3,000 people to be fluent in the Plutus programming, um,
interface that they learn you a Haskell site has gone down.
Like I, I've just, I've seen it before in the past because I've looked to learn Haskell.
Um, uh, a different, like, I took an interest in maybe not being fluent,
but I like to take an overview of a language.
So I've looked before, but yeah, it's, uh, that site's gone down.
So I'm looking at other, I need to set up a NICSOS server as well.
So I'll do that next.
I was going to learn Haskell many years ago, and then I was looking at, uh, that there was a
wiki book that taught you Haskell by having you make a Scheme Internet.
So what is Scheme?
So Scheme is, uh, a Lisp, and, uh, it's, it's different from Common Lisp, but it is, uh,
the, it looks the same on the surface parentheses, and the same, uh, syntax in that way,
and although there are differences.
So yeah, Scheme is the, the language that is used for the very good book,
the structure and importation of the programs that is seeking.
I'm from it.
I've had, like, I've heard about Lisp, and I think actually Clatu, well, probably here's
description is the most recent I've heard.
Okay.
So an interpreter for that, um, did you do it?
Yeah, sorry.
Did you, uh, did you do it?
No, I was going to, and then, uh, I got caught up in something else that weekend,
and I was going to do it, and then I moved to Hong Kong together with my family again,
and then I've been busy ever since.
Yeah, I know things happen, don't they?
But any year now, I'm going to pick it up again.
Well, the course was free, the Plutus Pioneers, which I think is a subset of,
it's not entirely, I don't know exactly, we'll find out,
but I know it's very close to, uh, Haskell.
It might be a subset.
It's a backend.
Okay, uh, yeah, you were talking about Nix as well.
I think, uh, if you dig deep in Nix, and you're not using the Nix programming language,
at least you'll be used to the sort of family of syntax that both are.
That's cool.
I've got time to throw myself into that.
I could use a bit of concentration on something, um, language-related.
Did you find the Nix pills?
Toil.
I don't know.
I've got a couple of servers, you can probably hear it in the background.
It just looks, you know, my approach to these things is, like,
it's a bunch of instructions, and I need to fit them all together,
and my brain is doing a thing to make that happen.
But I'm getting on a bit now, so you, you know, there's only so many things I can
hold in memory, um, and, yeah, so I just do the instructions until I'm finished,
and remember what I can.
Yeah, it gets a lot, it becomes a lot very quickly.
Absolutely, on top of, like, the mess that I have in,
I'm calling it clutter space, just like, my house.
Yeah, but it's like, so the Nix language is just like, uh, with scheme or the
racket language.
Uh, I was working with it for one year, and otherwise I probably wouldn't have
learned Nix on the level that it.
All right, well, thankfully, I don't, I don't need it for money.
So if it's not terribly interesting, or even,
thing that happens with me is, like, once I see the scope of a thing,
I'll get into a project, and then once I see how it works and that it does,
if I don't need what I'm making, then I will just stop.
And I'll move on to the thing that I don't know about,
which is very messy.
Yeah, yeah, I'm, I'm the same, uh, okay, I got the hang of this.
I'll have to dig deeper if I ever.
Right, but why, you know, why do something you don't need?
Apart from, from, for a completeness, if you need to get the hang of it, um,
you know, tie up the loose ends, but I think that's the thing.
Once I recognize what it was that it's like, something will fall into place,
and then it's as though it would be foolish to continue, like, collecting
more extraneous, more knowledge that I don't need.
Well, I'm looking to expand what kind of jobs I can take.
I want to do more functional programming, and I want to do it in Hong Kong.
It looks like the language I should learn for that closure,
and it looks like an interesting programming language anyway.
So, um, one of my plans for this year is to try to put aside some.
I've heard the name. I've heard it used, like I listened to some podcasts,
and now I mentioned a lot of these different languages.
And like, I don't understand half of what they say,
but I do understand the other half, if you know, um,
what do you use an IDE? How do you, you know, when you're programming,
do you use a lot of templates and ideas? I'm not familiar with them. I know they exist,
but what do you, how do you program?
I use VI and very few plugins and stuff, uh, some lights and text-coring, actually.
The IO them out of the box comes with too much stuff.
So, the first thing I do is I create an empty.vmrc to turn.
I did, like, I used, well, Vi, I don't know if it was them, because
when I was learning Solaris, which is about 2010, 2010,
then, like, it was just present there, you know,
but I didn't realize that there was so much else that it could do.
So, probably, I will look into them.
I've seen some really good tutorials on YouTube about the power of it.
I do like to not, GUIs can be so clumsy and time-consuming.
Yeah. So, them, uh, if you were just using VI from the command land,
I was probably, uh, some sold their own implementation.
Uh, but yeah, Vim certainly has a lot of stuff.
I have a colleague at work and, uh, the version of Linux that we use,
we use Sento S7 still.
It only has VI7, but he wanted some really advanced plugins to, to do, like,
while you're typing, it's doing syntax check-in for Python.
So, he ended up building his own VI8 so that he could install the
ale plugin and it can do all these kinds of runtime checks as,
and there's a lot of, uh, syntax, you know, the magic status, uh,
status line at the bottom, he's, he's had that tricked out.
I think it's great to, when, when you get into things,
how, like, second nature they become, um, I've just put,
I just know that I can get, uh, tied up in things.
Like, I can, what's the word, I can hyper-focus,
which is good, but I know that I can be human being
and I need a like to be outside.
And I thought, like, while I'm young, I should go outside and do things,
because otherwise, I'm just going to sit in a room,
or even in a classroom if I wanted to, if I wanted to be a teacher, um,
and, and maybe that's not, like, I could lose all of my active life,
and maybe I can come back to this.
I'm just hoping, like, I've still got the mental functions
to do some of it when I'm old, as old as I am now.
Sounds like you've got a good approach to-
We'll see. Like, it was nice to see the trees before they all disappeared.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I, I used to go into, like,
tricking everything out, configuring all this, but these days,
I've switched computers enough, and not bothered to bring all this in and so on.
So these days, I try to hide configurations,
so that when I get on a new installation, I don't because-
Right, I really need to stick some stuff in the cloud,
and even, like, just get stuff, I'm still a bit worried about it,
you know, encrypt some, some chunks of data,
and stick them on the cloud somewhere so that I can pull them back,
because I've got such, you know, I've got a raid device with a bunch of old systems
on where I've abandoned the system, and I've pulled out the, the, um,
the files, and they're just a mess, you know, so I know where you're coming from.
Yeah. So how has the, uh,
packer year 2021 been for you?
I've spent a lot of it doing some metal work, which has related to moving house,
which didn't happen because of the plague, the pandemic,
and all the social, um, what's the word, accommodation to it?
So not a lot of computing stuff, but it depends what you mean by hacking, doesn't it?
It making things work, lots of that.
Oh, I think metal work is tough.
Yeah, I'd go with, like, I've had this sore for ages,
a rotary sore on a table, and it, because I, like, they can cut nails,
which is good, like, if you're working reclaimed wood, like, you get a big old fence post,
you can cut that down into thin planks if you can go through the nails,
and I tried it, the foot, I haven't used it for all the time, I've had it for years,
like, I bought it from someone who was, like, needed to clear out,
and I could cut some just two millimeter plate steel on it,
and it cut through with such a nice clean, straight cut, I thought, wow,
because grinding's noisy and messy and dangerous.
Oh, that's really him.
I'd got one on a big old circular sore, but I don't like, they do scare me,
like, I'd like it bolted down.
I think fear is probably a rational emotion in this circle, so it keeps you safe.
All right, with a grinder, I had a friend who's, I think his jumper got caught in it,
like, he didn't lose his hand, but I think it was a hospital visit, he lost his coat.
Yeah, his grinding is sleeve got caught in it.
Hi, it's okay, I've spoons.
Oh, so Ken Allen is back to being Ken Fallon now, hello.
Hello, hello, hello, my what was I before?
Your son, I suppose?
Yes, yes.
His PC's situated above my bed from the floor above, so that wouldn't do at all.
Okay, you sound, uh, you sound a bit tired and, uh, maybe with a cold?
No, it's a long year 2022.
Thanks, thanks for looking after all of that.
Thanks for HPR, like, contrast for their, uh, janitorial stuff.
I appreciate it, we don't do that, to be honest, it's a few scripts.
Mostly about source, everything today, if he doesn't know that yet,
I just ask people to do shows.
Cool, and then I email Dave, how would you do this Dave?
And then tell me on the slides, who does this script?
Yeah, that's how you do it.
I'll seriously yourself into a script.
Yeah, take it, take advantage of people, that's what I do.
Delegate, you mean, that's leadership.
Provide, yeah, yeah.
Providing opportunity.
Providing opportunity, that's sorry.
Not for the liberation.
So how was the new year?
You were hanging at home?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Don't really see the point in New Year, to be honest, but there you go.
Solicitor's I could handle as a holiday, actually.
It makes sense, there's a reason to do it.
I think everything is just, it's a feedback loop, no?
If there's some official celebration in your country,
that's an excuse to get people together,
and people will get together because...
I like Solstice, there's an idea.
It's pretty easy.
Well, you know, if it's not too cloudy, you can tell when it is.
And it does point to the point that, like, that's different
for everyone, depending where you are in the world.
Well, the Solstice is the same time.
How much you can see of it, if it's what we are.
Okay, educating me now.
I didn't wonder about that, like, surely...
I don't know.
Oh, yeah, how close are you?
Solstice should be a different time for everybody.
It depends on what we consider it to be solstice.
There was an Irish person, I consider it to be the...
when the sun goes into the...
when the rays of the rising sun goes down into that...
...megalistic tune that they have.
Man, Patrick, my man, Patrick, down the road told me about that.
He was impressed by that whole place.
I think it's the same place.
It may be not.
But the Solstice is a global...
...homical...
...whether it's winter solstice or summer solstice depends on if you are Northern or Southern,
but the date is the same.
Correct.
New Granger's place is probably referring to.
So is the shortest day the same day for everybody?
Because that doesn't seem intuitively.
No, it can be the longest as well.
Right, but is the not like a variation in between...
...like if you're on one side of the planet and it's long and the other side of it's short?
Is there not like variation between here and there?
Yeah, so if you're on the equator every day is he?
All right, you know, I thought about this a lot of times and looked at all the pictures,
but it's strange how I still don't know.
Yeah, so the modern atmosphere and the Southern hemisphere,
and then if you're on the equator, you're in the middle of the Solstice.
Well, it's going to be a bit of a wobble, you'd be at the excess of the wobble, won't you?
Perky over there.
I would do a help.
But you can tell when it is by observation.
The harder in the around the equator, yes, would be a lot harder, but possible still.
I watched a video last night about um, it was relativity, but you know when they have that
the whether visualize it with a sheet and then there's a weight in the middle of it and things roll
into the sheet.
And I like the way because he was saying this is obviously just a representation and if you want
to understand it better you have to look at it in three dimensions.
And then he went to say how you can't visually represent it correctly in four dimensions
because we won't try and explain it.
But I like the way he jumped back into he said imagine the the planet is flat.
So that instead of seeing a ball in the middle of the sheet,
you've got a circle stuck in the middle of the sheet.
And then you can recognize that it's within you correctly visualizing that it's within that
dimension. I've explained that badly, but it was a good video.
Got a link?
Oh, I'll go look for it.
It's always a bit of a struggle for for a brain that developed to handle three-dimensional space
to try to think in four dimensions.
Yeah, and infinity is another one.
Talking about dimensional space, anyone watching Doctor Who tonight?
Nope.
No.
I'm living in the UK, everything's blocked.
Oh, you can't get it.
Will it be shown over there at some stage again?
Might be, I don't have TV.
All right, okay.
I have enough TV during my work to just have this fun.
Thank you very much.
I've got no television as well, but not by Java.
We've got a television screen at home, but we seldom use the app.
It's more like we use it all.
It's an initial source.
Well, I've got cable TV, but these are some of the things I can't dig,
because I haven't got it connected to me network, because it hasn't got a Wi-Fi on it,
and I'd have to drill holes and put cables all over the place to be able to connect it to a wire.
So it won't really do certain things.
Who's your provider if I may ask?
Virgin.
I'm on a fantastic company, the R2.
I know, Ken.
Yeah, they are brilliant.
Except when they're not.
Nope, nope, they'll never make mistakes.
I was impressed just before Christmas, I ordered a new remote control,
because our old one was some of the buttons were no longer working.
And I got it this week.
I was quite impressed.
What device have you got?
Pardon?
What set up box have you got?
Oh, it's not the super duper one.
It's the one down from that.
I think it's the, oh, can't remember now.
Just let me go.
All out of that.
All out of that.
There are no devices done from that.
They're alternatives to the person's individual needs.
I nearly bought a subscription to Virgin the other day,
just because, you know, that chunky box down the road,
like the green telecoms box, that delights off and off it,
and people can just urinate or throw the beer cans in there.
And I didn't think that was very,
like, it's even got the numbers written.
The house numbers taped onto the wires.
And I thought I need to move away from that.
But then I thought, well, since I don't want to lock into a long contract,
because I'm wanting to move house and Virgin,
it looks like they'll take 80% as an early,
what to call it, termination fee.
So I looked into a 4G, like, a SIM card router,
and I found this one that does two SIM cards, you know,
and it does quite good bells and whistles.
So I'm like, I bought it.
I don't know what the signal is going to be like, but it's good kit.
And it's open right, so you can program your router.
Which I wanted one for ages, so I splashed out.
Yeah, talking about the box, I've got the TVO 500 gig box.
Aha, there might be some good news heading your way shortly
with the go-to options.
You're running the TVO software, right?
Well, now this is still part of the Virgin package.
So I'm running whatever it's on there.
Suffice to say, I'm working on a project that may affect your life shortly.
The views of Ken Fallon, did not necessarily represent those of his employer,
and the affiliates are blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Especially when he hasn't had a cup of coffee.
No, but it's good.
Someday, yeah, we customers seem to like it, and we've all seem to like it, sort of.
I wouldn't like providing the card, so it's kind of cool.
Yeah, we are thinking about upgrading to the TVO 6,
which is a terabyte box, I think.
And it gives you more channels so you can record.
I think you can record six instead of three.
Naturally, anything that you do that would increase shareholder value for my company will be.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Oh, dear.
Well, sir, in a generic non-publicly-known information,
the whole licensing laws in the UK are really weird with regard to what you can and can save
in the cloud.
You know, the fact that you have to have a local hardware is all very weird.
All right.
Okay.
Content rights, even prior to working, where I'm working,
my experience of the content rights in the UK is really, really odd.
Very, very limited, what you're allowed to do as a customer.
And then there are so many channels.
Do you mean how many you can record simultaneously?
They're not allowed to record in the cloud.
So you have to record locally in the set of box and then to put all sorts of restrictions
and not to put restrictions everywhere.
It's like I read an industry quote at one time from a public source article, which said,
Sky had trained, had trained the British public to accept DRM.
Yeah, sure.
So you have a hard drive and you store stuff on the hard drive,
but it's all in a format if you cannot yourself access without their right?
Yeah, probably encrypted yet.
Although I don't work on that side.
So set the boxes or a mystery to me and work on the back end.
And suffice to say, nobody, particularly those are really the cool ones
that you lot to see coming across your desk.
They are ones that put restrictions on people.
We really, really love to see those ones coming out.
We talked about the 4G router.
What's the 5G situation like over there?
Well, in the UK,
well, where I am, it's nonexistent.
I've just, I bought a new 5G phone
in preparation for it.
Me old, me old one was no longer getting updates and stuff.
So I needed to upgrade anyway.
So obviously the new one's 5G compatible.
What's the range?
Sorry, what's the range of 5G?
Like from your repeated, you know, from your last aerial to your device?
I don't know.
I thought it was pretty good.
But like I say, we haven't even, there isn't any service in Blackpool for 5G.
I think at the moment in the UK, it's all the, it's the big cities into it.
London's got it, but I think Manchester's got it to a certain extent,
but it hasn't filtered out to the rest of the UK yet.
In theory, it's a couple of kilometers, but you've been for a square at all.
It's going to impact that a huge amount.
So, and then never ever have as many cells in a location as they should have.
So, and the performance will be great if nobody else is using it,
but then if somebody's using it, it's, it's the drain.
Well, even my 4G signal where I am, it's pretty poor.
I was going to say, I think I'll be sticking an aerial on the roof.
He's got about 6 antennae on it, like four of them, I think, for the 4G and two for Wi-Fi,
but I think I'll be attaching an aerial cup on the roof.
I know you can do a lot, even with Wi-Fi, if you build like a little kind of a yaggy out of
bits and bobs, you can get, you can get kilometers on Wi-Fi, can't you?
You have to point direct.
I saw somebody struggling with that on a YouTube video out of the UK,
and the suggestions from the hands and the audience were to put the router itself up on the roof,
that they, they, any gains that you have from the external antenna will be offset by the losses
that you get in the feeder cable.
So if you put it into like a waterproof box up on the roof.
All right, I was thinking of kit, I think I would need to electronically
like jigger about with like amplifiers and stuff to get the correct balance.
I would look forward to those shoes.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
