Episode: 3502
Title: HPR3502: New year Greetings and a short review of my new Juno PC
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3502/hpr3502.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:34:28

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3522 for Tuesday 4th of January 2022.
Today's show is entitled New Year Greetings and a short review of my new June OPC.
It is the 60th show of Tonyview aka TonyH1212 and it's about 5 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
For some minutes I just rumble for a few minutes about my new June OPC.
Good day all in Haka Public Radio Land.
This is Tony Hughes from Blackpool in the UK.
Just popping in to say a big happy new year to those that I didn't talk to on my New Year's Eve New Year's Day show.
And record my first episode in over a year.
I've been a bit busy with other podcasts in the last 12 months and various other things have kept me away from recording a show for HDR.
So I just sort of pop in, say hello and just talk about what's new in my world this year.
Just before Christmas I got myself a new June O Brutus 5000 computer.
If you go to the June O website which I'll put a link in the show notes for it.
But it's a nice little AMD Ryzen 9 PC.
Spectate out with a terabyte NVMe hard drive and 32GB RAM.
So it's pretty good specs and I'm currently recording on it.
But it absolutely flies.
It was quite a big upgrade.
My previous PC from what I've upgraded from was an old generation 3 i7.
And it's probably about five times faster in the real world than that PC was considering its size which is absolutely tiny.
Absolutely tiny it's about.
Let's have a look.
So it's about 130mm square and about 45mm deep.
But it's packed with ports on it.
At the front is the on button.
There's a USB Type-C port and two USB-3 ports.
At the back you've got a display port, HDMI, two Ethernet jack and two times USB-3 and two times USB-2 ports.
So, you know, not massive amount of ports but good enough.
And like me, I would imagine quite a few people would attach your USB-3 hub to it to give them extra connectivity.
And like I say, in real world performance, this is a beast.
I can edit image files in the GIMP in seconds, whereas if I'm using large files, they used to take 30 seconds to a minute to do processes.
And audio editing is a breeze.
It is an absolutely fantastic little machine.
I bought it myself. I'm not getting anything for saying this.
And there are a couple of little things that you've got to be aware of.
It comes loaded with Ubuntu 20.04, which obviously will be updated in the spring.
But because of the nature of the machine, they've got some proprietary drivers.
So these are PPA already embedded in Ubuntu.
So when I changed it over to Linux Mint, I had to go off and ask them to give me the details of the PPA.
So that could get all the drivers sorted that out.
But also, I managed to get a USB stick in to install Mint the first time.
But now it doesn't seem to recognise the port.
So I can't see other drivers as bootable drives when I go into it.
So I'm going to have to investigate that.
But on a day-to-day basis, this is a fantastic little machine.
So hopefully I'm going to get a lot of use out of it over the next little while and probably longer.
But that's valid. That's my major news at the moment.
If you want to catch me on another podcast talking about Linux, hop over to distro.hoppers digest
and download our latest show, which came out just before Christmas.
Or we'll be recording again just in the new year.
So there'll be a new show episode 29.
I'll be coming out in January.
So that's Tony Hughes for Hacker Public Radio.
Sign in off for now and hope to speak to you again in the new year.
Bye.
To be continued...
