Episode: 3867
Title: HPR3867: Leap 15.4 Docker Install
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3867/hpr3867.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:55:10

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3867 for Tuesday the 30th of May 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Leap 15.4 Docker Install.
It is hosted by JWP and is about 10 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is install Leap 15.4 and Docker on and Fuji S-900 Thin Client.
Good day.
My name is JWP.
And today I wanted to talk to you about something that I'm doing in my basement.
Yes, I'm going down to the basement again and I managed to get...
I managed to move things around a little bit.
And I have an old fidget to turn around.
It's an S-900 and somehow some way...
So it came with its own like OS to connect to a VDI solution.
And you pop that out of the M2 thing and then you put a new M2 disk in it.
And you have a two-core AMT CPU with four gigabytes of RAM.
Then granted the AMT is a bit of a dock.
But what I managed to do also was mount an old 500 gigabyte laptop hard drive in there.
So it has these 250 gigabytes from the M2 and a 500 gigabyte spinning disk.
And so what I've always wanted to do with this thing was...
I've never had real luck with the next cloud on a PI.
And I've just got through this thing ran for open Sousa without crashing for over a year.
For over a year granted it is set there.
And so the first thing I did was I went down and I upgraded from 15-3 to 15-4.
And first you have to do all the updates it takes forever on that low end CPU it takes forever.
And then after all I was able to install Docker and the pages for Docker with leap 14 or 15 or just a little bit old.
And so I wouldn't add any repodes or anything like that.
I would just try to do the commands that it says in the tutorial.
And sure enough it had installed.
It did have a few errors, a few errors with it.
So, but so so this is a bit too big a glaze as he says hyper install Docker Python 3 Docker with Docker compose.
And it comes up with 30 other packages that I want to install in addition.
And then you have to put the the Docker on the system CTL.
So did suit is CTM system CTL and enable Docker.
And then you have to make Docker a user.
Add him to the the pseudo group.
So it's pseudo user mod minus G Docker minus a dollar sign user and all cap.
And then you restart so to do a system CTL restart Docker.
And then verify that Docker is running so you type in Docker Docker version.
And it'll come back and we'll see let me type it in just right now to see what it is Docker version.
And it says Docker version maybe pseudo Docker version.
That's also not found.
That's because I'm inside the inside the container. So if I type exit and then Docker version.
Okay.
So I'm on version 20 dot 10 dot 23 CE and the so then so then it wanted me to pull down my thing.
And so I typed in Docker.
It's a pseudo Docker run dot dot m hello world.
And it wants to pass word I give the password.
And then it comes up with with a absolutely fantastic thing.
So it says hello from Docker and it goes through and it says this message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.
The Docker client is connected to the Docker demon.
The Docker demon has pulled the hello image from Docker hub.
It my version is empty 64.
And the Docker demon created a new container from that image, which runs the executable that produces the output currently you're currently reading.
The Docker demon streamed that output to the Docker client, which sent it to your terminal to try something more ambitions run.
Run Docker pseudo Docker run minus it about to bash.
And this was pretty amazing when this happened.
And this is sort of the crust sound. So if you if you go back into it and you and you run it and you get a root and the root doesn't have to have a password or anything.
So I guess you have to be really careful with security and stuff because there's no password or anything here.
But I was able to install my normal terminal life.
If nano SC for spreadsheet and let's install one now and I'm talking to you.
So let's go at install BC and unable to locate the package BC.
So it doesn't doesn't like doesn't like BC, but maybe outside BC two plus two.
And it's not found so so the BC the BC appears not to be available available anymore.
But I was able to get nano so if I tied nano.
And I was not found either. I wonder.
I wonder wonder why I did it before. So if I said apt install nano.
And I was so it what it did was an install day.
It doesn't go back to the original container.
So I had to go to pseudo apt update update not found.
No apt update because they're already root and now it doesn't.
And now it does update so it's getting the update.
And now it's reading the packages.
And now you go apt upgrade.
And now it goes through the whole process of getting the most up to date thing for you.
And you say you want to have it and then go through the whole jammy updates.
And now you say apt install nano.
And.
Okay.
And now you talk now.
And now that works.
And then.
But I don't think it stays the same or maybe it makes a new image every time every time I do it.
But if I if I exit from it.
Let's see.
So if I exit from it again and attack exit.
So now I'm back at my thing and then I go right back to it.
And now again, so yes, it's just a it's just a bash.
It's just a bash script.
It's just a best script every so every time I have to update and every time I have to install.
If I if I do that with that container or maybe it might be that all of the Ubuntu bash containers are there.
And I just have to tell it figure out how some way to make it go back to the original.
The original command.
So anyway, I think I'll be installing either next cloud or own cloud with with with docker with docker and try to get the whole container.
There and it looks so far.
It looks like the Apache one is the best and I'll do another podcast with that information coming up pretty soon.
Hey, if you need to reach me.
No, first off, I hope.
Y'all each and every one of y'all are kind to someone today and try to be kind to one another in our community.
If you need to reach me, it's jdv5 at hotmail.com.
Thank you so much and listen to hacker public radio.
You have been listening to hacker public radio at hacker public radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
