Episode: 3704
Title: HPR3704: Follow up to hpr3685 :: Budget and an Android app
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3704/hpr3704.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:20:11

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3704 for Thursday the 13th of October 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Follow-Up to HPR 3,685, Budget and an Android app.
This is the 40th show of Archer 72 and is about 2 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag. The summary is, I had a calendar to the budget spreadsheet in LeBrofus.
Hello, this is Archer 72 for another episode on Hacker Public Radio with a update on episode HPR 3,685, Budget and an Android app.
I am feeling a bit under the weather, and my speaking voice is not good at this time.
That is the reason for using eSpeak right now.
I thought it would be handy to just change the year for a budget spreadsheet, and the name of each month follow suit.
There is a template on OpenOffice.org which suited this purpose.
The template is compatible with LeBrofus, as it is an ODS Open Document spreadsheet file format.
The template includes the settings tab, as well as tabs for each of the 12 calendar months.
The tab I am interested in is the settings tab.
To get this sheet to the budget spreadsheet, click on the setting tab and go to the move or copy sheet heading.
From here, you will want to select to copy to a new workbook, which will be in the location drop down menu as the second budget sample document.
Select insert before the January tab.
The form control to change to the next year did not copy over properly.
To correct this, go to the tools menu, enter forms, and click on design mode.
Right click on the arrow control, which will open up to the linked cell field.
In my case, this one blank, so I fill this in with the cell K2.
Now uncheck design mode, and this will return the form to normal mode, and you can now change the year with the arrow form control.
From here is where I copied the content of each cell for each Friday, to the corresponding place on the month tabs.
Now I know there should have been a better way to do this, so my challenge would be to comment or record a show with the better, cryptid way to do the same task.
Thank you for listening to Hacker Public Radio, and do in further next episode or make a show of your own.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sync.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
