Episode: 3834
Title: HPR3834: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3834/hpr3834.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:26:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3834 for Thursday the 13th of April 2023.
Today's show is entitled, 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 5.
It is part of the series HP Our New Year Show.
It is hosted by HP Our Volunteers and is about 120 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is 2022-2023 New Years Show where people come together and chat.
Oh, and because Danny whined and cried so prettily the other day, I downloaded that curvy
and I'm going to be printing it out and turning it into a fan.
I already got the 40mm fan for it.
What's the curvy?
Oh, a few McStractor.
Oh, really?
That's the one that Hunky posted.
Yeah, but it was you that cried so prettily about it.
What did I say? I don't remember talking about it.
If you can't put it in your ears, Joe's not going to be.
Yeah, that's right.
So you are a trick.
I said it.
I'm interested in annoying you because he's also got another one that's not curvy
that I think would be much more useful because you can like mount it
under the different arms that I have, floating around and then just put it
move it into the correct position to extract your fumes.
For context, if you don't listen to the lug cast,
everything Joe does is related to headphones.
That's his fetish.
A lot.
The people are so on TLS, they're not mistaken.
It's right, yeah.
So that's where.
Yeah, yeah, that's true too.
Because I didn't sell any short.
Rebuild a PSP.
Did I discuss that?
I think I discussed that.
How's everybody doing?
Oh, good, yourself.
Doing all right.
Just here chilling, waiting for the new year to roll around.
Here with my girl and the godmother.
So we're going to be leaving to a party soon,
but we're just kind of chilling.
Wanted to jump in and wish y'all a happy new year.
We're going to chat for a little bit.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Good to ruch in nois y'ach.
That was really bad.
I apologize.
That was horrible.
And I mean, my dream is horrible.
That was horrible.
Good to know.
It's definitely better than mine.
I keep getting confused where the S goes.
It's ins noia y'ach, not in nois y'ach.
I don't understand German.
A girlfriend lived there for 13 years,
so she speaks it quite fluently.
She's Cuban.
So maybe she'll teach me.
I live there currently and know nothing about the language.
Hell.
Well, that's difficult.
Heck no.
Everybody speaks English.
Yeah, in Berlin, nobody cares.
A friend of mine had a neighbor from Frankfurt,
and his neighbor had the bright idea of teaching him
Frankfurt or dialect.
Then he goes to college and where we have,
we're speaking a proper German,
a high German, or whatever you want to call it.
And the professor says,
I don't know what that is, but I think German.
So, let's see.
Do you have to make links?
I mean, so I drive for you FM.
Do ricks good?
Do you have to?
Do you have to be ready?
Firefly.
Now, what's this?
It's all Ramstein songs from one of the original albums.
That's how you can learn German.
Just doesn't sound Ramstein.
Really good metal band.
The spice of the fact that it's completely wrong.
Well, what is wrong?
The song, from what I understand the sentence structure,
is completely wrong.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I gave a few song names in one that.
But um, there's a good album and stuff.
But it's all good.
It's good, it's got quite a bit of info,
that's 20 years or so.
Now, you see what you want to listen to,
is Franzer Lang and his Bavarian rhodol. Oh you thought it was something else. Anton
Alstrial, that's what they were playing in Austria all those years ago when we're
skiing and that's quite funny in the YouTube video as well. That's good.
D.D. Otsy, your robot, very funny. No, no D.J. Otsy.
Are you fathom? George, no.
Right, okay. I knew D.J. Otsy from when I was a kid and I didn't know it was him,
but he did that very famous cover of, hey, hey, baby.
Yeah, yeah, that was the song you thought that song was well, yeah.
No, George, Gio Spine, who affected me with a terrible song of his called a Manfit Amorco.
No, George, don't laugh about it. You don't get to laugh about that.
No. Was it a scorpion thumb?
And a scorpion thumb? No, a scorpion thumb?
A bodylike tree and hips like a dream. No, no.
Look, just listen to Broder Dan, he'll be okay.
Do you not listen to anything this man recommends?
ohmmmm....
ANDlands sabes us sing some llamas
Oh they loved it when we went skiing
that electoral no ski stokes
they're really dead
as they are famous is the most famous song From Astra it seems
The German sounds the most manly then same english
english is a bit of a weak language really
as it's French
this Swedish as well
out of the Swedish as well. Speaking of French, I'm trying to match you in here as far off
in the back. German is like, yeah, it's quite powerful sound when you come back.
Just installed his, I don't know, 20th distro in the last week.
It's just installing distros every time you come back. I'm like, Mosh. Mosh is one of
our regulars in tech and tech. Is he? Oh, he's in there all the time.
We have two rooms. He's always in there. Sounds like somebody needs to be on a quality
short team for a distro or something. You can install your iPhone million times.
And the package as well. If someone was willing to pay Mosh to do it, I'm sure he would.
And the room got silent. Hey, I'm thinking about that awful song actually now.
Hey, baby, that green image from the deal. Okay. Go to the YouTube, so to speak.
And DJ would see burger there.
And they jump out of the window seconds after you're listening.
George stop trying to scare our new friends. I know. Don't scare the, don't scare the
norms. Don't scare the streets.
Okay, do you want to see? Yeah. Don't.
I wouldn't play air because it's copy via Joe. You would not come on.
That's all fair use. Not like we're making money off this.
You mean we're not? We're not paying you to be here. Or we are. It's all hockey
pain. Yeah, who do I send my bill to at the end of this?
Ken Fallon. Can.
Got it. Make sure you send it my belt.
Can we follow each other and something? Are we for other than me listening?
For me? I'm on a couple other shows and my voice is extremely generic.
Yeah. So is mine. I'm on.
What?
Although that mostly got taken over by Joel, although Rich has been showing up the last couple of
shows.
Said he follows favorite it.
Kentucky fried chicken pizza, yeah? I just played with it as well.
Yeah, I was a really famous one in botlands. If anyone knows botlands, that would be
famous. That's just.
Honestly, do they obviously want awesome guy? Yeah?
No. Absolutely amazing. Yeah.
No.
That may I reject you when you hear even more so now that I know about all this.
George, we're going to forgive you for passing this on again.
I'm sorry. This is George's equivalent of syphilis.
I've infected everyone.
Should listen to death.
Oh, yeah, I like death. Death is great. If you mean the metal band, yeah?
No, I know the 1970s proto-punk band.
Although the death, you know, the metal band is good too.
I was specifically talking about the proto-punk band.
I think they still play South by Southwest.
Yeah.
All right. So I'm going to guess and see if there's some distra hoppers in the room.
What? No, that's all distraction. No one does that anymore.
I'm going, what are you?
Well, so I got an issue.
I got an old computer that I want to cut that it used to belong to my wife's aunt.
And she recently passed away.
And what we want to keep the windows, the windows operating system on there for the time being in case.
Something comes up that there might be some information on there that we need to get full of legal reasons or whatever.
But I wanted to just basically do a dual boot for now.
Yeah, I just pull the hard drive.
It's the easiest way to go.
I'm not sure what I have laying around for another hard drive to throw in there.
I read about some of these things.
It's just like school, low power, then it's history, can't remember its name.
But there's a few of those out there, I guess.
Well, no, the problem is it runs, it'll run anything.
But the problem is I wanted to try to dual boot it.
And with windows 10, it has like the entire drive is taken up by a partition called Bitlocker.
And then like a very small anti-FS partition.
And then like two other partitions with it.
But I can't readjust the size of the Bitlocker partition, which is taking up 90% of the hard drive.
Your best bet then is not to put a hard drive through what suggests pull the hard drive.
You could probably buy like $120,000.
Yeah.
I just pulled the drives and bought an SSD.
It doesn't have to be anything fantastic.
And it's, you know, it's made an improvement.
I have an old Dell E6410 running slackware that I went ahead and I pulled the drive from.
And I just dropped slackware in there with one of those cheap SSDs.
Have Danny send you a hard drive.
I'm sure I can find a hard drive.
I was hoping to do a quick dual boot of it.
I'm really missing.
Well, there's no space.
I mean, the only thing you, I mean, if there's a little bit of space, maybe puppy or something tiny, a smile.
Why not?
I mean, if you're just running the, yeah, it's going to say why don't you just put a USB stick in it.
It's running a live disk.
I could.
These are for, you know,
tails or something and just have a release of secure private.
I even did devian on a USB stick or four.
That's actually how a USB stick can become a mad hacker.
Yeah.
That you're right.
It's probably the best way to go pull the hard drive.
And it's just to then put it back if we needed something off of that.
It would be a massive pain in the ass to then pull the hard drive.
Especially if I get the computer set up and then try not.
I need to get that back at the hard drive.
Well, try to get the hard drive from something else.
Well, it's better that than having one of the horror stories that I've read about trying to do a boot with Windows 10.
Oh, yeah.
I have to open with Windows 10.
Did you install Windows 10 yourself or?
Yeah.
It's easier.
Probably.
No.
The key word here is you have to think forensically.
Explain.
You don't want anything touching that drive, especially since it's encrypted.
Do you have the key to the, to the bit locker?
Whatever the login would probably unlock the bit locker.
The wife has that.
You can tell it to remove the bit locker and then free up that space.
That might be a way to go.
Yeah, I was going to say because if as long as the drive is in the computer and you have the login,
TPM should take care of decrypting bit locker.
You can then either remove bit locker entirely or remove it temporarily, resize the drive and then reencrypt it.
If you do that, then you'll have the backup key for the bit locker in case you want to remove the drive and then mount it externally,
somewhere else and you can unlock it.
When I know this type of encryption windows, I'm not sure.
I think if you remove that drive and put another machine, it's looking at hardware serial numbers too.
So it may not, you may not be able to get back into that now.
Well, you're talking about.
We're moving that drive, setting it off to the side.
And then if he needs any information from it, reinstalling it on that same computer.
Yeah, trust me.
Well, I think that shouldn't be a problem.
If you did that, as long as you don't, to be honest, yeah, the TPM is what's actually unlocking the driver boot.
So as long as that's not tampered with in any way, it should be fine.
But I should be able to go in and log in and turn the locker off and then be able to resize and then just leave bit locker off.
Hopefully, just leaving bit locker off.
It just seems like it's going to make everything so much easier.
It means that also if I needed to, I can pull that drive out and get the information off of it without.
If since bit locker is not there, I should be able to get dry information off of it.
It's just going to take a long time.
What's it to get it off?
I don't worry about that.
I can set that and then just walk away for a while.
The last time I use bit locker, it didn't take that long to decrypt it.
OK.
But your mileage may vary.
As I say, depends how much is on the drive currently.
How big the drive is, what's space speed the drive is.
There's like SSD or HDD.
But yeah, you can just leave it running to tell windows, decrypt my drive and turn bit locker off.
Awesome. I think that'll do it.
Thank you. That's one project.
That's when I was trying to decatine on to the ROX 64.
You were a Docker container.
It couldn't be too difficult.
Not sure.
I mean, it's going to be running headless.
Well, I can probably attach.
I could attach something to it, but it doesn't have a desktop to it.
What I have is a 2.5.
Well, 2.5 hard drive bay.
It's up for bay.
Like I thought plugged into it right now and it's, I got like three drives in there and it's able to see those drives.
So I'm hoping to set it up as kind of a backup for certain things.
Like anything I would pull from nicotine would go to that.
And then it would do like an R sync to let's say music.
Let's say I put use nicotine to get some music.
It would then do an R sync with my funk will folder.
All right.
I think I'm going to step away for a little while and close my eyes.
I should probably check that the family and see what's going on.
I'll start dinner soon.
Yeah, I'm going to step away as well.
I got to start getting ready.
You all have a good happy new year.
See you next year.
You too.
Happy new year.
Hi, Vaxen.
I don't know about how soon as soon, but I'll be back later.
Well, Sebastian, are you here or are you just recording?
I'm here, Rudy.
I'm walking through somebody, somebody through the install of mumble.
Minute.
Or you mute it.
I have a watch on.
I might hear that in the background, actually.
I don't know.
Yeah, flat.
I have now and a half until.
Oh, just, I do well just over action.
Yeah, yeah.
I think insane.
It was like everyone was disappearing.
And then no, I guess that wasn't quite the case.
That D.L.O.C. thing was funny.
I didn't know if you could hear that.
No, I'd stepped away for a moment.
I had to look at my new SSD to see if it had a screw and it doesn't.
No, it's not talking about German songs.
I mean, it turns out what he's called.
Sparift in line.
The song was like, oh, right.
Yeah.
No.
I live in Germany.
I have to put up a schlager all the time.
D.L.C. is not just schlager.
He is in the front to humanity.
You're from England originally, aren't you there, yeah?
What gave it away?
Your accent, is it?
Yes, I'm from Bristol.
Are you?
I'm from Bristol.
That's interesting in there.
Oh, by Bristol.
Yeah, it's not true.
Born in Bristol, raised in South Costa sure in a very small village
on the outskirts near Badminton.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I mean, I mean, I'm living in South Costa really just here.
But my boundary with Bristol are just there and there.
You can get one then.
Yep.
That's interesting.
Well, you're better than I was.
I think I read some comments before on the internet actually
about the New York City and somewhere and people were saying how
I came, my German friend, got me listening to this for a laugh
and it's absolutely hell.
It's a really nice man from what I've seen and heard of him.
He seems like a really, really nice man, but he is a great example
of just why German schlager should not exist.
And that extends into Austrian music as well.
It's God awful.
It's so bad.
It's funny, though, in a way as well.
No.
I've been listening in Stamming in Austria a year ago and they would,
you know, and they would get you stop at these ski spots.
And it was a daily option now.
So everywhere in the Austrians were just loving it.
You know, it was like, whoa.
You might not remember, but the British used to be novelty songs like
nobody else.
They had the absolute horror shows that were things like the earning
of drives the fastest milk car in the west.
Things like, you know, Joe Dolce and a shut up year face.
And these things have haunted me since I was a child
because they're musically just devoid of any value
and they're fundamentally not clever enough to be funny.
And DJ Let's see is a continuation of this trend
and it still haunts me.
In German, in a dialect of German that I barely understand.
Oh, yeah.
So some weird distrust down there.
Yeah.
I don't speak Austrian German.
I hear people speaking it and it's like, I barely speak, you know,
you know, hotdurch, the sort of like textbook German.
I barely speak that.
What's next?
What we said to put the song on for last though?
No.
You know, if someone said something to you,
he was saying the bag.
But that was George.
Oh, George, right.
George just does things to punish me.
I do.
3, 11 years old.
Yeah.
Truth.
I don't know.
Well, I've called your pop, isn't it?
So I've got this like unique special kind of like Austrian
German wherever it is, yeah.
It's like as a schlager.
And schlager is just an abomination.
Man, starting on the other hand, that's a good band.
That's German.
That's fine.
Yeah.
It's not to say that Germany doesn't have any good music.
Of course it does.
Like any country.
And most countries also have terrible music.
I'm just saying that in Germany, if you are, if you are,
if you're forced to suffer through German radio,
which tends to play schlager music, which is just, you know,
incredibly bottom of the barrel pop music or sort of novelty music,
you very quickly learn that there is no worse hell.
Do you like metal music at all?
Me.
Yeah.
With which bands?
Well, lots.
I was raised on sort of Iron Maiden.
I mean, very quickly sort of went from the sort of British glam
metal into more sort of finished symphonic metal.
So stuff like Camelot and Nightwish.
Like, okay, you sell it Nightwish.
Awesome.
Now I've got my second cousins are in Finland, right?
Or Finnish?
Well, the parents are.
They're ones in Cambridge now and with family and the other ones in,
not sure, probably Finland somewhere, there's two guys.
But they, they all grew up in a place called Kiteer.
K-I-T-E.
Do you have anything I don't know what that is?
That's where Tarrata-Termian, where she's called,
the original Nightwish singer, came from.
He used to go to school with her, in fact.
Yeah.
Tarrata-Termian.
Yeah, well, where she's called, yeah, Tarrata, yeah.
Because they're on the third singer now.
They've had a third Johnson and that's something, yeah.
Second one.
Yeah.
And, yeah.
So, yeah.
So I remember going over there in August 2000 as a 14-year-old, yeah.
At first time over there and there were going,
it was about, it was about staying there and it was like,
oh, you can get parrots.
You can use them from Russia that look copy.
You don't have a wheelchair for an alien, that's something else.
They're Russian cakes, but it was also about going to the border
because my mum's mother was finished and they have a river.
And she grew up in this farmhouse.
It was basically, right, you don't go down there.
Or you can, we can go down here because you're 14 and we're both 16.
But this is Russia down there in the house.
It was a Finnish war and they lost the war and lost a bit, quite a big chunk of land.
It was very much like, if you go into Russia without permission, yeah.
Even if you just dog walking in the forest and walking there by mistake,
same thing we came back in August 2008, I think it was.
2009, on the boat tour, it was very much like, right,
we can't go on the other side of the lake because that's Russia.
That's something else.
But what was interesting was that, and also this, all about night-wish as well.
Like, what hell's that, what's night-wish?
And I didn't really understand.
But then they came over mid-to-dance to a year later in 2001.
They came over with a Wishmaster album and came into the night-wish pan.
And it was not particularly known about anywhere back then, I don't think.
Now it's more stablished around the world.
Yep.
Yeah, they're pretty popular.
I think I think the link to my sister is finished in front of metal, leather.
And she's stuff I could PhD in.
She's a completely different business.
So she studies.
Oh, and language is on the border, Finland, which are nice.
Is my first to talk stuck yet?
Yes.
Oh, it's so well, I guess.
It's a bit, can you hear my washing machine as well, or slightly?
No, I can't just hear myself.
I thought maybe what I thought was spin-sack or maybe later.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, night-wish.
What noise do these people go, oh, every night we go female-fronted metal?
And they go, oh, I like every night-sense.
And it's like, oh, he's every night-sense.
You heard of that?
And yeah.
Yeah, I don't know about that every night-sense.
I found Gill in 2003.
Listen to this.
The parrot copy is easier than I thought.
There's like one song that's kind of catchy.
But I said, can I, you know, that's nothing compared to, say, night-wish.
Night-wish is just amazing.
Well, here's really.
Although, although they probably used the women's singers, and then when they want more money,
they kicked them out on the band.
Because the guy wrote the lyrics.
And I think I read that they're under last singer now.
If it goes wrong now for a third time, that's it.
The band's stopping.
And yeah, I'm made in Deep Purple.
Yeah, Pink Floyd's Black Sabbath as the classics.
Yeah, I'm not a bigger fan of Sabbath.
Deep Purple, I don't really see it as a metal band or sort of a...
More, yeah, metal rock, yeah.
Yeah, they should have blues rock.
Pink Floyd, Deep Purple, Black Sabbath.
I do public speaking, and I've delayed my speech until the 12th of January.
Now, I was going to do it in November.
It's only seven minutes, but I do toastmasters, you know what that is.
And the other Bristol club has got more people there.
And I'm thinking like, oh, Jesus, coming up now, that bait again.
And they're going to have to do this speech, but I want to do it well.
And I'm going to do some sort of speech about banging powerful metal rock music, yeah.
Which is a bit vague, but I've been thinking like, what am I really going to say here?
You know what I mean?
You hear me?
You hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you.
Right, I guess I'm still thinking.
My acting, my first talk about fits working underwise.
Yeah, I don't know what toastmasters is.
That's an international organisation for public speaking.
It's in 144 countries, basically.
It's where people go to become better at public speaking, or learn leadership skills,
a bit of things as well.
Even a bit just happened, in fact.
It goes around well, what has done with free software message.
Don't use anything, but free software.
He loves and toastmasters originally had to public speak.
So I read.
There was a band who taught him to eat things off of his feet while he's talking.
I saw that video as well.
That was a, yeah.
It's awful awful.
There was a, why do you mean from Bristol or South Losher or whatever?
I moved originally to Aberystwyth University, then to Hong Kong, then back to Exeter.
Now I live in Berlin.
And why have you ended up in Berlin?
Because that's where the second industry went after public speaking.
So for what?
Well, a lot of our tech industry is just up and down.
So a lot of our software providers, anyone who works in like,
like web compliance and stuff,
stuff that I'm going to put up and left.
So they went to the track track, Rotterdam, Amsterdam.
Few of them went to Paris and the Volvable went to Berlin.
I think someone to hate.
I think, yeah, I think friends behind on tech.
I mean, it's well, I mean, it used to have the A call.
Yeah, BBC.
That was British, wasn't it?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
There still is really a rest.
There's a niche thing.
There's a risk of action.
There's to be in February and Brussels, actually.
Main tricks is British as well.
But yeah, in terms of the majority of our tech industry is gutted.
And the web compliance stuff is in a tick jale kind of sucks.
Basically, the UK was the biggest proponent of the GDR.
And so, a lot of the net tech stuff was happening in the UK,
because we had very, very clear stipulations about the GDR.
We had a very good relationship in Europe.
We had a very good relationship with America.
And now that's gone.
And we're ditching the GDR.
So...
D.P.
Oh, do you say it was the...
GDR.
Oh, well, GDR...
Well, I don't know.
GDR, I heard, is...
Like, could you rule thing that came in?
And it caused problems with certain stuff, yeah?
GDR, the General Data Protection Regulation.
Uh-huh.
The only thing that's problematic about this, I've said a bit.
Yeah.
Well, so essentially what it was is...
A framework, like with everything in the EU,
that enables countries to make rules and laws,
government, the issue of private data.
And what it does for individuals,
it gives us the ability to control how we...
how our data is used by common sense,
and other individuals,
and how that data is handled and transported.
So it's an universally beneficial thing for users,
but it's an incredibly frustrating thing for compounds.
This has come to me, shouldn't it exist?
I'm fine, I'm fine.
I get for a web company, so I have to deal with it.
Yes, well, was it you?
Someone earlier, I was listening only on the stream,
but they were talking about...
they were web developer and stuff, yeah?
Is it about...
Yeah, I know.
Even the thing before, is they do fare or something, yeah?
About what?
Sorry?
Do fare or something?
I don't know if it was you or someone else.
Oh, we were talking about ghosts so far.
Yeah, yeah.
And Gemini.
Yeah, that's it, it was you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I thought it was.
And then we said, well, for it, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But, um...
Yeah, the UK is going to be getting rid of the GDPR,
because they think there's a barrier to investments,
and they want to entice new businesses from the US.
But what they want fundamentally to understand,
is that the GDPR was not exactly to stop American companies
from using our data.
And trying to use companies and using...
You know, also...
Oh, I think I'm crushing now,
because I'll be back in the annual sector.
Yeah, I crushed there, but again...
Also, if I hold a button down too long,
it doesn't like it in the library,
and then the recording probably got lost again,
but the mind...
I hope it comes out earlier than all of us this time alone.
This podcast.
And then we'll still hear.
Hello, yeah.
Yeah, I'm still here, I was just...
Did I just say I was crushing?
I don't know if that was her, but...
See, we've joined the tech industry,
being really bad at the end of the UK.
Were you still there?
But what was your name?
What is his name?
It's Boris.
And then his name is...
I don't know.
Boris, what's the name of that?
You stepped away and mute it.
Oh, that was it?
Maybe to do the German New Year,
because it's like in 12 minutes.
And yes, this is a big one, actually,
if you can do the time zone thing,
this is a very big one.
Very big one.
Well, they're figuring out names,
they've confused myself, saying that.
Most of the most of you are up for it,
because that's what's interesting,
is that he's living there, me,
somewhere as well.
It's like, really?
Okay.
That's what he said.
It's not worth...
Are you still here in that minor?
Yeah, I was just trying to find the time,
evidently close to the tab that I heard.
Yeah, now I mean, I can name most of those countries,
because like I said, it is your...
Most of you are up in the next one.
Yeah.
And we're talking to 1,300 Zulu.
UTC plus 1,
GMT plus 1.
And then it's better next,
well, Brexit land, I'm going to say, actually.
And they're not just better,
it's the Canary Islands as well, actually.
And also Portugal,
which is kind of interesting,
because Portugal is like...
Oh, in Iceland as well, it will be.
But Portugal, for some reason,
they're not in the hour of the plus 1 time zone.
They're in the British time zone.
And also the Iceland don't change their clocks,
or yeah, they found that in May 2015.
So they just stay in the GMT UTC all through.
So they're with the UK in the next hour.
But before that, we got Germany's,
what are you doing as a trial?
And where can it is, I assume.
You just not been on here.
Maybe Ken is just very busy
or something this time,
and he's ever called in,
but you know what I mean?
Yeah, I think people...
I don't know whether it's because it's the Saturday or what,
but people are trying to get stuff done before the Sunday,
whatever.
I don't know, you just think you think
it can be better on the weekend,
if that means anything.
I brought somebody new into the room for you.
And you brought some new...
Well, that might say.
Yeah, it's matching.
Yeah, it's matching.
He's all about it, right?
I think he can come here.
I think...
Didn't I talk...
Hasn't he been on here once before?
Oh.
No.
Oh, he's...
No, no, he hasn't...
No, it's some new similar name.
So he's brand new, really?
To this.
We...
We have another mat that you can come here.
Yeah, that's what I'm thinking, isn't it?
Mat...
Yeah, Mat too.
Yeah, it's in French.
I've known Mat for as long as I've known Sparras
for around the same time.
Fatty, 11.
12 years now.
Well, gentlemen, don't be strangers.
Please.
I wanted to get Mat in here because he's probably like me.
We're gonna sit down.
We were probably just gonna do our usual tech and coffee sit down
in a video chat and telegram.
So now he's in here talking.
I did tell him...
I did warn him that this is being recorded in his life
and maybe three people in the world.
He seems to be quite reserved for a gentleman from the Republic.
Yeah.
I'm quite quiet to be fair,
but I like to talk somehow.
Do you know what he's into?
You guys were just talking about it.
Mat is a big metalhead in France.
I'm just...
I'm not so...
Wait, wait, wait, what?
He's from France.
He's from France and he's a metalhead, yeah?
Oh, he even looks the part, but we won't go there.
He can go to Matthew or Mat if you want.
No problem.
Or Mat.
You might be a maybe Mat's easier in English.
But yeah, okay.
Mat.
What metal do you like?
Metal bands.
Metal bands.
First ever metal band.
Metalica.
First ever.
And last one.
Slipknot.
Is he after forever?
What?
Well, I don't know if he said after forever.
I think he said Metallica and I couldn't hear the other two.
Yeah.
The kind of metal I mean, too.
I like the last Slipknot.
I like the last La Cune à Coil.
It's a European band.
I like a French band, which is called SUP.
Extriteration.
And I'm mostly into it since I'm 16.
So I've left me.
I think Metallica is good, but overhyped.
It's been around a very long time.
And in fact, now they don't own charity as well.
They do music and give charity.
They don't own charity.
That's how big Metallica is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Metallica has become so big.
But when I knew them, they were not that famous.
They were releasing the Black Album.
And they're.
Yeah.
I mean, everyone knows Metallica and you say metal.
But.
But I mean, the music is just the same as well.
They're the same old same old.
It still sounds good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They went away from.
From trash.
Or a bit with a load.
We load.
Begin that.
Yeah.
Battery.
Master of puppets.
Battery.
Yeah.
Like that.
This can.
You know, music is kind of good.
They will.
Everywhere you go, you.
You're master.
Master or something like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Master of puppets.
Who can follow mobile's answer, right?
That means he's saying person.
Oh, he's left.
I don't think he's been here in person all day.
And I've been here.
It's five a.m.
Eastern.
It's definitely the calling.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
But it broke.
It broke probably about four hours ago.
Yeah.
Well, Ken Talon's recording.
Yes.
Yes.
Is it recording now?
What?
It's it's recording.
It says.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
It's a lie.
My recording.
I've crashed.
That was more for me.
It gave the podcast.
Came up in August.
But I've.
I've lost that.
Anyway, I think.
I mean, I mean,
would it be so bad if they last.
They released last.
Last year up in August.
And it's like really August.
Oh, what's up?
Oh, yeah.
Last year's show.
So, I listened to the end bit with clacky.
Otherwise, talking to him.
The Swedish or Hong Kong Swedish guy.
Yeah.
And I was like, oh, yeah.
I'm a black chap from last year.
But.
As long as it doesn't crash and we do it all.
Well, it's a shame Ken's not been here.
I've just been busy or something.
So, we're saying metal.
So, we have Metallica.
Um.
Death.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I was really curious.
Uh, since, uh, all my youth, I wasn't to it.
And, um, then I've been.
He's called out some rap music, some French rap music.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, uh, I've been thinking about a speech.
I'm doing a hundred speaking.
I'm doing a metal and rock speech, banging powerful metal and rock.
I'd laid it from November to January 12th.
I'm thinking, oh, no, it's coming up now again.
So, I do, um, it's called Toastmasters.
Got clubs all over the world for that, actually.
Public speaking.
We're a very good thing to be, to be into.
But, um, I'm thinking, oh, I've got the speech coming up.
I decided I'm doing something about rock and metal.
It's like, oh, what am I really going to say up there?
And also, a lot of people don't really like rock or more.
I don't like metal because they think, oh, it's just screaming.
And it's like, no, it's not.
I don't know what it is.
But, somewhere it's just amazing.
The lyrics and the vocals, how it builds up.
And, uh, some of the hidden, give it a chance.
Listen to this.
Woo, that's a nice build up and lyrics hidden away in this song.
And, ah, yeah.
No, I find as well.
There's no proper metal rock station in the UK.
It's even, there's not, you're something hidden away.
But, I find it on, like, forward into that radio.
Put it in from France or Germany or, but not UK.
The UK is into pop too much at the moment.
Even though we've got the good classics like Pink Floyd and Deep Purple for Rock and Pad Queen,
even nuts.
Well, that's queen.
But, I don't know.
It's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's because it used to be.
Was that?
That was the French fry.
It was only queen food.
I had the nation's queen.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, we're on the hour.
So, in that case, Happy New Year, Matt, Cause you're in France.
Yeah.
And're going to say, and that's no idea.
You hear, by the way.
That mine, or you?
Yeah.
This is a big one.
So, let's see.
This is just me.
I'm not leading the list of countries, right?
So, Happy New Year, French.
Luxembourg, Luxembourg. Yes, yes.
Happy New Year! Happy New Year!
Happy New Year, this is Happy New Year.
Happy New Year, France, Happy New Year, Luxembourg.
Happy New Year, Happy New Year, Netherlands, happy New Year, Switzerland,
Happy New Year Denmark, Happy New Year Sweden,
I'm out of Swedish by the way, yeah.
Happy New Year, Norway, happy New Year
If I missed one of those countries, I'll spain, of course, yeah.
Although not the Canary Islands, saying that,
because that's in the UK time zone,
which is next, or sorry, Brexit land.
And nice and nice about Iceland earlier,
but yeah, I may have missed something.
But yeah, it's most of Europe.
Well, we're doing things by the sporting try here,
more than anything.
So again, we're going
to be sporting a good old try.
We're not, we're not, we're not a high precision actor.
We mean we don't have to be exactly crept
for the new year, but yeah.
That's right.
Oh, well, yeah.
No, no, no, no, we just try.
I have, I have a funny, I have a funny story
about the Azores and Portugal.
Well, yeah, okay, yeah.
We'll carry on. What's the story?
Well, back in the day,
they were going to make a TV series called
a mobile connected inventor channel.
Happy New Year, everybody.
Happy New Year.
Yeah.
Well, they were going to make a story called
a series called 12 o'clock high
about World War II in the 17th place.
So they had to fly a bunch of
e7 TV's across the Atlantic Ocean.
And they landed it in the Azores.
Can fallen mobile left channel and disconnected?
The, and what happened was evidently at the Azores,
they had a connection, the movie company,
or the TV company had a, had somebody
would be pocket to move the way.
I'm sorry.
And then the, the only way that they could get
towards England, which was their eventual destination,
was to land in Portugal.
Now, the Portuguese see these military aircraft
with all kinds of fake machine guns
and what not hanging off of them.
Also to fake ammunition and what not for the movie.
And they get very upset, you know,
they, they feel invaded, but somebody pointed out
that a flight from the Azores to Portugal
is a local flight, evidently, Portugal owns the Azores.
It's like like a US plane going to Hawaii to California.
So there was saying, wait a minute,
you haven't gone to a custom, you haven't done this,
you haven't done that.
And they said, we don't have to go through customs
from the Azores to here is a local flight.
Of course, from Portugal to Britain,
and after you've done the Atlantic is not too bad,
unless the weather is broad.
It's like AFK for me.
I'm hearing in a hearing.
Oh, guys, I'm back.
Can you hear me?
Thank you.
I want to put on fish to talk or something.
I think that's for the echoes coming from.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, the push dot auto on me.
You needed that or adjust sensitivity or something,
and turn down the speakers.
All right, my PTSD's gone crazy.
They're sending out fireworks everywhere.
Can you hear me?
Can you hear me?
Can you hear me?
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can't hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
Thank you.
I can hear you, Bill, I can hear you.
I can hear you, Bill.
I can hear you, Bill.
I can hear you, Bill.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
Even if you think pretty heavily
and you're hot all the time like you're right.
I can find a fine, there's.
All right.
Mm-hmm.
I can hear you, Bill.
I can hear you.
I can hear you.
Mr. Z, as I think that fish,
You may have to go through the audio wizard all over again.
Yeah, I was looking around.
There actually is a push to talk in the desktop one on I'm using mint and I'm using
mumble one three four one.
If you go to configure, I can configure.
That's right.
The configuration for the for the, uh,
uh,
takes the speech takes to no.
Yeah, but you're, you're good.
It's actually with you when it hears you, it, it, it activates.
So you don't, I don't think you need to use, I'm just self-conscious, but it's
configure settings, shortcuts, and then you create a shortcut for push to talk.
So that's the only other way around that I've seen.
I don't know if it works, but the option is the great one there.
Yeah, actually now that I look at it, when I go to configure and I click
settings, I have the option of activating push to talk and stuff.
Um, it's not, uh, not too hard at all.
Yeah, they, they must have made it easier since the last time I'm saying, I'm probably,
I used to run a server and I've used the, I haven't podcast now.
Usually, you know, audio problems, mumble or post audio, well, it's pretty much
a crap.
If you, you know, one in seven times, you have to redo something.
Yeah, it is, but I mean, this has gotten better.
I mean, it's still archaic looking, but it's gotten better over the,
I'm going to step away for a moment.
Okay, get you in a few.
Got you.
So Matt, what do you think of, um, mumble?
I mean, it kind of does a job.
It's very similar to what we do.
And, you know, what we've done for years, it's just audio.
And it's kind of, to me, mumble always reminded me of IRC for audio.
Yeah, it's addictive.
And it's good to, to gather some time and to talk, I like it a lot to be fair.
So, um, for me, I always come back to take a coffee and try the, the people that are there.
I, that, you know, I'm maybe a metallic, but I'm a social person too.
Add me and you're, you know, you know, you know how we feel.
And sometimes to put out a rejection.
Sometimes it's a participation and, yeah, I'm back.
Welcome back.
Uh, I can't tell you how much I'm itching to finish upgrading my, my new micro PC.
Is it like one of those nuts?
I, cause that's what I have like three of those and they're fake nuts.
Well, these are about the size of a book.
Yep, those are the ones I have.
I have one as a Plexervan.
I have one in front of me.
And then I bought another one because they went down super and they come with a Buntu already on them.
But I, I think I'm buying my, I do not touch my technical skills to deal with, with, uh, eBay.
So I buy a preset up by the Amazon refurbishment.
Oh, yeah, yeah, no, no, no, I've done that too.
But the interesting, the interesting thing is one of the ones I was looking at was, was the Ryzen CPU blow in.
And evidently, the Ryzen CPUs are a little weird because they, they have two integer cores and one floating point core or something like that.
Yeah, anybody familiar with the Ryzen architecture?
Not at all.
The CPU architecture, it's completely, you know, it's a little bit, but yeah, well, CPUs are getting stranger by the day.
So don't, it's nothing to worry about.
And I know that Apple come to, um, the silicon market with their new process of the system on the chip.
I think that's what they call them.
Yeah, they're, they're, there is a modified arm processor.
Yeah, yeah, and they gather the different, um, odd that were thinking alone and they gather it.
They are not thinking, uh, how this has to say, um, configuration, I don't know, um, co-properation.
Um, I believe that's what the designers call a system on a chip or at least they're putting more of a system all together.
Memory controllers, interrupt controllers, all of the stuff, these separate chips are now on the same die as the, uh, as the central processor and, and it's cash is.
Yeah, that's what it was.
I have, um, I have a notebook here and two, I just bought it, uh, what, uh, one month ago and, uh, yeah, it's a really good piece.
There's nothing to say about it.
We can work, we can do with those stuff online, um, it's really good, really, really, everything goes fast.
I didn't test gaming, but it wasn't the purpose of my time.
So when I go for gaming, I am generally telling to, um, um, uh, Torah, PC, you know, yes, yes.
So, may I say something to you?
Yeah.
Uh, do you watch YouTube videos?
Oh, yeah, look, there is a woman who, I believe, lives in northern,
Ontario.
She does her videos in English, but, but she also, uh, puts on French text because she's
French phone.
She, her channel is called One Woman's Wilderness.
She's a very lovely, one woman's wilderness in English.
Okay, okay, I got it.
In the summertime, she works with, or, she works with road crews, uh,
certifying the quality of their work.
And in the wintertime, she lives in a remote cabin with a couple of, well,
she calls them German shepherds, but one is pure white and the other one is one more
traditional shepherd colored.
And she, she has built or helped build her cabin, her, um,
outdoor bathroom.
She, she's still finishing her cabin in the winter time.
The winter times.
She's an impressive lady and as well as a lovely one and because some,
some of her stuff is in French, I thought it would, you might find it, uh,
pleasant.
Yeah.
Oh, right.
Yeah, we'll look at it.
I look at a lot of calling videos and mostly their men,
mostly they are, they are masculine people,
but there's also women sometimes, um, and, um, I saw them at Google,
I saw them, um, but mostly it's a main thing right now.
Uh, this woman is, I believe, anything but masculine.
You'll see her walking through the woods and you'll see her standing
still and small birds will eat seeds right out of her hand.
Oh, wonderful.
Yeah, she, she looks like a woodman.
Yeah, and she, she will, each with wood and as to go to a spring to get her
water year round, uh, quite impressive because she wrestles,
containers that several, you know, many leaders into the back of a pickup truck and stuff.
Um, what was the name of the candle again?
It's called one woman's wilderness, her name is Lucette, lovely blonde.
I've been walking around cleaning and listening to you guys,
because I don't know, my OCD is kicking.
Yeah, that is.
Gee, if you're into cleaning, I need to send you an airline ticket.
Uh, um, my own OCD.
I, I have, I have the, um, Felix Unger, like with the relationship with my wife,
I was definitely the feeling clean all day was.
Well, I'm, I'm definitely the other guy.
Uh, I was one to do cleanups, but my mother was one of these people who,
if you started cleaning up in one corner or one room,
you would suddenly raise the priority of cleaning up the room next door or the other
corner or anything that you weren't doing.
It's rather good thing that she didn't drive because she would put one foot on,
on the gas and one foot on the brake and then she'd wonder what that funny smell was,
which reminds me, but after the holiday period is over, I will, uh, have to get back to, uh,
disposing of a lot of the accumulated clutter around here, both mine and, and my parents'
yeah, as soon as I ordered this little mini PC, uh, Amazon sent to my email.
We have a computer you might be interested in, and it was a desktop with the same kind of
system unit as, as I was buying the mini PC to replace.
Uh, I think you said it was about me piling one with your mini PC.
Well, I've got a Raspberry Pi that's acting as my, uh, app cache and it will be handling other
chores of camera for real mini PC.
You can check out Indiegogo right now if you want for a DVD window I did, I did, I did,
I was for the older DVD mini PC game, well, pop gaming and productivity, um, tool, um,
devices and things, DVDs are yet, come Hong Kong, that is a real, but those are real mini
PCs, they're like, what, six inch screens and stuff. Yeah, they've got mini PCs, yeah.
Well, the funny thing is that one of the reasons that I built that server was that it had
three screen capability, uh, two display ports and one VBA, because I like using the VBA
screen as a model. Well, so Raspberry Pi, I mean, well, there'd be a family of quite a lot,
quite a few, I think it's 2011 actually the first Raspberry Pi and it was from Wales as well,
which is kind of interesting, kind of cool and white, it's UK, but Wales not England,
but yeah, there's Pi 64 and all sorts of things now. I am told that the Raspberry Pi
Foundation promises to normalize Pi production by maybe a mid-summer.
Yeah, I mean, I know it can be used for servers and you can do some quite interesting things
with the Raspberry Pi. I'm glad to be honest, I never really got much internet myself,
even though I do have a Raspberry Pi or two lying around there somewhere.
Well, I'm really thinking of it for, and I have a two gig Pi that may replace the eight gig
that I have. The reason that I would free up the eight gig for more robust uses, you know,
VMs and Docker clusters and stuff like that, but what I'm going to, what I want to,
the Pi focus I'm looking at is right now it does app caching. I'm on DSL, so my download speeds
are not that great. And since I have gigabit ethernet within the house,
the downloading stuff with the Pi to a local machine is a lot faster than pulling it off the wire.
Yeah, I guess so. Besides, a lot of this is a learning experience. And again,
I'm trying to get around Linux-based VMs and Docker containers and whatnot and get rid of
Google. Talking about virtual machines and Linux,
did you follow the WSL Windows system Linux that they are working on?
I don't know if it is recent or but it seems probably recent and you can have Linux in a Windows
machine without the data. I've had that in store then the wall of original when they
do subsystems of Linux in a Windows 10 or laptop before. There's an update with where it can do
I even built runs on the GNOME stuff or something now, more so, but it's sort of interesting,
but it's also probably a little bit like Kake and my Linux apps on a Chromebook with something
similar to that emulation and it can run most Linux programs on a Chromebook. And that I think
is amazing as well. The Windows system for Linux, I think, is more because Microsoft and big companies
want to add Linux and Windows and then it kind of makes sense to allow them to run some of the
Linux programs in Windows like that. It's not really aimed at home users, although home users could
potentially use it as well. Yeah, I don't know since how it's on the road, but now you can add your
graphical interface inside Windows. It's really welcoming news, I think, for the role of Linux and
how deeply they are integrated now. Well, there's also virtual machines as well where you can do
virtual box or something and have an actual Windows or whatever inside your operating system.
And that for the most part will actually work like it was in a store on real hardware.
Well, the Windows sub-system also, I believe, it probably requires a pro-level windows license.
No, no, no, no, no. I got a... I got a sort of Windows 10 home or whatever, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's free for everyone, I just did it this evening and it's working really fine. You can download
it's all going to be in place again.
I think the Microsoft Graphicals are porting the later version, but really it's running
to get the proper experience.
You need to get that in the same virtual machine.
You can have a bunch of virtual machines inside windows and it would, you know, actually
work for the Linux things, not everything.
But really, it's a proper Linux system to install it properly on a computer, and really
Windows is not particularly good.
I mean, they've improved it in Windows, they haven't used Windows 11 just yet, but I believe
that's improved a bit here and there, but really Windows is not a particularly good operating
system.
It crashes, it needs to be boot after updates, there can be viruses, etc.
Linux is, the next distribution is designed to be more secure, the security is not a bolt
on, it's designed very passionate people, Linux is just better, but it does not dominate
the desktop because the normal computer, because most people don't understand tech enough.
Well, the problem, even if we look at Windows 10 or 11 as an operating system, it is the
amount to telemetry that is baked into the system, the amount to data, root level, data
access that you give Microsoft by running a Windows license.
Well, yeah, it's incredible.
Well, yeah, I believe that's probably true.
And also, if you read the actual, the actual license window, try to add on it, at all
Microsoft Office, flatmaster, WordExcel Powerpoint, you know, it's all about, you can't do this,
you can't do that, you cannot do that, you must not do that, you're not allowed to do this,
you're not allowed to do that, you can't do that, you can't trade the code, you can't
get into code, you can't trade the phone with your neighbor, you can't do this, you can't
do that, whereas obviously if you read a license, so a GPL program on the other hand, general
public license, or it's probably the BSD license saying that as well, but not to quite the
same extent, but you know, it's all about, yes, you can do that, you can use a program,
yes, you can share this with your neighbor, yes, you're allowed, it's all about freedom,
and if people knew that or read the license and actually got it, but of course most people
click accept and that's it, I don't know if anybody's seen a South Park, but there's a very
funny episode or, well, if you know, Shats South Park, they do like Extreme Schumer,
it's, you know, Extreme Schumer, and there's one where they've done Apple, and they press,
they've accepted the license, and then, oh, that episode, it's just like, well, why is it okay?
That's what you accepted, is it? Well, well, so in America, we have, allegedly,
the HIPAA Act, which is supposed to keep all of your patient data secure, but if you have
stuff, but if this stuff is running on a window, it's just, yeah, yeah, I know.
Same problem, same thing in the UK, we got an NHS, National Health Service, there's, you know,
medical reports and things like that, and they use windows, yeah, and the banks as well,
they're the banks are using windows as well, and it's just upgraded from XP, they were using XP
until last years. Yeah, well, yeah, some of the computers were XP still, and also there was a,
there was a shell shock, not shell shock, um, there was a security issue a few years back with,
like, botnet or something, or ransomware attack, and the NHS were like more of the organizations
to be mostly hit by it, because they were still running XP and stuff. Good stuff. Yeah, with my,
my library was, was doing a lot of that for whatever. Also, heck you, you look at YouTube today,
and all over it, there's ways, they're, they're telling people ways of running XP and windows
2000 at the current time. Yeah, but that's just to get clicks and whatever else, you know, I mean,
the people that do that, they're doing it on like weird devices, I don't know, half that YouTube
stuff is good. So it's like, hey, I got to run Windows XP or Windows 95 on this calculators.
Well, well, under some, under some condition, if you're doing, doing retro games or something,
and you, you're going to do things strictly in-house. I read that Instax Explorer is a die on the
14th of February, 2024, and that's it. That's it. It's gone. It's just going to be edged,
and that's it's completely gone. Well, for me, it died December 5th of last year, because my last
day at working where I did retired, and they still ran in the bank I worked for. They still ran
Internet Explorer as a, because they had archaic servers that only worked in that. You couldn't
use another browser unless somehow you could emulate to it, and sometimes you can do it with a
Chrome plug-in. You still need Internet Explorer. Well, I, last time I was in the hospital,
I saw a lot of XP plug-in screen and stuff like that. I saw one thing, think of the bus stop,
or some sort of Windows by mistake on the way it says the bus, when the bus is supposed to be coming.
And I was like, hey, that was a Windows not many, but the top of the screen. I was like a month ago.
Yeah, it's really funny, when you're when you're a bus or you're a train or what have you
have to reap the Windows. Yeah, it's like, it's like, it's like the use the worst operating system.
Well, generally speaking, I think most of the tech people would agree with this, actually.
The, well, you saw the business type tech people and so on, you know, they use Windows to
store some of the most, like, the data that space speaks of cure, and it's like, why are you using
the worst operating system to do this? The most insecure, the most complicated. For users,
okay, I got in an argument with this at Oddcamp when you're with somebody. I don't mind,
wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
sorry, sorry, sorry, you said you've been to Oddcamp. Multiple times, where are you from?
I'm from New York, originally, but I live in Jacksonville, Florida. I wonder if I've met you then,
because there was at least one American there. I've met you in person then. Yeah.
Who are you? There was at least one American guy, or maybe it must have been you, yeah.
So you're the chef. I'm always wearing a cruise shirt. So I'm always working for him because I'm an idiot.
I travel overseas. Oh, you won the crew as well. Yes, I was your crew. I remember going up,
so I remember in Sheffield at the end, remember it was in that home, that university campus,
and then you could go out on the balcony up on the third floor, and I went up with you,
were you, I believe? No, I wasn't at Sheffield. That was the one I missed.
No, that was the one I missed. I mean, it was a little bit American guy.
It might have been in Whiteville, and Whiteville. Yeah, I think there's two American guys,
then I should one of them. But yeah, I don't know if Oddcamp's going to be on in 2023.
I mean, it might be, but I think they're looking for the last two, they were covered in
Scotland. That was that was handled for that. Well, because I always go to Scotland first,
before I had 2020, we were going to be in Chaser. 2020 was going to be Edinburgh,
but obviously that didn't happen because of the Covid pandemic. Yeah, we were trying to do
even a virtual one. We were trying something, but it failed. Fosdom had virtual fosdom,
and their setup was quite impressive. Mostly one by three software, but virtual fosdom
appeared to real fosdom is just not good, you know. Well, but when you're stuck at home,
well, there's nothing to do with those, because I went to PenguCon, I went to ModsFast,
and that was all virtual. I sat right here, and actually, technically, some of it, I was supposed
to be working, but you know, I worked remote for like seven years, so I didn't have a crap,
and I said, if you get anything else, like three no live, when that was on,
no, I haven't been to three no live. Not only happened twice, nothing happened ever again,
because obviously three no's collapsed since. I just know a lot of people had on hand,
and they were pushing me for about two years to go, because I was always in the IRC channels,
and then the, some other stuff, but I mean, Dan and a few other people pushed me to go,
and I ended up going down Pete, he can in, so hanging out with Dan and Fab and stuff.
Fab and Fab and Popea.
I mean, I know Popea, but it's like weird. It's like, you follow up online, and he ignores you,
not even the first time. He's too important online, but I mean, like, let's go out of here,
I'm like, Popea, you can follow me back. Yeah, I mean, the first time in person, the old camp,
and it was like, yeah, and then with people like Martin, Wimpress, yeah.
Well, that's why I always call people like here. I said, look, if you follow me or tech and coffee,
now I'll follow you back, but half the time I don't know the people, so just tell me who you are,
then I'll follow you back, because you know, let's I see it. I have the worst memory, too. I have
PTSD, so I forget things. I mean, I literally forget things. But Facebook ignition, it seems,
I remember in chef, no, no Liverpool one of the years, I think it was actually, I was going to
go back with someone, so tell them, I'm not sure why I was, and I ended up following the wrong
person back, caught up with them, and it was like, oh no, they're not even with us. I think this
is not even, I think they're not even with us in the conference. Whoops, oh well, like you taxi
of walkable, it's annoying. But people don't remember me saying that. Yeah, I usually have glasses
and 30 blind hair, usually. Yeah, I think remember me, usually.
Anyway, public speaking group, whatever, just I'm remembers. But why not by everyone, though,
I love people. Yeah, well, one of the things that I found interesting on YouTube is somebody had made
a server distro that was designed to run to host older versions of Windows, older versions of
macOS and random stuff like stuff like that. And half of their documentation was warning people not
to use it, that it was designed for retro computing. It was not designed for anything requiring
security. Everything was configured open for the more primitive literature. So, can I just
just interrupt for a second. So the next time, though, it's actually my time, though, in some UK,
so that's Brexit, then I'm going to call it because yeah, Britain, Iceland as well, yeah,
the Canary Islands that belong to Spain, and also Portugal actually.
Some reason it's in that time, too, and there could be some other place on what I'm not sure about.
However, that also means that I'm going to get the TV or the big Ben London fireworks that
are about to happen. So I'll be back here in around 15, 20 minutes or so again.
But yeah, happy to hear to me, my country, woo, happy. Yeah, Edinburgh will be doing fireworks,
too, in London, and maybe Cardiff, I don't know, because we were talking about Edinburgh,
yeah, that's what I'd say that. They're doing it here, too. Yeah, it's always something
that doesn't early as well, okay, it's not midnight yet, don't do it three minutes, too. Come on,
or some do it, and now we're early actually, possibly. Matthew, you're still there? Yes, I'm here.
Just looking up to say, you wish me that you're here. He's in 2023, so far there's a world,
it's not being euked to anything, but, um, I don't know. What? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, who knows
with what, with some of the things that are going on at the moment, you know, wars and stuff.
I don't have to worry about nooks too much. I live in the Boston area. No, I think Russia can
blow Boston, but Boston up as well if they feel like it, so you're not safe. What, um, no, where,
I'm like, where in Boston? My wife was from Lowell. I'm south of the city, south of Quincy,
Quincy. Oh, I know the area because trust me, I had to family, I had to be there all the time.
I mean, even though our family lived in California and they moved at six, I still went back a lot
for their people, you know, so I don't even know who they are. Well, I have heard that the Boston
City Hall is an aim point for Russian bombs and missiles. People who look at the Boston City Hall
architecturally agree that it should be bombed. It's one of the ugliest buildings architecturally
that I know about them. Now, they would like them to use a rather smaller bomb than their liable
to use on Boston, but they would certainly, there were a lot of people that wouldn't mind if the
city hall was rubbed just as long as there wasn't too much collateral damage. I've been there. I
mean, I know Boston, I know Philly pretty well. I mean, originally from Pequib City, if you know
where that is, but I've lived all over. I've lived all over the country. I don't know New York very
well. I mean, when we were headed to West Virginia, we would go up 84 and we'd be a peak skill,
fish skill area. Oh, fish skill is right next to Pequib. I mean, it's 25 minutes away. Yeah, well,
as I said earlier, my dad was up there with IBM. I worked in the East Fishkill plant. So if you
know that area, I worked in the East Fishkill plant. I don't think it's that good, but he was part of
Raytheon was somehow coordinating with IBM when they were doing their first silicon wafer based
discrete integrated circuits. Instead of stuff being etched on like we're used to with modern
chips, they would actually lay down metal substrates. And then on top of that, they would put
microscopic transistors, resistors and everything. It was what they called hybrid integrated circuits.
It was rather it was rather a shock to see them in a book on the 360 machines. I had seen those
little square waferes all over the dresser were where my dad emptied his pockets and he even had
a tie clip with one of them on it. But see seeing them in a book on IBM systems. Also, I've got
another things go round and round. IBM had a system called the 650. The main memory was a drum
and every instruction also had the address of the next instruction because the drum would rotate
and ideally you would want the next instruction to come up after you would the processor had finished
the one that you were having it do. The interesting thing is the kind of interleaving that they had
to do on that drum computer is the same kind of interleaving that they had to do to optimize
some of the risk machines so that the processor could execute instructions one after the other
and then have them out of order but have the results ready when they were needed. So the most
advanced silicon processors of well fairly current time use the same kind of instruction
shuffling that was used for the drum drum machines. Oh, that's kind of. Yeah, I've got to take a
short intermission here and I've got another drum story for you. Okay. The good time I'm cleaning
because I'm OCD. Matt, you, Matt. Did you sing it because I didn't want to broadcast it?
It was interesting. I just wanted to know how to do it. Hello everybody. Happy New Year.
Happy New Year. I don't know. I'm cleaning. I don't know how happy it is. Like, you really don't
celebrate many of the holidays. My OCD max clean. I'm thinking about throwing in from three
stages. I found all these upstairs. It's three minutes to move New Year's into UK.
And a whole bunch of servers around the world that have their time configured for UTC.
Doesn't Linux keep the on board clock UTC and then translate? Yeah, that's right. Epic.
Well, you mix Unix Epic time. Well, whatever, but I'm just saying your real time clock is at UTC
and then they convert, I think. I mean, I could be completely wrong, but I think, I mean, it depends
system to system, but if you're talking about Unix Epic time that, I mean, number of seconds
since 1970, I think that's in UTC is the time zone for that. Either way, unless in a minute,
it's going to be midnight. Yeah, and I think we hit that one a little early, just a little while ago.
Happy New Year's in the UK. Canary Island or wherever else? Well, Burrows Corporation
had this great idea for fast storage. They had a six foot long drum, spending an 880 RPM
with a whole bunch of read right heads along its links. And because the heads were on one
band around around the drum, reading data could be done very fast because there was no head move.
They would just read one ring of data or a segment of a ring of data and whatnot. And then
just electronically switch between these things were a great idea. Except they had a little problem.
First, they literally weighed a ton. And the second thing is that the gyroscopic forces of running
a ton of very fast rotating metal tended to want to have the want to walk these drums across your
computer room floor. However, in the second generation, they fixed the problem. They put two drums
together, had one of them spinning clockwise and the other one spinning counterclockwise,
so that the gyroscopic forces cancel each other out. Of course, that also meant that these things
weighed two tons instead of one ton. But you know, at least it wasn't trying to tear up the place.
The American military had some exciting adventures when they tried to put one of these first
generation drums in the back of a truck while it was operating. The truck was driving down the road
with its huge gyroscope in the back. It didn't work out very well. And they also, the Navy tried
it on chipboard, but the gyroscopic forces were not healthy for merit for navigation. Eventually,
so-called drum memory was done with discs, with a row of heads across the platter, so that they had
similar, they lacked seek time, but they also lacked the tremendous gyroscopic forces of a big drum.
Also, a military computer was donated to UMass Boston. It was probably a great machine.
I know that the cabinet was bulletproof, probably literally. There was one small problem. The cabinet
had been made for security by Noah's word, the safe company. And as far as I know, nobody cracked
the safe to get into this obsolete military computer. Trying to figure out what?
How late I wanted my time. I'm not really tired, but I have this feeling. How late are you staying?
As late as I can do it with minimal chemical assistance.
Oh, I got it. Yeah, no. I mean, I was like, are you going to do the full 26? I've been in here
on and off since 5 a.m. Well, actually, technically, I've been in since 5 a.m. Stop. I just kept changing.
Kind of almost seamlessly, other than- Well, I've been up since before 4 a.m. Eastern.
Dang, that's the time I usually get- I get up around 4 30 and get out the-
Well, I've been- when I get focused on stuff, I get distracted. And I was doing my
usual YouTube stuff, although I've been trying to cut down on my YouTube channels.
I reserve YouTube for pretty much half a day a week. Usually Sundays, mornings, and then by new
and I stop you. Because if I don't, I'm just going to do it all day. I'll just keep doing YouTube.
So I just minimize my YouTube for then because I'll fall asleep watching YouTube.
And I won't even know what I watched. And then it'll go into some weird- I watch a lot of repair
videos because I repair cameras and I repair old radios and stuff. So I watch those guys. That's
kind of like porn to me. I'll watch those half the night. And then I wake up and I'm in the middle
of like, I don't know, Mr. Carlson's three-hour video on him repairing an old radio. Like, how did
this happen? If you hardly watch the guy- I don't know exactly how it goes except I don't let auto-play
happen. You name it. I probably watched a repair video. I probably subscribed to him, repair videos
for any radio or any electronic- some cameras. I follow mostly photographers, Ed Pavaz and the
York and stuff like that. So should I do a beer or not? I'll do a whiskey and I brought it back
to Scotland. You know what? Whiskey. You said whiskey? I'm going to go upstairs and grab a bottle.
Don't tell me that I will leave you. I wish you were there. Are you going to leave now?
Yeah, I'm going to, I'm going to back this one up. Okay, I'll come there.
Okay, in about two hours I'll come by and nudge you and wake you up it. Okay, so we can go.
Okay, I'll be right here in a few hours. Happy New Year. Happy New Year, man.
Thanks for everything and enjoy your time. Thank you for coming in, man. I mean,
it took a little while for me to coach you to come in. You know, I didn't want to. It's
first but he came in taking it, screaming almost literally.
So Happy New Year once again and goodbye. Goodbye, man. You have a good night. I'll talk to you tomorrow
soon. Okay. Okay, I got an open bottle of chevis. No, I did not get the chevis overseas. That would be
the two bottles I bought overseas that are left here. They're still sealed and I'm going to keep
it that way because they sell the British seals on them from you can't get them here in a state.
So we're just going to do a bottle of wait, wait, wait, I got, I got, what is it? Three monkeys and
I got chevis, which one? Three monkeys. Have a bottle of screwball here. I've been deleting channels
left and right. My channel count is not going down. I think there's a little problem with
I mean, I don't delete panels. I just don't watch as many and I took a lot of them off.
I don't like to join the chat because I actually have a verified channel. So that usually brings
up stir and stuff. Last time I joined, there was a linux show. What is it? The coffee clatch or
something Pete got me to join that. And as soon as I joined, I started talking to like, there's
a verified person in here. I'm like, yeah, only because Google has made me some sort of ambassador.
All the coffee and tech guys. Yeah, that's us. Literally, I think half of our admins,
back in the day, got check marks because we were always in meetings with Google.
Well, the stuff that I found interesting is like how FGP works passive and active and I'm just
going through a ton of stuff also. I did have some cheapo champagne here too. All right, whiskey.
Now I have to find a whiskey and I have to drink it like like a slid a little bit of temper.
Who knew I was drinking it raw all the years before I went to see it?
Yeah, Scottsman watching you hold that damn yeah. Oh, yeah, no, I got I got I got learned
overseas multiple times. Oh, and also do not call it Scotch in Scotland that they will
laugh at it is Scottish ski or just whiskey. I do have a whiskey for sure is everyone.
Well, thank you because my pills do not black alcoholic beverages. They I haven't had alcohol
and God, it's going to be decades. I'm always in moderating. I've been on weekends since pandemic
beginning. On weekends, I'd go down to because I live really close and I don't, you know,
four miles, that's really close, but four miles are in the beach and we'd go down to the beach
as bars and they love to drink. I'd like drink. I like I like whiskey, but I don't like to be
intoxicated. So I'll drink and then I'll disappear. There's usually a coffee shop or most of the bartenders
know to make me a faux drink like cranberry juice. I have the time they don't know. Yeah, well,
yeah, I just yeah, I do my YouTube because I don't have any TV or anything.
Hello from 2023. The world is what's the future look like?
It's a little bit too early to tell, but I just I wonder, I wonder with the, you know,
the I was reading about this this ship that Putin has, he's going to put it put near Britain
with loads of new forms to show he could do something. So I'm a bit worried about that if it's
going to happen. Other than that, yes, it's so far it's it's okay. We have electricity still.
We have internet. We have TV. We'll not net my name apparently, but well, everyone else.
Well, it's not, it's history of the bomb. Although it says kind of weird, isn't it? Because
how it can like go to the past as well. You can communicate to the past that I'm doing right now. Hello
2022. Yes, yeah, it's like split between, oh, actually, this just like watched a London firework
thing. I had like three channels to watch it on. I was like, right, we've seen one.
I did what got what got me was a dude named Sam Rider. Anyone who knows Sam Rider is
maybe not a few marathon. Well, not even though I go over there all the time. Well, you know,
have you ever had a Eurovision? Unfortunately, no, no, absolutely. You have, okay, okay.
He won in, well, he was second place in the 2022 May, May won. Ukraine won first place,
not surprise the prizes in that saga. I mean, some of it's politics and some of it's actual
music votes. But obviously, because the war is going on, they're not going to have your
origin in Ukraine in 2020. It's going to be in Liverpool again instead, because Britain,
some reason became second place, even that was Sam Rider doing a song, and I didn't like that song,
and even though Britain is traditionally hated by Europe, or so they say on these things.
And so they were doing his, like, a show with him. And I was like, oh, Sam Rider, I don't watch this.
He was in my local city the other week as well. Yeah, for a bit, go the size gear there.
And then I watched the firework display. I thought this is, it doesn't look so good this year.
ITV, oh, they're showing how, Sky Show, okay, I was showing that it didn't look very good this year
on TV. Apparently there were like 12,000 fireworks though, actually getting set off in London.
So in person, it probably was quite good. Imagine that, 12,000 fireworks being set,
I'm like, cleanly said, I think it's like 12,000. They're going after all the fire,
I think they said in London, they had 12,000 fireworks to light up, yeah. That's insane.
That is a lot of fireworks, isn't it? Well, on the 4th of July, Boston has not only the Boston
tops, but we have a couple of 105 power tours for the 1812 overture. Yep, we're one of the few
orchestras with the construction sector. And right now, New England is doing its best to emulate
Old England, humidity is not a lot. But the state, I mean, you mean the state, yeah?
Well, yeah, the North East, the North and East states of the United States are getting
rents fairly heavily. Did you say rich? Well, rents washed down fairly heavily. But then,
again, as I say, at least we're not troubling it. We said they were emanating the way
saying they're going to be like England. Rainy, dark and wet, not too cold. It's 53 degrees,
sorry, I don't have it. You mean you have 53 degrees? If that was OC, but like plus degrees,
that would be very, very hot. Or if it was the other way, that would be like, well, you'd die in
that. I expect it would be so cold. Well, there is one interesting temperature, negative 42 degrees.
Do you have a towering height? We'll see because we've got
Americans of this Fahrenheit thing and we didn't see. And what else does see? OC. Yeah, well,
negative 42 is negative 42. Yeah, I think it would be very cold or very hot, I guess.
Well, also, I suspect it's Douglas Adams' favorite temperature.
Ah, that's a very reference number three. I have to talk to somebody else through.
I feel like this year, this show, you know what I'm saying, it's like, if he feels like we're
lacking someone, you know what I mean? Or maybe not just someone, but a few people even.
Like, where's Dan and Joel this should be on here? Yeah, wherever they are. It's just like
standard has been like, nose of people like more than us chatting all at once before.
Well, it goes through this, slows down, picks back up, slows down, picks back up.
Just this year, it's been mostly been a lot of the same guys all day long. Yeah, I resemble that
with Mark. Maybe we didn't do enough to advertise or something, even get an uncle to join us.
Well, maybe, maybe because it's a Saturday. Yeah.
I didn't mind the vice, because if we can, what does that matter? Surely it's a bad time to do it,
isn't it? Or is it not because people have, it would take kind of luck in the week if it's on
here in the week, huh? Well, well, around here, a lot of people are working Monday through Friday,
and when they need to stock up on their groceries or get the kids new clothes for going back to school
after the holiday or what have you, that is what fills the stores on Saturday. Around here on Sunday,
there are what they call blue laws which tend to shut stuff down and everybody's at home
or they go to church or something. Yeah, well, in England, we have this stupid, I say stupid,
because I want to be able to food shop on a Sunday if I feel like it. And at a late time, so
so what they do, what it's been like this for a long time, but they close all the big supermarkets.
Well, one that they can be open from like 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and then they close and normally they'd be
open until the later evening, like nine o'clock, eight o'clock, whatever. So the smaller little
convenient shops can stay open, but a lot of shops will close at four o'clock, which is annoying.
Yeah, and a lot, that means that a lot of people will shop on Saturday when the stores are open
or a Saturday might close like the earlier as well, depending on what shop it is like really.
But, but they're level to be open at maybe nine o'clock or eight o'clock in the morning,
so you can, you have from like nine to four or nine to whatever, you know, more like a normal day.
Not into the evening, but still everybody's not rushing into.
But what I was asked for, ask for a church and things like that. Well,
why we have we have something called census in the UK, which comes out every sort of things every
10 years or so. And there was one done about and there was one done about two years ago. It's
basically you have to, I think you have to fill it in by law really as well. It's just some
basic questions in the government wants to know about the population, things like that, and I had to
do it last time. And as it was done, and you can put, yeah, I think you can actually get
fine from not doing it. It was like really. And it came and I saw a report saying that apparently
75% of people in Britain have basically said, because you can say you're on a lot of things before
you go like British Christian or like what's your ethnicity? What's your religion? Why are you?
And you know, in the past lot of people go British Christian or white British or white
British and things like that. But I read that call saying that lots of people are now 75% of people
have basically said in the census that they are not Christian. They're not British Christian,
and so yeah, of course, talking about, well, in that case, if religion is mostly
dying out or not as popular, should the church have such a hold on the country? Because there's a lot
of churches around and there's a church of England as well with what's more power. It's got left
and things and it's like, but I think it's kind of true. I think a lot of people are not religious now.
That's in Britain, but elsewhere, probably America as well. I think religion has
died out a bit in these kind of countries. I think Christmas is a commercial holiday for the most part.
Well, yeah, unless you go to a church and actually sit down and church or something, yeah. Otherwise,
it's very much by this, by that, by this, isn't it? Well, the problem is not the number of believers
it's the connections that the deacons and pastors and priests and bishops and what the churches
tend to be top heavy in clout. So the average Joe might want to do shopping,
but his parish bishop or what have you will have the era of some politicians saying
we have to keep the Sabbath holy for. Make sure these people got nothing else to do except
show up in my church and fill my collection plate. Thank you. Yeah, well, they don't mention the last
part. It's just implied. By the way, there was an interesting analysis of British Navy World War
and post-war. They found that the British Navy fought World War One with lots less admirals,
her ship for the number of ships that they were actually sending out in combat. After the war,
they got rid of a lot of ships, but they didn't get rid of a lot of admins. And somebody said that
there would be somebody had calculated how many admirals the British Navy would still have,
even if they had no ships. Yeah, well, it's like, well, it's 2020, well, 2022, so it's
2020-23, depending on where people are, but in other words, it's even further a go now. It's like,
you know, it's another year. It's kind of more and more back in time. Plus, in the Britain,
actually, they mostly focused on World War Two and the schools and stuff, so World War One was always
a bit more quiet for some reason, but they would be teaching him about Hitler and World War Two
and things in the schools, yeah. I had the honor and I didn't realise how much of an honor was.
The, I believe, it was the father of a friend of my father's wife was an anti-aircraft gunner in
World War One. I had the honor when I was younger of meeting this gentleman. Someone said that they
were 70, well, that you, idea. Old unit. No, I'm getting up to, I'm over 60. That doesn't tell us
the real age, though. Well, I'm soon to be 65. Okay, so some of these said they were 70,
I hope they had a seven from an age. I guess not you, but yeah, so yeah, World War Two.
Well, 65. Actually, actually, what was even more interesting? I think the other people will talk
about World War One and Three, yes, for all of these kind of reasons, but yeah. Well, also, I was raised
in a combative household. I often sympathised with the people of France, you know, just sitting there.
And sat France free, actually, in one of those rules. Yeah, well, I'm aware, both American,
but the deal is that with my parents fighting over my head, it was like, you know, it was easy to
feel like an occupied country because there would be shelling from both sides. But also, I was raised
in the 60s as a 50s kid. Very, believe it to be verb. Short hair, sports shirt, slacks, polished
shoes when everybody else had long hair, jeans, t-shirts. I also found out that you could do your own
thing as long as it looked like the same own thing that the guy to your left and the girl in front
of you and the one on your right was doing. Being raised as a 50s kid during the 60s or 50s,
or that I wasn't willing to. I wasn't even willing, just yet.
Well, kids today don't appreciate things. Well, kids. Yeah.
I mean, when my, when my grandfather died in some time in the mid 60s,
actually, my grandmother's house did change.
When you said, I was just thinking, right, kids today don't appreciate things and I'm kind of
changing the subject there if I do this, but I was thinking with COVID as well, how all the restaurants
and everything fun was closed. And people have to suffer, yet people were breaking knockdown,
bringing their friends over, blah, blah. Now it's all pretty much back to normal, but
but that kind of got me to appreciate what was really out there a bit as well. Like, yes, I live
by sit, yes, there's pubs around, but having it shut was like, wow, okay. Well, the interesting
thing in America is how random stuff was. With what? Some places had locked down some places
wide open, some places had masks, some places. And like New York City, there were tremendous
amounts of quite complex regulation evasion systems. In the winter time, they put outside
shacks, which both didn't have good sanitation and didn't have good ventilation. So your dinner
parties went into these cubicles that might as well have been a train compartment, which meant
that if anyone had a disease, it was pretty much sure that it would be passed around inside the
safety bubble that they were forced to use because you couldn't go into the restaurant itself,
where they might actually have staff to wife stuff down and to spray stuff down, but outdoors
in these little bubbles in the street. Wait, bam, bubbles were your family members,
the ones with friends. Well, they would be family members, but the thing is that they would
they would be reduced capacity. Yeah, yeah, oh yeah, they did that here as well, the rule of
six and things. You could be out with like five people, something went really down a bit more,
but like you can mix with maybe four people from a different household or something.
Well, the bubbles, the bubbles, things. The thing about it is that if you're someone who has
symptom, and again, people were eating, so their mask was going up and down like a window shade.
Well, they're in mass stuff when eating, but the deal is that since you had reduced capacity,
people, once you were done eating, they would clear the table and I'm not spray the
chair or something, you know, we're going to say not sanitize, not sanitize anything because
there's a lot of people willing to take any seat that was empty.
Yes, some places probably did not follow it properly, those the rules around, even if,
well, but even that, like, you know, like subway, I've got one round, that's an American sandwich,
Shane, I'm sure you know what subway is. I've got one round corner, like literally two minutes
walk away from my lip, pretty much, and for what, and then suddenly they were like, right,
there's a lockdown, I was like, okay, the Domino's pizza up the road, that can stay from,
but only for takeaway, for delivery, for delivery, and the subway was closed shut for a bit,
and the McDonald's was in the shut for a bit, as I figured out, what's doing with COVID and
social distancing, but I remember when it was like, you're not allowed to sit in and eat
in a place like subway or takeaway or restaurant, that was like, really?
And then, and then when, and then suddenly, that was a few months of that, and it was like, I can
go and get a subway, I can't sit and eat in there. I used to sit and eat in there at times.
And then when that ease down, I was like, I was like, I was one of the things I celebrated,
it was like getting freedom back, just just something with basically sitting in the subway
and eating a sandwich, yeah. Well, also, you couldn't sit down and eat inside where you were
protected from weather and cold, and things that would possibly accelerate or need to change.
Yeah, that would have popped to begin with, eating inside is not allowed or drinking inside,
you can, you can be in the cold and April outside and test the weather and the rain and the
weather, weather might come in April. But inside, we'll not have to talk about June,
and then we had a road map here, and it would be like, right, these are the road maps,
probably that's saying, one, two, three, yeah, let's go back on the sage fall, which was basically
getting rid of lockdown for the most part. I had to get actually revert that by five weeks,
and it was like, ah, geez, and I had a calendar as well. I was putting down some of the lockdown
easing stuff, and my mum saw it and she was like, why you put all this down when there's nothing
down, but I was like, no, it's about lockdown and the things I get on, and you just hope that
we're going to get to sage fall, let's get rid of lockdown. And it was, oh, it was a weird time,
every country had its own, or most countries had their own version of lockdown. I mean, I think on
the global basis, it was all very, it was mostly similar, from the say America and the UK and
Canada and all, and places like that, China was being a lot more strict. Australia was very strict,
no, no, no, yeah, actually China's only just recently opening up again, because they got the
blame for COVID, and not Australia had a no COVID policy, so they were even blocking the border
in New Zealand, normally the people from New Zealand would come over to Australia, no problem,
pretty much, but they were like, no, we're not having COVID, they blocked, they closed their border,
Sweden didn't lock down, I think there was only country in Europe that didn't actually lock down,
and they got, they got some flat for that, and I think they admitted that, okay, the deaths were
a bit higher than they could have been maybe, but they carried on pretty much as normal otherwise,
whereas every other country in Europe had locked down, basically.
Well, in America, it was a pretty random depending on your city, population, the number of deaths,
whether or not your mayor had his head up his ass. Also, my brother and his wife had
boats of COVID, they were living in a tractor trailer, tractor, they were not,
there was no way that they could actually isolate them, and then asking these
things, well, is it asking these down in England a bit more, they decided to have a tear system,
a tear system, and a tear system, and it was based on the county, so I'm in a place where
I have a city, like the actual wheel city is basically, I can walk there, I can walk down that
way, 10 minute, 15 minute walk, I can get down the hill and go that way, when the 1990s all
joined together, it was the same big massive county, but now it spits up into like three or four,
like three different counties, basically, and then in this tear system, suddenly it was like,
hey, why am, is going to be tear free, but the city is tear too, and then it was like, what,
they were tear free, but then they came to tear too. Now, it was to do it partly on where the
hospital is, so it's like, oh, your hospital, you have to get into city, what's your COVID
death rate, infection rate, and it was lost, and that's partly it, and I had to do this tear,
and I was like, I'm tear free, so my pub, down the corner, and the pubs have to be shut,
but yet the pubs about 20 minute walk away, they can be opened, and it was just a bit crazy,
really. Also, I noticed a love bug has appeared in here, and he's also in Britain, so I wonder if
he could say about his tear system, maybe, because we want that co-creator, she can hear us,
the love bug, and if he can hear us, hit me. He probably doesn't know how to use his computer.
I don't know, he's a podcast for me. That's because you probably mapped it wrong key.
Wait, he did? Yeah, I'm guessing. Go to configure, go to settings, go about four things down to
where, I forgot what the thing is, and just make sure the key isn't something that you've
always kept saying, if you're using mumble, 1.341, go to configure, go to settings, go to shortcut,
choose the shortcut. Well, I said earlier that people were missing, this is this is an example,
this guy, he is an example of the people we were missing earlier. Now, I've added, I've added
Glenn in here, he's, he's, well, and I see Sporath, I love you Sporath, happy new year.
Hello all. Hello. It's too messy. Yeah, yeah. Oh, I got to tell you something,
we were on YouTube, somebody had a problem with this very fundamentalist, righteous family.
Well, what they did was they looked in their telephone directory or what have they
and found all of the local churches, including the Buddhist and Muslim and the more obscure sects,
and one of the sects that they they were particularly generous with was the Church of Satan.
So this very pious family suddenly found their mailbox,
filled with, with stuff from all kinds of, you always say, alternate religion. And of course,
the letter carriers and everybody else eventually found out these people had been
generous because as donating to these various exotic religions, the exotic religions would send
thank you notes. And they would be carried by the local postman who, you know,
he tended to carry carry the mail and carry tails as well. So this family really got it on the
trip. It was nonviolent, but effective direction. So I want to introduce Proteus. Of course,
you want to introduce me while I'm eating a sandwich. Of course, but I mean, like I can see
and glad that they're not eating. Oh, my God. We threw you under a bus again. Shut up, Karen. Hi.
As you can see, we all know each other and love each other. Yes, I did not eat all day long.
My blood sugar dropped really low. So yes, there has been a time when I wasn't
Karen, you need to go hug him now. Okay. You should feel bad. No, I don't, I don't want to hug.
No, no, no, no, wait for his blood sugar to come back up. Hopefully fine. I want to hug them.
So, uh, actually, what I've got to do is, is go out and get some ice water. Otherwise,
I tend to be falling down sober, which is quite unpleasant.
I'm saying it needs to take his pills. Yeah, I have a little bit, have a little bit of whiskey
waiting for me for tonight. I'm drinking some now because Joe or somebody told me. Yeah,
I recommended it. Yes. Yeah, you did. Yeah, whiskey. I said beer or water and you went whiskey.
Well, I'd be a bitch. Oh, oh, shots fire. I hope you're drinking it straight.
Maybe with a bit of ice. I'm drinking it with a little bit of water like this. God's
splash. No, I bring out the, I have to work in the morning. So I end up having to chase it down
with like, um, some, uh, powder eight or something like that. I can get dehydrated while rehydrating.
Hmm. I mean, I've talked the story I'm talking coffee before, but I remember I was in Japan and I went
to a rare whiskey bar in Nishishinjuku. And I was pretty new to whiskey. I'd buy drunk whiskey,
but I, you know, I was a good one at the time. So I drunk terrible, crappy whiskey. And I went to
this whiskey bar and I said to the guy behind the bar, I was like, hey, you know, can you give me
some recommendations on what I should try? And the guy is like, you know, it's like, I can try.
My English isn't very good, whatever, but yeah, sure. And I said, okay, so what do you recommend?
It's like, well, do you prefer, uh, blended whiskeys or do you prefer single molds? And I'm like,
I think I prefer single molds because I've never really liked scotch and I'm always getting blended
scotch. He's like, okay, um, do you prefer sort of a clean taste? Do you prefer PT? And I'm like,
PT, ask me a bunch of questions. And eventually he picks one for me and then he looks at me and says,
I say, you said, do you want it neater on the rock on the rocks? And I said, well, how do you
recommend this one? And he looks at me and he goes, well, I can't tell from your accent,
are you English or American? Well, I'm English, you went, ah, you drink it neat then,
on the rocks is for pussy Americans. What, it doesn't use stones?
Don't use anything, they ain't got no stones. An interesting component of whiskey production
is that they lose a certain amount of the whiskey when they age it in the barrels. What do they do?
This is called the angiosphere. Everybody wants to say, you know, stuff about cheap alcohol,
but there's nothing like a cheap vodka. I mean, a nice flavor from the corn mix as opposed to
how about buckwheat? How about buckwheat and vodka? Because they were toward a
ban than the UK because of the war, yeah. Oh, no, I just like a good flavorful vodka and you
don't get that with like, Gregus. I mean, Gregus doesn't have a flavor, but, you know,
the corn mix does. When you say there's nothing like a cheap vodka I object,
paint thinner exists. Okay. I was going to say rubbing alcohol, but, sir, yeah.
Do you guys like apartments? No, no. Why can't you give me a woman? If you want something
with a truly unique taste, you need to try to find yourself some great wall Chinese vodka.
Um, I had some, oh gosh, what was it? I had some Captain Jack once and I think it was 2000.
That stuff is whiskey, sort of. And yes, it fit in the cheap category.
But it was a great way to, you know, walk around South Korea and get drunk.
We have another time zone coming up. UTC minus 1 now. Trying to figure out what that was,
but not sure if this is correct. It could be the Gambia Senegal. I mean, it could be
pasted in Africa, yeah. Maybe green ones as well, which I think it was saying.
Well, whatever it is, happy to be here today. I'm in about free minutes, yeah.
Brandon, I don't drink a whole lot anymore. Actually, if you want cheap vodka now,
you'll have to add your eggs, like, Kier Scova. But you can usually get it for about,
it's really good. I mean, on its own, because I kind of like, yes, absolutely. We wanted to add
like lemon juicers to make it taste like some fancy good. Why would you want to do that?
Just drink it straight. Well, it's meant to be drink. There is some nice chocolate vodka and stuff.
Dean, now you're making a fancy. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Well, I accidentally drank a,
a 750 one night and I can't drink chocolate vodka. Which chocolate vodka is anything?
I think when you drink one, I drink a fractures gold and there might be one other person in this
podcast who actually knows what I'm talking about. He's still here.
Patches gold. I'm assuming you're talking about me because we're from the West Coins,
right? I haven't had a drink in like four and a half years, so I don't think I'm
not in this conversation. From the West Coins. That's awesome, dude. I admire
making a decision and sticking with it. I like my peanut butter flavored whiskey.
I love that. I drank some of that last night and some of it today. But I got some of it in my hand
right now. Sport, if don't be offended, but cheers, mate. Yeah, cheers. Hey,
you know, whiskey sounds amazing. Hey, we got the peanut butter whiskey. Yeah, and I was
well, I'm an expert peanut butter whiskey. It has to be screwball. Got a bottle of screwball right here.
Yeah, I've tried one other and it's trash and there was another next to it that looked just as
trash and now there's a fourth one. I've had some other ones that were actually kind of okay,
but remember, I like nasty vodka. So take what I say with a grain of salt. No, I disagree.
Screwball is awesome. Yeah, whatever they before they put the flavor and the sugar into it,
whatever they make it out of is very, very high quality and or very, very highly filtered because
they don't put a hangover in that bottle. Well, I'm sure if you dig deep enough, you can find one.
I'm actually drinking some rebel stoke nut crusher peanut butter whiskey, but I normally do go
for screwball. Oh, good. How does it compare then? Well, I think I'd prefer the screwball,
but like the the bottle, I decided to buy this one and in particular because I like the bottle
and just decided I wanted it, but I it will do in a pinch. Wow, I don't I don't keep bottles
around that long. That probably says more about me than you, but cool. That's pretty cool,
but it's it's close then. Well, it's it's smooth. Like I haven't had like the the whole like
feeling like I'm going to cough or anything. And it's kicking in a little bit, but yeah,
it's not bad. It's if if it's what is available, I would definitely not stop myself from getting it,
but if I can get screw ball, then I'll get screw ball. Yeah, I've never not been able to get
screw ball. That's pretty good saying it's it's basically silver or bronze, but it's not gold
metal. No, definitely not gold. Screwball was gold for me. Cool. So far here is a go over at MIT
when I was going to physical luck meeting after the meetings. We would close down and they heard
over to a local group of and I hadn't had a beer in several years and I just had the usual
you know light not a light beer, but but you know nothing too dark just just a regular beer.
Golden beer and especially since I hadn't eaten much, that rare beer had a lot more kick than
when I was drinking your usual, you know, but light back in that when I was younger.
Okay, I found the other two peanut butter whiskeys that I like. All smoky is okay. And then there's
also blind squirrel, which is really good. All right, I will look for blind squirrel then. Cool, thank you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show
was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording,
podcast, and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has
been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net. On the
Sadois stages, today's show is released on our Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License.
