Episode: 3130
Title: HPR3130: More Quick Tips
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3130/hpr3130.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:29:55

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,130 for Friday 31 July 2020. Today's show is entitled
More Quick Tips. It is hosted by Operator
and is about 11 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
This time tips on Nvidia FFM Petrons coding fallout perks late to movies shared to FAA time to leave app.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15 that's HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everyone. This is another quick tip. When you're doing hardware acceleration and I've got my hands on a new video card.
I wanted to test FFM Petrons in video compression or video encoding.
It looks like I've got about 3 or 2x on software decoding and then I get 32x when I use this new video card.
I just recorded an episode on recording over it because I didn't say there was much of a difference.
With this, there's a very noticeable difference. I get 32, 29x, 30x, 31x faster.
Instead of 15 minutes, it's going to take 2 minutes, 3 minutes.
The only thing that's seen to work in all the different options and whatever, I'm not an FFM pet ninja.
It's like VLC. It's one of those things that you really have to understand the right filters in the right order.
Anyways, Google FFM pet remove FFM pet Nvidia FFM pet transcoding guide.
It's got a bunch of stuff in here. Mainly, it tells you to use the H264 under store CU Vid,
which you need the tools, the CUDA tools I think for that to work, obviously.
And then for the encoder, you want the H264 underscore NVE and C.
So it's CUVID for the decoder, which you would think would be NVDC for decode, but it's CUVID CUDA video.
And then the encoder is NVNC. So the decoder is to decode the thing, and the encoder is to make the file.
The decoder is to decode the file or open it.
And then you'd specify that you want to use CUDA as your hardware accelerator.
There's other stuff in here like multi-GPU and all that crap, which is kind of cool.
So if I remember, I'll put the show notes in here along the two command line options and tells you what each one wins.
There's really one, two, three command line options you need to know for the GPU stuff.
I tried handbrake that didn't work. There's another one called MediaCoder Classic that didn't work.
And this seems to be the only one that would actually use my video.
Now, when you look at the CPU usage, the GPU usage percentage is very low.
It's still 5, but there's a VID percentage, which is, I guess, for a video. I'm making shit up.
Which goes up memory clock, megahertz goes up to 100% dish, power, percent goes up, and fanspeed goes up about 30%, you know, 8%.
Something like that. I don't know if that's percent or what.
So you can tell it's actually doing something.
Or as before, it would jump up to like 12% for whatever reason with doing software.
But the VID pack pops up.
And this is for my new GPU that I got for Nvidia.
But anyways, hope that helps some day up.
Hello, another quick tip for you.
This is for the Fallout game.
The newest one.
It's called a website for helping you building your perks out and stuff.
It's called nukesdragon.com forward slash Fallout 76.
And I think they have other, let's see, I think they have other profiles out here.
Character Builder on their 7th of the Skyrim, Palafame, the outer worlds Fallout.
So it's a little character builder.
Pretty slick. You can save the information.
So it's almost like I want to say it's like a weird hash or however it scores it.
So when you pick out your perks, you can take that URL and share it with somebody else.
And then you can also share the builds across, I think.
It might have like maybe that's what this Hall of Fame is.
I don't know.
They have other, I think you can download other builds and share builds and stuff.
But anyways, it's a cool thing for Fallout.
They've done some patching and stuff.
So give it a go and see if you're interested in what they're doing.
Another quick tip for you.
Arrive to movies about 15 minutes late.
15 to 20 minutes late because the first 15 minutes just adds.
And then the last last five minutes is trailers and stuff like that.
So if you want to skip trailers and just see the content that you actually pay to see.
Go to the movie like 20 minutes, it almost around exactly 20 minutes late.
And I'm sure the Google has some references and stuff for you.
This is Operator with another quick tip.
So if you've ever had to manage or share a healthcare provider account or share any kind of account,
you'll run into the issue of getting a text message from your spouse
where they try to log into that account or some kind of 2FA or something they're trying to do or activate
because they can't because they don't have access to that account or don't have access to that phone or whatever.
The solution is to get a shared Google account, run everything through that.
So for example, I have a Gmail account that my healthcare stuff is all tied to.
You can add 2Factor if you want to.
But more importantly, you want to add a Google voice, attach a Google voice to that account.
So if in when you need to do any kind of phone authentication, SMS-based or dial-through-based authentication to activate a credit card, whatever,
you can use that Google voice account.
In most cases, it does work. Sometimes you'll end up with calls being blocked by the service because they only allow actual phone numbers,
real phone numbers from providers to activate accounts and things like that.
That doesn't happen very often, but it works out really great when, for example, my wife is trying to log into our account
and she gets an SMS push and that goes to the shared account.
Anything that's 2FA that's shared goes to the shared account.
So our Mint account goes through that, our HSA and our healthcare stuff goes through that.
It's also doubles as kind of a platform in which to record phone calls when you're having issues with your healthcare providers and things like that.
So you can use Google voice to start up a call bridge of, you know, you get a bill and the person asking for the money is saying to call the healthcare provider
and the healthcare provider tells you to call the person asking for money.
Well, you bridge those two guys in, you bridge your spouse in because they might have more information and you sit on the call and all four or five of you sit there and sort out whatever the problem is because, you know,
you're not going to pay this outrageous bill because, you know, that's what healthcare is for and why you pay for healthcare.
Anyways, I hope that helps people out.
It has saved me hours and days of back and forth call phone calls people by bridging the two parties together that say one is responsible for the other and bridging them together and saying, hey, I'm not paying $500.
Y'all figured out, let me know what's going on.
If you have any questions and in most more and more often than not, I'll at least understand why the healthcare provider won't pay for that.
But it saved me hundreds and hundreds of dollars over the course of several years of this technique bridging two parties together that want to point the finger at each other for healthcare mainly and all that stuff.
Anyways, I hope that helps us somebody out and have a good one.
Hello, everyone. This is operator with a quick tip. A quick tip I have for you today is I'm in the car and Google had or has a time to leave feature that they kind of ghosted everybody on the Google groups with.
And I don't know what their status is.
It kind of went quiet. But anyways, this feature told you said time to leave for this event based on this address based on the traffic patterns.
The problem with it is that, you know, if you're not ready and you get caught off guard, you have to like, you know, quickly jump into your clothes and get ready and whatever.
So on a good note, I actually found this app on the forums called time to leave and it basically does the same thing.
But it also gives you the opportunity to give yourself a buffer, a pre-popper before you leave.
And then also a post buffer or how much time you want to get there. So for example, if you want, you know, 15 minutes to get ready, you put the 15 on the pre timer.
And then if you want to arrive, you know, five, 10 minutes late, then you put that on the on the on the end timer or arrival timer.
So you always the idea is that you would always, you know, arrive 15 minutes late.
Anyways, I've been using it. It works pretty good.
You know, I've yet to kind of miss anything. You can you can apply this with another app called repeating notifications, which will allow you to set timers on.
Notifications for your phone. So for example, I think by default your phone will go off like every 15 minutes or just once.
So if an event happens, depending on the application, the push notifications for the sound only happen that one time.
Or maybe every 15 minutes if it's like a outlook reminder or something.
So you might be talking to somebody for 15 minutes and miss an alert and then get back to your desk and it's another 15 minutes since you've seen the second alert.
And then spend 30 minutes into a meeting and now you're you're in trouble, right?
So along with it's called repeating notifications. I think it's called anything has their mis notifications.
So along with that, you can assign different applications, repeating notifications based on what's going on.
So you can say, okay, you can't set individual timers for each.
Being notification is just a blanket timer. So you can say, okay, every two minutes repeat the notification for, you know, time to leave.
You know, my messaging app and my mail app and, you know, my work mail app and then go from there.
Anyways, hope that helps you guys out. You know, kind of I'm one of those guys that people that if it's not on the calendar, it doesn't happen.
So I use a shared calendar of my life and I've done an episode for that, which I'll put up some point in time.
But I do a shared calendar and a shared Google voice box for SMS stuff too.
So it helps in that regard.
Cool.
You've been listening to heckaPublicRadio at heckaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HeckaPublicRadio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
