Episode: 3961
Title: HPR3961: RERE: How to make friends.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3961/hpr3961.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:02:10

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,961 from Monday the 9th of October 2023.
Today's show is entitled Re-Re how to make friends.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 42 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is scotty and mugs up chat about how to make friends' warm-ins edition.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet, also known as Scottie and I'm here with...
Mugs up?
Welcome mugs, we had an interesting topic and I briefed you a little bit on it and
it's from one of the community members, Klaus too, asking how to make friends and me
and a few of the guys, we discussed it just a little bit but it was limited information
that we had because we couldn't get really both sides of the defense so from what we
gather, guys really don't have a process that can be written down to sort of like feel
it out kind of thing I guess but we wanted to know as well is how do women make friends,
you know, here on the internet and if you're willing to, even outside of the internet,
how do women make friends?
Well, in the first place in my opinion, it's easier for women to make friends than it is for men.
It's easier?
Easier, yeah, especially on the internet because if they know you're a girl,
then they're typical men because they know you're a girl and they want to play with you, you know,
not all men but it happens a lot of time.
Downside is to it, you know, they're probably going to hit on you whatever because that's a guy
thing but it does open the door for you to meet people and for people to want to play with you,
you know, of course a lot of them turn out to not really be friends because as soon as they
realize you're older, you're married, you're not interested, whatever, it's not happening.
They leave, I guess that's not a real friend but it does get the door open for you to meet people
because just because of the mere fact that you are a girl, most men, you know, like a bee goes to
honey, they're like oh, you know, just how it is.
So I think we have it easier that way.
True friends on the internet are far and few between but you do meet true friends even though
you may live miles apart, there are times you talk and become friends and know them well enough
that you exchange at least phone numbers and you have outside the internet conversation.
Can't call them up and say hey, my car broke down, can you come pick me up because they're in
California and you're not but there's a few people that you meet online that you never have that
physical one-on-one in person. I see you can talk, you know, and correspond or go over and have coffee
or there are a few people that you hit it off with well enough on the internet that you play
with them for years but that's not the majority of the friends that you find on the internet but
it does happen. In real life, I think it's a little bit easier because in real life, if you meet
somebody, if you're in a grocery store and you just start talking, a lot of time coincidences
like I live here, oh me too, I just live down, oh you're kidding me and it hits something off,
gets it started. And you can further the friendship easier because you can say hey, do you want to
go yard sale and hey, do you want to come have cup of coffee? So it's easier because you can keep
that contact. On the internet, you might meet a person that you really, really liked a lot and
enjoyed playing with but they got bored with, you know, the game you're on, excuse me, and they
go off to a different game and you may not see them for six months. Then when they get back on the
game, it's been six months, they don't say anything to you because it's been so long, you know, and
sometimes they will, sometimes they'll get back on six months later and say hey, you still
long, you know, they'll holler at you but it's definitely different over the net than it is
in person in real life. But yeah, I think in the first place, it's easier for women, especially
when you're talking about guys because that's just how guys are, if it's a female, not all guys,
not all guys, there's always exception, but a lot of times, you know, that's just the nature
of a guy. I also think women, I'm only taking down notes, like note two self, don't hit on woman
first time identified. And the other thing is women are usually nurturers, you know, a lot of women
have children or have babysat when they were younger and so, you know, you have these three kids,
you're 16, your babysitting them, start learning at a very young age, all the different personalities
of those three kids. I think women get, and now there's going to be people say I'm a guy and I
babysat for, well, then you have those skills too, but for the most part, in my generation when I grew
up, it was mostly the girls that would do it. And you learn those skills, the difference in the
personalities and what works with fun, don't work with, so we get better skills, I think,
community skills, you know, I don't know what the right word is for it, but skills being around people.
Social, like social skills, yeah, it's not really that mom has eyes in the back of her head.
It really isn't. It's just that she's got these kids, she got three kids, she walks in the
kitchen and the syrup is all over the floor. Well, she didn't really see who did it. She just
knows that her daughter, she was always neater, she always cleaned up her messes, so she knows
wasn't her. And then Joe is so lazy, he would've yelled for mom to get the syrup, he would have never
even attempted it. That leaves the youngest Kevin. If she knows, there's really not eyes in the
back of her head, she just has learned which kid does what, and she knows that that was Kevin,
doesn't really have. So you learn really young to pick up on signals and signs, you know, I think
girls, women in general learn those skills, your social skills, we just have a better apparatus
to learn those social skills. And yes, there are exceptions, you've got dads that are stay home,
wives work and do things can get flipped, but anytime you are the one having to be out social
with a lot of strangers, whether it's a woman that finds herself out in the middle of a grocery
store, doesn't know anybody. All of a sudden she can't find something, looks around and there's
three people in the aisle. Have you seen, I'm looking for the mayonnaise, whatever. So we learn
I'm younger, so I think girls are a little better at making friends, at being friendly.
We don't, there's no hang up on girls showing their emotions, you know, if we're upset,
crying, our sisters want to pat us on the back and say, oh, I understand, you know,
guys are looked at as maybe a big sissy, not always, but maybe a big sissy because he's upset,
he's boo-hoo, and then he's, I think it's just easier for girls, I really do.
Better man or a lot of different reasons. Yeah, but guys don't get those breaks, you know,
they have it a lot harder in those ways. But I think the friends on the internet are not your true
friend as in real life, but I do think that you have some friends that you meet on the internet
that are different than your other internet friend. You just have this piece of view that
stand out that of, you know, always kind of, they stick, they've always, you know, stay in touch
somewhat, they've all are out at you here and there. There's just a few, you know, that
build a connection with you and not because you made their coffee so good just right the way
they like it. They just, it's all, it's, it's, it's all your personality when you find somebody
like that. It's all just your personality because it cannot be based on how you look. It cannot
be based on if you're rich or you're poor and they feel sorry for you because they don't know
these things. They don't know if you pulled up in a core, veteran, clunker, you know, they don't
know any of those things. So it's all just based on your personality online and there are just
some people that seem to tit for tat they get along and you play together longer maybe on a game
than you have with other people and you just end up making a life friend even though it's an
internet friend and you can't have them come over do this for you help you or let's get together
you can't do those things but you just and you can feel the difference you just know that these
people are are on the internet. Yes, but you just feel like these these people these few people
are pretty good friends, you know, pretty good online friend and there's always that small amount.
Are you telling me there's no advance sort of mathematical equation that women use to to be
able to rule out other women as non-potential friends and seeing a thing with men under that?
Women probably have more trouble making friends with other women because that's just how women are.
There's all kinds of things that come into it but online I believe that it's a little easier
to make friends with the women. You know, women may feel in real life like their man looked at you
too long, you know, I think my guy likes you. I think you hit on him. They have all these stupid
things that go through their head too. So get those difficulties I think or in real life with
that. This sounds kind of territorial. But women can be they can have all kinds of women can
have all kinds of hang-ups too on on, you know, their friends or sometimes a woman can cannot
want to have a friendship with you anymore and you have absolutely no reason why on what's
so ever and it could be something that her husband said when you weren't around and she was like,
oh, we're not getting together with them anymore. You know, you do have things like that to go on
with women because women can be more insecure and petty or that way usually I feel than men.
That's just my opinion and that doesn't make it make it so but I think women can be more petty.
Right, we're not going to report you to the federal bureau of women.
They don't like me anyway, so it's all right. I stated before that with men, I think that a lot
of the times, you know, just kind of focusing more on the online side of thing. We become friends
through, I guess, the activity at hand, the thing that is happening. So if we're
digging a hole, you see one guy digging a hole, you kind of want to go dig that hole too and when
you go dig that hole too, you're friends because you're doing the same activity kind of thing and
from there, it can progress into something greater where it's like, okay, now we're not just digging
a hole. Now we're out we're here. Now we're chopping out the tree and now, hey, what do you like to
do besides dig a hole and chop a tree? Well, I also played this other game over here, blah, blah, blah.
And it sort of progresses or snowballs into other details that, I guess,
equal a stronger bond, but that's about it. That's like as far as I've gotten with it, you know,
I don't know how else it happens. With women, I don't think that's how it happens. I think it
is more based on ideals and views, general conversation and you pipe up and say something and
then it clicks and she says, that's right. That's how I see it. That's how I feel. Rather not,
you're on the same wave of thing. If you find you have a lot of agreements with things just through,
like if I joined a party and there was 10 people in it and out of the 10 people, there were only three
women, I might get more conversation back and forth in jokes from the men, but during that
conversation, if I say something, I don't know, I make some statement. One of those women,
because I might say something out loud like, oh, yeah, my husband, he wouldn't be able to find
the ketchup of the bidding and that will spark something. Some woman that has been through that
will pipe up and she'll, oh, I already like you. That's exactly right. You know, it's more
our common threads, our thoughts are as to what makes somebody want to have something to do with
somebody else when it's women. That sounds kind of rough. Yeah, I don't care what she's doing,
but it's just when you meet somebody that you kind of have a lot of the same
outlooks and views on things. I think you as women, I think we sync up more. We bond better
when we're talking about our men being and just boneheads.
But I think with women, it's not so much, you know, if somebody says, oh, I'm really into horses,
I ride horses, I may pipe up and say, oh, me too, you know, but that's not going to be anything
that sticks me for a while. Now, if she starts speaking about her children and what she went
through with a kid and how traumatizing it was this and that and I can relate. Now that,
then I'm going to pipe up and say, I went through that. I went through that and because we can share
our experience, see it, that's where our bonds come from. That's what I think.
So it wouldn't be a bond because of what's happening in the digital world like the game that you're
playing or anything like that. No, it would be like a real world sort of activity that leads to
the bonding. I think so. Yeah, it would have to be our real personal views that come out
that the other, that like if another woman comes up and says something and I'm like, oh, my land.
And then later on in the conversation, she says something else and I'm like, you must be living
in my house because I go through the same thing. And then, you know, she laughs and says, really?
And then we get in this conversation. Yep. So it's real life that bonds us, you know, as friends.
Now, yes, there's internet friends, ones that you're not really bonded with and you know them
today. You never see them again. There's those type two. But yes, I think it's real common
views, feelings about different things with women. That's what I think.
That's good to know. That gives us a lot to kind of ponder on. Yeah, I think it's real,
those real things that we can relate to each other about, you know, I don't care if I meet some
girl and she's nice enough and I hit her up to play and she wants to play. And she's one of
these Barbie got her hair all curled and say two plus two. Like, I might get through that night
playing with her, but I'm not going to be putting her down because really not starting to start
going out there a little bit. Yeah, she's not on the same page, not on the same page at all.
And something in that in real life puts us on the same page, something that we've experienced,
something we've went through, have a feeling about something because we've had that too and
bond on that and realized, I know exactly what you're talking about. Your mic was starting to cut
out just a little bit there toward the end. I'm sorry. I said, it's like if you find out she
likes horses too. And so do you, that's just fringes around the edges. It's those bonds that we
relate. It's the experience she had and you say, oh, honey, I went through that too. I remember
that. It's those bonds that make you smile and go, oh, wow, I'm not alone or somebody else that
gets this, she gets me and she's feeling the same way. She gets me. She knows she went through that.
It's those bonds. So I guess the same thing wouldn't happen quite with the guy. If you wouldn't be
able to, if a guy started talking about, I guess dropping the transmission in his truck, there's
probably not going to draw bond. Probably. I don't know with men, maybe, maybe because, you know,
they don't, they're different than women. I mean, rather, they want to admit it or not, they're
different than women. What's important to a man is not the same thing as what's important to a
woman. Who are going to agree with that? Especially that one part you mentioned earlier. Like,
as soon as the guy figures out that he's talking to a woman online, sort of just like years go up
and he's in one direction now, but yes, and those kind of friendships go one or two ways either
by the time they figure out nothing's happening here, they'll either move on then or by then maybe
they've decided they still kind of like you and you're a good friend. I've had it go both ways,
but it's going to go one way or the other. A lot of times, if that's all it's about for them,
you don't see them again once they find out of that end street here, you know.
So women online have to carry around the newspaper and when the men come at them,
that way you smack them on the nose. Down, boy, go.
Let me tell you, I used to play this game all the time called Rust and it was the, yes,
and not the new one that's out. I played the legacy. Okay, and I loved it. Absolutely loved it.
And I forget what my name was, but I was stupid and I picked a name that a girl would pick.
And it was a problem. It was an absolute problem. There was two kinds of men.
There was the men that would try to kill you all the time because they couldn't kill a man.
So if they knew it was a girl, they would go around trying to kill you because they thought they
could kill you because you were a girl. And some of them came around all the time because they
wanted to hit on you, which I don't, I never understood because again, you're in probably two
different parts of the world, but they would come around because you were a girl for no other
reason other than they were trying to hit on you, trying to for real. So that is how I ended
up with the name mugs up because I changed my name to a name so that when I got on Rust,
I didn't have three men either chasing me to kill me or chasing me to kiss me.
Well, that's brilliant to know though. I mean, I give some more insight to how the interaction
between men and women from, you know, from your perspective, of course, how you interact with men
and women in different environments, right? Some games, you just can't, you got to go in a little
more neutral. Otherwise, you're going to attract extreme attention on both sides. Are they extreme
aggression or extreme affection to where you just you won't neither. So you want to try to find a
neutral ground and proceed from there. Yes. And that's what I did. I picked a neutral name
and I've stuck with it. Now, of course, when people end up playing with me and were on mic,
they figure out then that I'm a girl, but at least they came into it just play the game with
you and didn't have an anterior motive. All right. So get to know me. See my skill set first.
Then you may find out that I'm actually a woman. Yeah. Yeah. Because that is just the internet
not fair when you're a girl. So change your name and I see girls play all the time and they'll
put, you know, a flower child or put, you know, you can tell that it's a girl by the name or you
assume nowadays, I guess, you still aren't 100% sure. But you can get an idea that it's a girl
and I'm thinking, wonder how long she'll put up with that. What about my name? If you saw my name,
do you think it'd be a girl? Yes. No. I think it would be a boy. No, I would think it would be male.
I don't know why. Maybe you're asking me after the fact that young young lion. I think that it
would be now if you had young lion this, I would know you were a female or a assume you were,
but because it's or Scotty. Yeah. To me, Scotty is a guy's name, but the name young lion,
where I first met you with that name. No, I thought it was a guy. I'm trying to think.
But that was why I changed my internet name was just because I was just tired of it.
I can imagine it sounds like you get kind of exhausted, right? Like, like, like, I just want to have
fun. I just want to come on here and just, you know, let go, right? Life's got a whole bunch of
weight to it. Yeah. Yeah. You want to get on and play and you want to play with people that want
to play with you. You're not looking for a boyfriend. You're not looking for a relationship like,
you know, you're, no, you're just not. And you got all these, especially these young guys,
it's, it's more a problem I would say with the younger. And I mean, I don't know what's wrong
with these young guys. You're like, hey, I'm this old stop. Get away. You know, they're like,
oh, I don't care. Oh my gosh. You know how, you know how that is, though,
being a young guy, you're blinded by the hormones. I don't know how that is. I've never been a
young guy. You've met young men before. The young men just did. What do you, they used to have
the saying that your nose is wide open or whatever when you're a young man? Yeah. So that's,
I think that's what that is. They're kind of, yeah. And I think that that is, you know,
at bottom girls make the world go round, I guess. Yeah. I don't know. But it's just the way it is.
And it's nature. You're not going to change it. But I just changed my name to mugs up. So I was
advertising it. Well, I think there should be more guidance for that kind of thing, right? Like,
we shouldn't just excuse it because it happens, right? Like, so whenever, like, everyone gets
together and wants to collaborate and communicate, you should not have to have excuses made for
that kind of behavior. You should have everyone be on the same page like, look, we're going to
respect each other here. We're all colleagues. This is not your own personal dating pool.
Where you just, you show up here just to hit on everybody all the time. Like just, no, if that's
what you feel like, there's the door. It's not a problem. You can unfriend and block anybody. So
it is handled. Oh, I was going to ask you about that next. I mean, have you had to, you know,
really break out the ban hammers start start, you know, blocking people, kicking them off the face
of the earth. I haven't I can usually turn them off good enough. They're done.
So I haven't ever had that kind of thing happen, but I don't give any personal information out
over the internet like that. You know, I can't say I never have given my phone number out, but it's
not been for that reason. Right. We, that's another thing that we ended up discussing not too long ago
as well. There, there was a someone really famous in the community passed away recently. Uh-huh.
It kept bringing up other questions that, okay, here, here's this other person that we all know
that we haven't heard from. And it's been going on about a month. Does anybody have a way of
contacting them? Because, you know, the only reason we know the one person passed away is because
their family made it known. Right. There were questions leading up to it like, hey, nobody's
heard from them in a little while. And, you know, we, we have this pattern of activity that has just
been suddenly broken. And, you know, what's the family confirms it? It's like, oh, you know,
a massive blow. And now here we are with this, this other member of the community that is also
missing an action. So we, we started talking to each other saying that, okay, you know,
might be a good idea to, um, if you got anybody you really trust within the community,
just give them some sort of contact. So that way, even if it's, if you just decided to take a
break, right? You just, you just had enough of online for a little while and you needed to get
that break in. I agree because I play with a person and have played with a person on here since
the first day I ever started playing Smite. And in the last, I don't think it's been quite a year,
all of a sudden, he quit playing and he hasn't been on since. And I trusted him enough, I would have
given him my phone number. Wait, is anyone, does anyone did I know? No. On Smite? Yeah. Bayways.
Because my Bayways. Okay. And he just, all of a sudden, hasn't been on. Now, I do know that he,
had got a girlfriend. And I also had noticed that he wasn't on as much. So I'm, hopefully,
I'm assuming that their relationship just got more serious and he took the next step. Now he's
not online like he used to be. But he's right. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Bayways, Bayways is older than you think.
He's still on the claim. He might be. I haven't looked. But he, uh, had gotten a girlfriend and
wasn't on as much. You know, he'd get on like two, three times a week where he used to be on
every night when he'd get off work and stuff. But at least I didn't know, you know, I was like,
wherever you had, I couldn't believe you weren't on last night. And he's, oh, I was over at my
girl's house. As far as you have a girlfriend, yeah, I really, really like her mugs, you know.
So I'm just assuming that it got serious and he's, his life's changed. I don't know that. And I'm
thinking, darn, I wish I'd have got his phone number because yes, I would have called him to see if
he was, you know, right. So yeah, I totally agree. That's what I said. There's friends and then
there's friends. Now could he have helped me out of a bind or picked me up my car broke down or
no, you know, he's in California. No. But I liked him real well. Thought a lot of him had known him
for years. And yeah, it's like, I hope he's okay. There's that void there. So absolutely, if you
have friends that you really consider friends, even though you can't have a cup of coffee together,
I would say, yeah, once you've known him long enough, you trust him, you know, exchange numbers
because when they just all of a sudden aren't around, it is like a death. I mean, you don't know
if they're alive that you don't know. And it's scary and worrisome. And yeah, that's leave a bit
of a void there. We're respectful of everybody's feelings. And if he has decided that he just
wants to move on, you know, that's okay. You just want to know he's alive. Yeah, exactly.
If he's decided that his life's changed and he don't have time for this crap, I'm okay with it.
I just want to know that he is out there stomping around doing his thing,
livenous life. Correct. Yep. Yes, I guess that's something that we're going to have to make
serious. And I got a well, but you know, not everybody that you meet on the net that
yeah, their friends, you know, quote unquote, do you really know that well that you need that
summer just pass or buys more, you know, they're not really, I don't know how to explain it, but
you don't even have that bond with every friend on the internet. There's just always this
this handful, this view, you know, right? Well, I don't understand now because I mean,
there's a lot of different personalities out here. And I imagine it's just like when you're
dating, right? Everybody puts that best foot forward, right? Sure. It's not until you finally get
in that relationship that you start to uncover those the rough spots. So are you exactly I kind
of understand that the people that you've played with for four and five years, you've already hit
some rough spots with them. So you've already met that side of them. How long have we been playing
together long enough that when you're not on, I look on the steam. And if I see you on a different
game, I know you're fine. And I go on about my business, but I look, I look and see that you're
that you're on. You're just playing something else. I look. All right, Mugs, I thank you for coming
on the show and talking to us about how to make friends. I appreciate it. And I'm sure the community
will definitely appreciate it because we needed the input. So I'm some guy on the internet, Scotty,
here with Mugs up. And we're out of here. Thank you guys for listening. All right. Thank you,
bye. And this content, I haven't seen you on seven days in a while. That was the last thing I
think that we played together. Well, aside from Smite, because I think we're both pretty much
always on Smite. But aside from that, seven days is the only other game I think I've ever seen
you on. Yeah. I'm always on Smite every night. Yep. And because you have me on steam, you can look
down there and see Mug up lit up. Yep. Smite again. Don't you ever get tired of that crap? Yeah.
No, because I love me some, I love me some Smite. I didn't even go to, you know, the thing is about
this game. I do too. And I love it. We're going a little bit off topic, but it's okay. You know,
this game is so addictive because the game play itself is challenging, but yet it's very relaxing,
especially when you find people you can vibe with and play with that won't range your hall like,
you know what I mean? So yeah, you know, it's fantastic in that way. But at the same time,
there are plenty of people that play the game that either if they do not rage very, very much
throughout the entire game, they will probably just troll you until you want to quit. So it, you know,
there's a very rough side to the community as well. There is. I totally, totally agree. I have to
watch myself because I get this game makes me so mad. And I make other people, yes, I make people
mad because I get mad, but I don't rage like some people rage. I don't think, but yeah, they get
mad at me. But your your raging is different. You have that sort of frustration like I'm done with
it rage versus there are other people who have that volcanic explosive rage where at any moment now,
they're going to snatch the computer out the wall and throw it out the window. Yeah, no, I don't
rage that kind of rage, but I rage like when they're out there and they just let the minions go in
and they just they're doing stupid stuff. I'm like excuse me. Hello, you know, I got to admit,
I wanted when the minions go in, I suddenly lose all attachment with reality. I don't even want to
be in the party anymore because I'm like, if you can't get a minion, you know, and I take the game
too serious right way to you know, people will say it's just a game. Well, and I always come back
as I'm mad and I'll say, I don't care if it's checkers, I play to win. Well, I've been look, I think
that's where we're two, we're too much alike in that one because one million goes in. I'm upset,
now, now I just I'm flipping the table over that's it. Oh, yeah, and especially if I'm on
mage and they go in, I'm so mad. Oh, yeah, and you know, one of the other one of the other
biggest things about it, if it's like, look, I need to go shop. I've been out here for like a day
and a half. Let me just go shop real quick could could one of you just cover lane for just to say it,
right? Soon as you turn your back, minions have reached their portal like, oh my god, like, are you
serious? Yeah, as soon as you die, yeah, you hear it. It's like, really? Like you guys could not
cover middle lane for just just a second, really? The only thing I can say good about it is when
I'm with random, I get just as mad, but I think to myself, XQ, I get a different team. And maybe
they're just as bad, but I'll tell myself again, XQ, get a different team. Yeah, well, randoms,
I guess it is just slight, slight, well, no, I can't say that, man, when I get a bad, I get a bad
streak going, oh my god, why do I even play this game? You know what I mean? I do, too.
I know, do I know what you mean? Absolutely. I know what you mean. And I don't like being like that.
I don't like getting mad and I don't like, you know, but I've had people that won't play with me
because of it. And that's okay, too, because I don't think I am, but
did you transform or just really power up and let them have it?
No, no, I called them out on what they were doing. Oh, yeah, I didn't do it disrespectfully.
Oh, so you didn't open up on them and call it, call them terrible and no good, good for nothing,
all that. No, I did not. Well, see, that's another thing that we're between men and women,
I'm going to be honest with you. I think men are a little more blunt about that kind of stuff.
And a lot of the times, like in our community, right, just just maybe it won't be a video game.
Say we're working on a project, right? And one guy does something that does not fall in line
with the idea of the project. The response may not intentionally be to just destroy this guy's
feelings, but it will be so blunt. It still hits like a break nonetheless, right? So
and especially you are that way and I'll tell you where proof is with men men do do that to each
other and that is how they they're like bowls in a china cabinet. It's not just your opinion.
Now, if it was four men and one woman, they would go a little easier on her 90% of the time.
There's always these jerks out here that are men that are the same way out of woman, but 90% of
the time the men will say it a little bit nicer to her than they do Joe or Jack or Jim.
Okay, so yeah, so it's yeah, so we are a bit we're a bit rough.
No rough on the edges on each other. Yeah, I think if a woman comes up and says something to a man
that is very disrespectful, he may come back at her. But if a guy walks up and says something to
a man that's very disrespectful, there's a way better chance he might get punched right in the mouth.
Yeah, I was about to say you're going to get a fat lip with that with men you you better be ready
for the consequence when you when you approach in that manner. There's an immediate consequence as
well like it is it going to take much time for you to receive payment for your action. You know what I
mean? Right. It happens quickly online though where at least at least on the internet you won't get
hit, but some of the comments they sting. Yep, but men will go easier not every time like I said
there's exceptions there's jerks, but men will go a little easier on telling the girl. Yes,
suck. It's a little easier on it. I think I think in video games especially I guess I guess
because everybody's playing a game, right? So I guess it's kind of like a disconnection with life
already. So I guess they feel as though they don't need to use their real life skills when communicating
an issue. You know what I mean? Like this is already fantasy. Why do I need to actually? They're
just harder. You know, they're just harder. You know, I had a I had a son. I have a son and I have
a daughter and I have the same husband and the things he would say to my son were different than
the things he would say to my daughter. If she was pouting and crying, you know, he would be a lot
more gentle now. If it was my son, he might walk in and say, what the hell you whining about?
Well, yeah, I think some of that I think that is the communication of men though. I mean,
the way has society, our society, I'll just say American society because I don't know but this
is a show that goes around the world. So in America, American society, men, this is the natural
language. This is how we've raised men, right? Like this is kind of how you if you are not speaking
in this way, it is foreign. It is not natural and you will be met with, well, I don't want to say
aggression, but you know, it will not be welcoming when people approach you. If you're not
communicating in the same tongue as a man, you know, I mean, so it's going to it's going to be good.
I like that. I see nothing wrong with the man showing his emotions. I see nothing wrong with
the man crying. I don't. I really don't. But on that same note, I also like that there's a difference.
Yeah, there is a difference. Now as a man, I don't know any other way really. I hear that people
talk about men should shorter feelings more, but to be honest with you, the way I see it is,
you clearly aren't a man if you're saying that because you'll be eating alive out here if you
walk around crying about stuff. Like seriously, you can forget about everyone. Right, but I do as a
woman, I can feel sorry for men that they can't cry or that they can't. I feel sorry that they have
to be, but you're right. If they're not, they do get chewed up quite a bit, you know, I mean,
it's just the way that it is. But I also like the difference because there's got to be some kind
of a line. There's got to be a difference between a man and a woman. There's got to be. And I like
that there's a line and, you know, I like knowing where you stand so to speak, you know, if they,
if we were all women, it just wouldn't work. And if we were all like men, it just wouldn't work.
Right. I think our differences make us better. You know, for, you know, there, there's a certain
job that you just know that a man's going to get out there and do. And there's a certain job
that you know that a woman's going to go out there and do. So it's exactly. You really don't have
not not the same that there aren't any exceptions in that line is just certain ones, right? Like if
there's less fighting, there's less fighting, too, because if you each understand, I mean,
I know women's lives says, well, no, I can make the bacon and he can do the, I don't care if that's
okay, if that's how they want to live to each their own. But me personally, I like there is a
difference, you know, when my husband says, I am getting hungry, that is my key to get up there in
the kitchen and get make something. That is my, but, you know, I also like when I'm fighting with him,
and I say something really mean. And he says, if you were a man, I say, I know,
you know, I'm going to get away with it. Yeah. And that's one of the things that I can also point
out there as well. Like women can get, when it comes to women and men in an argument, there is a
bit of murder you can definitely get away with. So it's, it's going to be, you know, I'm just going
to go outside and take this one on the chin because it's not really much I can even say or do
about this. I'm just going to walk away because I don't want to say anything that's going to make
this worse. We hate that. We hate when you men walk away. Well, look, that's the best salute. You
either say something that's going to make it worse or do something that's going to make it worse.
So your walk away, that's it. I like the difference. I like the difference. I'm happy where I am.
And I have women, women, you know, that's sometimes where I will vary with women.
I will vary. We will take separate sides because some women are very like, well, I can't hate
except for, well, I can't he same reason. I'm not digging that trench, get the water to run
away from the house for the same reason. I'm not working, you know, 40 plus hours for the same
reason. I don't have to worry about this, this, this, this, and this because that's his problem.
I mean, he has his things that he has to deal with. I know he does.
Well, you've got a difficult job as well because you're, here's the thing. In this situation,
you're making sure that the family stands upright. I have it a little harder in ways because
he will eventually retire. Okay. I'm going to still have to do dishes every day, make
separate every day to the laundry every day, you know, runs through the wash, all that stuff.
That is never going to go away as long as we are both walking.
One of the ones that I think about is like the what he called the Titanic situation.
If the ship starts to go down and it's looking like Doomsday for whoever is stuck on it,
you know one thing, women and children get to get to the lifeboat first.
Yes, I'm not worried. I know I get a boat.
As I said, I wouldn't trade him.
This concludes the episode. Please leave a comment. Say hello to monks.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our
synced.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
