Episode: 3098
Title: HPR3098: Matchbox Restoration Part 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3098/hpr3098.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:39:33

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3,098 for Wednesday, 17 June 2020.
Today's show is entitled Matchbox Restoration Part 3.
It is hosted by Tony Hughes, aka Tony H1212,
and is about three minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summary is
in this the third in the series, Tony Discuses, dismantling the castings of the MK10 Jaguar.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com,
get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Thank you very much.
Good day, all in Hacker Public Radio.
This is Tony Hughes, coming to you again from Blackpool in the UK.
To recap, this is the third in the series of shows about my hobby of restoring matchbox
and other die cast models. In the first two shows, I introduced the concept
and discussed the tools and other equipment you would need to start this hobby.
In this episode, I've decided to return to where it all started,
with the matchbox number 28, the Jaguar MK10.
If you're following this on the audio, please refer to the show notes for the pictures
of the processes we move along. You can see in the first picture
the four castings used in the process. This is a lovely little casting
and a nice introduction to the techniques used in the process.
Also, I have several of these that I can strip down to use their components
and that should give us enough quality parts to reassemble,
at least one good example at the end. Hopefully, one or two more.
The next picture shows you the base of the model,
and there is a mushroom post that needs to be drilled out at the rear of the model.
The front of the base is retained by a tab, which once the post is removed,
the base releases, and this can be slid forward for it to free the tab.
I drilled out this post, and the post is drilled out with a four millimeter drill bit,
and as you can see in the next picture on this particular casting,
I was a little over zealous and damaged the base a little.
Although as it is the base, it's not too much of a major issue.
I then released the base by grinding it off the remainder of the post
with a small flat-ladied screwdriver to leave it off the body.
This allows the removal of the inner plastic forming the seating
and holding the small plastic suspension piece.
In the next picture, you can see the casting without any internals,
but with the plastic window unit still holds in place with another shallow mushroom post.
Being very careful not to be too aggressive with this mushroom holding the windscreen unit,
this is removed again with a four millimeter drill bit,
so that little pressure from a flat blade,
slid between the roof and the glazing unit will allow it to pop out without it breaking.
It usually takes several attempts of a little drilling,
trying with a flat blade, then if not coming free, a little more drilling,
and repeating again until it pops off.
This process was repeated with the other three castings
and the resulting shown in the next picture.
As you can see, the casting in the upper left of the images still has the bonnet
or huddy beer in American listener attached.
This would not come off without me risking damaging it,
so I was hoping that once the paint is removed,
that this will help it to come free.
You'll have to wait for the next instalments to find out what happened next.
I've got to keep you waiting for some more of this rumbling tale,
so until next time, this is Tony Hughes saying goodbye to all those in HBR land.
Keep safe until the next instalment.
Bye for now.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
