Episode: 3436
Title: HPR3436: HPR Community News for September 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3436/hpr3436.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 23:27:09

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3436 for Mundi, 4 October 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, HPR Community News, for September 2021 and is part of the series HPR
Community News. It is the 180th show of HPR Volunteers and is about 54 minutes long and carries
an explicit flag. The summary is, HPR Volunteers, talk about shows released in comments,
posted in September 2021. This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today, it's HPR Community News for September 2021. Joining me this evening is...
Hello, it's Dave Morris. Where's Mr. Exko?
I thought you'd give him a month off this year this time, yeah.
Yeah, I'd like to thank both of you for stepping into the breach. The last month, my father passed away,
so I had to go to Ireland. Actually, the funeral was exactly a month ago on the community news, so
so thanks very much for that. You did a fantastic job.
Happy to help. Yeah, sorry to hear about your dad and all that, but yes, we were happy to cover.
Yeah, no, he was 90 and he was had dementia for the last few years and was in nursing home,
so he went off quietly in the sleep, so he was like his mother, so it could have been more sick,
it could have been a lot worse. Indeed, indeed. So yeah, what's this? This isn't...
This is the HPR Community News. What's HPR? HPR is hacker, public radio, and that is a community of
podcast people, community of people who do podcasts with the goal of sharing knowledge. Did you know this, Dave?
I say so, yes, in the back of my mind somewhere, yeah.
For new listeners, there isn't about pages, it's one worth of read just to go through there,
how the community works, and essentially, you could... some people compare to like a bar camp
where people bring a podcast, but a hackerspace might even be a better...
a better example of virtual hackerspace where we come and talk about stuff.
And yes, and two of the newest members of the hackerspace are traditionally welcomed by you, Dave.
So they are indeed. Yes, we have Kogo and Black Colonel this month.
Excellent. Welcome to you, Chaps. Pull up a chair. Take a beverage of choice from our wide selection of
buffets featuring beverages from all over the world. Sit down, relax, and enjoy the show. The show
is the community news where we, the janitors, put away our brushes, and one day in the month,
we come and have a quick chat to make sure that every each and every show has been talked about,
discussed, and you know that at least two people have listened to your show.
And then we go into a major critique of it. First of all, the first show was 3, 4,
1, 3, the show, Y Dave, Y. Bash snippets use in the co-proc with SQLite.
And this was actually, I'm joking, but it is a Y Dave, Y thing, and I think that was the point of
the show really. Well, yes, it was, I think I said in the show itself, but he was me doing a thing
and thinking, oh, is there a better way of doing this? And then suddenly remembering co-proc that
Clackhead talked about a couple of years ago, I'll give that a shot. Oh, that would make a show,
wouldn't it? So yes, it did. I recommend doing the comments, there are four comments to this,
two replies by you. So let's do the amount of order, and you can reply to them in your own voice.
Be easy said, new tool for my toolbox. Thank you, Dave, for this great show. I'll be definitely
using co-proc in the near future. Now, I would like to hear what BZ turns off, actually uses this
for, because it seems to me like a bit like Bitcoin, it's a blockchain, it's a solution looking for a
problem. Oh, very much so, that was that pretty much my conclusion. But yeah, I'm all I'm waiting
with baited breath for somebody to come up with a really good use for it, have to say. So yeah,
maybe it's be easy, I'll be fascinated to know. Go ahead and re-comment three then,
Dave, please. Okay, I will reply to BZ was regarding his, his new tool for my toolbox.
Thanks BZ, glad you enjoyed the show, I hope you find co-proc beautiful thing,
an HPR show on your experiences would be very welcome, I'm sure.
Okay, Dave, that's exactly what I was thinking. I don't know, something strange vibes coming
from the Netherlands. Yeah, but we have a intensive training course here to become a HPR
janitor, which essentially is, ask people to do shows, go to TED,
line TED, ask people to do shows and then go to TED, that's pretty much our training manual.
Trade said, excellent detail, thank you for the detailed explanation in this episode,
I was completely unfamiliar with co-proc before listening, now I have something new to play with
and I'm learning something new, looking forward to the next BZ episode.
To which I replied, thanks Trey, glad you found the show useful, I sometimes wonder if I'm over
doing the detail, but I enjoy getting into the intricacies of stuff, I like to share what I find.
I'm planning BZ tips episode 22 at the moment, so it should be out before too long,
I don't know what too long means, hopefully. Yeah, this year.
If you hear noise in the background, we're getting the house ready for my son turned 16
and he's having a few friends around this afternoon, and last week we moved back to our house,
we moved away for four months, this is a little life and times we can't find him.
Anyway, we moved away for four months and we moved back last week, there's still a week's
worth of building to be done for your children, I will be in Ireland.
The next show was critical thinking, may make you critical of the COVID crisis,
and there was a lot of discussion about the show, and so we will cover that later,
and Tray says controversial topic and love it. Hope this will spur some interesting discussions
and maybe future shows, thanks for sharing. And Drade says,
great episode, I appreciate this episode, regardless of your view, your critical thinking is key
for COVID and everything else in life. Great information, I hope, will make people think and
possibly do some research of their own. Drade says, great episode, I appreciate this
episode, regardless of your view, critical thinking is key for COVID and everything else in life,
great information and I hope it will make people think and possibly do some research of their own.
Didn't I just do that, or did I do it with a mute on? Oh no, sorry, you did, yes, sorry.
Barbara Ann Woodgo says, thank you for beneficial information about COVID and the benefits of
vitamin D-13. D-3. Yeah, D-3. And Joel says, excellent analysis, so much about this pandemic,
in quotes, has been very questionable. The scientific method demands observations from various
perspectives. That hasn't happened this time. Anyone deviating from one of the politically
correct narrative was ignored, called names or shouted down, coercion, bribery and threats to
get the jab are suspect, where were directions on prevention and treatments?
Local mention, so to me, indeed, this parallels my findings on prevention. Zinc also turns up
in my research. Big farmer is making big dollars on this event and as mentioned in this episode,
it'll even more nefarious agenda may be happening than mere dollar profit. I heard it said that
America is suffering from a lack of conspiracy theories. This is because most of what was initially
called conspiracy theories has mostly become truth recently. So yes, critical thinking and research
are required in our unusual times. Thank you, Coco. Hacking stories were detected, part three,
operator. And there was one comment, do you want to take that one? Or an ultimate turn, I think.
Oh, yes. And it's a wilderness. Awesome, dude, these stories are fantastic. Please keep them
common while the average listener may not appreciate each and every aspect, along with the technical
details, the read, listen, more like an adventure than a resume. Yes, these shows are amazing.
I'm so confused by reacted, which is the spelling versus redacted, which means to sort of edit
stuff out. And just puzzled. Was that a typo? Because, yeah, these things, these things,
I probably have some mental state that causes me to get caught up in this sort of stuff. But,
yeah, I'd love for operator to clarify that, to be honest with you, but shouldn't really, shouldn't
really ask. So the following one was the community news. Very, very good job. Kevin O'Brien said,
and you can read that. And Kevin O'Brien says, my former profession, you said something to the
effect of me having a teacher leave manner. I think that was me. And that may be the result of my
20 years teaching at the university level. I love the teaching part, but I hated the paperwork,
and especially disliked the low pay. In the US, at least, teaching is not valued at all. So I left
academia to become an IT project manager, which is the main reason I can enjoy my retirement now.
Very good. Yeah. I think his experience is in academia as a matter to mind, and many other
people I know it's not been well-paid, and it's on the road. So it's the same, same in the UK.
And us? But becoming artificially, horrendously expensive also?
Oh, the whole business of student loans and fees and stuff like that is hatefully really is.
It's another case in the UK of copying the ridiculous US
methods of dealing with this type of thing. And yeah, I could go on, but I'll show up.
Yeah, it looks like here as well. We copied that for a few years, and
it's turning out that people can't get on the property ladder now because they're debt
or the student debt. So there's a majority in government now to abolish it and go back to
granting grants, which is what's happening to Factor in the US as well. And yeah, hopefully it'll
be free. It's just that, so it should be free for everybody. The UK is getting excited
over the fact that it looks as if the government is going to reduce the threshold at which you
start paying your paying back alone and paying back the student loan that is. So I think it's
something like 27,000 pounds a year is the threshold and there's talk of it dropping.
So I don't do, we don't know to what yet, but speculation is 23,000, which means that you're
in paying off this debt for their fee of life, you know. And possibly changing the threshold at which
you, the debt is waived because it does come a point after 30 years at a moment where it's
forgotten and there might be 40 years who knows. Anyway. Anyway, a following day,
chap Cluster Harbor, and this was Daniel Pearson's with the accompanying videos on YouTube
about it. Yeah. And there was one comment, sorry, go on. Yeah. I know, Seth is it, it's Seth.
Yeah, it's, yeah, it's, it looks pretty cool. And yeah, who's turns it to do the
comments that yours? I think so. Michael said, why Seth? Hi, thanks for an interesting
podcast. I actually thought of doing this as well. Can I ask you why you picked Seth instead of
Cluster? I think Cluster has an own port, but I don't know if it works on the Raspberry Pi.
Cool. It's a great response to that. I don't, I'm not quite clear what this is. There have been
various Cluster operating systems around. I can't remember the one we used on our Cluster at work.
We had a 64-note Sun cluster. I can't remember what it was now. Yeah, I assume that this is
another one of the same sort. So yeah, I've got to do the research on this one, unfortunately.
Sounds cool. Very much. The next day, my geeky experiment, Claudio Miranda, speaks about
Haiku on ASOS EPC 900A. And that's the BEOS Plone. Very, very cool.
And if you follow him on Masteredon, you'll regularly see images going past of this.
Yeah, I've looked at Haiku. It was, there was a lot of people getting excited about it, maybe
five or six years ago. And it looks beautiful, but I've not actually tried using it, but
good for Claudio. Yeah, I did back in the day. What's, yeah. We had then the next episode was
Season 1, episode 39 of Linux in laws, tiny kernels. And this one was quite good. It was a
little bit of history of some of the kernels. It's pretty, pretty interesting stuff coming from
these guys, actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's obviously something that Chris knows a lot about.
That was his PhD, I think it was in that area. So yeah, there's a lot there that I did not know.
I didn't even mention the digital Vax systems. And I mean, used one for about seven years.
Being manager of it, I should say, for seven years, I didn't know some of the stuff he said that.
It's quite cool. So the GIMP was his part of a series being handled by OUGA. And
Normables, Erase, Merge, and Split were the one. Can you do the first and I will do the
Oh, yes, you'll do. So Ruppesh, Mourubesh Kumar says, can't hear in mobile,
cannot hear in mobile, he says, he says, so yeah, go for it.
And I had a look at the episode and indeed it was, there were clicks in there that prevented
the normalization from from from working, which actually might be more common than we thought.
So I would like somebody to send me a something that will be able to read the source audio file and
produce a wave form diagram from that. You know, like when you open up audacity or tenacity,
whichever one you happen to be running. And you see the wave form pattern that would be very
useful as part of our automated processing. If that's ready for us, then I could have a look
and visually check to see if there's stuff that I need to work on.
Particularly clicks would be would be a present, I think. Yeah, exactly. You tend to notice it more
on the shows with the intro and outro provided that need to go in and fix that stuff, but that
will be useful. Was it here in Hitchcock or somebody had a show about being able to run?
I think it was some guy on the internet mentioned it.
Audacity from the command line. Okay, doesn't ring a bell with me, but that will be an interesting
concept. I tried to do it with the socks and was kind of successful, but getting that wave form
or audacity would be absolutely excellent if somebody could help me out with that.
Yeah, yeah. They do it on archive.org.
It's pretty as you land on. How's that thing? I wonder how they do it.
Yeah, good point, good point. Black colonel brought us a show and trade commented.
Yes, trade commented. Welcome and thanks for sharing. Welcome and thank you for sharing.
I remember building gates from transistors and then more complex logic circuits from only
nan gates. These exercises help you break complex problems down into more simple steps and are
valuable in any technical career, especially information technology and security. I look forward to
your future posts. I had the same approach to parenting as his parents had and unfortunately his
parents must be a lot better rough explaining or motivating the gates because none of mine
wanted to look at a computer if it doesn't have a game on it. Yeah, yeah. I think I steeped my
poor children in tons of biology because I tend to go on about biology, look more than computers.
But one of them is about a biologist and the other one's a computer scientist, so I don't know
quite what that means. Yeah, GWP centers at the show the next day about updating forms and devices.
G.S. is a Zayomi. Red Mini Note 10X. Yeah, GWP centers. Yeah, amazing things.
There's certainly some strange and wonderful hardware. Yeah, it's a small and a full naturally.
Yeah, it's a small as 4G phone, so yeah, I could see uses for that. Yeah, yeah,
I'd be fascinated to hear more of his stuff. Yeah, very, very cool.
So the next day, some guys speaking of some guy on the internet, this approach to updating
upgrade.sh.com.txt and note.md. So very, very not strange. I mean, this is a good way,
interesting approach to doing an upgrade. It's really nice to see his shows. He's coming from a
completely different way, but there's value to be had in listening to his shows.
Yes, yeah, absolutely. That different viewpoint counts for a lot. It makes you
rethink stuff, doesn't it? Seeing it through somebody else's eyes. Yeah, exactly.
It's some, there is a way in which you can re-log in with your output written to a file.
I can't remember how you do that. I used to do that a lot when I was learning Unix. It was on Unix,
I think, originally, and it's Devonion Linux. I completely forgotten how to, you do end up with
lots of control characters in it, but basically you do see everything that you type and was type
back at you. It's not marked at now. You'd have hell of a job to turn it into anything good,
but it's useful for logging what happened when you were trying to get something to work.
It's very good. I really like the approach and there are quite some, you know,
he claims to be a new user, but he has quite some complicated commands in there as well.
Yeah, absolutely. He's obviously quick on the uptake with these things and he's come up with some
good ideas and stuff based on his learning. It's good to accompany him on this journey.
Very much so, yeah. Very much so. I'm not going to very clever in fact. There's the word
strange I use, but also I actually think I mean clever. Yeah. All right, cool.
Please turn. I've lost track of where we are. Who's turns it to do the comments?
Ah, you can do it, Devonion. I'll do it then.
Tray says, great work. Thank you for sharing episodes like these. Not only is the information
you present valuable, but sharing your thought processes helps provide context as well as
launch points for others to build them. I encourage you to keep it up and start using get to
manage and share your code and comments. PS, I still despise Mark then.
He's, I think Tray is winding himself just a teeny bit there. He's struggled with Mark
down himself. He's probably, I've probably told him stuff and it doesn't quite work. He haven't
done that right at least. I hate it. What pain this stuff is.
It's simply, simply. Tray was on himself the following day with the InfoSecurity podcast
and he has excellent notes. I'll be them probably complicated and they can see why his markdown would
get suffer of the wrath of Dave. Not exactly. It's right, but just so complicated.
But yeah, I think this was the last in the series, wasn't it? It was a wrap-up.
Yes, I think it was. Yes, you're right. You're right. Unless you can obviously do another one
any year or two and Dave, new podcast coming up. Yeah, I was surprised that there was a role
called Chief Information Security Officer. I've never heard of that before. Chris, I'm way out
of a loop these days, so my surprise shouldn't mean anything at all, but it was fascinating that
that was the way the security management was going in organizations.
It kind of has to be known because of the fines that you get from the GDPR,
so they're proportional to your, you know, if you obviously didn't take any care in your data,
you know, it's a serious position and there are serious fines.
Anyway, an operator had a part four of this the following day.
And then we went on to Rust 101, episode zero, what is tarnishing. And this was by Black
Colonel and what is Rust. And I know the Linux in those guys have been doing a lot of interviews
with people about Rust, but this was the first explanation of, you know, the
programming language and it clarified a lot of points for me. Yes, it was a good introduction.
Sorry, I'm interrupted. No, maybe actually interested in it. Trace, thank you. I've been
considering learning some Rust, and this has given me the knowledge needed to give it a try,
looking forward to your hello world episode, boo, boo.
And yes, indeed. Yeah. Hipster says, Rust 101, episode zero, great.
Great to hear you talk about languages the way that you do. You have a lot of context
without a lot of lingo, looking forward to the next episode. I mean, this site, various languages,
lists, everything is a list, Unix, everything has a file, Ruby, everything is an object,
Haskell, everything is a function, Rust, everything is an error.
That's good. I like that. I like that. And giving Black Colonel his due, he, I think he's a bit
of a punster as guy, because he says, episode zero, what in tarnishing, tarnishing being
Rust is, it's a pun on the word tarnation, I think, which is one of these American
euphemistic words, damnation, which is not allowed to say that. But yes, yeah, I like that.
I was looking at that as it was coming through the queue thinking, oh, is that a pun?
Is that a pun? Yes, I think it is. Yes, well, I went right over my head.
I really see that now. I don't know whether to applaud or groan as with all the best puns.
Absolutely. Yes, yes, that's the proper reaction.
Ranger for the win in this episode, I go over some typical use cases for Ranger file manager,
by be easy. And again, as I think we've had a shorn Ranger before, we have, yes. And at the time,
people were going on about to lose best things in sliced bread. And I installed it again after
this and I'm still not convinced I don't see it. Sorry, it's not you. It's me. I don't know.
I had the similar reaction actually. It must be a difference in, I don't know if it's an age thing.
What? I just don't find it. I prefer, I really enjoy like dolphin, for example, with dolphins,
tons and tons and tons of stuff in it. But it just is a list of files or two lists of files and
you move them here there and everywhere. And you can look inside them in all manner of things.
And I don't see why Ranger is better. It's a terminal based thing, though, isn't it, as opposed to
the dolphins, which are gooey. But I'm not a great fan of gooey usually, but I do enjoy dolphin a lot.
So it's a matter of taste, obviously, but I know it's my problem because I do, I think dolphins
actually too bloated. I now use, well, because I'm on, um,
Alex QT anyway, I use PC Man FM, which is, you know, the base, just the basics. And that's it.
And to be honest, I use, um, XGG dash open for the majority of stuff,
and LS, but, uh, I'm kind of wondering why you wouldn't use something like Midnight Commander?
Well, yeah, I lived in Midnight Commander for years, um, on Linux in my work because it was,
it was just, it was, you know, it's based on the ideas of Norton Commander. I think it was
something that helped you survive the horrors of Windows, or it did me anyway. And, uh, yeah,
I just took to that. In fact, I used to use it to fill my MP3 players with podcasts. It was
the nice, easy thing to do, you know, highlight them and chuck them all over to the thing.
Yeah, maybe it depends where you come from, what, what your history is or something, but,
hmm, yeah, I'm not sure I would want to use the rules comment. We did not.
Oh, of course. I don't know. I'll do it since I'm blabbing already.
Vim Lovers says Jerovo. This looks pretty great. I just installed Ranger and love it already.
Thanks for calling attention to Ranger, et cetera. I'm still digging in, but so far, so awesome.
CB easy. It, it's just us. That's it.
I'm sure he's not taking the fence. Let's go. It's, it's just, it's just different people than
different. It's, uh, it's all the fumes from the cleaning products here in this closet,
which were called HB. Yeah. Yeah. Bad disk rescue tragedy or happy ending,
shooting to Andrew College, you'll find out.
Okay, sure. I'm surprised a lot of these two answers were still available, but it was a spinning
disk, wasn't it? I think so. Yeah. Yeah. That was my impression. I don't remember what you said.
Otherwise, I won't spoil it for you guys. Now, Andrew did a great job of this one. It was,
it was all laid out in a beautifully logical way. And, uh, yeah, it's, it's, uh,
insight into how, how people deal with problems and stuff. It's always good to hear. Yeah,
exactly. Give a different viewpoint on these things. Moral of the story, though, is not,
not spoiling anything as soon as something reports about disk errors, getting you disguise.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I have made that mistake myself. Yes.
What is that error message? Uh, it's not going to worry about it. It's still working fine. Oh,
dear. It seems to vanish totally off the face. Yeah. Uh, season one, episode 39, we want to
in the community, uh, the show was brought to you by clinical, etc. This was, uh, uh, uh,
Rice Davies, developer advocate from canonical. Oh, yes. Yes, he was. Completely, completely
unbiased show here for doable to do as it should be. No, it's good. I enjoyed it very much.
There was a comment from Clinton Roy, uh, and he says, just the usual complaint, Martin's volume
is again stroke still, still way too low. It's pain in the, uh, to, uh, change the volume when
speakers change. And, uh, this is something that we've said on several, several occasions, many
others have commented on. So, um, I took the, um, initiative of passing this comment through
to Chris, um, pointing it out, like, just to prove the comment. And here's, could you do something
about it? Please, Chris. And he said he was working on it at that, at that moment. So, hopefully,
we will see an improvement in this regard. And the following day, we had disc operating system,
DOS, apparently, and I saw this in Mastodon, that it's not disc operating system. It was, uh,
quick and dirty operating system was the original, the person who wrote it, QDOS, and then it became
DOS 30 operating system. And then, uh, the nice studies just into disc operating system.
And I asked for citations, and there was an interview with the, uh, with the developer.
And that, apparently, is true. Very cool. Yeah. To which tree said, trip down memory lane. Thank
you, uh, this brought back memories of working with PCs back in the 80s. Thond times, keep up the
awesome episodes. Kevin replies, you're most welcome. Glad you enjoyed it. It takes me back to
there more to come. Excellent. Good stuff. Black kernel, uh, is DOSing our, uh, RQ, which is
excellent. We love it. Uh, shows you some programs you need for living life without XORG.
And wow. These are, uh, some of these I've never heard of T-Mox. Yeah, I find CMUS,
music library, FIM for pictures, MPV. I love that. Use it every day. And newsboard and pubboat,
pub fox, uh, new of him, uh, Gitex, favorite markdown, and FF MPEG. Your friend in, uh, in a
links and MOT. Lots of comments. Let's go with operator. Wow, kids, these days. Wow, I don't think
people like you read, I didn't think people like you really existed. My props, me four days ago
would have asked you about playing music through an SSH tunnel, but I just switched to Plexamp
for music because my wife uses subsonic too. I think subsonic is dying. Another thing is I really
enjoy the highlighting in my Windows mobile external. I have tried a few times to get my entire
terminal set up with syntax highlighting keyword stuff like monitors, but it's app specific. So,
for example, VI, I can have nice colors, then I have to leave the terminal and get black on
height. What I want is everything everywhere highlighted like warming, message error, info, okay,
IP samples. Oh, does this say, is this a, yeah, this is a, so he's copied and pasted in a picture,
where, which has got yellow warnings and then normal text and errors are read and everything
is okay is green and stuff like that. Anyway, great stuff. Keep fighting, good fight. You do be easy.
I don't disagree with the operator, by the way. It's a shame it's not, it's not sort of joined up stuff.
Just as a complete site, we were heavily into mainframes at the work, a place I worked at.
Nobody cares. Nobody cares. And it was all color and this was in the 1970s, all multicolored.
And then we had a Unix machine brought in to play with and it was not, and we hated it.
Cos we, we were just like that, you know, we're mainly people who hate this Unix crap. And so, yeah.
So anyway, Be Easy Says plus one of C, C Muse. Thank you for this great show. I also use C Muse,
CMUS. It's the only program that doesn't choke on my extremely large music library that I have on
an NFS mount. I'll be trying out most and I encourage you to try out Ranger.
Ranger. Yes, yes. Could be sales work. Yeah, yeah. Be Easy's obviously in the Ranger,
getting backhanded deals from Ranger. That's a movie.
Sesame Mochol says the text. Thanks for the show. At one point, I used Emacs on the console because
it never had enough RAM to run X-Windows and a compiler at the same time. Never sat down with
the Linux console to use a good font. These days, I run the I3 window manager. So, I get a lot
of terminal windows and the graphic apps as needed. If you're looking for an improved sort of
in curses, you could look into the textual framework, figured there would be more comments about the six.
And as if I might do some Giza says, very enjoyable. Hi, I love the show. I started on main
frames in the 1970s when all there was was the teletype or physical terminal. I use X-Windows now
but spend the majority of my time in terminal emulators. Having spent today in the Linux console
and my Debian testing system debugging a problem caused by the last update, I'm appreciating
me back in KDE. The problem was due to multiple incompatible versions of the Nvidia legacy driver
lurking in the system. It turned out I wouldn't want to stay in the console though, even with T-mux.
Like you, I'm a fan of encurses and I've written a few simple things in my time. I'm a VIM user
and I'm contemplating moving to NeoVim. I've written a few basic extensions in VIM script,
but like we'll look at NeoVim's lure interface. Finally, you had me going for a moment calling
VI6, Smileyface. Having been an ADNX user in the past on Veritynics for Lavers, I remember that
VI was the abbreviated visual command that gave you the screen mode from EX from X, so
that was it was a joke wasn't it? It was. Hello from now on. Now on I'll be passing on that
story as a fact and we'll be believed because I'm a white guy with a beard.
Read the license clacky. Now some people might not like this because it's reading a license,
but to me it was extremely enjoyable because I've read it with e-speak before and this was a lot
better. Yeah, it was nicely done. It was nicely done and I was feeling very well. I was listening
to it and it was, oh that's interesting. That's why they've done it that way and they've thought of
that and they've covered this area and it's quite an interesting delve into the thinking behind it,
you know, not explicitly, but you get the get lots of clues about the authors and how they
have they thought this stuff through, so very good. No comments on that one, so we'll move on.
As Squirrels told about RMS and was there a comment? I think there was a comment just come through
today about that one, but we'll cover it in the next show. Yes, I don't do the comments too
later in the evening, so it's, we'll do that next month I guess, yeah. Yeah, let's cover it then.
And the next day was from 0 to k8 in 30 minutes from 0 to Kubernetes in 30 minutes, build a
Kubernetes cluster, run a website, root traffic to a website and this had two comments. There's
a, yeah, two comments. Be easy says, what an amazing show I was truly impressed with the show.
This could have been two or three shows, I agree. I appreciate the hard work that you put into
the show notes. I will be using them soon. One note to other listeners, although you can install
Kubernetes on the Raspberry Pi 3, it's super slow, so I wouldn't recommend it keep up the great work.
And I will button there going, yes, I intend to do exactly the same thing. I intend to get
four Raspberry Pi fours and run up Gabe Borg to that, Dave, just as a by the way.
Okay, I was just before I read Mike Gray's comment. I was just watching a YouTube thing
from earlier this year where a guy was building a k3 cluster, which is a reduced version of Kubernetes.
And I must have listened to this show brilliantly done and everything, but I couldn't see why I
would want it. But now I'm starting to think that maybe my brain needs extended a bit and get into
this. So yeah, it's a place where you can run Docker containers. And yeah, I suppose,
yeah, I suppose as a shoulder, as somebody could explain why you would need Kubernetes,
we use it and work a lot, and it was a bit suspect about it, but it's actually the whole idea of
having an embedded environment that will run. So you can have multiple sites being served from
various different clusters. If only cluster goes down, it automatically brings up
pod and another cluster. So if your Raspberry Pi goes down, that's detected. And your website is
just an effected by moving over to the three other, to the other side. It's a bit like RAID and a
RAID RAID for web serving web traffic. I mean, you get into issues where you do write operations,
but for read operations, which majority of stuff is, it's a very good way of going about it.
Yeah, it's something I'm going to have to have a good look at.
And thank you, Klatu, for raising the concept. Anyway, Mike Ray says, great show, great show, Klatu.
Fast delivery, accurate, concise, clear, uncluttered, few verbal ticks. Very few people can
deliver a show as fast as I can think. One of about half a dozen hosts that have me reaching for
the play button instead of the delete button. Of course, Mike will never have heard of that,
having the lease of both of our, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's in three or two shows,
but yeah, yeah, yeah, I know, I know. My name is Ken. Next, did it today?
It's Mike. Yep. Yeah, Mike. Opera. That's us. That's us. That's us.
That's the end of the month.
Tune in next month for another exciting episode of No. Where are we? Yes, what comes next
day for I've forgotten? It's been so long. We're going to look at the comments on past shows.
Yeah. And we had a, we had a comment from me, plus one, from on next-todd application
updating by ToadJet. And I just said I used this today. So that was an excellent comment
for those from a show back in September. And you heard it somewhere, founded on, founded on HPR,
using your tags thing, opened up the tags page, searched for next cloud, and then found that show,
and have a listen. And that fixed me rightly. Very good. We also had a comment from FSA on
show 3377 Chromebook Support and more from Zen Flota 2. Sorry, I'm coughing here. Do you want me
to do it? No, no, I'm okay. He says sound quality trolling, question mark. I'm not sound quality
snob and I'm happy to listen to shows recorded with unintentionally not great audio, as long as
the subject matter is interesting to me. But I think it's another matter to intentionally create
bad sound quality. Was it a joke? Just trying to make a point or just straight up trolling, which is
why I suspect based on some of the other passing comments. Whatever the answer chalk up one more
comments to a slash vote against the idea of intentionally creating a bad experience for your
littered listeners. Yeah, we did mention, we did talk about this last month in the community news,
and both Mr Ex and I said, we hadn't been too bothered by it, but then we discovered a bit later
on that we both suffered from tinnitus, which means it partially dead. So it probably doesn't affect
tinnitus sufferers as badly as people with brilliantly good hearing. So yeah, take what we said
with the pinchest snuff I think. Yeah, when you said that last month show, the thing in your debt,
I also suffered from a little bit of that. So it could be why I have the strong opinion that
poor audio quality doesn't matter, perhaps to other people, it's downloading super annoying.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you know, if you've got a cat or a dog in your house and they hear every tiny
teeny noise, and which you don't hear yourself necessarily, I don't hear myself, and you know,
it must be a bit like that, I would guess. Yeah, we were walking down the train from the past
the graveyard there one time with the kids and it was only a year or two ago and they were saying this
what was that noise? I don't know, what noise? And my wife was there and everybody heard it except
me. It was so weird. And then I had a audio frequency thing on my phone when I took it out.
And sure enough, there was a in the frequency range, I could see an audio sound that they were
hearing that I couldn't hear. So, that was very just concerning and depressing. Yeah, yeah.
Tinnitus is an absolute sort of a thing and that's why you should look after your ears when you're
young. Yes, but all those concerts were cool and they were worth it. Just so you know all outside
of my house and he's he's kind of bits of breaking stuff and concrete blocks with with with
you know grindy wheel thingy and he doesn't wear any ear protection. It's so deaf when you
give it older. There you go. That's the way. What can you do? Well, now, did we or did we not
picture a three, four, three, nine? I'm seeing no problem. Okay, that's a shouldn't have gone to
the mailing list. I broke an upload and midflights that was just an uploading issue.
Yep, fine. Then we had a lot of information about the episode three, four, one, four.
Suffice to say a lot of people considered this show to be factually incorrect.
Um, let's see, um, and, and they, Nico says that he disagreed with us. I understand the
usual HPR policy dictates those episodes are not be edited removed after the, well,
but in the case of this episode, I think it's a responsible track of public radio to leave it up,
especially in the mid of a global health crisis. Are there any plans to deal with this episode's
potentially harmful content? Um, so let us go to a lot of comments about, uh, from Mike Ray,
Yurune, um, Nigroverti Latu, um, you know, basically lots of, lots of people even stankdog
came in. Some people I've never heard of before either, who have not contributed to show, um,
commented, uh, but a lot of, a lot of opinion and it's, when I heard the show coming in,
it was from a new host and they also had trouble uploading, um, not, but that's nothing too strange.
And I listened to the show and I determined that the show was of interest to hackers.
And therefore I posted the show and let us go to DOSMAN's comment, uh, particularly one paragraph
in DOSMAN's comment. The system of HPR works fine as is it doesn't need special rules for special
topics. If you dislike what another author is saying that's fine, please feel free to submit your
own episode making encounter argument that you asked why not engage with the author of the
episode that got your attention. Maybe you can do an episode together. HPR is not a large
fastest argument corporation, so resorting to the same methods as one seems like a poor choice.
The hard thing in all of this is that it's easy to take your own natural side.
What we often miss is that usually both sides can be right and wrong at the same time.
If you can't go into the conversation, what, uh, with that in mind, then it won't work well though.
It's amazing what you can learn when you really try to wear the opinions of someone you oppose
for a while. DOSMAN. And if you want to read the rest of that discussion, you can.
RPG is synchronous play. This one's from PLATU. High RPG role-playing game players are the
or open game curious. If you're interested in no-school role-playing games like the ones
used to play back in the 80s, so, uh, more details are in the show notes and also on the mailing
list. So if you're interested in that, um, links basically they're putting on a game.
Is that how I read it? I think so, yeah. Yes. I'm moving on to the last one. HCR US bootkits.
Does anyone know where the HCR US bootkits is? I'm sending over some stuff to, uh, Poggy and some
other people. So, uh, if there's stuff for the US bootkits, I'd like to update some stickers and
the like, that I have, but I don't know who has it. So if anyone knows where it is, that will
be great. Dave, what do we do now? Just on the bootkits, I think the last person I know of
having was Poggy, but he doesn't have it. He doesn't have it, okay. No. And I don't know.
There was lots of work, uh, I also heard that you can go into the events and stuff, but there's
a link there in the show and lots of driver looking for us, uh, the LWN community counter.
And do you want to run through the, um, shows on the archive and tags and stuff?
Yeah. Any other questions?
We only managed to do five uploads in the past month because we were waiting to get the sequence
of shows, um, with the tags and then there are so many gaps. It's not worth the code is,
the code likes to work on ranges. So it's quite difficult to work around the gaps.
Anyway, we'll get there soon. And so, yes, the really, the really important bit is the tags and
summaries are to 72 and grown, both been working very hard to, uh, continue adding tags and summaries.
And there were 76 shows which were updated in the past month. Now there are only 38 shows left
that need summaries and tags. So, um, congratulations to the two of them for, for the massive
amount of work that they've done between them. Um, it's hugely appreciated. It's amazing, amazing stuff.
Yeah. We'll have, we'll have plenty for them to do after that.
Yes, we did have a little discussion about what next. And yeah, uh, going through the shows and
finding all the, all the problems with them and stuff, the gaps, the missing links and all that
sort of stuff is one thought. But let's, uh, let's just have a rest probably after the tags and summaries.
Um, I was thinking of going through mastodon, seeing if there was anything, anything that came
through there. Um, but I haven't done any preparation for that. So, uh, there we go. We'll continue on.
Okay. Um, that was it, Dave. What do we do now? Uh, we, we go off and do our things, I guess.
I will edit the show and send it to you. And uh, I'm moving the data center from one shed,
the old shed to the new shed, Dave. Oh, I can expect some downtime. Actually, you needed to post
the show first. I do. I do. Yes. Once the show is ready, I can do it. I'll let you know and then
pull whatever plugs you need. Yes, it's got a, uh, uninterruptible power supply,
fiber, internet and, uh, fire suppression systems. And it's actually on the wall.
It should be said to all the fire extinguishers.
Still. Yeah, still. Sounded, sounded better before we're in the other,
explanation. Yes, still impressive.
Oh, still mad at Dave. Moving is doing my head at, uh, yes. Yes. So you have a sympathy.
Uh, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker, public radio.
Indeed, that radio thing. Yes. We tried doing that last month. We didn't quite come out the way
it was intended. The spirit was there that we were in our intentions were good.
All right. See you later. Okay, cheers. Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker, public radio at Hacker, public radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every week, Dave, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. Hacker, public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself,
unless otherwise stated. Today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Extribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
