Episode: 3982
Title: HPR3982: Conversation with ChatGPT
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3982/hpr3982.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:14:12

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3982 for Tuesday the 7th of November 2023.
Today's show is entitled Conversation with Chat GPT.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 4 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Conversation with Chat GPT about European Union Cookie Banners.
Hello, this is your host, Archer 72, for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, I have a very short discussion with Chat GPT about the ethical ramifications
of rewriting code to block EU cookie banners.
Be careful what you ask the chatbot.
Cody may have warned me that I might forget how to human if I keep using it.
With that being said, here goes, I asked Chat to write a grease monkey script.
The reason I ask this is because I have started trying out the cute browser, which is a
browser that uses VIM-based key bindings.
And I wanted it to write a script to block the EU cookie banners on sites, especially
like Stack Exchange and Ask Ubuntu and Stack Overflow.
Then brought to my attention that, because the following content after this was not CC
by SA, because it was a transcript of a Chat GPT chat, I can not continue this.
I will continue to search web to have documentable reasons based on what the chat did give me.
Sorry again to cut this short, but I guess I wasn't following as close to as I showed
out to the guidelines on Hacker Public Radio.
Thank you for listening.
So as it stands, I will not be able to properly document my interaction with the chat GPT
instead wait a different episode where I can take the reasons stated, state them differently,
and be able to cite my sources that are more online with CC by SA.
Oh and as a sneak peek, once I get things straightened out with the cute browser, I want
to get set up more along my liking, and when I do, I will put out another episode.
Thank you for listening, bye.
That's all I have, remember to use Chat GPT responsibly and have a nice day, bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org, today's show
was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording a podcast,
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it may be.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and
our sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released on our creative comments, attribution, 4.0
International License.
