Episode: 3611
Title: HPR3611: HPR Community News for May 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3611/hpr3611.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 02:10:54

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3611 from Monday the 6th of June 2022.
Today's show is entitled, HPR Community News from May 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is the 190th show of HPR Volunteers and is about 56 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in May 2022.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
This is HPR Community News from May 2022 and joining me today is…
Hello Dave Morris here.
So, Hacker Public Radio's community podcast that relies on shows being submitted by members
of the HPR Community A.K.A.U. or anybody else who knows something interesting to talk about
that you think might be of interest to hackers.
And the HPR Community News, the HPR Generators, Dave and myself, come out of our
classes, our HPR Generators classes and we'll give you a rundown of what's been going on
since you were here last month and as part of that we'll be going through all the shows
and we'll be going through all the comments and that's pretty much that.
And passing over to you, Dave, to introduce new hosts that have joined this month.
Yes, we have one new host this month who has the wonderful handle of Lurking Pryon.
I think that's where he pronounces it, but yeah, I call it a Pryon, anyway.
And he has already several shows in the future feed and they are all excellent.
So much so that I've already used them on two occasions in anger against other people.
Wow, Lurking Pryon says that.
Yes, they are brilliant, yeah, I'm really enjoying them.
So the first show that we're going to review is 3586 from Monday,
the second of May 2022 and that was the HPR Community News Show, which is this show.
And just as a reminder, if you wish to join, you can always do so.
We tend to record it on the first Saturday, the Saturday before the first Monday of the month.
That's a bit complicated and we tend to do it around in the afternoon, Saturday afternoon,
so the way of time to process it for Sunday. Anybody can join, but it's probably best if you've
listened to most of not all of the shows so that you can give some positive feedback on that.
And there's an email that goes out, the Monday before the Saturday we do
from me saying the show's coming and here's the stuff and you can look at the notes and all that
good stuff. So there you go. And in last one show, we were saying that it was quiet on the lists
and Brian and Ohio said, Jinx, you spoke too soon about the mail list being quiet.
So, smiley face. Well, Winky face, to be honest. Yes, it was kind of busy on the,
that's that's the thing with the HBR mailing list. If you go to the about page, you'll see that
under govern section that we more or less make a lot of decisions with community.
We'll be talking more about that on Wednesday because we're actually short of shows. So Dave and I
have decided to move some of the more topical feedback to the show that's going to be not tomorrow
but the day after tomorrow. So we'll be focusing on some policy changes and some changes to the way
we handle the queue in that show just a bit of a teaser. So the following day, we had, I talk
about my home router, the UEM UDM from Ubiquity. And from listening on the internet webs, I think
this router is kind of equivalent to us, equivalent to the US, to what the Fritzbox is here to Europe.
Yeah, I don't know how to compare them because I don't know either of them, but this is the
unified dream machine, which is what UDM stands for from Ubiquity, which I know that Ubiquity
routers are well thought up, though they're not easy to set up by all accounts.
And as ever, Operator, what includes a link to the IP tables that is easy.
Which is awesome. Absolutely. Yes. On this website under a directory called Stuff.
Yep, that's it. That is. That's the place for it. Absolutely. Yeah. That's my final answer to this.
I've got a house called that, I think. I've got a five megabyte text file called to do that text.
Yes. Yep. Yeah. Says something about something. I'm not sure what though.
So the following day, we had the Linux in-laws. And the text to speech lady is, I thought of a
brilliant name for her Henrietta. Henrietta, that's what we're going to call her from now on. I reckon.
I don't even got a better, better, better suggestions for her name, but I think it Henrietta.
Henrietta Patricia Riley. There's a, there's one go back to the day. So
yes, kind of butchers that calls it tries to spell it as a word. Yeah. Yeah. It's weird.
So I don't see. You'd have thought it would default to reading out the latest numbers and stuff.
There you go. Yep. And that's, that's gone down to another few bytes. Why to do that text file?
Wow. Yes. That's a, that's a whole, whole nightmare.
Anyway, in this one, the lads were talking about booting. And I found quite some interesting
show actually, as has mentioned later, Dan did a show on this, but it was nice to get the
update on how things have changed since Dan Mochka did that. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's a system D and
stuff. It's an interesting subject. So yeah, we could have, we could definitely do with more
information about this at some point, if anybody cared to provide it. And cyber grew,
said the Unix philosophy, your understanding of the Unix philosophy is missing,
what many considers is an important caveat. As summarized by Solos, Unix is a collection of
programs that each do one thing only and do it well. System D is a grab bag of lots of functionality
and it does not do any of them particularly well. Hence why people say that system D is not
the Unix philosophy. I agree that the old style init system had a lot of issues and needed to be
replaced. Sick. However, I do not agree that system D is the solution actually that should be
because I'm reading a fix that in my head. It said replaces. I digress, I digress. I would have
preferred a properly designed, layered modular init system instead of the all-in-one solution
of system D. That is a bare metal server used to run containers would have the same root level
modules, but different application specific modules as a GUI-based tablet. System D was designed
for a GUI-based system and is over-cale-slashing appropriate for back-end servers running Docker.
Anyways, another good show and stop sign your stop short. I think you are up to a double digit
number of listeners by now. End of comment. The latter is responded to that in one of their shows.
So the next comment was from Clinton Roy who we haven't heard from for a while I believe.
Debian system D he says, I'm writing this comment hot so you may well cover this in the rest of
the show. I think the major drama with Debian and system D is the merged Slash user stuff which
being on who you ask is either an existential crisis. I've done the same thing or a mild wrinkle
in package management. Debian has not switched over to system D resolved yet either.
Yeah. Anyway, I had to double-take that one. System D resolved.
Oh, system D resolved D. Okay. Okay. I don't even know what resolved D is obviously.
Not look something that's allowed system D, okay. All right, yeah. I tend not to follow these
things as much as I used to when I was working. I don't follow them Dave until they
throw something in my way that I need to follow them. Yes. Yeah, good to see Clinton back
live and well. And yes, ecstasyntic crisis or a mild wrinkle basically describes my reaction to
everything and it can it varies depending on how much sleep I've got. Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
Okay. Anyway, Brian and Ohio, out of your depth, it's sad that you call you show
us a call back to the Linux in-laws. Fabian Churchill seemed to do a lot of research on the topic
he discussed and was furniture. And you don't know what groups stands for shows your lack of
preparation. You could have listened to Dan Moshko's gray series on bootloaders done on HBR
and be better off. Okay. Yes. Nice positive feedback there.
Yes. Yes. He was referring to Linux outlaws, wasn't he rather? Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. But anyway, yeah. Yeah. Because that's how I read it in my mind there. Okay, fine.
Yeah. Okay. Love the next series by Archer 72. The triple distilled malt whiskey of HBR
is Archer 72. No doubt it would turn out to be a T-Total or
no, no, that'd keep going on about that. Okay. This was a it's possibly going to be a series
started by that other Scottish bloke. What's his name? Mike Nalu. Yes. There's only two of them.
Very small country, you know. Yeah, exactly. I don't know what a big for this track. Anyway,
headsets. Yeah, about different microphones such as around the house and how good they are or
otherwise. Yeah, that's interesting actually. I'd never occurred to me to record a show using
a pair of headphones, Bluetooth earbud things like this. Yeah, it depends on whether you,
your phone is capable of recording off them, doesn't it? I don't, I tried it but it doesn't seem
to work. I can't get it to record anything into any app that I'm running. I think it's a
great, great series. If people have a can do that, various different recordings from your various
different things around your house, it will give us a lot of interesting feedback as to what
works on HPR and what doesn't. Yeah. You then you have exact like scientific examples of,
well, you know, from recording to publishing, this is what it is and yeah, these expensive microphones
might sound better to you, but by the time it comes out on the HPR, it's, it's, you know,
point to spend a lot of money. Yeah, yeah. It certainly, I certainly find it really interesting.
I could learn a lot from it. Sure. For most of his samples, I felt were fine. The
tags was probably baited in his head against the wall, listening to it, but I was able to
completely understand all the readings of the BSD Bible there. So, yep. Yep.
So next one, the directory command, more on DAS. It's time for the DIR command and this is part
of a hookah's never-to-old series on DAS, which is gaining a lot of interest from people. So,
nobody particularly commented on this one, but it is the series itself has been getting a lot of
positive feedback. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, it's, it's really good. I do remember that command on
DOS. I'm sure I've said this too many times that I tried to avoid DOS as much as I could,
but yeah, DIR had got some quite, quite fun capabilities.
So, the following day we had a review of flashlights by GWP and I was outside when I was
listening to this and unable to write down what lights he had gotten because I did actually want
to refer back to them and put links in. That's what I'd like to do. So, north to south to do that again.
Yeah, my notes to myself was, I couldn't work out what he was saying, probably because I was doing
something else at the time, you know how it is. And yeah, it would have been nice to have had a list
to go and poke around with them on Amazon or whatever and see if there are things that you would
want to own yourself, you know. Oh, I am my father and indeed I both love flashlights for some
strange reason. I can, you know, you could just guarantee birthday present for the animals,
get them a flashlight or batteries for a said flashlight. What would be, and they'd just seem
to always disappear flashlights, I don't understand it. I've got one of those night core ones,
just the little one you put on a key channel and just keep it in my pocket. But a big clive talked
about and the clicky one there. Yeah, you press the button twice in rapid succession, you get an
incredibly bright light, especially at night. Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, show, show, okay, move it on,
move it on. Okay, I'll be taking a picture. One minute, show zero day. Okay.
And the next day, we had a show from Nightwise who's come back after COVID with a quick overview
of three months with the Surface Pro X. And this is from Wikipedia, a two in one detachable
tablet computer developed from Microsoft. And Robert says, fine show until. Is it your turn or my turn
to do the, I think it's mine actually. Yeah, go for it. Yep. So Robert says fine show until dot dot dot.
I was, I was enjoying the show until the rant about the year of the Linux desktop. Do you think
chasing the major platforms will magically bring the year of Linux desktop because it won't.
What it does is it provides ammunition for employers to insist employees can use Microsoft or Apple.
What is the problem here with non mainstream distributors that gets you so annoyed? So what if they
don't run the major platforms, they're not forcing you to run them. Why do you not want them to
exist so much? Monoculture is bad in nature and it's bad in tech. Feel free to run what you want.
But stop lecturing everyone else about their choices. What was that? That was the year of the Linux
desktop. I won't listen to these all three in the one go. So he did go on about that. Okay. Next.
Home office mouse shoulder and also hotkey scripts. This can only be by operator based on the
text. I talk about my issues and solutions for desktop ergonomics. So this is actually quite good.
Yeah, this was links to bits and pieces as well. Yeah, yeah, some good links there.
I would, yeah, the whole business about sitting at a desk and getting sore shoulder because of
rotate the cuff problems and those other things that people get from sitting, hunched up at
keyboards and I certainly do. It's all stuff that we should be aware of and guiding against
whatever. So yeah, yeah, it's an important topic and just so happened. My daughter who's moved
away to Dundee now has brought herself up what she thought was an ergonomic chair for her desk.
She tends to work from home most of the time and goes into the office occasionally and it's
not ergonomic chair at all. She finds she's brought by the junk really. So you know, it's a hot topic
in this family. Getting a chair that supports you well, gets you in your position, gets your arms
at the right level of your keyboard and doesn't mess up your shoulder or whatever. It's really a key
issue. Yeah, and they're, yeah. So actually good tips there and there's a few bits and pieces in
there that I was thinking of adding to my own setup, which I have in my to-do text file to do a
show on but it ain't actually finished yet. So therefore I can't do a show on. That's my excuse
and I'm sticking with it. Yeah, and it's it's good though. Yeah, I haven't followed the these links
up but I will do because there's some, there's things like a good mouse and that sort of stuff is
all really important. A peely wally. What the hell is a peely wally dove? There's a there's a glossary,
not indexed. It's a Scottish word meaning pale or one or there is a glossary. Yes. Of course,
of course. What do you mean? So it's yeah, it's it's about Scottish language and stuff.
Yeah, sorry for coughing guys. No doubt I won't edit that out of my apologies to everybody who's
ears got plastered. So yeah, it's some it's it's it's a word. I always get wrong and I get
laughed at for being an Englishman trying to speak Scots and but it's it's a it's a good and
valuable word. Indeed, indeed, indeed. But there are four common staves. Shall I read the first?
Grind on Ohio. Great show. Glad to hear you guys are still game trying to picture which one of you
is Jack and which one is Victor. Love the banter. Keep it up. Jack on Victor.
Yeah, yeah, I had to ask for translation. I have no idea but yeah, it's it's a TV show of some kind.
Okay, okay. A visa says Pascal. You just can't should I do that one because you're going to
Oh, I think so much to to to come. Yeah, okay, go. Visa said Pascal, your discussion,
Berlin Pascal, which was marketed as Delphi, had you may be interested to know that it lives on
was sort of in the Lazarus IDE, which is backward compatible with Delphi code. It's still under
very active development. Take a look at their website. I believe that the false language on
Vax harder in as much as there was one was Fortram rather than Pascal. I rather enjoyed my years
using the Vax cluster. You were rock solid. They were rock solid reliable in my experience.
And I'll never forget the boot cases follow of the huge orange folders containing the printed manuals.
So I didn't put my full name, but anyway, I made the next comment, which was to Brian. Thanks,
Brian. Glad you enjoyed the show. We both have fun doing these and there's an audience that gets
pleasure from them as well. And to visa regarding Pascal, I've tinkered with Lazarus a long time ago
and actually wrote a simple program to query postgres database. I keep meaning to get deeper into
it but haven't yet. I'm surprised to hear that Vax Fortram was the recommended language.
We took delivery of a two-node cluster, both 8700s I think in 1987. This came with a fair bit of
training in Reading and West Gordon in Manchester, two places where digital equipment had
offices and stuff. And we had some consultants available to us to get the started doing the stuff
we needed to do. The cluster came with Vax VMS version four dot something I think.
Not 100% certain of that. One of the consultants recommended deck Pascal for our system
level projects and wrote us some example code to get us up and running. That's when I got the
impression that Pascal was the most complete language at the time, other than the low-level stuff
bliss, which was their sort of assembly thing or sea level thing, which we hadn't bought.
We did use Fortram too and I drew the short story and ended up teaching it to various students.
We ran service courses in the early days. Just as an aside one of the then digital consultants
lived a few doors away from me. I tried to get him to record a chat with me about the deck times
but I haven't convinced him yet. Ah, the manuals. I remember someone telling me,
Dave, your manuals have arrived and I went to the loading bay to find an entire palette of
them waiting there. They were really good though. Wow. How big was this palette? Yeah, it was maybe about
where the normal size footprint palette but it was about three foot high, maybe something like that
of manuals all shrink wrapped and you know together so they were all banded together.
But yeah, you got a lot of manuals. You needed a library to you know,
place with lots and lots of bookshelves. Exactly, yeah. They were the days, Dave.
Indeed, indeed. They were good manuals, so really good. Yeah. I used to take the manuals
from when I started work. I used to take the manuals home. I lived across the road anyway
in the form of factory that I was working at and just read them. I was a little aware and I was
pre-inter that times there was no library. This is the morning stuff that you had to read.
Yep, I certainly did the same. And the orange manuals were constructed so that they had ring
bind. There's something like three or four rings to hold the pages in and they were a weird size
but you could open the folder and then it had a fold running horizontally which you flex back and
then the thing would stand up on your desk. Do you remember that? Did you see those?
No, no. That was the early days. They stopped doing them a few years after we'd got this system
in 87. So it didn't last into the 90s. I don't think anyway, but I thought that was a brilliant idea.
Why isn't everybody doing that? Expense.
Profit, shareholders, yes. Yeah, bugger there. Yeah, it really annoyed me when they started
to ship in CDs instead of real money. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Okay, moving on. First show
from Lactin Brown and he explains where that name comes from. Awesome. Not awesome if you
become a pride in your head. I mean, I'm sure digressing. Focus, focus. I am sure I changed my
password last pilot episode, change your password. Good advice, leave feedback, be gentle and he puts
it or not, but yeah, we should be a little bit more gentle people. Thank you. No comments. Yes,
but a good show. Good, good show. I like this. And I don't disagree with him, which is high
praise indeed from me. Yes, yes. Speaking of some of the else who I would literally love to go up
and kiss on both cheeks is be easy. Extractable text tables and images from the duck x file using
Python. Verily, I say to the this is copied and pasted and kept in mind to do that text file
for that day when it is needed. Amen. Yeah, oh, it's excellent stuff. Excellent. I know that
to be easy does a lot of this stuff. We chatted about it when we were doing Auckland and things.
And yeah, it's remarkably stressful. Actually, when you look at it, it's quite nice.
It's like, I could read it out now and it just makes sense. This actually sounds like
English. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's it's excellent. My my sons into this as well.
His job, he, he, it was discovered by the business people in the place he works,
that he could take an Excel spreadsheet and turn it into some some other format, which they
had great difficulty in doing. And so they started queuing up to giving these things to convert
till his boss said, I don't think that's what you're here for. So yeah, I get it. So I don't know
whether the business guys are going to learn Python as a consequence of what's going to happen,
interesting though, interesting. Yeah, very much. Oh, that's, that's when you start getting a lot
of them in work, then you put a little internal server in and you'll have a job that submits this
and then they can achieve it. That's yeah, that's what I did. Yes, yes, yes, that would be fun.
That would be fun. But anyway, yeah, it just shows what you can do anyway. Fantastic.
Lurking Python, good idea, very hunting. Tracing my security walls to the source of the good idea,
very, very hunting. Now, to know what very hunting was, means something completely different in my
head, which is fine too, particularly this month. But no, it was a good idea. Apparently,
very hunting is where you go tracing down the person who is whatever. I'm going to, I'm going to
actually look this up. Yep, see if search is on. What is very hunting? In the novella,
fairy 1869, the child protect, the captain Jack discovers a nest of three fairies in a tree.
Ah, this is what you call it. I'm a rabbit holder. Do you have helped me?
I'm not sure, I can. Peter Pan, is that it? Fairy hunting, does it come from there?
Okay, he's going to have to do a show explaining what the hell fairy hunting is.
In the episode, I would, I would guess, I would guess so. I don't know.
Yeah, I've just taken half an hour out of there all day, but now we're looking at
very hunting. Anyway, so, so definitely required and what the hell fairy hunting is.
And all forms, fine. No problem. We can handle it. But in this case, he was trying to track down
the people who come up with ideas and then get security in the beginning of a project
rather than later and worked out quite well, brilliant advice for everybody. Kevin O'Brien says,
great, my turn or yours. It's yours. I did my own one or something. Yeah. Kevin O'Brien,
great show. I love the show. And I'm going, I'm looking forward to more. I was a 90 project manager
and at one time I was working at a hospital where the IT department implicitly viewed his role as,
we are here to stop you from making mistakes. Naturally, the rest of the hospital view them as
the enemy. And as a result, I noticed the individual departments took to setting up their own
servers outside of the IT department. So on an effect, the IT department was so focused on security
that they achieved insecurity. Oh, yes, I can imagine that. Yeah, large organizations would
tend to do that. So, Lurking Prime says, in response, thank you. Thanks for the comments. It makes
sad every time we hear about IT departments and or security teams doing things like that.
We're supposed to be facilitators and enablers for the people who make the money for the company.
Thank you for listening. And I think you like future shows. I have planned. Super.
So, Slackware 15, a 32-bit operating system from day one, the pros of using Slackware 32-bit
operating systems from Zenflotor 2, who has, I don't know actually if he has come down from the
tree to record this. I'm now imagining a tree house somewhere with fiber internet and all sorts
of power going up to it. Very, very good show on Slackware. Really enjoyable to hear. Yeah, yeah,
I learned a lot from from that. It was an excellent, really, really high quality show. And indeed,
you mentioned the word Slackware and it brings the commenters out in droves.
Bitten says, my turn in your turn. It's yours. Yeah. Yeah, I have the memory of a goldfish.
Goldfishes are gone. No, you don't. Or is it far better? All dashes win-amp skins. Hey,
you know, you can change to win-amp like skins in audacious to make it look more like XMMS in the
audacious settings. Linux Daddy says 32-bit Linux great radio cast on Slackware and its history.
I got my first Slackware with a book and two CD ROM disks at version 3.2 with kernel 2.0.2.9.
The anti-X Linux distribution has a current 32-bit version as well.
And Brian in the Ohio says, Gritio, another Gritio, how about a podcast?
And how and what do you listen to on internet radio streams? Keep up the good work,
XMMS work. Cool. Windigo says intrigued about Slackware. I've never used Slackware,
but I've often heard about it. I have a 32-bit Dell Mini 9, maybe doing some distro helping soon.
Also, you mentioned that you had proprietary wireless cards that required a Windows driver with a
software that adapted it to be usable in Linux. Could you be thinking of Endis Rapper? It gives a
link. I remember using it back in the day, but it looks like it only supports drivers up to Windows
XP. Either way, thanks for the interesting episode. Cool. But very next day in real terms, not in
show-pasting terms, Linux in laws did also a Slackware from a user's perspective,
a discussion with a longtime Slackware user about the oldest Linux distro still alive.
And there's one comment, and it's from Brian in Ohio who says, what?
Lots of excellent question marks out here. This guy doesn't do Slackware. How can he have a
user perspective? I should interview tattoo or Zen Floder to get a user's perspective on Slackware.
Listen to the previous HDR by the aforementioned Zen Floder on the Alive and Well Slackware 15.
One last thing, dependency management is available if you use Slackbills to add third-party software.
You must add the dependencies yourself. Listen to GNU World Order for a better explanation.
These guys need to listen to HDR, not just use it as a no-cost place to host them mediocre
content. Now, Brian, go sit in the corner. Come on. Think about what you've done. It's not nice.
It is funny, though, that the schedule of the show right after Zen Floder is like,
she's the excellent customer. I was like, wow, did we love to have a show yesterday?
This was possible. And I'm also, I also have eight hours of tattoo show where he's going through
every package on Slackware, and I don't think this is actually correct what to say.
But that's fine. We're all allowed to have one bad day, I guess.
Someone who never has a bad day, Dave, digitizing photos. How to digitize old bread slides
inductives? Yes. Kevin or Brian puts away his camper and gives us some very, very useful.
This is very practical stuff because I have this ahead of me for the family photos.
And I'm not looking forward to it, Dave. I have to tell you.
No, I have a similar issue. I did have a flatbed scanner years and years ago, but it got borrowed
and then seemed to vanish as they do in some sort of osmotic process. But anyway,
so I bought a lot of slides and I bought a slide scanner, which will also do negatives,
but it's not very good. I think the flatbed scanner was well.
It's so damned expensive now. This was like 60, 70 pounds when I bought it.
Now they want 200 quid for anything worth having. Yeah, I had a, I got a, I bought a scanner
and it was like trying to find one archival level. So I got one and it's over in my parent's house,
my mother's house. And the only thing I do, I have one here as well, part of a multi-functional
printer system thing. I think I tend to show on this where I've got a read switch on it.
So when you shut the lid, it automatically sends a, it clicks off a batch of files to scan default
settings and stuff like that. So I need to do that over there and also have the time to do.
Yeah, I've got a, got a printer with the scanner in it, which is actually quite reasonable,
actually, when you, yeah, yeah. So I should maybe look at doing something with that at some point.
This, okay, next show, the worst, your worst car you ever had. In the 80s, I think,
when you bought a real door to the car, I really am liking the series. I'm actually thinking of
doing my own others off. It's a great topic, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah, it is. And now, especially
that I don't have a car, my wife has a car, I don't, but my wife is a rental for work.
So was there any comments on that? There were not. No, not sure. Yeah, anyway, it's,
it's, I'm glad I got it off my chest. That's the main thing. Exactly.
And hacker stories from April, 2022, origin stories and trouble in school from operator. Wow.
Windigo said, the best kind of correct your story about erasing and restoring
partition table information was the perfect cherry on top of this episode. And an excellent,
excellent example of being air quotes technically correct. Thanks for this episode. These are always
quite entertaining. This one, if anyone's interested in getting into security is a required listening
folks required listening. Yeah, yeah, I wouldn't disagree with that. Wow. It was like when I was
putting out the, the daily, the daily update on mustard on, it was like, yeah, this red like
in 80s hacker movie, what it was, it was in 80s, somebody's life in the 80s. Definitely a good show.
Yeah, definitely. And lurking, Brian again, with who the heck is evil, Steve, part one,
security as a person problem, and who's actually attacking us, evil, Steve, I like this idea of
you know, imagining somebody behind us. It's a good way of focusing the mind on the actual problems.
Yeah, yeah. A lot of which is, is a people problem. I just put it in that way at some point.
As opposed to a sort of technical thing, it's people, people being silly or something. Yeah, cool,
very good. So the next one was everything you wanted to know about pecs, which is pipe.
And I've listened to all these episodes, they're from stark finish, the real it. Just we're
taking this project and we're doing it. And you know, he asked the question, is this of interest
tigers? And after rebuilding, remodeling our house, I have come to the conclusion that a house is
particularly a modern house is a machine. And it's a very big machine, but you have to view it
like a machine. When we, for our holidays, when we were younger, we stayed in a medieval village
type thing, you know, where. And we were living in houses, modern houses there, but that's
that's by the way, but the downstairs they would tell you of what the living conditions were. And
you know, they were just essentially shelter, but modern houses with their central heating,
with their electrical systems, network systems, solar panels, outside chargers, they're essentially
machines that if you don't maintain them, they will, yeah, fall apart. So I'm going to learn
story short, waffling over. We need to essentially have more shows about houses and maintenance.
Yes, it is of interest. Thank you. Absolutely, absolutely. I'm very glad that he came on board
to do these. Yeah, it's really, really good. And it's my turn to do the comments. So we've got one from
Lurking Prion, who said, made my heart happy. I started out as an MM, I'm sure what that means,
in the Navy, tried to look at all the sweets. And this episode was right up my alley.
Many days playing with industrial and residential plumbing, in quotes, and more than my fair share
of playing with a torch. No, it isn't really on fire yet. Pecs is awesome. It makes life a lot better
and extra manifolds are a necessity if you plan on doing any substantial upgrades,
brackets, bathroom in the future. Thank you. And I look forward to hearing more.
Yes, very good. Very good. I watch YouTube thingies.
One where too much, probably one where guy is getting his house remodeled in the States
when it's so dry, I think. And he's getting a heating system. No, actually, no.
This is about the guy's name. I've got more his channel's called, but he's getting, as he
he and his builder guy working on stuff, they've got a guy fitting hot water heating system under
the floor above their heads. And he's using pecs, which fits into sort of slotted doodads
that goes zigzagging up and down through the through the joists and on and on to warm the room
above. And the stuff he's using is beautiful. It's really, I mean, the actual look of how it is
as a material and how flexible it is, how strong it is, and actually looks quite nice too,
this is sort of red color stuff. So yeah, it's fascinating. I've never I've never paid much
attention to it in this country. I'm sure you can buy it, but not going out looking for it to be
honest. So yeah, it's things to learn here. Indeed, the views quite a bit of plex and the remodeling
here in the backroom. So yeah, it's the stuff to use. I've still got quite a lot of copper
in my house when I had my new boiler put in, they ran copper up to up to it for some things and
some plastic pipe as well, I don't know whether that was pecs, but yeah, but copper roads over time
and which I didn't fully appreciate. Anyway, interesting stuff. So next day we had an Aspari,
see what you did there? Boom boom, use of a 13 year old hardware. Using you guessed it,
slackware and an old notebook. This is Archer 72 with a short and sweet episode beautifully
documented on upgrading his notebook. Yes, very jealous of that battery. Those Aspire ones were
the definitely the best form factor for commuting. Yeah, yeah, they look good, don't they? Yeah,
they look more substantial than things like the Asus Triple EPC and stuff like that, which is
tiny in the incapacitation. Still a usable thing, but yeah.
Yeah, it's crazy as Rachel, thanks for sharing your experience. I have a similarly aged
ThinkPad Harder, which I use. Are you good? So the next day, 10 proves mathematically that
programming is not easier using maths and I rushed this show out and because we were short of
more about that on Wednesday. And I forgot to, I missed an entire paragraph of my comments.
Did you add back in again? No, no, I didn't. I basically, this was the text which I read,
and then you can't do both of those things. Yeah, so the ability to think logically, which
is what math is, is a comment that I had a problem with and this assumes that math is the only
field where the ability to think logically exists. Math is a subset of logical thinking and not
the other way around. I can think of hundreds of occupations that require logical thinking that
do not require maths. It would be difficult to argue with this point as it could be argued,
as most people are exposed to counting no matter the level of literacy they have to have access to.
So let us refer to studies, which with crows that shows that they can think logically,
despite any math knowledge, again proving my point.
So, I think it's my turn to do the comments. Kevin O'Brien says,
not like me, the end of each show a lady with a lovely voice says
that the episode was made by quotes a listener like you. Today's episode definitively disproves
that because it was clearly made by someone not at all like me. Excellent. I had already clarified
because I think I'm almost serious enough that he wrote that and he was not serious. I don't even
serious about that. He's fine. You missed the time. No, don't you? Yeah, you missed the time.
Chief, what have I done to pass them off? Does he love maths so much?
However, this show definitely was not me trying to poke all the mathematicians out there to do
counter-shows and to prove me wrong, not at all. No, no. I could anybody think that,
despite being saying it sometimes in the show. Adieu. And yes, why we're having a show on
Wednesday, Dave, is the following show, The Best Eggs in the World, which is an emergency show.
And it's from Polky and it's been in the queue since 2011. And it's about the best eggs in the
world. And the show is absolutely fine. And I was melt-watering at us, although I was thinking,
oh, that's a lot of work for breakfast. I don't mind the people a lot of work as long as the
Polky is doing the work. So, there you go. Yeah, it's interesting. I've seen this set there waiting
for an emergency for many, many years, as you say. And I was fascinated to actually hear
me, could have listened to it otherwise, but it seemed like cheating, so I didn't. Yeah, so yeah,
it was, it sounds, sounds really nice. I don't know what my teeth are, actually. But the only
thing, I shouldn't even comment really, but garlic powder is the thing I've never, ever used.
No, no, I've never, never needed to because, but I'm sure there's a really good reason. I'd love
to know the logic, the cooking expertise I'm using, such a thing. I tend to avoid stuff that's
that's pre-made of that sort anyway, but that's just just my, all sort of garlic cloves. It's so
easy anyway, they keep, and you just have them with you. We have to keep them with the onions,
and then squeeze them through the thing in your fresh garlic as much as little as you want.
Yes, but anyway, so that was interesting. Very interesting.
What's the news? Yeah, that was this. We had, you did the last one with Miss Cummins.
Do we cover that? Yeah, with a monocultural stuff, etc.
We just did that one, yeah, yeah. I just put it there in case we miss it,
for some reason or that. I don't know why we would, but just don't praise us.
Yes, so we've got five comments and two on previous shows. This is about Lee's talking,
local talking newspaper from April, and Dave Morris, this was El Musso, with a correction,
Dave Morris, to correct your comment on the community, use something in, is it like,
clear the row? Clear the row. Good Lord. How do you get clear the row from that?
CLI-TH should be clear. E-R is E-R, and O-E is, oh, clear the row.
He's smartly gay. If you just look at your in Scotland and look at the slap about the face.
CLI-TH is also award CLI-TH. How many words do you know that begin CLI-TH,
that is pronounced CLI-TH? As a referative to my me-assume English teacher one time.
So how many verbs in the English language are irregular? Well, about half of them.
Well, then they're not really irregular, aren't they?
Same irregular, really, I guess. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know language is crap.
I mean, it's really difficult stuff. It's quite entertaining and amusing and stuff, but anyway,
that's how you got a battling English episode. So, well, hurry up, we have another short
report. So I said back to El Masor, thank you for the correction. I'm embarrassed to admit
to admit that I was a student in Manchester for about five years, then worked at Lancaster University
and other five, so both in Lancaster for the benefit of the non-English and wasn't sure about
the location of Clither O. Not a mistake, I'll make again. Excellent. On freedom of speech in
open-source part two by some guy in the internet, Kevin O'Brien says open-source versus free
software. And Kevin says, I think it can be useful to distinguish between open-source and free
software when you address this issue. Free software respects the four freedoms as published by
free software foundation. And one thing I recall being discussed there is the idea that you can't
stop certain users such as the military from using free software. The DPL specifies the only
requirement for legally using free software and any user who respects those freedoms is legally
licensed to use this offer. So, some guy on the internet says the freedom to advertise. Kevin
O'Brien, thank you for your reply. I agree. Open-source and freedom respecting software is usually
a joint effort, but in this argument we can use more perspective. The open-source is only one element,
but the free nature of the software and its community must be considered when discussing
the actions of community and the usage of its software. If companies in the US are considered
people, respect and follow the four freedoms, then the two should be able to promote their
versions of the software. Or do you disagree? Kevin says, I'm pretty basic on this. If they follow
the four freedoms, it's free software. If they include advertising, then someone else can focus
and remove the advertising. All perfectly legal. Yeah, no argument here. No, no, I'll put.
Yeah, so we've had comments. Let's see what was on the May thread. That meant it's so busy.
Policy changes discussed on this month's community news, which was during the last month's
episode. Dave knows some policy changes tags. Modification of a tag is not going
process, so it can be modified, host, name or handle series. Shall we cover this on Wednesday as well?
Yeah, we could do that, yeah. Yeah, okay, we're going to cover some of these because they're
they go to basically relate to what isn't what causes problems for the HFIR project when you
pause to show. Okay, and we want to keep the community news relatively lighthearted.
Okay, so anything else, Dave? Any other business? All the shores on the archive. Talk to us about that.
Yes, yes, yes, yes. It took me a while to find the tab and go back to it.
My brain is so slow these days. Right, so last episode, last community news episode, I was talking about
re-uploading various shows in range from a 712429 and to talk about it in the show that came out in
early May. And so I'm just sort of making progress with this and what I've done in the past month is
271 re-uploads leaving. I'm trying to do five a day, if I can, a little thing that pops up and says,
oh, yeah, do them. And then this 1,288 yet to do. So I actually did 131 last month. So I don't know
why I need to tell you this, but I'm just writing this as statistics. No, so yeah, yep, yep.
So we're slowly inching towards, we're also using up more displays as a consequence,
because we're making transcoded copies of all of the the audio. So every show you go to eventually
on the internet archive will have all its different versions. If you happen to like the
opus version, you can find it there with the tags, et cetera, et cetera. That was the point of the
yeah, they do transcode the shows if we don't, but what they don't do is copy the tags over. So
that's why we do the transcoding for them indeed. So yeah, that just does the background. You might
be wondering why we're bothering this. And since we've done the change in the workflow,
I haven't gotten rid of the shows from the hard disk because I wanted to make sure
nothing got broken in the process. So now I've updated the script to tidy that out.
There's a little bit of coordination that Dave and I needed to do to make sure we can lose anything
during that process. Yep, but we pretty much got that in hand now, I think. So yeah,
cool. And the other thing I wanted to say was finally the free culture podcast website,
the HGTPS thing has been fixed finally. So if you're feel free to recommend the free culture
podcasts.org and we will accept anything that's free culture podcasts and who are not embarrassed
about having us talk to them by awesome in Dave about the quality of their XML feeds. So
yeah, yes indeed. Looking forward to it. Yep, super. Okay, that's it. And see you on Wednesday
for the next show and tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
By the way, we need shows, people, so record shows. So then thank you. Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net. On the
Sadois status, today's show is released on their creative comments, attribution 4.0 international
license.
