Episode: 3239
Title: HPR3239: New Community Project Proposal
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3239/hpr3239.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:22:02

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3239 for Thursday 31st of December 2020.
Today's show is entitled, New Community Project Proposal.
It is hosted by Anigma and is about 9 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is Anigma Discussing a Project Proposal called Hacker Exchange.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Welcome to another episode of HPR.
I am your host Anigma and today we will be talking about a new project proposal I have for
the community.
I would like to create a place where content as a whole can be shared whether that be audio
content like this HPR episode you are listening to today or video or text files or a history
of the community as a whole.
As you know HPR and its predecessor today with a techie has existed for about 15 years
and we have over 3,000 episodes available and it is indexable and searchable and that is
great but we don't have a lot of places where you can go and find a non audio version of
a particular topic and some people aren't comfortable with the audio based format.
So some people like to see their tutorial or some people like to actually have a text
based tutorial and be able to search through it and such like that.
So I thought that this would be a great project that I could bring to the community and get
some people to help me out with it.
I kind of attribute this to the old forum concept back in the early 2000s.
As you know from if you have listened to my fireside chat with Ken Fallon I was big
into the Ben Rev forums I was a DDP member I helped out with the moderation of that forum.
That forum still exists.
There is not a whole lot of traffic that goes on in that forum at this current state.
There is a lot of spam that is accrued over the years and the concept that I have is
kind of a spawn of that.
We talked about back when I was you know frequenting that forum of a concept called Hacker
Exchange and this was always kind of a mentorship program that we were going to implement where
you could come and find a particular person that was skilled in the topic that you wanted
to learn about.
So it was our way of giving back to the community and I think I want to stay true to this concept
as a whole where we would have an IRC channel we would have maybe you know some other type
of delivery system where you could have that one-on-one time with you know a person
skilled in that skill set as well as having a place where we could aggregate other good
content from other sources so like if we find a good YouTube you know somebody does a great
YouTube video on a particular topic you could go and search this index or forum or whatever
we choose to put out there on that particular topic and find that article and maybe some
comments about that article or video and we could implement this in a few different ways.
So HBR and the binro forums kind of are our baseline for the content that we currently
have. We could use the binro forums as that aggregation right now that actually the forums
does post a thread every time a HBR episode gets released and that would be a great place
where you could go and comment on the show and so on and so forth.
Like I said the forums have a lot of spam and a lot of just under maintenance for the lack
of better word over the last few years and you know the decision could be made well we
could go with that and I don't want to lose that history but I also you know know it's
going to be a significant lift to get rid of the spam and actually make that usable.
So maybe what we do is we take the content from there and port it into a new platform
and kind of move on from there. Like I said as the show gets released there will be a IRC
channel on free node hashtag hacker change and I will be there so we can we can talk about
this as you know as a group and I'm hoping to get some of you guys out there to to give
me some good ideas and and help out.
And worst case scenario if if no one's interested then I might press forward and and do something
on my own but I wanted to talk through this you know in in public and and kind of get
your guys a feedback and and really understand what you guys are looking for as a community.
I talked a little bit about the forum concept and other things that I'd like to do with
this as a project would be to have a like a common code repository.
So somebody could go and if they were looking for a IRC bot for example we would have
something available that they could mirror take the code make their own and and and kind
of give back to the community if they wanted to improve upon that IRC bot that we use other
things I plan on doing some pandas tutorials which is a a Python package that basically
you can manipulate spreadsheet you can read in read in data it's a very spreadsheet
like I plan on doing on a HPR on that so we would have essentially a repository of my
code they're available so it could be linked to the HPR episode as well as back to hacker
exchange where we could improve upon it and and have conversations about it.
So overall I want to link different disparate content mechanisms into one indexable thing
and again we're talking very high level at this point I am looking for and want the feedback
whether that be good better and different tell me I'm crazy tell me you know it's not
something that you guys want as a community or come in and give me great ideas and and
try to help out.
Like I said we're going to have an IRC channel hashtag hacker exchange as well as I am
always available on hashtag augcast planet on free node I'm in I'll be in both channels
you can also email me at ETH zero nigma at gmail.com and let me know what you guys think.
This was a pretty rambly episode I have a couple in the can that I'm going to be doing
that are more technical based I also have a something a little bit different coming
for you guys it may be released before this but I'm going to be doing a series on aquariums
because that's another passion of mine I think I mentioned that in my last podcast but
I think that's going to be it for today guys as always the revolution will be digitized
and take care of yourself and your families thanks guys have a great day you've been
listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today show like all our
shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording
a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please
email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow up episode
yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments
