Episode: 3914
Title: HPR3914: how to deal with blisters
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3914/hpr3914.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:52:03

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,914 for Thursday the 3rd of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled How to Deal with Blisters.
It is hosted by DNT and is about four minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is a technique my father taught me for dealing with blisters.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q.
We are airing it now because we had free slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Hello and welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is your host, DNT.
This one I am making it an emergency show for the emergency queue.
I want to talk about something that my father taught me when I was pretty young about
dealing with blisters.
I remember him doing this to my brother on how exactly he got a bunch of blisters on
his hand.
He showed this to us and then I have done it many times since and I haven't had any
problems.
Most recently I went on a trip to Chicago with my brother and my brother walks quite
a lot and he was visiting from Brazil, going to Chicago and then I went to Chicago and
met him there and we walked a whole lot and since now I live in the United States I am
not used to walking much at all anymore so my feet were suffering quite a lot and he
was absolutely fine.
Every night we got to the hotel and I would kind of do maintenance on my feet as you would
do to a horse or something like that.
What I did was I think after the second day I had blisters on one.
I think I had just two blisters on one foot and so what you can do is I went to Walgreens
which is like a drugstore here in the US and I bought a sewing kit then you can take
your needle and your thread, you thread the needle and then you poke into your blister
being careful not to poke your flesh and then cross it to the other edge of your blister
and then poke it through to come out with your needle then pass the needle through leaving
some thread inside your blister.
Then you can squeeze in some liquid will come out and none of this will hurt obviously.
So some liquid will come out so it's good to squeeze it with a napkin or something like
that at first and then you can just leave it like that.
It'll hurt a lot less right away and then you just leave the thread in and when you get
home in the evening you can remove it and then you can just move on and after a while the
skin will come off completely but you won't have any more pain pretty much immediately after
you'll do this so it's a pretty cool trick I've never seen anyone do this before.
My father taught this taught me this a long long time ago and I've never seen anyone do it
since I don't know if he came up with this or what and he's not with us anymore so I can
ask him but so I'm passing it on here as an emergency show. Now this was being posted in 2022
and just recently we had a show that had been posted in 2012 come through to the main feed so
perhaps this will go out in about 2013-2033. Perhaps if things go well I suppose.
So here's a shout out from 2022 to you in the future. All right thank you for listening.
Now remember if you're listening to this it means Hacker Public Radio is short on shows so
just sit down with your phone and record something like this just share a little something that
you know or whatever and send it into Hacker Public Radio. Thanks for tuning in and I'll see you
next time. You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
broadcast you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our
synch.net. On this otherwise stated today's show is released on our Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
