Episode: 3326
Title: HPR3326: HPR Community News for April 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3326/hpr3326.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:54:31

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3326 for Monday, 3rd of May 2021.
Tid's show is entitled HPR Community News for April 2021 and is part of the series HPR
Community News It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 80 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released in comments posted in April 2021.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today it's Community News for April 2021. Joining me to the same thing is...
Hello everybody, it's Dave Morris.
And HPR is Community Podcast Network. No, it's not. It's a community podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday, Tuesday, Friday.
You're listening to HPR Community News that gives you all the news that's new and approved from the HPR community.
Including a rundown of this week's shows and first of all a rundown of the new hosts.
What do you, Dave? Well, we have two new hosts sort of. Ananasthost is sort of a placeholder
for people who would remain anonymous and we have a new real person host who is called Trey.
Excellent. I'm actually surprised that we didn't have Ananasthost on there already. I thought
we definitely had that on today with a techie back in the early days because a lot more
common calls to non-Muslim. Yeah, well, blame my algorithm then because
thinks that this Ananasthost is new for some reason, right? No, it's fine. It is new because
I went through and I couldn't find it. So yeah, I think we posted as Creative Commons content
or something like that. Anyway, we'll cover that in a few moments. So let's go through all the
shows for the last month because that's what we do. Starting with the news flash.
For the first of January 2004, apparently. Yeah, yeah, quite impressive.
Exactly. Exactly. So we need to obviously update the series of that to be the IpproFools series.
And if anyone has any ideas for IpproFools shows, please get in touch with us about
with as much time as possible. I actually have an idea for one, but I'll contact somebody
later about that. Alrighty. The following day, we had Nachios Part 2, Notification, SNMP
and remote checks. All kind of good stuff. This was a show by Norrist and there was one comment. Do you
want to tick that one? Yes, Kevin O'Brien says, adding my endorsement. I loved hearing the
mention of my friend Michael W. Lucas. He's a great writer and his technical books are awesome.
I used his book on SSH as a resource when I did my shows on that topic. You also write some
pretty good fiction such as Get Commit Murder. Yes, very nice. I'm actually tempted to read that book.
Yeah, I forgot about it. I'm just tempted to give that a look.
So on the HBR community news for last month, there are little comments because we didn't say anything
controversial. So we will try to do better this month later. And the next show was by Klaatu
Gisworth Tree. How to use Gisworth Tree. And this was an interesting one actually because I
have a tendency to do this from time to time. Yeah, yes, it does look like a useful
edition. I imagine I didn't quite get how new it was. It seemed to be fairly a fairly recent
experimental feature. So it sounds like it's well worth delving further into. And Klaatu
gives a great, great taste of what you do with it. And Sean Ott. Very good Sean Ott. I'm actually
shot. This is coming from Klaatu. No comment, no comment. So the next day, we had, let's talk about
Thunderbird, some guy on the internet. And very good actually. I was thinking I've been using
Thunderbird for years. I post-coded, I possibly learned from the show and I actually set up a few
a few rules, you know, just based on the show. So very good. Thanks.
Yes, yes, he did make me, I did too. I've also used it a long time. And I got hundreds of rules
and sometimes get lost in them. But he made me rethink some of them because the way
the order is important and also where they run in relation to spam checks is also important.
And there's a lot, there's a lot to think about there. It's quite a good introduction to
to the things that you could, you could be doing there. So, but I have to say, I do miss
Prokmail. Prokmail will let you do so many more sophisticated things with your incoming mail
than Thunderbird does. I wish there was, you could have an and an or expression in the same rule.
Like, what are just sort of Prokmail to bring your inbox to a local folder and then pick it up
from there? Well, I could, I could make and I could get everything into one I'm at folder and
and then point Thunderbird at it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's, it's a thought that's a question
on my mind, but I think the reason for that that you're not doing that is because Thunderbird
doesn't natively support local folders. But I remember after this show I was thinking, oh,
I could do something like that. But another thing you can do, I did a show sometime back on
having a local line-up server and you asked the other question, why would you do that? And the answer
was, Thunderbird doesn't support local, local folders. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, you run your local
line-up server and then we got to go. I did a one point, I did a one point look at moving to
clause mail which does let you have local folders and it takes different from the formats too.
Which, but I could never get that to really do do what I wanted it to do. So, I gave up and
yeah, and also MUT, I looked at it using MUT, but that that wasn't good enough
compared to Thunderbird I felt. Yeah, I used clause for a while and it just absolutely crawled
compared to Thunderbird. Mm-hmm. With a quite a large, I've got quite a lot of accounts and quite
a large mailboxes. Yeah, the mailboxes, I'm up folders. So, Henry says, some good tips, thank you.
I routinely encourage people to disable automatic image download for privacy reasons. Perfect,
perfect. That's me. But never thought of your idea to have virtually view emails and play in
text. I'm going to do that. The idea of running rules before spam processing seems obvious after
you heard it. My spouse is continually using important emails in the junk folder. Yeah,
there you go, you thank you. And I heard somebody, who I very much respect, saying that you shouldn't
do a show. I'm not going to do a show because I think other people know more about the top week
than I do. This is a show who else would have attempted to do a show on Thunderbird. And I'm so
glad that this was submitted. Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. Sententials, even if you think
somebody else could do a start to start the show with, I'm sure somebody else knows something
more about this. So, can you please do a response or to this episode? But I will tell you as much as
I can about it. And this is what I would like you to know. See, there's a mindset, this is not
a criticism, but there is a sort of mindset that says, I have no point in doing a show unless it's
groundbreaking and original and nobody else would know anything about it. Well, I've spent most
of my time on HBO doing stuff that you could work out here. So, I'm not telling you anything very
new, but just saying, I've found this stuff and I've read the man pages. And this is how I understand
it and come back and tell me if I'm talking nonsense. Absolutely. And that seems to me to be an
extremely valid way of approaching the world. Here is a good show that I would like to hear.
And the show will be, here's a list of stuff I don't understand. Can somebody please tell me
about this, about that, about the next thing? I think this is what this is about. Are you sure?
Yeah. So, yeah, yeah, that'd be good. Asking questions shows are also valid shows. Think of HBOR.
Yes, it's a source of sharing knowledge, but your contribution could be to stir up the pool a bit
so that more people will look in and go, hey, that's an interesting topic. That's an interesting topic.
That's an interesting topic. Yeah. Do this, people please. Do this.
Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. So, yeah, the Thunderbird idea is a great one. I think we need more
in this general area, personally. So, yeah, fantastic. Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant. Yes, yes,
following day, the guys are back with the big uncertainties and life and beyond two
chaps discuss uncertainties and beyond in this episode on Probald. Can you do that one?
Probalistic. I know I was just reading it and going, what? No, probabilistic data structures.
Yes, it's what they were talking about. Yeah, yeah, yeah, this was the Redis Wall and the Hush functions
stuff like that. Yeah, it was interesting, actually.
It was, wasn't it? Yeah, yeah, I suddenly now find I don't fully remember what it covered.
And at the time, I thought, oh, this is interesting. Let's look further because I haven't.
And so I'm sort of floundering slightly and thinking, I really need to lead to learn more about
this stuff. So, yeah, yeah, it's cool. It was very cool. Yeah, some good resources there as well.
And the thing about their shows is you all think, hey, that two comedians are back, but then they
they do actually have some good content in their shows. Believe it or not.
There's there's actually quite a lot of one that's coming up. Sure.
It's quite a lot of depth in what these guys cover. It's just that they tend to be very flippant
about it. It's actually flippancy overrides the seriousness, which to me, I'd assume it was more
serious than flippant, but you know, it's just a matter of taste. So good for them for doing what they do.
Excellent. Excellent. Now, speaking about Ponderberg, here's another chap who is doing the same
thing with Gimp, gone through each option, essentially, and telling us how all this stuff works.
And as always, some very good resources in Ruka's show on layer masks.
Yep, yep. I keep saying, give myself notes to say, get more into Gimp, because it's
really damn cool from what Ruka's telling us. I haven't done it yet.
Well, my, my desire is like just to wait a while until he's finished and then get the PDF.
Is that in the comments for this show about the PDF thing?
That's an email thread, which I think it was, it was my all, wasn't it? Yeah, yeah.
So the following was submitted by an anonymous host, Bradley M. Kuhn's article from 2019 on Richard M.
Stolman. And she would do the comments first, and then there were a few comments, one or two on this.
You do the first one, then I can reply in my own words to my own review. Yep, yep. I was just
absorbing because there's a lot, yeah, Brian and Ohio says, bravery, agree or disagree with RMS,
at least he does not hide his beliefs behind the moniker anonymous.
To which Ken Fallon replied, along history of supporting anonymous posts, high Brian and Ohio,
the only requirement for bolstering to HPR is that the shows of interest taggers and a
distance band and meetings are licensing terms. There is no requirement to be personally identified
on HPR, while some contributors like yourself use, like myself use their real names, other
like others like yourselves use handles instead. I'm sure most of those who use handles do not do so
to hide their identity, but some might. Anyway, it's a move point anyway because we know Bradley
Enkoon was the author of the show. We don't know who posted it, and I don't particularly care.
They could have posted under the show under a fake username, and we would never know.
There are quite a lot of shows posted that were controversial at the time, and have been submitted
by a host that never posted again. I feel that posting under the anonymous username is more honest.
It alerts the HPR community to the lack of implicit trust that comes from
with a fake real name. It also means less work for the jammers as we don't need to create new
users. In any event, Hacker Public Radio has long supported and will continue to support anonymous
posts, comments and other forms of interactions. We do this for many reasons, not least of which
is freedom of speech, not least of which is that freedom of speech is not always without cost.
Okay, Rato says RMS. Hi, first of all, this TTS takes the speech voice is terrible. I can hardly
understand it. The one used by HPR is much better. Secondly, if I hear more information where I get
the impression that it's totally on one side. I want to hear the other side in order to build my
opinion. It took me 20 minutes to find it the other side. It looks like the internet tries to hide it,
and there's a link to a Debian community site. Have you seen the episode of The All of It,
where your reputation and punishment is based on public opinion rather than from a court? It was
scary. While this is fiction, does it now become reality and do you support this? Just some thoughts
on what's going on here? And I replied to that comment. Hi, Rato, the text-to-speech engine used
as eSpeak, and it's available on many Linux distros. It is relied upon by thousands with visual
impairments and those with reading disabilities, including myself. You must be new to HPR as we've
been using eSpeak for years, and have only recently been able to negotiate a contract with Lin
text-to-wav slash festival. After her non-complete agreements with a lot of links, links.com
pass podcast expired. Nobody else is going to. Very few people are going to get that joke.
Unfortunately, the site you posted left me wanting when it came to hearing the other side of the
story. It's not actually affiliated to Debian at all. It's a site somebody else has put up
in response to Debian. But that's it, by the way. But as you say, it is difficult to find
information on the internet sometimes, especially one that's reliable and trustworthy. I would always
suggest you go to the source of truth first. In this case, it's best to start with Richard Stolman
and the free software foundation itself. And sure enough, on the main free software foundation page,
there are two articles, one entitled Statement of the FSF board on the election of Richard Stolman
with a link. And another RMS addresses the free software community also with a link.
We have interviewed RMS in episode 0271 and episode 1116. So it will be great to get them on
again to discuss this. Can you reach out to him and or the free software foundation to see if
they will be interested in recording another interview? Be sure to mention that we only use
free software in recording and that it can be released under a Creative Commons by NCSA if desired.
Side note, that's the one RMS prefers. And I think the whole not released an MP3 thing is no
longer problem. But if it is, we can and have, deal with that as well. In the meantime, I will put
together a similar show to this using their statements and post it as a counter to this show.
And then I have the links so you can do Bezos. Yeah.
Bezos says, Richard Stolman, few of us are so synonymous with the organization we work for that
any controversial remarks we make in public are likely to do lasting damage to the reputation of
said organization, especially if we were to subsequently resign and remain silent afterwards.
That's not the case with RMS and with regards to the FSF. He will forever be associated with
the free software movement and by implication the FSF. On that basis, engineering his resignation
on the strength of his comments on social and political issues did nothing to protect the reputation
of the free software movement. All it achieved was to solve the consciences of other FSF board members.
How damaged was the free software movement anyway? Most people outside the floss world have never
heard of RMS. So he's sometimes distasteful, sometimes thought provoking views would have
no bearing on their decisions to adopt open source software. People in the floss world know RMS
but his eccentricities along with his visionary genius. I suspect that while many publicly
feigned shock at his house at both, most it's just RMS being RMS followed by an attempt to get
any images conjured up by some of these ideas out of their heads. If the FSF fundamentally
stands for anything it's freedom. So to sideline somebody for exercising their right to personal
opinions and free speech seems a bit incongruous. Given that getting rid of RMS was never going
to distance the FSF from him, they would have been better to have taken the view, even the form of
public statements if necessary, that other FSF board members have hauled some of his views
on non-take the form matters but totally support his right to hold and express those views.
In these days of cancel culture when people are dismissed from jobs or printed or prevented from
speaking in public for a fear of what they might say, it would have been a refreshing change to see
an organization defending the right to free speech instead of just taking the path of least
resistance. Okay, to round what's up you right? I would say so yes. Says Stolman. Nobody is saying
Stolman can't say having consensual in quotes sex with 12-year-old doesn't harm the kid but nobody
who isn't actually brain damage would defend it nor is anybody actually forced to associate
with him because of quotes free speech. It doesn't violate any free speech to say you can believe
whatever despicable things you want. You can advocate for any despicable thing you want but
nobody else is obliged to support you or be allied with you. It is not cancel culture. It is
being responsible for the ignorance of his spuse culture. As for how the Free Software Foundation
is damaged by it, look at how many organizations pull their support. Nobody is bigger than any
organization unless the organization allows itself to be succumbed to a cult personality. It really
works out well. Part of the reason the Free Software Foundation is useless is because they have
allowed themselves to be so beholden to a useless repugnant told like Stolman who pushes a majority
of people away. If you want an idea to grow, it helps not to be led by somebody who intentionally
is spuse reprehensible nonsense that pushes everybody else away. Stolman is toxic. Excuse for a
human being. You want fast to have a chance to have a chance to grow a question. Don't let it
be led by a guy who intentionally says things that are considered morally repugnant by the majority
of the public. C. Fish says the responsibility of leadership. I've been a Gnu Linux user for
around 2.5 years now and have been a fan of RMS so much of that time. I've heard about people
thinking Stolman is kind of weird but shorted up to differences in political opinion or his
refusal to meet people where they are. This is my first time hearing about some of his gross
opinions. As a leader in the free software movement, he should not be turning people away with these
opinions. To be perfectly clear, I stand with the survivors of sexual assault and I stand with
anyone who has put their trust in the supervision of an adult who would betray that trust for sexual
gratification. The Gnu Linux community is a better place when we treat each other respectfully and
with compassion. We don't need anyone person in our community as much as we need the community itself.
Okay, shall we move on or do you have comments? Let's move on. I'm right there Dave.
You may have comments but those might reflect on HPR. So sometimes it's best not to come.
Indeed. Covid doldrums. Yeah, Mr X and Dave. God, that was deep. That was that was heavy. That was
that was a heavy heavy thing. Yeah, but yeah, had to be certain as well. Covid doldrums. Mr X and
Dave Morris have a chat of remodel in these training times. Like these shows did.
Yes, we have fun doing them. We tend to go on a little bit too long, perhaps. No,
but we'd all be quite, quite enjoy the chat. This is essentially my social life now. I was like, I
reserve these ones from when I can be pottering about undergariton or something and it's like I'm
actually talking to humans. It's a bit like a chat in the pub or something like that. And some of
these have been chats in the pub indeed. But yeah, it's, it's, I'm glad if people enjoy it,
but it's quite fun to do so we're probably going to carry on doing it as much as we can.
So the next day, Toget sent a little tip there on how to unzoom update as they're
in order to automate the updates or zoom if you require to use that on your, on your
computer. I don't really, but there you go. No, I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using
formal stuff. So I actually might, well, so far it's not broken anything. I don't think I'm using
a lot of functionality and just listening to a discussion and then signing off. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, being retired, I don't have to do any of this sort of stuff. I just joined your
C thing from time to time, but yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's good. I was interested in the way he was
approaching this update. So it's good to learn these sorts of things.
Trey joined us. Now, let's have a look to see hot sort of all additional shows we can have him send in.
Yes. I found the BBS bulletin board systems. Quite interesting that he was on the budget
and the fact that you had a Commodore 64, just my first 4A and computers.
No, it's always fascinating to hear how people have approached these things. I didn't really get
into this sort of stuff because I was already into a mainframe. You had a real confused
interest. Yeah. You were lucky. I didn't know it was admitted to last year. I would just come
home together with some cash. Yeah. I've got a government-funded super computer. I mean,
I would just come home and say I've had enough computers. I don't want any more.
That changed this time and on, but yeah, yeah. It's just a different viewpoint, but it's always
good to hear how people got to where they are and what they've made of the journey too. This is
fascinating. Yeah, that's cool. Good stuff. Also a ham, I see. Yes. Yes, I have plans, Dave. I have plans.
So the following day, we had a throwaway show from me about the Taurus Act optical character
optical character recognition show. And I think this might be one of the local
quality throwaway shows that are coming to mind. But you know what? I go back to these because I do
a certain number of stuff that I do so infrequently that I forget how to do it every time and
it's a learning experience. I think I'll at least have it on HPR and then I'll be able to go back
and search on the tags folder and search for all or OCR and be able to find the show where I did
this one. So yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I found it most interesting. I knew nothing about this,
so it was good to hear that it exists and that you're using it and all this stuff is quite
sophisticated for a command line tool like this. Yeah, it looks good. As I said, I've had a manual
that I got physically and there is a new reader version of it somewhere but I'm not able to get
access to that. So I scanned the whole thing and then ran this over it and yeah, it's
absolutely 99% okay, more of them. Yeah, yeah, that's wonderful. As somebody who's currently in the
throes of clearing my attic for various reasons but yeah, plumbing issues. But the amount of paper
in that attic is horrendous and not all of it's printed but a good good amount of it is and I
mean some means of turning it into that bits I want to keep turning them into electronic form
would be would be great. So this is something that made by years prick up, you know,
it might be something I could use, yeah. I've done because of the renovation, we're getting rid
of lots of stuff in the house as well. So a lot of stuff is Scannigo where they all school books
from the kids and stuff that don't want to try anything in a way but if you say you can Scannigo,
then that's useful. Yeah, yeah. Same here with children and school books and that type of stuff.
So yeah, a good message. Yeah, rather than, you know, when I'm leaving the house, you know,
horizontally, they can rather than have to deal with thousands of boxes of books and stuff,
you know, here's the USB stick in all your crap and when your kids is on there.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, we're we're very, very disturbed and my daughter's been helping me a lot
actually. She's job hunting at the moment. So she's got a fair bit of spare time. So she's been
coming over and helping me lug boxes out of the attic and that sort of stuff. But between this,
we're astonished at how much well crap is probably the one. What do we do with this? I just
stuff it in the bag of the attic. We'll come to it and now we we're arriving at this stuff.
We're going to have plumbers in there this week, which next week, I mean, who need to be
laying pop work and this sort of stuff. So it has to be pretty clear. So, you know, it's
still nice. Yeah. So yeah. Yeah. And then another anonymous coward posted a free software
foundation and RMS on the election of RMS stallments. So two of those statements,
statement from from the board and a statement from RMS and some subsequent comments
that nobody commented on that one. And that was posted by me. As I said.
An anonymous post by me. Yes. No, it's good to see this on HVL because it concentrates
the various discussions that are going on, which you might miss. And it's nice to have
somebody sort of doing an editorial type approach to it. So I appreciate it this. I have to say
yeah. Yeah. I think there's a lot of a lot of a lot of people have. It's a difficult. Oh,
I will say this. You know, we miss RMS in in a fast time. We attended the lecture. And the whole
thing about him picking his, you know, the man became more obvious to me as, you know, is the
naughty professor sort of thing. But on the other hand, he can't argue with the fact that he does
a lot of people might say, yeah, that's just RMS when he does, you know, eat his
does stuff that might not be socially acceptable as he says himself. He may, maybe on the spectrum
somewhere. Then somebody who's on the spectrum myself, I feel there's a responsibility
to make sure that you, it's a tiring thing, making sure that you are respectful to other people.
And you don't let your inability, your difficulties interacting socially with other people
interfere or make them feel uncomfortable. That's not really a good excuse. And I would suggest
there's an argument that an organization that doesn't, you know, do the proverbial,
you know, call your side here and go, you know, Ken, that that wasn't really the, you know,
the nicest thing to say there to that person might be an idea to nibble or re-enapologize.
There have been a few times here in HPR where I've done stuff. And I feel that we've lost
members of the community as a result of that. And I can only apologize for that sort of stuff.
So, yeah, again, as you say, you have to be, yeah, it's not an excuse, but it is, yeah, it was worth reading.
If you read one, read the other. Absolutely, yeah. It's quite an interesting insight.
It doesn't take away from the fact that the great work he has achieved, but at the same time,
I would say that there's also a responsibility in everybody around him to make sure it's a welcoming
place for people. And maybe people working as supportive of him as it should be. I think with kids,
especially, you know, just because you, there's, you cause an effect. And yeah, let
somebody get away with stuff or too long, makes it more difficult. It's better to
do what the Big Four comes in issue.
Appropriate guidance can help a lot in these circumstances, I feel. And sometimes people,
I actually follow a guy on YouTube who does a series called Asperger's from the inside.
I know Asperger's not the term for use. And he's very, very insightful. He does quite a lot of
advice to people about all manner of issues relating from it. And, you know, there's a lot of
advisory stuff. And his view is, you know, the condition leads to
to non-standard viewpoints and behaviours, which can seem strange and can sometimes even be
a little bit jarring or even offensive to others. But, you know, his view seems to be that
you being aware of it is very, is an important thing to be able to achieve. And also,
therefore, to modify it. He says it costs a lot for the person to do it.
Absolutely. But, no, there's no reason why you couldn't live in society in general,
doing self-modification. But if you have friends around you who say,
it's maybe not the best thing to, you know, I don't think I would take that approach
of how we use sort of thing, then, so much the better.
Quite, I follow him as well. I'm quite a lot of the things that he says, particularly in the
in the front one, was very much from an eco-centrical point of view. I need this and I need that.
That's one of the issues, one of the few issues that I have with his show is that it's more about him.
But nobody is, no, no man is annihilated. I am, I'm fucking a beater.
No, no, no one is an island as such. So, like it or not, I mean, you could, you could
nip off to the island somewhere by an island in the middle of nowhere and that's grand. But, you know,
then you arrive and you got a dentist, you got a sore tooth, you know, what are you going to do?
Then you need, we need people and we, we, even this lockdown thing, you know, for the autistic
among us, it's like, Raid, what do you mean? Like, I get to sit behind my computer and not
interact with anyone. But you still do need contact and you need peer review and you need peer
acceptance. And, you know, there, there may be a reason why there's so many great bearded guys
in the free software community is because, you know, if you happen to be anything else and you,
you know, how, how welcoming is that, you know, if you, uh, reminds me of the time I went and did
yoga for, uh, in the, in the community hall at one stage. It wasn't, it was very welcoming, but
at the same time, it wasn't very, uh, the working many other people like me in the room.
So, so so, yeah.
Oh, yes, yes.
Uh-huh. Thing, I have solved the world after saying, I wasn't, I wasn't going to say anything about this.
Then I ended up saying quite a lot of things. There you go, the views my views and
these views do not necessarily represent the views of HBUR as whole. We are just, uh, two two
cats on the internet.
Actually, we've been popping more like a cow to be honest, but I think it's self-jump.
Reading a manifesto towards a cooperative technology movement by Tlaque, let's read
some of the comments on this.
I don't know if this was related to the other two shows, what was the timing of this?
I don't know, actually.
I had assumed that this was something that was happening in the overspill or in the context
of all of the other stuff.
You know, we have to actually explain what has happened was that RMS during the MeToo movement
Harvey Weinstein's one of his acquaintances who was an acquaintance of RMS was implicated
in some sort of thing and RMS met a comment and that was taken by somebody else and then
as a result public opinion kind of focused on RMS and he resigned from the Free Software
Foundation and then without consultation which I think a lot of people found rather annoying
him.
He was reinstated to the board and as a result of that a lot of people, a lot of organizations
recently have distanced themselves from the Free Software Foundation and in the shows
that we mentioned the Free Software Foundation themselves and RMS himself has said that
improvements need to be met and that they have seen the errors of their ways etc etc.
That's a snops us, a very bad snops us not out, this block, this block, I don't want
to make too light up because there's a very serious lot of serious issues coming up there
and it's not funny at all, not pleasant.
But it's hard to summarize in a concise way I think it's not for quite some time in
the future, imagine it would be easy to do that.
I mean, like it says, Arata, apparently the term open source was not quite coined at
that meeting described in the open source.com article.
People have been using it in the software context, not just well known military intelligence
context sometime before then and a link to the article.
Okay, interesting.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
See fish says, great show.
Thanks for this.
I knew there were people in FOSS who felt the way I do.
This is the first time hearing about the public declaration.
Kevin Oberlin says, fantastic show.
My great thanks to Placquet for supporting this.
I think this manifesto is a great contribution to the discussion of Free Software.
If Free Software is not respecting of people, what good is it?
Yeah.
Like it says, the season for manifestos, there has been a lot of bubbling out there in
the free software world since a decade or more and it's recently coming to the surface.
I have two more of these readings coming out as soon as I've put together the background
material and he provides a couple of links that point to some of the things he's talking
about.
And Kevin says, clearing it up, glad to hear Clacquet, I look forward to your shows.
See what he did there.
See what he did there.
Very good.
Yes.
Fumbling is Ken.
Fumbling is Ken.
Morning.
Are we classic with a DNS exploit?
That sounds very leaky, doesn't it?
Only leased people would do that.
Wolfridge was myself.
SD card and USB stick.
What threw me for a loop was that there's an SD card.
VFAT that goes in the front and then there's a USB stick that goes in the back and that
can be XC2 or NTFS.
Other than that, it worked as described.
And Archer 72 says, re SD card and the USB stick, good to know that this worked for you
as well.
I think original YouTube post was meant for backup for a ton of games.
In most cases, this will not be needed because the games don't take much room anyway.
Yeah.
So that was part of my keynote exercise to get rid of game S, CV runs and have it all
on the USB stick.
Oh.
That's good.
And also, you don't have to unlock the menu, the menu just go up to there.
Following day, Linux in laws, political and artificial intelligence part one.
And there was one comment on that.
Which was from me, AI is misleading, AP will be better.
I always thought that artificial intelligence is misleading.
Artificial programming would better describe what's going on.
It's a good point actually.
It's a very good point.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's one of these terms that I think goes way back.
I'm sure others could tell me better, but things like the early days of Lisp and the Eliza
thing, which would you talk to it, it came back with what the meaning from responses.
That was, I'm sure that was being talked about as some sort of artificial intelligence
in the sense that, you know, there was all manner of cleverness.
It wasn't, it was amazingly stupid, I think, in many ways.
But clever.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Effectively.
But, yeah, so I've always been suspicious of the term myself.
Yeah.
I think if you were sitting in a car, right, and you was told, yeah, don't worry, artificial intelligence
is going to bring you from it to be, or if you were sitting in a car and artificial
programming is going to bring you from it to be, one of them, you go, oh, this is fantastic.
Artificial intelligence.
It's magic fairy dust, whereas artificial programming will go, oh no, there's the big red
button.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've seen your programming before is the other guy who locks the door and then let me open
it again because of X, Y, and Z, and all those sorts of things.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
It's, it's, it's, it's hype, isn't it?
It's being oversold, I feel.
Yeah.
It's, and, and, you know, we do that, we do that, but it's, it's artificial programming.
Nothing that we're doing now is, is, as yet, intelligence, it's coming up with a better
algorithm is not, is just a computer as a program to a better program.
We're not at the point where, you know, it's intelligence, yes.
Sure.
Yeah.
But the way in which the software is structured, where it effectively builds itself through,
through the sort of methodologies they were talking about is, is amazing.
But yeah.
Isn't that correct?
Correct.
That doesn't make it intelligent in, not, not by my reckoning, anyway.
No.
And what you're doing is you've gone through iterations of programs, you, it's, if you
thought of artificial intelligence and described it for what it is, you have the computer, this
is where you want to go, and then you write a whole goal of, um, programs with, a whole
goal of if statements in there.
And then you come up to the best solution for over there, and then you feedback in the
results so that you keep holding the program that you're writing to give better results.
At the end of the day, you end up with a program that you can program onto another chip,
and then it can recognize a cache.
So yeah, that's what it is.
It's artificial programming.
It's very simple.
Yeah.
It's very simple.
Yeah.
You have a program rice, hundreds of programs, and the picks the best one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
A lot of it is iterative, sort of in the evolutionary mechanism, well, that one's rubbish
throw it away, or kill it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That one.
It's a bit better.
We'll keep that one going.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I know.
Like I said, it's hype.
So the next day we had YouTube channels from learning Spanish part of the day.
So this is good.
I don't actually want to learn Spanish, want to learn Polish, want to learn Dutch, want
to learn Polish, and I could do my brushing up on my Irish.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, yeah.
I, I quite like to learn French properly, but otherwise, it's fine, Dave, you're not going
to be allowed out anymore.
You're stuck in that island.
Yes.
Yes.
For real.
Yes.
Back in the day.
Do you want to read R&B's?
Yes, I will.
And he comments on listening to Twitch podcasts.
He says, how I listen to the Twitch network podcast, many MP3 players and podcast apps
on your phone, have us, have a sleep timer, getting an easy chair, lean it all the way
back, cover up nice and cozy, turn your volume down just until just before you can't understand
what they're talking about, set the sleep timer for about 12 minutes, my podcasting app
will turn the volume down even more the last 30 seconds.
So it's not on the brunt chat of, are you ready for the best nap if that in a long time?
My MP3 player is an old Moto E3.
He says, exactly.
That's why we were asked to hitch your theme to the end just to wake up, wake up, wake up.
Yes.
Yes.
Indeed.
Yes.
Yes.
Indeed.
DNS 66.
You random random.
I talk about DNS 66 and go over some comments from the you random episodes.
And Taj says, mission accomplished, the you random podcasts, sprawling HPR episodes and
seamless promotions simultaneously since 2021, seriously, no, great job.
I have a much better understanding of DNS 66 after I listen to this.
Good job.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I like this show very much.
I thought he was, he said, oh, I'm just doing this off the cuff or something to that
effect.
Yet it seemed to be really insightful and full of full of information.
So I found that fairly quite fascinating.
Yep.
Very, very good tattoo sent us in one about tuned D and I remember I was on a bike doing
this one who's about power performance for laptops and scripts that he had for said.
I think does that link right now or not?
Oh, that's a good question.
Yeah.
Just in 2014.
Just, yeah, yeah, yeah, I did try that.
I completely forgot to then follow up and say, do anything about the failure of it.
Yeah.
Certainly for the last time.
Yeah, I was going to suggest we look at the way back machines if that's got a better
link.
I completely forgot.
No.
Too soft.
So on the 28th, we had another one from Klatu, an alternative internet you never knew existed.
And a non-brief introduction to open Nick, the open and democratic domain name and number
registry.
And I was thinking to myself, what's preventing somebody from registering a domain that's
already on the internet, on the main, yeah, main DNS and the existing DNS and then overriding
this.
So like my bank.com, what's our is openly allowed to do my, you know, calm domain names or do
they have to be ones that are not registered on the on the general generic DNS?
Well, otherwise, I thought this was interesting.
When I looked, I briefly looked at it at the website for it.
And they seemed, this is my reading of it, which may be wrong, but they manage a subset
of TLDs, effectively, they're not, they're not three less anymore, but that is specific
to them, you know, like Doc Geek was the one that I remember.
So presumably, only they have access to that, that TLD, but I don't know, I don't know.
Yeah, but then why don't they, if that was the case, then they could register that as being
the owners on the main DNS keys for those, you know, republics that they're the owners
for those are, I need to look up this more because I actually like the idea, I do like
the idea of just putting up a domain name.
Yeah, yeah, it would be, it would be fun to do something like that, and it seems a lot
less hassle than the, the other route.
I was quite taking with it, but I didn't have time to, I'm clean in my attic, by the way.
I was my daughter, that was my daughter just coming, coming in there to give me, to go
and do some stuff for me.
So, yeah, she's on my, you owe me a short list of other folks.
She's never done a standalone show, yeah, I've chatted to her on nature, but yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, when she gets a job, you might, I don't know, I shouldn't say anything like
that, should I, could say, I'm not committing my daughter to anything, she'd commit herself
to stuff.
Exactly.
But, yeah, and also, I'd be worried that if you had a, like on this open nick thing, you
had like a dog, a Ken dog geek, a domain name, and then somebody with a big, a big wallet
decides to set up the dog geek on their domain, you know, on the main DNS and pay the,
I can for a entry there, and then, certainly all your domains now are being rerouted to
somebody else, so the trust that was built up, yeah.
That's something that I didn't feel was addressed, and look forward to glad to addressing
those in the next show on the topic.
Yes, yes, yes, it's intriguing, but it does sound like a great idea, and well with digging
deeper, I think.
Yes, so the following day, we had podcast recommendations.
It's actually in privacy and security, I'm wondering, should it be in podcast recommendations?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, design issues here, yes, I think it's my turn, isn't it?
That's pretty cool.
So we have a message from Zoak, who says, grr, I assume that's how you pronounce that.
Well, no, I have to do.
Well, no, I have to do a reply episode on my favourite info-seq podcast, he says, so,
yeah.
Excuse me, sorry for talking into the microphone there.
I think he just stood up and waved his hand in our general direction, so expecting a
show any moment now.
Get out of my list here.
And that was Tray's second episode for a call.
Yeah, yeah.
It was.
It was great.
Well, he's pressed all the buttons there, Dave.
Yeah, and I made the notes in my notes here that I really liked the way he did the episode,
both of his episodes are really well done, actually, so good for him.
Excellent.
And the following day, which was still in the fourth month, which is April, we have games
and rules talking about the conundrum of rules, light and rules, heavy game systems, which
had to rules, trust or competition, pick two.
This was an interesting, an interesting insight into how you can do tabletop game, which,
since I've started learning more about tabletop game, realized that it's just an excuse to wrap
mats in a story.
Probably, yes, yes, it's a very interesting, it's intriguing, yes, yes, but it's a popular
thing, so it's good, that's good.
Okay, I think that was it, if I'm not mistaken, that is it, yes, what do we do now, Dave?
Well, there's some comments from previous shows that we could do.
We could do that, yes.
There was, shall I start this one off, there was a comment on a hooker's show talking
about audacity and brother mouse, who's a name from long ago in HBR time history, says
I use socks in Linux scripts to automate stuff like speeding up audio, removing long periods
of silence, et cetera, and there's an example of how you might use socks to change the
speed of a piece of audio, which is cool.
Yes, that's part of the HBR Transcould script, in actual fact.
Yes, I learned how to do this from my show that you did some time ago, I didn't do this
all the time to, to my, to a lot of my podcasts, speed them up a bit, not too fast, because
my brain is old and doesn't go that fast, but yeah, it's amazing to use them.
I'm looking around the room here, because there's mosquitoes, and I need to send them to
a better place.
Rome says, and this was a relationship spam bot honeypot, which was a show by Rome, and
RTSN says, nice, very interesting episode, I didn't know about this technique, I guess there
is an irony in that by publishing the spam bot makers might eventually get round to
implementing ways to defeat this in the long one, would love a follow-up episode on this,
how it worked out all the time and such, keep up the good fight, and thanks for the episode.
Very good. Then we had a show by operator on the Kerbal Space Program game, and Aaron B said,
have you seen XKCD about Kerbal, and he gives a link to the XKCD comic, which I looked at,
but I'm afraid I forgot about it.
Earlier, so it's like a graph that goes from the bottom slowly up and down and up and down,
and then shoots up. So it starts, it took high school physics, it goes up a bit, got a physics
degree, it goes up and kind of levels off, actual job, but now it kind of goes up and then
tears off and goes down, started playing Kerbal Space Program, and it shoots up, and it says,
how well I understand orbital mechanics.
That's great, that's great. I listened to a few astronomy podcasts, and I heard people on
there talking about Kerbal Space Program, and how much, what an insight it gives you to that,
that's that particular subject, you know, why would this asteroid or spacecraft or
piece of space debris do the thing that it does? Oh well, yes, you should check it out on Kerbal Space
Program, you might well see. So yeah, I'm intrigued by that.
Now that there's a comment here, I'm just mentioning this because my algorithm said that you
would have read that last week, because it was last month, because it came out before the show
last week, but I don't know, does that ring a bell with you? Should we read it anyway?
I read it anyway, sure. So tell me to do it. Yeah, for sure. Brian O'Hioh shows on
Slackware on Raspberry Pi, Zen Flotus says Bravo, an excellent show, so someday I would try and put
Slackware 13 on my older Chromebook. So if you go to just on that previous comment, I realize a lot
of people might not be of our visual impaired listeners and hosts. If you go to www.explainxkcd.com,
they give you a transcript of every single xkcd image, making it completely accessible,
and then be able to explain it. So it's sometimes his stuff is very, very deep, and I need to go there
and follow up. They have also an RSS feed, so I usually view the xkcd comic first, and then
a few days later they'll come out with an explained version, and then you can get that there.
So that's amazing. Oh yeah, yeah, I'm definitely going with that one. That sounds great.
So let's have a look. This month's comments we've already covered, and then we go to the mail list
quite, quite a month on the mail and the mail. Oh god. PDF files. Kevin O'Brien said,
Kevin mentioned wanting PDF files first tutorials I've done while the ultimate solution may
require some work. I made a stopgap solution to install a WordPress plugin and put a button on
each page that says save as PDF. It works pretty well, but it does put a watermark on each page as
demo. I'll figure out something better at some point, but anybody who wants a PDF can get one
now, just using in the show notes to get the page URL, and look at the bottom of the page for the
blog post, and you've got a permed address page for post. My lovely range plan is to have a book
for the collection of tutorials such as LibreOfficeWider as one book, LibreOfficeCalk as another,
game puts the turbulence on, and I'll probably get an episode out of that process.
So this is me again. I would be very disappointed to Kevin if you didn't.
Yes, yes.
Clot2 replies to that by pointing out another method using curl to grab the HTML,
putting it through PANDOC to convert from HTML to mark that, then doing some said magic on it,
and generating PDF out the end of it. So if you know enough of a PANDOC and CSS,
you could apply any number of styles during the PDF processing, he says otherwise the default
formatting is pretty nice. That's a cool answer. Yeah, Yirun says who's been known to convert stuff
in this day. I'd be more than happy to convert any material to ask Yidok, and thus be able to
generate HTML, PDF, ePoke files. Also, the source can be get controlled, says Yirun.
Yeah, me again here. I was thinking actually because I've run into the same, I've run into a problem
on my own WordPress blog, and this is presumably Kevin's hosted one, and presumably he has access
to the database. And I've been looking at options there to take the database and basically export it
from HTML, from the WordPress HTML into Markdown. So if I have only success at that,
then it will be a show at some point, sleep 20 days, 20 days, 20 years.
Yeah, yeah, it's interesting subject, a very interesting subject.
Should I say that I've been chatting with Andrew Conway about this subject, who is the author of
a book, which is currently available on Amazon, called How Scotland Works, which has been produced
through Markdown and PDF and stuff. And we've done a couple of shows recorded, but not yet ready,
talking about what he's done, and me talking about some of the stuff I've been planning to do
and stuff. So since me, there's a whole area of discussion that one could have across the
whole of HBR about how people are doing this sort of thing, and I'm sure I know this a lot of
expertise in this area. Excellent, there was a call for shows, there continues to be a call for
shows because we need shows all the time. 266 shows a year, guys, 260 shows a year.
And then there was an article by head or adora. Yeah, adora, perhaps I would
pronounce it yet. And I want to go to read the first part, the first one in the thread for reasons,
we will just explain later. And I said a nice article on HBR about HBR with a valid question
at the end and a link to the post. So the post is still available, a link will be in show notes.
And the reason we are not covering the rest of the discussion is because the discussion isn't
over as yes. And if you are involved, if you are a member of the HBR community, but you are
by listening to this, you read the article and follow on the thread, excuse me, that's listed
in the show notes. And feel free to give your comments on some of the fundamental philosophies
and ideologies behind HBR. And once all that's done, Dave and I will record another show in a
week or two and submit that as a HBR show in its entirety, reading everybody's comments individually,
possibly even with funny accents, Dave. That's what I always do. What are you talking about?
Yes. Yes. Then we had the digest ones are related to that article. And then we have the community
news, which is kind of pointless now because you are too late. And then we have tattoos on you,
what do we do? Alright, just click on it. Excuse me, during May, the HBR RPG Club is going to play
stalking the Night Fantastic, an X-Files or Avengers, British one, Style Game, created and set
in 1983. This is a game of intrigue, investigation with some lovecraft in horror elements,
nothing you wouldn't find in a 1930s story. Note says Clare2, I run games that are
aren't the all ages, but if you have concerns or triggers, you want to alert me off ahead of time,
please do email me privately. This is just a game, so I'm happy to avoid topics you don't find fun.
As always, you, yes, you are invited to this game, whether you have experience with a tabletop
role playing games or not. When an inclusive group whose main goal is to have fun and make friends,
and there's details about the date and time, and there's comments here a bit about stalking
the Night Fantastic. This is an obscure one. It was published with plastic spiral binding back in
83 and has the arguably conky mechanics you might expect from a game developed only a few years
after the medium of RPGs was invented. We will build characters together during the first game
session. I'm attaching some photos of my copy just for the sake of its old school charm.
Yeah, links don't seem to work.
Mailman does this wonderful thing where it says, oh, we've got attachments on this,
may I will just remove them for you, but I think the, I think the men, well, they see the images,
I'll write it. It's fine if you look at the message, you can't, but when you look at the
the stuff in the archive, you can't see it. I'm looking at the archive, so yeah.
I was recently on one of those, and she was very interested in quite a lot of fun, I must say,
but I will skip this one. You know what I miss? I actually think I would love to have
more of these games, the games actually on HBO, that will be nice.
They're quite fun to listen to, aren't they? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
What else? Let's go back. What are we doing then?
We're probably too early for events in the events calendar. I haven't actually looked at it.
Yeah, nothing much can be up. Everything's online anyway, so you can do it there.
Mm-hmm. Any other business? Yeah, do you do the first one? I'll do the next one.
Okay, booth kit update. The FSF Europe has sent us a selection of stickers and leaflets to add to our
booth kits. Yeah, so booth kits for those of you who are not aware, we have a kit in the US,
and we've got a kit in the UK and another one here in the Netherlands, kind of spread over, I think.
And basically it contains stickers, HDR stickers and posters and banners and the like,
that if we're ever going to open their events or events, I don't know, Ham Fess or Linux Fess or
that barcams and that sort of thing, if they ever start up again, then we can go as HDR and
represent the community of free open source podcasting. And the next one is posting anonymously,
saying as it came up, how you can post anonymously to HDR is as simple as going to open a
open download tour browser, which actually I've started using Dave to start reading new sites
because it is impossible to turn off cookies on new sites. So I'm using that now instead.
Anyway, sign up for a temporary email address and I put in a link to some disposable email
address sites on Wikipedia. You click, get a confirmation email and post as normal, post as you
would normally, but you can also add a notice to us to say you're posting this anonymously.
So that's that. Just call it call call your user anonymous user and then the email address
will be email address. Yeah. So my two topics are the, what I'm calling older,
HPR shows on archive.org. And so back in the day, I think I've been doing archive.org
uploads since, but 2014, so that seemed likely. But anyway, it's a long time. So part of what I
would been doing was to go backwards and upload older HPR shows. But I got a bit stalled with that
and it's been, the project's been queer for a few years. I upload the new ones as they become
available. But so the shows between 1 and 870 have not been uploaded to archive.org prior to
last month. There were some that were uploaded in the early days, but they were uploaded as
a couple of batches. They didn't have any notes or anything, just the audio. So what I've been doing
includes the audio, obviously, and also the notes and any other files, pictures, and that sort of
stuff. However, I started the old show project that I'm calling it, this month or last month,
after having to write some new software to manage it. And I should say it's not written down here,
but there's a question from Clackay asking, why is show blah blah blah not on archive.org?
Oh, yeah, right. Okay. Time to kick somebody up the back side and make it to make it work. And I
did a self-kicked. So since that point, I've actually managed to upload 65 shows in that range.
So we've done everything from 800 to 870 since restarted the project. And that includes the notes
and the range of audio formats that we use for current shows. So we have the Flack, the MP3,
the org, etc. All properly tagged as all. And indeed, indeed, yes, we'll make it a big fuss about
the tag. So we don't want to upload shows that don't have summaries and tags. So the two projects
of tags and uploads are tied together. So we'll be all the more welcoming of contributions to the tag
summary project, which is the next topic I'll get to in a minute. And I plan to report the numbers
uploaded each month in the AOB section of the community news. And just in case you're not aware,
you can find shows on the archive.org by going to, and there's a URL here in which ends with
HPR 08404 show 840. So leading zeros are irrelevant. So there you go.
Excellent. And that had me thinking about, because about some topic that has been brought to our
attention about bringing older shows to the attention of people, because we've been,
those 15 years of shows in there. And how do we, I don't know what, what do we do, 15 years of shows.
And I guess a lot of them are still valid. And Clack was clacky mentioned that there was no
the community news show only goes back 10 years, only goes back 10 years since I started helping out.
So before that, we didn't have community news. So I don't know, should we release another feed
starting as episode one of today with a techie and run us in parallel and then do another community
news show, balls reviewing the shows from today with a techie the all the way up.
Wow. Yes. We'll be of interest to hackers. That is the question. That's a very good question.
And would you like to volunteer for doing the, the other question? Exactly.
It's, yeah, it's another, it's another way of exposing shows, because I don't really want to put it
in all shows into the HPR feed. We may have done this once or twice. I think we did it in memory of,
well, we may have done it in the past on occasion, but it's not, you know, HPR
it's, it's supposed to be new content for, I'm not rehashing all shows.
So it's, it's a typical one in, in as much as things do go out of date. And, you know,
I, in the process of looking at adding tags and stuff, I came across one of the shows recently,
which is a, I can't remember what it's called, a little bit of Python or something.
There was a quite interesting, actually, but they were, they were, there was an interview with
somebody in the Python world about certain libraries and stuff. And when you go looking,
they have been effectively discarded. They, they've vanished with that trace, you know. So
historically, it's fascinating, but, you know, it's, um, you maybe he don't have enough time to
spend on, on that, that sort of history. But on the other hand, listening to Mr Gadgets,
who is a prolific to a computer for a while, some of his history, because he, he, he goes way back,
listening to some of his chat about his history and, in computing and what he's, what he's done
and so forth, and his opinions on things, I find really fascinating. I do enjoy listening to them.
So, you know, there's, there's, there's gems there. I'm sure other people who listen back in time
to the old choice would have other, other suggestions in that regard. So, yeah. And so, I mean,
where do you start? Do you go back and do all they, um, bin rev radio ones? And then if you're
doing that, do you go back to the radio freak America, which is, uh, uh, Lord, they used to go back
every year and, uh, and really listen to those. And some of them, like the really speak to what
HPR was all about. They, you know, everything has changed and nothing has changed, you know,
over years. So, if there is somebody who would, who, well, would you subscribe to, uh, a, a feed like
that, uh, do we go back and do we include, well, we do include today, but to take it because
this is the same project. But will we go back and include bin rev and include, uh, RFA,
start with RFA, bin rev, to David, to take a HPR, infinoma, computer, club, if we can still find them.
And then review them once again. Yeah. Yeah. All of interest, I'm sure, but, yeah, but for different
reasons than originally, but, yeah, but quite fascinating. Yeah. Yeah. So just, uh, just to say,
final point in the A or B tags and summaries, I contributed some tags this, um, this past month,
and Windigo, Windigo, as usual, added some to the, uh, to the pool. And we, between us, we managed
to, uh, tags and summaries to 23 shows, which is quite good. Very good. And, um, it must be spring,
uh, something like that. There are now 384 shows which need attention. I mean, I decided to put
that number in notes just to, to bring it to people's attention. So the bread was 500 or so,
not too long ago. So we're getting that. Do you have a, um, do you have a, a, the word,
an SQL query for that? Actually, um, yes. Okay. Oh, indeed. Yes, yes, yes, indeed. Because then,
we could put a feed off random HVR shows from that pool. But what's been tagged, you mean,
or something like that? But what hasn't been tagged to start? Ah, yes, yes. In the, in the,
in the interest of going back and listening to all the shows, um, yeah, I could put a,
a feed-ups as he volunteering himself for work.
You might want to listen to that. Yeah, but you don't want to give everybody the same,
the same one, Dave. No, no, no, no, there would be a collision that you would need to, uh,
randomize it somehow. Yeah, I think we need to think a little bit about this one,
but I like the idea. Okay. Yeah. All the righty. Anything else? No, that's it. No,
this wasn't a controversial one. I don't know what it was. I'm expecting lots of comments,
lots of comments. All right, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the
Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
