Episode: 3745
Title: HPR3745: Pinecil walkthrough
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3745/hpr3745.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:52:33

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,745 for Friday the 9th of December 2022.
Today's show is entitled Pindsle Walkthrough.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 9 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is details of the Pindsle Sottering Iron Menu with a secret menu.
Hello, this is Archer 72.
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
I'd like to encourage anybody listening to try their hand-up podcasting if they haven't
contributed already.
It doesn't have to always be technical.
It could be how do you make coffee or how you roast beans for coffee or how to make the
best eggs in the world.
It doesn't have to be a very long episode.
Mine was only a minute or it could be about 50 minutes long like in our seas, but then
again he has a lot more information to convey.
Whatever it is, we'd like to hear from you.
In this episode I go over the menus in the Pindsle, which is already in second generation.
Pindsle is a risk-feed powered, open and versatile sottering iron.
It can be powered via USB, C, PD, as well as a DC5525 jack and runs community-developed
software.
Moreover, it is compatible with popular TS100 tips, all this and half the price of
the competitor competition.
The version is shown by having a long press on the minus button.
The version in this one is v2.18.a1a569a dated the 17th of July 2022.
The menu is divided into power settings, sottering settings, sleep mode, user interface and
advanced settings.
Under power settings, you can set the power source, it's defaulted at 10 DC 10 volts.
You can set this for each cell.
Next is the QC voltage.
I have it set at 20 volts, which is a quick charge voltage, and this is stated as max
QC voltage that iron should negotiate for, and the range is 9 to 22 volts.
Next is PD timeout, defaulting at 20, and it's listed as the PD negotiation timeout
in 100ms for compatibility with some QC chargers.
The range is 1 to 50 seconds or off.
Next, heading is the sottering settings.
Boost temperature is 400 degrees Celsius, 410 degrees Celsius.
Tip temperature is listed.
This is stated as tip temperature used in, quote, boost mode.
And the range is 10 to 450 degrees in Fahrenheit Celsius in increments of 10.
Next setting, startup behavior, default is 0, 0 is off, s is heat up to sottering temp,
z is standby at sleep temperature until moved, r is standby without heating until moved.
Next setting, temperature change short, default is 1, listed as temperature change increment
on short button press, the range is 1 to 50.
Next setting, temperature change long, default is 10, temperature change increment on short
button press, the range, 5 to 90 in increments of 5.
Next setting, allow locking buttons, default is D for disable, B is for boost mode, and
F is for full locking.
The description is while sottering hold down both buttons to toggle locking them.
Next heading is sleep mode, subheading is motion sensitivity, default of 7, 0 equals
off, 1 equals least sensitive, and 9 equals most sensitive.
Next setting is sleep temp, default at 110 degrees, and tip temperature while in, quote,
sleep mode, range is 10 to 300.
Next setting, sleep temp out, default of 50 seconds, is the interval before quote sleep mode
kicks in, s equals seconds, m equals minutes, range is 10 seconds to 50 seconds, or 1 minute
to 10 minutes, or off.
Next setting, shutdown time out, 10 minutes, is the default, it's the interval before
the iron shuts down, m equals minutes, range, 1 minute to 60 minutes, or off, under the
user interface heading.
The first setting is temperature unit, which defaults to Celsius, and you can also set it
to Fahrenheit.
Under display orientation, it's default to right-handed, it also has the option of left-handed
or automatic.
Next setting is cooldown flashing, it's a checkbox, flash the temperature reading after
heating was halted when the tip is still hot.
Next setting, scrolling speed, is default s for slow, and it's listed as speed info
text rolls past at s equals slow and f equals fast.
Next heading is swap the plus and minus key, which is a checkbox, and this reverses a
assignment of buttons for temperature adjustment.
Next setting is animation speed, default medium, and it's the pace of the icon animations
in the menu.
Zero is off, s is slow, m is medium, f is fast.
Next setting is animation loop, and that's a checkbox, and it's loop icon animations in
the menu menu.
Next item in the menus is it's a brightness icon, and defaults to four, and adjust the
brightness of the OLED screen.
Next setting is an invert icon, it's a checkbox, you invert the colors of the OLED screen.
Next setting is boot logo duration, default to one second, sets the duration of the boot
logo s equals seconds, range is one to four seconds, or infinite, or off.
The next setting is detailed idle screen, which is a checkbox, and this sets it to display
detailed information in a smaller font on the idle screen, and the last setting is detailed
on the side of the screen, checkbox, display detailed information in a smaller font on
the soldering screen.
The last setting is advanced settings, the first setting is power limit, and I have it set
to 35 watts, default was off, this sets the maximum power the iron can use with W e-coling
watts, the range is off, or zero to 95 watts, and increments of five.
Next setting is reset factory settings, and it resets all settings to default.
The next setting is calibrate temperature, and allows you to start temperature offset
calibration.
Next setting is calibrate input voltage, and it starts voltage input calibration, long
press to exit.
Next setting is power pulse, default at 0.5, sets the intensity of power of keep awake
pulse in watts, the range is 0.1 to 9.9, or off.
The next setting is power pulse delay, default of four, and it is the delay before keep
awake pulse is triggered, times 2.5 seconds, and the range is one to nine.
The final setting is power pulse duration, default of one, and it is the keep awake pulse
duration, times 250 milliseconds, and the range is one to nine.
That's all I have, feel free to leave a comment or record a show of your own.
Thank you for listening, bye bye.
You have been listening to Hecker Public Radio, at Hecker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive, and
our sings.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released on their creative comments, attribution,
4.0 international license.
