Episode: 3268
Title: HPR3268: Video Game Review - Ark Survival Evolved
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3268/hpr3268.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:56:11

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3268 for Wednesday, 10th of February 2021, today's show
is entitled Video Game Review Achse of Ivali Marveled.
It is hosted by Anigma and is about 9 minutes long and can remain an explicit flag.
The summary is Anigma Review Achse of Ivali Marveled.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
At 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honest Host.com.
Welcome to another episode of HPR, I'm your host Anigma and today we're going to be
doing a quick video game review of a game I've been playing for several years now but
it's still a very valuable game with the pretty rodbrost community.
It's called Arc Survival Evolved.
This game is from Wildcard Studios and it was released in 2017.
Actually there was a beta that was a little further back so I've been playing since
I think the 2016 timeframe and it's for, well it was released originally for the PC but
it also has ports for both the Xbox and the PS4.
You can also play it on the newer consoles, the Xbox X and the PS5.
It is the, it uses the Unreal Engine 4 and it's also included on the Xbox One with
Game Pass and that's how I'm playing it currently.
So this game is an open world survival game.
Players contain ride, dinosaurs and other creatures.
There are 176 different creatures than Habit the Arc.
So there's a lot of variety on what you can do on the Arc and it's pretty open and
there's no real story that drives you.
There's some objectives, quest objectives, things like that but you're pretty much left
to your server or your own choices as to what you do.
Some players like to build a lot.
I'm more of a Pokemon catcher, you know, got to catch them all thing and I have a vast
on my server I have a vast array of different dinos that are used for different things.
And the dinos have special abilities so some are our gatherer, some are meant for combat
and some are meant for just like harvesting resources and such like that.
Also there's some non-taimable creatures like boss creatures and things like that.
So if you get toward the end game objective, you'll get into the non-taimable creatures
that are meant there to give you items and or experience.
And it's an experience-based game so you basically start at level one and there's 105 levels
in the current game.
I believe it expands out to 115 if you do the ascension-based end game which is available
on the island map.
Players can wield weapons, craft armor and structures.
You basically start with caveman type weapons, stone weapons and you can move into more advanced
weapons, metal and then ultimately a tech tier which is futuristic weapons and that's
basically killing the bosses and doing the boss fights.
You unlock that.
There's also two types of gameplay, PvE or player vs environment and PvP.
There's a whole large community of PvP players and that's a different type of game.
I've primarily been playing PvE or player vs environment where I'm doing objectives
in the world and trying to get to that tech tier, ultimate end goal.
There's also unofficial and official servers.
The official servers are hosted by a wild card and they are base stats meaning there's
no modifiers.
They sometimes have world events where they'll change the modifiers like it'll be 2x taming
where it's twice as fast to tame a certain thing or 5x harvesting or so and so forth.
So they'll do events like that but it's pretty grindy on official servers.
Most of the players that I know that still play on the unofficial maps or servers and you
can basically rent servers from various hosting.
All the Xbox hosting is through Nitrido and I have actually two servers and you can cluster
servers so basically you can have multiple maps and players can jump between the different
maps.
There's 5 or 6 maps available that you can use and they just have basically different
looks and feels and different objectives and things like that so you can try them out.
Right now I'm running two servers in a cluster.
One's running the Ragnarok map which has three basically mini bosses and then your boss
fights for your tech tier and then I'm running a newer map called Crystal Isles that gives
you newer dinos.
You actually can tame some dragons or wyverns and I have a player base that likes to do
that so there's some folks that are on that server but I'm primarily on the Ragnarok
map moving through to that tech tier objectives.
Also the ability when you're talking about the unofficial servers is changing those
modifiers so you make the game a little more useful for the casual player.
It is super difficult to be a casual player on an official server either PV or PVP and
get anywhere.
So my server stats for my cluster are basically modified to where it's 12 times as fast
to tame something 8 times to basically hatch up a baby dyno and 8 times for that dyno
to grow up and then 6 times harvesting so for every pick of your axe or basically swing
of your hatch you get 6 times the resources that you would normal on an official server
which comes in handy when you're trying to build something massive or your casual player
like me that maybe gets on 3 or 4 times a week or less and plays like an hour a night
or something like that.
I'm not a 40 hour a week game player so I have my stats accordingly.
So I give these this overview and I invite anybody that's interested and has a game
pass or wants to purchase the game to come out to irc3no.net hashtag hacker exchange.
If you're interested in playing I'll give you the info for my personal server so you
can try it out give it a give it a whirl.
I'm also going to be doing more of these game reviews maybe on some older games make
some newer ones I've got I've got a couple of new ones that I'm playing as well again
I'm very casual gamer so those might come out infrequently but this also is a chance
for me to say the there is a call for shows for HBR so we are low on shows for this January
in 2021 so if you're interested in recording anything whether that be technical related
or something that's interest to hackers feel free to submit a show and you can be an
HBR correspondent and if you want to come talk to some folks hashtag Agcast Planet on free
note is another good place to go or hashtag hacker exchange I'll be there as well and
this is a short episode but have a great day guys and I'll talk to you next time.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot org and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on
the website or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show
is released under creative comments, attribution, share a life 3.0 license.
