Episode: 3785
Title: HPR3785: Hacking Boba Bubble Tapioca Pearls Fail 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3785/hpr3785.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 05:21:27

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,785 for Friday the 3rd of February 2023.
Today's show is entitled Hacking Boba Bubble Tapioca Pearls Fail.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 55 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Hacking Boba Bubble Tapioca Pearls Fail.
Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio with host Oftar E.
So let's say anyone can be talking about in the kitchen, hacking up some boba or
Tokyo Tapioca Pearls or kind of explaining that.
So if you're interested in how to do cheap tapioca pearls or cheap boba or
figuring all that out, I'm going to go on a little adventure.
So I went to Market here in Atlanta, the Buford Market that's massive.
Market, all kinds of crazy stuff in there.
And of course bubble tea is what, $8 for a fancy bubble tea place or boba.
And we got my child likes the popping boba, which is not to say the tapioca.
So that's what he likes and I got a big fat of it.
It looks like one pound or two pounds.
And it comes already pre-made.
It's already in popping boba.
So the popping boba is just an outside.
I don't even know what it's made up like a glucose, something or other.
And then it's wrapped in some kind of flavor juice, essentially.
It's just straight up sugar.
And I don't know of any way you can make these obviously because it's like a self-contained little thing.
So he likes those.
I'm keeping those, sitting those aside and I'll make him some kind of smoothie with them or something in them.
What I bought at the store was a masha, which is a kind of powder tea.
I don't even can tell you where it's supposed to come from.
But the masha is quite a mess.
It's a bit like powdered makeup eyeliner.
It feels and looks a lot like green eyeliner.
And it does operate like green eyeliner.
So I've tried masha and I like it.
It's kind of easy to prepare and it's very small footprint.
But it's a mess.
And if you get a tiny little, you know, a powder somewhere, it just explodes and goes all over the place.
And you get, you turn green, your fingers are green, anything you touch turns green.
You know, same thing with like oatmeal and like things like applesauce for whatever reason.
So I've got this, when grabbed this kit, with basically like for kids.
It's a boba kit.
And essentially what it has is it looks like a powdered milk.
And of course all the ingredients are, you know, all the boxes, all different language, right?
But this one is mostly English.
Actually, this is all English.
J-basket.
So the milk tea is, this is masha milk tea powder, which might have some powdered milk in there.
And it has some masha in there, which is the powdered tea.
Now, it's got mostly sugar in the powder.
It is 72% and 36 grams added sugar.
So this is like straight up solid sugar powder with maybe some little bit of milk powder in it.
If I had a guess.
Now the boba is your traditional black or dark boba or boba that's been sweetened with.
This doesn't have a lot, but they'll do brown sugar to kind of give it some flavor.
Or else it ends up being, tastes like nothing.
So that's your traditional tapioca, which is apparently some kind of tapioca.
If you've ever had tapioca pudding, same thing that's in boba.
Made from tuber of the casa plant.
So that's tapioca.
And I've always liked it.
And I've always liked boba.
We're bubble tea, whatever.
There's another thing called SAGO, which is SAGO.
And that's different.
It's made from the pith of SAGO palm trees using sweetened savory dishes, including pudding.
So I don't know the difference between the two, but I think the tapioca pearls or tapioca balls,
as what they'll call them, boba is more popular.
So I got a bit old, what is this?
The pound of dry, completely dry tapioca flour, water.
14 ounces.
And I tried cooking it, and I didn't read the directions, or cook it anything online.
Now these are hard rock hard.
They're called tapioca pearls.
This is made by Bill's and Flowers brand, which comes up on the internet.
They are extremely hard.
I mean, you can hear me tapping them on the ground.
It's like a ball of rice.
Now these are hard to cook.
It's really, cooks a lot like rice.
You can overcook it.
You can undercook it.
You can kind of room in it.
So with this set, I went through this entire bag of 14 ounces.
I've got maybe another, this looks like three ounces, four ounces, if that.
I've got a little bit of that left, and this is the hard stuff.
So, essentially what you do is you cook it, and then you cook it with water,
let it boil up, and you cook it about halfway.
And they're white and hard on the outside when you get it.
I guess they're kind of compressed in a solid.
And what you want to see is these solid tapioca pearls.
You don't want the ones that are all broken up, because then you won't have perfect little circles.
So what happens with these is the first time I cooked them, I didn't read the directions.
I literally was there for like 45 minutes to an hour, waiting for them to cook,
and I just figured, you know, I'd make up the, make up of the rules as I went along.
And then of course I realized you cooked them, let them set, rinse them out, rinse them off,
and kind of a cool, cool water, rinse them off, let them sit from, you know,
anywhere that looks like, anywhere from like four hours to overnight,
you're basically trying to let the, I guess, the idea is you're letting the,
the tapioca absorb some of the moisture on the outside.
So you end up with a hard core, and then the outside is the clear.
And when you're, at the end, you want a clear, perfectly circular object when you're done.
And it's supposed to be jelly, like not too hard.
What I ended up with was too loose. So anyways, I cooked them, the first time I cooked them,
I didn't cook them right, and I tossed them, tossed them out.
The second time I read the directions and watched the videos.
And I overcooked them the first time, and if you overcooked them,
the hard core will crack in the middle.
And you'll end up with a gross, it'll be fine.
But then when you go to cook it the second time after you've cooled it for four hours,
I think it's really four hours or so.
I was actually getting good results after just letting it sit for four hours
and after cleaning it, cooking it the first time.
So that, what happened the second time I made it, is that I overcooked it the first time,
and I guess the inside core will kind of crack from getting too, too hot.
And you don't want that, because then when you cook it the second time,
it starts splitting apart, and you have no pearls, you just have chunks of jelly shit.
So you want that, to cook it right, the first time, let it sit, rinse it out.
I use a mesh, a wire mesh, that I use for rice to rinse the starch off of rice,
and since it's essentially what this is, it's kind of like a flower starch compressed starch.
They have tutorials online how to make your own, but we're not even going to try to do that.
But that's what I ended up with this, that's kind of what the couple of things started,
was my wife giving me these tapioca pearls and going down a rabbit hole.
So I ended up coming back.
Let me jump back to this kit.
This kit has boba already in it, with the looks like brown sugar, the traditional brown sugar.
And we're going to throw it in the microwave, what it says, for 45 seconds after mixing it up with hot water.
Alright, so we've cooked this, or heated it up, essentially again.
I guess the purpose of heating it up again is to maybe break apart these tapioca pearls that are already kind of glued together.
So now we've got kind of this warm, gooey, berry-sick, not very thick, but pretty thick, watch out.
Nope thing.
It's pretty sweet, but not as sweet as I thought, for 75, like 30 whatever grandish sugar.
36 grandish sugar.
So, so we're going to dump this in a nice, one of those getty stuff, but I would use the off-brand,
Walmart brand of vacuum things, work, work, work trail, or whatever they call it.
They're good, the thing about buying the off-brand, vacuum seal things, you got to watch the tops.
The lids are the key.
You got to go through and make sure the, um, Ozark?
Is it Ozark? Jesus, hold on.
Yeah, there's not even any markings on this thing. I think it's Ozark Trail, but you got to check the lids.
So when you go buy them a Walmart, pull the lid off, make sure you got a good seal,
um, because what'll happen is you get the lid and you get home and it doesn't have that seal on there.
So, I use, uh, yetty cup, I found them in the street.
Um, if you can buy a pack of silicone, uh, bubble tea straws or the big thick straws, those are great, they're reusable.
You don't have to waste plastic.
We keep all our straws and kind of use them as much as we can until we get rid of them, especially the big thick ones, for shakes and stuff.
So, anyways, I'm going to pour this in with some ice and spare you the, the noise of them.
Alright, so we've got our ice and freezer.
I don't have a feed going to the freezer ice.
I have one or two, but my wife won't let me.
We have our versatile osmosis system, which you can get those for.
I think I did, uh, I think I did a HPR on it, but you can get those for like 300 bucks.
And then you just buy the filters and make sure you buy the right filters or right microns.
It's kind of a mess, but I'm pouring this in here.
I'm going to put a crap ton of extra water in here.
I don't like really sweet juices or teas.
So I'm going to pour fair amount of water in this guy.
I mean, uh, it's overpriced.
It's called J-Basket.
It's up at the, again, Farmer's Market.
Some of this boba is actually floating, which is interesting.
I might get pockets of air in it.
So what else I have here is, so I've got mocks up powder, green tea powder.
It's pretty expensive, but then a little bit goes a long way.
This one's in a weird pull top can.
I actually couldn't find any more at the market.
There's probably a different question or a different section that has more choices.
Um, but it's, it's not cheap, but it, it gives you a lot goes a long way.
That's why I was saying it's very compact.
So this little tiny can will last forever.
Um, you can buy like fancy, much stirring devices.
I just use like a plastic fork or something that's like a whisk-esque type of thing.
If you try to use a spoon or something you would logically think would work.
And no, it's a powdery, very thin, powdery mess, and it tends to kind of clump up.
So you want it dark, you want to kind of blend it.
Old school, if you remember, none of you.
The old school, um, what was the blenders they used to give you with the,
the slim fast was the little hand, little hand blenders.
That would actually kind of be the way to do it if you wanted to do it electronically.
But just an old fork that's kind of whisky.
Um, I use that to stir up the matcha.
But the other ones I have here are these interesting, about two different kinds.
Green tea flavor, tapioca pearl, which it sluts.
It's a five, these are five minute tapioca pearls.
Um, this green tea one is same thing.
On the outside, it has a powder, which I'm assuming is kind of like the flavoring of it.
I'm taking a sparse one, it's going to be a guar gum, green tea powder.
So they put green tea powder on the outside.
They, they half cook the tapioca, right, to a mushy kind of state, almost.
Um, it's still spongy.
So it's almost like they half cook it.
And then, uh, or maybe they have some kind of process to whatever.
And then they let it dry to probably pretty hard.
And then they, uh, they put their powder, one of their flavoring is on the outside of it.
And then you're supposed to put it in a room.
I can't even read these directions.
Okay, um, they got directions on here.
Two, three minutes, whatever.
So it's a boil.
Uh, one cup tapioca.
Add tapioca slowly boiling.
Hot pot.
Stir.
Uh, floats of water.
And then you put this powder, it cooked to two, three minutes turn off.
And simmer on another two, three minutes.
Just soft tapioca to personal taste.
So yeah, um, the longer you cook this guy, the more mushy it's going to get.
So I have a very small, not a very small, but eight ounce bag here.
And then this massive two pound, uh, chunk of the tapioca.
I would imagine if you buy the hard tapioca, you get a lot more for your bang for your buck.
What you're buying when you buy the five minute is you're buying time.
And then you're buying the, uh, water.
Essentially, yeah, tapioca starts water.
So mostly, most of what you're buying is water.
Tapioca starts water.
Um, so you're buying pretty, pretty quick.
Uh, it's just like instant rice, essentially, both of us.
So we're going to do that here in a second.
Uh, first, I'm going to actually buy, which happens with most of the normal size tapioca pearls.
These silicon straws are too big or too small.
So you've got to, I don't know how to check the gauge of a straw before you buy it,
but you want to make sure you get maybe you can have like boba, silicon boba tea straw or something.
Um, so if I do get into that, I'll get some more thicker straws because, um,
this straw is too short for my yeti cup.
Um, so it looks like an idiot shoving my face inside of a cup.
Um, it's good.
Uh, the tapioca pearls, the first were still warm.
So you want to let it sit and get kind of ice cold.
Um, it's pretty spot on.
Uh, the bubble is a little, little mushy from my face.
If you go to a fancy place, it won't be as mushy.
But for, at home, things, something fun to do with the kids, if you like it,
kids love it, I love it.
Um, it's good stuff.
So I'm going to fire up something.
I'm going to use these, uh, color tapioca pearls, rainbow boba hot train chow,
which I guess is, um, let me see the company.
Oh, E F A brand, big red, big red outside, labeling.
Um, so I'm going to try these color tapioca pearls, which don't have any flavor.
It's, uh, starch, uh, starch.
They just put starch in the outside.
Um, weird.
So anyways, uh, I guess to keep them from sticking together, because they're wet.
You're buying water.
So they put the tapioca, they have cooked it, and then they let it dry,
and then they put the, I'll bet they put the, uh, the, the starch on.
They probably got like a corn flour or a corn starch to, but they keep it.
I'm assuming once you open one of these, there's a, there's a timer.
So we got two pounds of tapioca pearls that go through pretty quickly.
I'm actually going to try to eat one of these, uh, or at least put them in my mouth.
Um, it does have tons of starch on the outside.
Alright, it is like, uh, chewing, uh, if you've ever, well,
if you've ever bit down on a high bounce ball,
it's a little chewier than that.
A hard chewier.
And they look, yeah, it's just like the first time you cook it.
Inside, the inside is a hard white substance.
So this is first time around cooked tapioca pearls.
So at this point, you've saved yourself, uh, four hours, give or take, five hours, um, of work.
So if you want to save yourself five hours of work, or wait time,
um, it's really, um, 15 minutes of work, 20 minutes of work.
Um, you get the, the ready in five minutes.
But it's still, again, I wonder how long these are going to last when they're sitting out.
They're vacuum sealed.
So once you, whatever, you're on a timer, you can actually reuse your do not eat packets.
I have a good pound, if not pound and a half of the do not eat packets.
Um, make sure there are four food or the right kind.
Uh, but a lot, a lot of times you'll get big piece of fresh or something like that.
Um, you know, you're not supposed to use those for food.
Um, but I think I got a massive pack from like a piece of furniture or something like that.
And, um, what you can do is rinse them.
And I'm talking about the do not eat packets, uh, that's the silicon, uh, the silicon, dry silicon, silica.
Um, they have carbon ones, so be, be careful.
They don't accidentally dump your carbon ones in with your, whatever they'll have to pick them out forever.
So anyways, that's how you, uh, reuse your, your dry, your silica packs.
So just start collecting them.
You'll be surprised how fast they'll get like a pound of the silica packs if you just start keeping an eye out for them.
Um, so what I'll do is I'll probably put them in a, uh, uh, bag with some of the, um, the silica packets I've got.
And you can, you cook them in them oven for about, like one, one 25 something.
Um, if they're from like a piece of furniture or they smell fun or they smell like boxes or whatever, because they, you know, obviously they absorb, uh, they absorb smells essentially and water or, uh, so they'll get, they'll smell sometimes.
Um, I've done ones with jerky.
I'm usually what I do when I was doing the dehydration stuff.
Um, the ones with jerky will be smell like beet jerky.
And if you try to use them with anything else, whatever you have is going to smell like beet jerky.
Um, so what I'll do is put those in there with a, with a, with a sealant with a, a ziplock bag, and then I'll throw that into a sealed, uh,
uh, cup of water container, and hopefully I should get some more time from these three cups of tapioca pearls.
So anyways, I'm going to fire these up, try to read the directions and see if I can get some five minute tapioca pearls to see what happens.
So I've got some, the leftover tapioca kind of forming vacuum seal.
Just straw down inside of a plastic bag, gallon size bag with my reusable.
I use old, um, pill bottles, drill holes in them.
And then I put the silica beads in there.
So now I've got sort of, uh, poor man's vacuum seal on, uh, leftover tapioca pearls.
So I've got rolling blue, a rolling boil water here, and I'm going to throw my half a cup.
I'm only doing half a cup because they want, uh, one is, uh, 10 to one ratio on the water.
Well, not necessarily probably, but essentially what you want is a lot of water.
You don't want, you don't want a small amount of water at least, um, with the, the second stage.
Um, but anyways, we'll see what, uh, goes on there.
Yeah, so I've got my, um, about a minute more on the tapioca that's cooking on medium heat.
It's, um, weird because they want you to cook it till it floats, which I don't think the hard tapioca was floating when I was doing it.
Um, but I think I wasn't cooking it right away.
And I didn't have like a rolling boil.
Okay, so we're going to make our matcha milk here.
We don't have fancy milk.
We have 1% milk, um, and like things like 1% milk or milk, whatever it's not necessarily the actual, just adding water.
You know, you say, oh, this is skin milk is just watered down milk.
No, it's not really the same thing.
So you can't take like creamer or heavy creamer and just add water to it and make that skin milk.
That's not really how it works.
Um, you can get most of the way there, but, um, so anyways, we've got some low fat 1% milk, which is probably not the best to be mixing for flavor wise to make our matcha milk.
The directions for the tapioca set to use, uh, to make honey, to add honey.
So brown sugar cooked for a few seconds.
Excuse me.
Now we're supposed to, I think drain it.
Let it sit.
I don't even know.
I don't do directions well.
So that's why it's time for a whole bag of pearls already.
Turn off heat, let simmer for another 5 minutes at just time.
So, um, we're going to do no meat.
I'm actually going to grab one three minutes.
Yeah, it's essentially like cooking rice.
It's an art form.
I want to taste one and see what it's like.
All right, that's already mushy.
Like it's done.
Um.
I'll probably go as far as to say that, uh, I need to pull it out, which is odd.
Oh yeah, this is, um, I mean, we live in a fairly wet environment.
And who knows how long these have been seeing here, but it's already pretty mushy.
Um, so I think these are ready to go.
Okay, so.
Yeah, they are kind of chewy on the inside.
So on second thought, I'm going to let them cook again.
Unfortunately, I already put out the water and cooled them down.
But really, I don't think it matters too much.
I don't necessarily think you can over cook them per se,
unless you cook them too fast and they crack.
Like yeah, they're definitely chewing the middle.
Like the, the bobo that's here, creamy, it is.
It's chewy, but it doesn't like stick to your teeth.
Um, I'm using a little fryer strainer, very thin.
Like for a frying, I use a lot to, I'm doing like, I'm, I'll fry anything that's fried breaded.
I use this to scrape out the, the bits and little bits and pieces to start getting burning.
So you don't end up with a smoky kitchen.
I use it to kind of skim.
Very fine mesh, like a however many.
Uh, but I use that to scrape out oil, but I'm using it to pick up the balls here.
They're not clear because they're colored.
Um, these are white.
So the white one should be clear.
Mmm, they're not.
But yeah, they're like chewy.
I want it.
I can't chew them in half, whereas the pre-made stuff.
I don't know, I guess it's kind of the same.
Really hard to tell.
It tastes different because it's not covered in sugar, right?
I feel like I'm going crazy.
Yeah, they're definitely chewier, like, like a noodle that needs to be cooked more.
I was like, shake it into my teeth.
I can't chew it in half.
So I guess that's undercooked.
But I'd rather have undercooked than super mushy.
These tend to kind of fall apart the pre-made ones here.
So I guess it's more accurate.
Anyway, sorry.
We got the matcha, which, again, is a flippin' mess with extreme caution.
This little can is like a little pop-top can.
It comes in a bag.
And this bag is full of match powder, which, um, it'll last a long time.
It's just a mess.
It's such a pain that I get to mix right and...
See, yep, I just built it.
I spilt the bunch of it on the table.
I think it's in the table here.
I mean, it is straight up whatever.
I'm going to fill the bag up with water, get some of that yummy matcha.
So I'm going to try to make...
You're supposed to mix it with hot water, I think.
The matcha.
I don't know if you can mix it with cold brew.
I mean, it's a powder.
So it's essentially whatever.
So we're going to skip doing anything hot with this.
The only reason you would need heat is the milk, the sugar.
But I'm going to get my sugar from something else.
So I'm going to decide what that's going to be yet.
But yeah, see, it clumps.
Of course, you don't see.
It clumps up the matcha powder.
So you've got to...
It's just not fun to play with.
It doesn't take...
A little bit goes the long way.
I like my stuff pretty...
Yeah, it's cold water.
It's not going to want.
Lukewarm water is not going to want to mix the powder very well.
But I'll spare you the noise of that and mix this up.
Had some sugar and water in there as you would have.
Alright, so I've got my...
Bubble tea here.
Time to be able to balls.
In theory, if they're still sitting in the water,
I'm mixed up some of this matcha powder.
And I added a tangerine for a little bit of flavor.
Why not?
It looks like I got to matcha mixed in there and put a little bit more.
That's a lot.
Alright, so I've got my added matcha in here and flipping mess.
I got some fancy...
One of the kids, fancy juice boxes.
Let's steal all the...
Some sugar from there.
Organic, what not...
Oh yeah, this is a mess.
That's going to give me a lot of my sugar.
I think...
Well, I've got a lot of sugar.
I should have just done straight sugar because...
I don't know what I'm going to do with that much water.
But whatever.
I'm not going to put a ton of milk in it.
The matcha I like to mix up until it's kind of...
Like, I mix it hard.
Yeah, I kind of had the color of this matcha milk, but the sweetness is that there.
And this juice is very good, the lemonade.
So I've got like a lemonade, tea, green kind of mess.
It's a bit bitter.
It's got grape juice in it.
So I probably set this aside and try it again without using the juice.
Alright, so I've cooked the...
Or just let the boba stuff simmer for a while longer.
And it's still kind of chewy in the milk.
But I guess that's what you get.
It's like the...
Maybe the five minute you get more of a chewy.
Or is this spring made stuff?
I guess it's the same.
I guess it's the same.
It's just hard to tell when it's still warm.
Yeah, I cooked it for...
I said three to five minutes.
I've cooked it for a good 15 minutes now.
Or simmered at least for a good 15 minutes.
But I've kind of been pulling it and checking it.
Pulling it and checking it.
They're very starchy.
Now my idea is here.
I took a skim milk hot and warmed it up.
You don't want to water it too much because then you get nasty burnt milk.
And a fair amount of the matcha and a fair amount of sugar, obviously.
And I've got what looks like this very odd, very green,
which I like to coffee or the tea flavor more.
So I'll put more matcha in it than anything else.
So we're going to see what this feels like with some of the tapioca pearls in it.
They're not flavored at all.
But that gave me an idea to basically make...
Try to make instant matcha milk, whatever.
So it would be just to add milk.
Anyways, I'm going to do a taste test here.
I can find my...
Where's my straw?
So here's the new stuff.
First bite on it.
I can definitely taste the milk, the actual milk.
It's got the stronger green tea flavor.
It's not just straight sugar.
I don't really need the tapioca pearl's flavor.
Because all that sugar was just in with the... and it's almost done.
That's definitely better than the pre-made.
The pre-made stuff, well it's been sitting in ice water for a while.
The pearls, the tapioca pearls for the pre-made seem to kind of break up easier.
Whereas these don't want to... they don't want to break up.
Let's see if I can grab one.
My idea here is...
In a second.
These are hard.
Chewy or still.
I'm not sure what the chewier it means if I just need to boil them again.
But it's like you touch the...
There's still even warm from being in there.
They're not clear.
That's all.
When I did the hard, straight up hard ones, they're clear.
Yeah, I don't know.
Maybe I'll boil them again and see what happens.
I did let them float and all that, but they're like super chewy.
Now it might be the result of, you know, these five-minute whatever it is.
They're not going to...
We're not ever going to get not chewed or not here.
But we're going to move on to our next experiment.
I'm going to try to make instant green tea matcha balls.
And we'll see what kind of mess we can make there.
But before we do that, we're going to try basil seed watermelon flavor drink.
It looks like ants with...
It looks like ants with, you know, starter round them.
Honeybee, I guess is the name of the company.
It's English on the label.
But yeah, basil seed.
This is watermelon flavor product of Thailand.
Well, that's weird.
Looks like tapioca, almost like a...
It's the size of a strawberry seed.
It tastes like tapioca pearls, but when you bite down,
it's almost like eating a strawberry seed, but not as hard.
Kind of a mushy thing.
I think someone's talking about teeth.
This would be a good thing for kids.
Because you could tell them, you know, they've got a hot wound party.
It's like a hand-water or something.
Let's say that it's ants, but I'm drinking it.
It's mostly...
I mean, this is almost syrup.
It is extremely sick.
64 percent, 32 grams of sugar.
33 grams of sugar, total.
In this one bottle,
290 milliliters, so basically 300 milliliters.
Oh, that is...
It's a flavor for my sugar intake for the day to...
It's very sugary.
Maybe I'll use it with like a...
With like a...
Blended.
I don't know what...
It is.
Way too much sugar.
Anyways, I'm going to put you on pause on a mix-up some of these tapioca pearls,
and some matcha, and something super sugary.
Brown sugar, probably.
And see what happens.
I can get for a bit.
Alright, so I'm taking you over to the stove here.
I just have brown sugar, light brown sugar.
If you want, like, an earthier taste.
Brown sugar is, I think, just...
Something sugar or molasses, or whatever.
Well, sugar with molasses.
This is already almost permanent.
Wow, that was quick.
If you just put sugar in a pan,
it's going to want to caramelize and all that craziness.
Are we burning?
We are.
Close to burning.
That was quick.
I went to go grab the tablet.
Or whatever this thing is.
The two in one in it.
And it was like instantly.
Whatever.
So you got to watch it.
So I've got my melted light brown sugar.
It's almost about to burn.
Did it smell burnt?
Let's take my time out.
So there's our sugar.
I could try to kind of cook this down.
To make it thicker.
But it's the straight sugar.
So there's not really anything to cook down.
So anyways.
I'm going to add fair amount.
I would say...
I don't know, a tablespoon.
Because this would probably...
I'm mixing up the rest of the half a cup of Tokyo.
The leftover is only put a few in the pot.
Well, I only put a few in the cream that I made.
So I've got like half a cup of tapioca pearl clasp.
So I would say that's enough for like two batches.
So I want to put probably at least a tablespoon of this
matcha powder in here.
So it's light brown sugar and about a tablespoon of match powder.
I had to put a lot more than I thought.
I thought a little bit went a little bit longer away than I thought.
So this is some kind of weird voodoo magic.
I'm making smells.
It's very potent with the matcha.
Because it's basically compressed, you know,
ground up tea leaves or whatever.
It is very potent.
I did a P.I. change my going to beef.
And you get these things they're called.
It's not a rice noodle.
It's not an egg noodle.
It's like some kind of other thing.
I think it's rice base.
Let me look.
Yeah.
So this is a mung bean mung mung mung g bean noodle.
And it looks exactly like the egg noodle stuff.
But when you make a mung bean beef, this mung bean you put in a boiling,
not boiling hot fry.
So when you're doing frying mung bean beef, I use a wok.
And I fry everything in that.
I buy a big bat of peanut oil.
And I fry my flank steak in there.
And I make beautiful yummy flank steak.
And my big chunks is going to take forever for the slice it into thin chunks.
But I throw it in there two seconds.
As soon as I throw it in there, I take it out.
Because it cooks extremely fast when I have it to a smoking,
a smoking heat that will oil up to almost about to burst into flames.
And I throw the meat in there and try to kill myself.
But yeah, before I do that, I'll make the, usually if I remember,
I'll make the do the mung bean first.
And it makes like a styrofoam, basically a tasteless styrofoam crunchy thing.
And then you soak it with soy sauce.
And my kid will just eat mung bean.
It has no nutritional value at all whatsoever.
But when you add salt to it, it's just like salt and some sugar for the soy sauce.
Anyways, you put the mung bean in there and you get this crunch.
You had the, you fry up the little onions.
A green onions.
Put those in there.
Anyways, I have a, I was doing my going beef.
And now my, my, uh, much of sauce stuff here is turned into candy at this point.
I got a second to get back up.
Because I was mumbling and trying to find the mung bean.
Now I have this hard, hard substance that I'm probably just going to add some water to,
to try to rejuvenate it.
Just a tiny bit of water to get it to, so I can mix the, oh, we're already too hot.
Wow.
I'll be burning already.
Cheers.
Um, we have gassy here.
So, I think it's just, it's just a ball of candy, essentially what I made here.
Uh, I guess I should have done this with the tapioca pearls in there.
So now, kind of, now I just had the ball of stuff attached to the whisk.
I was hoping for more of a liquid.
So now I got to add some water and kind of try to boil this out into more of a paste and not burning at the same time.
Um, I cook like I do anything.
I cook, uh, all the time I have read the directions.
I'll kind of look at the ingredients and then I'll add whatever.
Because usually the, uh, the ingredients aren't what I want anyways.
Um, I usually want more of something or more of some spice or less of something else.
So I kind of have read the directions, which, especially when you're making anything like cookie or anything,
uh, the requires like getting a candy or a plug or whatever that usually ends up horribly.
Yeah, now I have just rock.
So I'm going to start over and see what happens.
Alright, so yeah, um, that was burnt.
I burnt the brown sugar.
And that made everything else go downhill.
It effectively made a, I've ate a burnt matcha candy, which other than the burnt part, um, it's actually kind of a cool idea.
Anyways, we'll track it back wet.
Something tasty.
Anyways, I'm heating my light brown sugar back up.
Before I started recording, I was sharpening my knives.
I think we're pretty much set as far as knife sets go.
Um, but I got fancy these, uh, shun Japanese snake knives that are like super fancy, but they're very, the metal.
It's a, uh, thinner weaker metal.
So the idea is that you can like, you know, cut crazy sushi with it or do insane super, super sharp.
Um, the problem is like a soft, it's a soft, a very soft, a softer metal, um, and it gets dull very quickly.
The idea is apparently like a German knife or whatever is going to be a stronger steel.
It's not going to be as, you're not going to get it as sharp as a softer steel, obviously.
And then, but it's going to be a workhorse. It's going to last longer.
So we have these super fancy knives that were like chopping up, you know, carrots with it or whatever.
And it's hard, it's hard to keep them sharp. It's, it's, it's hard work.
I got a sharpening stone. It's like 6,000, 3,000.
And, and it's a skill. I, it's hard, it's hard work. I mean, when you think you've got it, you don't.
And there's beveled edges. So if you're going to get a knife, try to get one that's the flat blade.
I don't know what that one's called. The sushi knife is completely flat.
You don't have to worry about curves when you're sharpening it.
Um, I mean, it's completely wrong knife to use and anything.
It's not the right knife, but I don't know man, it's hard, it's really hard to sharpen these, these with a, with a curved blade.
We got a utility knife from them too, but you send it in to get it sharpened because it's got teeth on it.
I'm the cool thing about utility knives. It's like all the knives that go on, the infomercials, which you could don't know about,
would, you know, somebody's such cutting open a can with a knife.
Oh yeah, it's basically a saw because it's got saw blade, saw blade on it.
The cool thing about those is they stay sharp longer because if you were doing something stupid with them,
you're dulling the tip of the cutting, the tip of the saw, but under the peaks is the actual sharpness of what actually cuts the thing.
So, you know, potato, but the utility knife, my wife lives, she kind of goes through stages of using it,
but it needs to be sent in because it's like basically round.
It's starting to get loose, it's utility-ness.
But I think it's free or you just make shipping or whatever.
When I got my second shun knife, I just send it in because I stuck it in a plastic cutting board.
And then when I accidentally, I wasn't even doing anything, I was cutting up water known.
And I stuck it in the plastic board accidentally.
And since it's so sharp, it went way down in there.
And then I put pressure on it to go down at an angle.
And I hear Bing and a piece of metal broke off somewhere in the watermelon.
So, I had to throw the whole watermelon away because somewhere there's a piece of steel,
a piece of knife in the watermelon.
So, nobody got watermelon that day.
I don't know if I told anybody, but that was my plan was to do watermelon and I had it end up.
I think I told my wife she was in the same room, but you know, sometimes I don't tell those stories
because sometimes people don't need to know how stupid you are.
But that's why we're here to make mistakes and learn from them.
But yeah, I'm not heating up this brown sugar fast enough or rambling.
But yeah, get yourself a nice knife.
Get yourself a nice knife and a nice sharpener like a wet stone.
And start playing with knives. It's fun.
I like it.
It's nice to have a good sharp knife that you know is going to cut stuff and not like be a problem.
But I mean, as pain as pain as it a but it is to like have a knife that won't cut tomato for example.
It's hard, it's just as hard to keep them sharp.
I mean, so at the end of the day, like, I don't know, it's...
It's a lot of work, but you know, it's something to have, some hobby.
But I mean, if you do get them sharp, the Snduku or whatever,
knife that I have, I keep it sharp on the flat surface.
The end is a different story, but I'll keep that one sharp.
And that one will cut the tomato and we'll cut into stuff.
Peppers are also a good gauge of how sharp your knife is.
You can do the whole paper thing and try and cut.
I don't really try to do that.
What I just do is I use it.
And if it's way off, it won't cut into a pepper or it won't cut into a tomato.
Let's see what I got.
Got a tangerine.
I just used the wet stone on this guy.
And I actually got the tip somewhat.
In my opinion, Jesus Christ.
My brown sugar is cooking.
Hopefully not burning.
I'm going to put water in here because I'm turning it and making candy again.
Yeah, it's just that too hot.
Too hot too quick.
I mean, that's the whole thing.
I don't have a rock yet.
But I had it on low heat so that I could watch it not burn.
And then I got distracted and started talking about some other rain.
It's not a candy.
I had the heat off, so I'm trying to recover from this mess.
Starting to turn into a candy.
I'm going to add the much.
Well, it's not candy.
What I was looking at online is they were saying don't even let the sugar melt all the way before you add the balls.
They were saying, you don't have to actually cook all the brown sugar out first.
So we have some weird looking green, brown green blob here.
It's got cramped kind of whatever.
I think I'm going to throw the tapioca problem here.
This is a Samson portable Mike thing.
USB mic.
You can plug it into a phone.
Whatever.
And some water.
You can plug it into a phone.
You'll get a little bit of action.
This is not doing really what I want it to do.
Essentially what I want is a matchable tapioca pros.
Now it just looks like candy mixed with tapioca pearls.
I mean, you can even hear the crunchiness of the whatever.
So let me try and drain this and see if I can recover the tapioca pearls and see if I can make some.
Okay.
After that last failed attempt, I ended up doing the brown sugar and the matcha.
And just kind of mixing it together and kind of mulling you all out into a good mixture.
And then I added just the tapioca pearls.
The idea would be to keep this in the refrigerator and keep it in like a thing of tapioca.
And I've got just ice and milk.
So I'm going to put my milk in here and pretend that I've had this in the refrigerator for a couple of days.
So I've got my smoked milk.
I'm going to add an idea.
Probably not enough matcha.
But the idea is I'm just going to add my...
I'm probably going to do just regular sugar instead of the brown sugar.
It's a bit too molasses, like what?
Not really what I'm going for.
But yeah, the idea there is...
I guess maybe I should do the ice after I've already mixed it with the milk.
But we should end up with some green...green...green whatnot.
And it's kind of goopy.
I'm hoping the pulp just didn't end up on the bottom.
I mean, it's got kind of the right color.
It needs more matcha, of course.
Some of the sugar stuck to the straw.
So I guess I like the instructions that come with the kit.
Probably mix it with warm milk and then do the ice, just like whatever.
I have an other matcha that's a tapioca ball, so I'll probably maybe try that.
That's pretty spot on.
And the tapioca ball is just kind of sitting.
They kind of put a little more.
I mean, you take a stick out and it cooks.
I mean, it's still chewy, but it comes apart.
And it doesn't stick to my tinker any.
Yeah, I would say add more matcha.
And not use brown sugar next time.
And you just get pre-made, you know, more of up your milk.
Mix in the matcha, throw the ice on there, and you've got instant tapioca, whatever.
Boat tea.
Boat green tea.
Anyways, I didn't know what I'm for almost an hour now.
Hopefully, you know, the room's side and so on.
I've got 20 minutes of rambling.
Yeah, it's out pretty much gone through everything.
I'm going to go through.
This is expensive.
He likes the pop stuff.
It's a one pound for like $9.
I honestly think it's the same price on any time.
For the popping boba.
So if you're, you know, if you're going, if you're with somebody and they don't, they tried it.
And they don't like the, with tapioca, which my wife can't stand tapioca.
Called popping tapioca.
Popping boba.
See, two pound, $19.99.
So it's the same price on one as it is on my local market.
They probably buy it in bulk and make a little bit of money.
Okay, I'll try that.
I'm pretty much done.
I hope you learned something.
Hope you didn't listen to this whole thing.
Anyways, what I got coming up is WLED,
which is a whole house year round lights.
And what else is I going to do?
I'm going to do a stable diffusion AI stuff, which kind of might be not safe for work,
or safe for work, or whatever you want to call it.
So I got those two coming.
You know, I'm just not today.
I got to clean up all this mess.
Right.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
At Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBO listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
