Episode: 3389
Title: HPR3389: Tales of a Tagger
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3389/hpr3389.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 22:30:43

---

This is hacker public radio episode 3,389 for Thursday, the 29th of July 2021.
Today's show is entitled Tales of a Tagger.
It is hosted by Archer72 and is about six minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is adventures and mishaps tagging past shows.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Archer72, welcome to hacker public radio.
This episode is on my adventures and mishaps tagging past shows.
When the page was last generated on the link that I'll show, which is on 2021-0611 at 2043-UTC.
There are 323 shows without summaries, 306 shows without tags, 270 shows with neither
summaries or tag, and 354 shows which need work.
The instructions are as follows.
Find a show in the list below, check in the list, which attributes are missing summaries
and or tags, click the show number or title to visit the show page, read the show notes,
and listen to the show to determine the missing information, and last, submit your updates
by email to tags at hackerpublicradio.org.
Please send a simple ASCII email, know it's HTML, please, and know multi-part encrypted or
signed messages.
The script cannot handle them at the moment.
We are working on a solution to some of this, though remember the internals of an email
are complex and the script isn't clever enough to deal with all the possible formats.
Please be gentle with it.
Format the messages, follows, and this will be left in the show notes.
Format the show with, for example, show, colon, one, two, three, four.
If either the summary or the tags are already present on the show, you can emit them from
the group.
It is not possible to change existing summaries or tags by this route only to add missing
ones.
Ensure the summary text isn't longer than 100 characters.
The tags need to be separated by commas.
If you need to add a tag with a comma in it and close the tag in a double quotes, the
length of the tag lists can exceed 200 characters.
You can update more than one show per email if you want.
Blank lines between the groups of show slash summary slash tags lines are fine as shown,
as our comments beginning with the pound sign.
States will be processed with a script, which is run manually, and this page will be refreshed
once the changes have been made.
The timestamp above shows when it was last refreshed.
Now is the part where I broke a few of these rules and kind of interrupted the script.
I got carried away with one show and broke the 100 character rule limit for the tags.
Using them, so now I remember that this can be checked by hitting the dollar sign to
get the end of the line and see what the number of last characters you make sure you
not be on the 100.
With the next show I did tags for, I went too far with way too many tags and went beyond
the 200 character limit.
I found these are actually reasonable limits.
It's just that I did not notice them in the notes and that's why I'm making this show
because they will break the script.
So summary of this part, don't be like me, gently use these tools and they will serve
you well.
So now for the tools I've been using this past week for the tagging.
Use the i3 window manager and then I can use mplayer and vim in two windows side by side
to make the editing easy.
With mplayer, I play the audio file faster without pitch increase due to what I saw
on Ken Fallon's site, which I will leave in the show note.
There is an alias to this for mplayer that Ken left in his blog.
Another way that I used was I have the termux app from eftroid and I downloaded a show
via wget because Firefox does not show progress bar so it just the download just shows up when
it wants to.
Then he's podcast addict, a bookmark that tags as I'm listening to the show and I usually
listen to about one and a half times.
The advantage of using the tags, the bookmarks that are in the podcast addict are the time
stamps where it was tagged and also the name of the show all in one and then you can export
it with a zip file and then I share it, I commonly use pushbela when I'm taking files
from one device to another like my phone to my computer and I'll leave a link as to
where this can be found.
Then when I think of or tagged enough shows then I download the zip files on my laptop
and use the terminal side by side with my i3 manager again and that's it.
So these are two of the ways that I enjoy old shows and you can too and also lend a hand
at the same time.
Thank you for listening.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated, today's show
is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
