Episode: 3499
Title: HPR3499: Fixing a noisy blower motor
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3499/hpr3499.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:26:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3499 for 1st April 30th of December 2021.
Today's show is entitled Fixing a Noise Idler Motor, It is hosted by Archer 72 and is
about 4 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
For some of you, I fix a noise idler motor that I bought off since last winter.
Hello, this is Archer 72. I have a 2013 Alontera and last winter I started squealing quite a bit.
I just ignored it for the winter and it was fine after I started warming up because of the
properties of the metals. They shrink in the cold so it just caused a squeaky bearing.
Something like this.
And this year when it came back, I decided to do something about it.
I looked all over YouTube and I was trying to find out how to take it apart and
and it turns out I just had to get a peek under the passenger side dash.
And it was actually only three screws and no panel to remove in its way.
So it was a pretty straight shot and to get a little clip that holds the wire in,
pop that part way with a screwdriver and I was able to pull out the rest of the way with the
pair of pliers and there's one clip to pull out the power plug. It was taken a little bit of force
to get that out and I previously that day bought a can of silicone spray or with the
em grease type spray from local auto store. Spray that on there, put everything back together
and I thought it would kind of drip down and cure the problem without having to do any more
effort to this. So the next day it started squealing again so I had to pull it all apart again
and this time I had popped up everything like before and there was a snap ring and the squirrel
cage or I guess you call it is the spins that blows the hot air in the winter and cold in the summer.
That was still even after the spring clip was off as I have an hard time coming off. So I kind of
moved it back and forth to where I could get down with actually a can of WD-40 turned it upside
down and let it sit for a while after about a half an hour of work. It was finally popped loose because
I was going back and forth between manually doing it trying to pull it apart and then hammering
down on the shaft to rattle it loose. So it finally came loose and I put a bit of penetrating oil
what is it on the bearing for about 10 minutes. Sumble everything back together and it's been a few
days and it's still quiet so I think I saw the problem. At one point while trying to figure out
how to get everything apart I was trying to get it the main housing to see if that would do any good
and I snapped one of the clips but it was still everything held together when I finished everything.
Until next time this has been Archer 72. Thanks for listening. Bye.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR is kindly
provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net. Unless otherwise stated
today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share-like, flea.or license.
