Episode: 3956
Title: HPR3956: HPR Community News for September 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3956/hpr3956.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:54:40

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3956 from Monday 2 October 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for September 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 41 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in September
2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon here, listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
The longest running podcast without a Wikipedia entry.
That's a good point actually, yes, yes, we need to solve that somewhere.
No, we can't cause everybody associated with HPR is who submissive the show is not allowed to.
Shame you can't get a chance, GPD to do it on a non-human contributor, but no, anyway, whatever, yes.
Exactly.
Anyway, Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast where the shows submissive by people very
much.
In fact, exactly.
In fact, it should be you.
And we are the janitors who put away our brushes, mostly you've been doing the brushing
all month and I've been rushing past.
This is where we talk about the stuff that's been going on in around the community.
So you get the task you are, by the way.
Oh me.
Oh my god.
Oh yeah.
Dave Morris.
We're not that far yet, Dave, soon, but not yet.
I do have trouble sometimes just getting the brain engaged, you know, the gears slip a
bit.
So you traditionally welcome the new horse and I do silent anticipation to see if there
were any.
Yes, we have two new hosts, isn't that great?
Two, we have two.
We do.
We have two new doors, which I assume is the correct, that's what it looks like, anyway,
is the correct way to pronounce it.
And we have Hobbes.
So that we will actually be hearing from them soon as we go through the shows.
So speaking of going through the shows, that's kind of what we do.
The first show to review for this month was episode 3935, which was server build retrospective
by Daniel Pearson's.
Yeah.
He's doing a cool thing of building a, building a server, one new server, obviously got one
new rack to put it in and yeah, we should put, they'd be in a picture.
I would have been, but then most people wouldn't care for it, but I quite enjoy that sort
of stuff.
No, I, I like seeing pictures.
Yes.
I was, I was given the option of getting some like old, you know, quite powerful servers
from Mark, that they were checking out, but then the noise and the power kind of issues
were the ones that got me.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I was on for the on processor things and some sun kit, but exactly my electricity board
had been frightening.
Yeah.
Exactly.
There were no comments on that as yet.
So let's move on to the HDR community news, which is this show, and again, there was
no comments on that show, nothing controversial, Dave, no, no, no, no, no, no, we'll fix that
this time.
So the adventures in pie hole, which was noodles show, and this was fantastic.
This is a reason to have a Linux server and your network, and there was one comment from
Windigo.
Do you want to do that one?
Yep.
Yes.
Windigo says, clever static IP solution, I run a similar pie hole setup, I'd never thought
of adding an IP lease for the pie hole itself, or a neat way to keep your addressing in one
place.
Good, I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Thanks, I enjoyed your episode and look forward to your next contribution.
Yes.
But I agree with Windigo as I often do.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it, um, was that where he set up a sort of, um, DHCP lease, I think he
had a static, yeah, he had a static, did you have a, you know, can check the text, did
you have a static IP address, and then he did, he did lease, but I never quite understand
whether that is a feature of DHCP, where you just say, or your DHCP, whenever you see this,
make it that, or whether it says that is, yeah.
So both the issue with that is you're dependent on your DHCP server to be up.
So what that means is the server, if asked by the pie hole, um, I have this MAC address
ABC, and make sure I get IP address one, two, three, but as the static address configured
on the pie hole, it's never going to send that request, both the DHCP server is never
going to issue that address because it's reserved.
So, okay, okay, kind of, uh, you're using static IP addresses, but you're keeping your DHCP
by adding the reservation, you're, you're making, it's more an administration thing than
anything else.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I've never done it quite like that.
So yeah, I could, I didn't fully understand how it was done, um, but different, er, er,
er, er, routes have different methods, I guess, as well.
Yeah.
But normally, the way to, normally what I do, er, or have done in the past is, er, assign
a block, er, so from, I don't know, one, two, a hundred is not issued by the DHCP servers
and then, yeah, outside of that, the range.
But this is another way of doing a switch, which is actually quite cool as well.
Yeah, yeah, just delegating everything to the pie hole, which, er, sounded like a really
good thing to, to be able to do.
And he also, I think, said he's got it in a container and he's got back up so he can
switch to a different, the other, a backup container should anything go seriously wrong,
I think that's what he said.
Yeah.
So yeah, yeah, it sounded really, really good, there's some lessons to learn from that, I
think.
Cool.
Um, the following, we had another thing that I hadn't heard of, which was the open
directory of web audio, where D&T was looking for an open directory of audio streams and
found radio-browser.info.
I, yeah, I didn't, I completely forgot to go and look at it in any detail, I have to
say.
I, I think I found that one before my son and his girlfriend came back from Greece, er,
last year or something.
And they were saying, oh, it's good, we were listening to Greek radio, blah, blah, blah.
And I think I, we just sort of went poking around on the internet to see if we could find
any Greek music and we found that and we were listening, we were having dinner, er, which
wasn't Greek, we were listening to, er, to stuff on that.
I think it was the same one, fantastic idea, really, really interesting.
The, er, G-O-I-P is, if you go to the G-O-I-P, you can select on a region, er, there's
lords in Antarctica, I don't know how accurate this is, er, yeah, yeah, it is a map with, er,
with, er, pop up thingies on it that you can zoom in and click, the one I use anyway.
And, er, yeah, we were, we were quite fascinated with that.
So, yeah, very good.
Okay, TNT had a comment, er, on the zone show saying, er, since the recording, the, sorry,
it's an update, since the recording, the developer of Open Radio has released an update, fixing
the issue with Android audio.
So now, that is the apt use for me, perfect.
Android Auto.
I was also, I think, was that not the car, the car-based thing face or something, yeah.
I don't use that sort of stuff in the car, well, I don't, the car is for my wife for
driving to work and we happen to be in it today and I happened to, yeah, to turn on her
iPhone and it asked about activating Apple's stuff and then when we hit cancel the whole
thing, we booted it.
I have an audio thing in my car and it, I have used it to interface to my Android phone
in the past.
When I used to drive up and more, actually, it was to drive up and down to St Andrews
in my daughter's university, then I would put podcasts on through the car audio and
that was, that was quite good, but I'm in use here for a good, I don't know, five years
or something.
So, yeah, good if you can, good if you have it and you need it and there you have it.
Good, good.
The next day we heard how to get into tech and hacking, getting interested in tech can
start in both odd and familiar places and this is Trickster's story.
Yeah, this was great, actually, this was really good.
Trickster was the name I didn't know.
He's been around since 2011, according to my little bit of research and this is his
second show.
So, so fantastic, thank you very much.
Confounderofmobilegames.com.
Yeah, there's tons of really interesting tech subjects that one could jump off into.
Exactly.
And what he talked about in this show, so yeah, I'd like to hear more.
As would I, following day, we had Equipment Maintenance.
This is a Hooker's Travel series and linked to his blog, there are about Equipment Maintenance
of the RV, etc.
Basically, you're talking with home, you're talking a home around.
Do you want to read Reto's comment?
Yeah, Reto says tyres, hi Hooker, it's really good thing that you maintain a diary, but
on the other hand, I got the impression that some hard feelings came up on revisiting
that time.
It's my only face.
You're in Switzerland, the complete valve is replaced when the tyre is replaced just
as a side note.
As always, I enjoyed your show, and he finds off.
Kevin says, telling it like it is, my objective is to be, has been to simply tell the things
that happened, including the things that were mistakes, that means warts and all.
That way, it might be of use to others, yeah, and I appreciate that when people do that
actually.
Yeah, yeah, it's good to know, I mean, it's reality, isn't it?
And it's always good to get that rather than a reduced version, however, I've also found
out that YouTubers use it as a way to engage with their audience by deliberately putting
in mistakes.
Yeah, yeah, makes it feel more real and trusted, and just go, oh my god, is there nothing
that isn't used by people to profit?
Anyway, yeah, following day, we had an interview with Josef Kernzner, apologies, therefore,
for that.
And this show was where the mess, doing penetration tests, et cetera, using for KFMG.
Yeah, yeah.
It was an insight into a world that I know very, very little about, other than listening
to operator talking about it from time to time.
Yeah, so it was fascinating, really fascinating, nearly an hour long, but a very, very good
and interesting hour, I found.
And I'll do retails, come on, honestly, high-bought, this is a very good show, and Josef answers
how he reflected openly his shortcomings, but then again, being aware of it is the key
to change.
One thing I do disagree, CO2, this is making the earth nothing more, but more green, which
is brilliant, citation needed.
There is 0.038% CO2 in the air, not even 1% CO2 is one of the heaviest gases, therefore,
it's on the ground.
A greenhouse carries the last roof to keep the heat, just to side note, to think about,
and surely does the climate change, why not, I will listen to it again, it was overall
interesting.
Okay, how to make friends.
Some guy in the internet replies to catfish, tattoo, tattoo show about how to make friends.
Is this a spawned, yes, a spawned, several shows, which was excellent.
Yeah, Scotty has some interesting views on all kinds of subjects, so it's always really
good to listen to his viewpoint.
So yeah, it was good, there's more, I think he's going to do another one next month if
I'm not wrong.
So yeah, what am I listening to?
And again, next show, why my Dell, does it better than Linux, nightwise talks about
his Dell XPS15 with Linux, and that's good to hear.
No comments on that show, and the next show was Race for the Galaxy.
Shalula explains very basics of the car game called Race for the Galaxy.
I thought she explained this very well, but I appear to be the only one in this house
who doesn't like playing games.
I know, I know, I tend to leave myself notes saying, I'm sure those that enjoy this sort
of thing finds this amazing, but I'm not wrong, sadly.
I just passed them on to the people, and then, oh, you might try to risk for the Galaxy.
So following Daniel Pearson's again with summarized essential Chrome plugins that he uses every
day, and this I thought was quite interesting, it's interesting to hear what people use.
Yeah, isn't it?
Yes, yes.
I thought a lot of people had moved away from Chrome, but yeah, I imagine that I think
your bubble on Master Don is quite small, Dave, I'm probably full of CO2.
No, I already messed up what you did.
It's, yeah, yeah, I don't know, I don't know, it's, I have moved away from Chrome, but
I'm not sure I'm moving to Firefox, it's benefited enormously, so, but yeah, the issue
of Chrome is a lot of, it's like back in the internet, it's explored, it's some websites
won't even work, now, will only work in Chrome, that's why I think, yeah, I find that Firefox
just completely fails to, to give me access to various things, not necessarily Firefox
as well.
No, no, no, no, no, but I use that as my main browser, and then I switch to the valdi,
and often that lets me do stuff, but I don't know if that's as better or worse than Chrome,
I don't know, it works, so sometimes.
So the next day we had the part of planning for a planner where some guy in the internet
and Bumblebee were talking, continued to talk about dis-bound planners, attendance pens
and more, and Retro had a comments, Tee, can you do this one?
Yes, sure, yep, Retro says previously, hi, Scottie, previously on HVR, I love the intro,
the voice just touched lower, and I would have thought I was watching a USETV show series,
brilliant, some things make a difference, see, I'm having a problem with reading today
as well, brilliant comma, small things make a difference, so yeah, that case, that's
where it was, was what made the difference.
So the next day we had archiving floppy disks show about archiving old floppy disks by Steve
Sainer, and if there was not a more appropriate time, a lot of people are saying that the life,
the lifespan of magnetic media is limited, and therefore if you have floppy disks in this
region of time, it's a good idea to get them archived, and Steve is there with an explanation
of how and why you might do that.
Yeah, it was too much fun, actually, we enjoyed it.
Yeah, yeah, I certainly found it quite interesting, I've probably done some of this at some
stage, but not for a long time, but it was great to have to revisit the techniques and methods
and think about some of these things, did he, was he talking about, was it five and a
quarter inch disks at the start and one point, yeah, yeah, wow.
So I cleaned up my man cave, talking about creativity, yeah, yes, this was Nightwise, and
Kevin says, out where he was cleaning up his stuff and gone past, Nightwise was setting
up his podcast, where you get a messiastic, and talking about the stuff that he found
up there, one of which, so two cows come up, Kevin Brown says, I do remember two cows,
and as I, as it happens, they're still around, but to change the business from being a software
repository to being an internet services company, I use their hover subsidiary as my domain
name register, it's funny, two cows were like the Google of their time, yeah, yeah, I didn't
really get involved much, I'm not sure what era was that, I can't remember, 19th, I think
yeah, yeah, probably working in a university, not having internet at home, it wasn't the
thing that really impinged on me much, although I obviously knew the name, but didn't
ever use it, so yeah, we used to use of browsing and stuff, searching we used all to Vista
a lot of the time in those days, I think it was, so yeah, but anyway, interesting, good stuff,
yeah, it was around that time, and Nightwise proving that's the guideline to Paul Stringshall's
10 days apart, is only a guideline, because we have a show from him on how he uses virtual
ization to tame his social media addiction by using command line applications in the console,
well that's kind of a good idea actually, yeah, yeah, certainly done that to some extent,
I mean you, I mean, I arrest and stuff like that, I've used both GUI and command line stuff
and really preferred the command line thing for quite a lot, but I didn't know about how
for these things that he mentions here, the apps, quite good, I don't subscribe to some
of the, to the applications anyway, and you know, Discord, having accounts, but it's
dormant, tame here, really, yeah, yeah, I'm many comments this month, is there? No, no,
we're quite, quite thin on the ground this, this time, some reason, yeah, all right, next
day, we had Ahuka with one of the best overlooked games, Sid Meier's Alpha Centurri, and again,
I passed this one on, lots of videos and stuff going into the various different aspects of
the game. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's made me, this series of his made me, incidentally it should
be in a series, shouldn't it, this particular issue, rather than, because it has, all the
other ones been in some gaming thingy, I'll check it after anyway, but yeah, it made me
more alert, you know, browsing through YouTube and stuff to people talking about, to civilization
and, you know, sieve and related things, so yeah, it's, it's not, again, not thing I'm likely
to ever play, but interesting to know about. Yeah, we're hip with all the new games that are
coming up there. Yeah, an operator had, while some people might think was a very silly show,
called cell phone screen protectors, and how he fails to put them on. However, this was full
of interesting information for me, because I happened to have one of my children who goes through
telephones like other people might go through underwear, Dave. Oops, that stuff doesn't
have it. Yeah, and screen protectors put in the ball has been, has helped a smidgen. So, this
show. Yeah, do you know, I've never done one, I've never put one on myself or on my phone,
but yeah, the fact that he was in a constant battle with dust made me, made me both laugh and
go, oh god, I felt really felt for him, the fight he was having there. My kids do it for me,
would you believe, because they're more adept at doing that type of manipulation than I have
these days. I'm looking forward to that day, Dave. Making the case for Markdown, Keith Murray was
making, discussing the background of applications of Markdown, a show which I thoroughly enjoyed,
because at the time I was sorting nuts and screws and nails into little cubby holes in the shed,
and there was nothing as satisfying. You know, that scene in Emily, where he's as happy as
20s cleaning out his toolbox, hoovering everything back here. Yeah, it was a little happy moment,
just there. Yeah, yeah, it's just the sort of thing you want to be listening to, I guess,
under those circumstances. Good history and good tip on various different Markdowns and a good
links there for various different syntaxes. Yeah, yeah, it was very welcome. I also find it quite
fascinating. It's been a strange journey from the early days of Markdown to now, because it's
everywhere in various forms. Things have changed a fair bit in terms of dialects and also
how you can use it and incorporate it in things. So it's fascinating subject, I think. Yeah.
And the following day, we had large language models, AI, don't have any common sense. Learn how to
run GPT-2, Limit-2, to test some common sense questions, hosted by Hobbson Hobbs and Greg, although
Greg, I think we only heard from the last five minutes, loved this show. Felt I was a little bit in
the deep end, would have loved a bit more explanation. We need about 10 more shows on the basics of
the large language model, and this is where it comes from. Not all of us are when you're in
Intuers as deep as this, but we're cool to have the basics of AI for us. What do you think they're
of? Yeah, I think you're right. It's an interesting thing. It's amazing how vast quantities of data
can be crunched down into a form that can be brought back again in a sort of sort of statistical
process, which is about all I know about it, though I've said, sometimes for my son's doing work
in his area, and his boss says these LLMs are all very well, but they're like, he would say,
stochastic parrots. So there are things that sort of gather, gather lots and lots of information
like parrots do, and then suddenly spit it out in some sort of possibly sensible, but it may be
sensible because of the context or your interpretation of the context or whatever. So yeah,
but I think what's being, yeah, I agree totally that an understanding of the fundamentals of it
is really, really important. And also, what can you actually tune these things? Because it's an
engine, basically, which has got a huge amount of data in some data store, and then can process it
to produce useful stuff out of the sort of searches through it or a walk through it.
Can you actually use it for something other than what it's currently being used for at the
edges, you know, the middle bit where it says write me a Python program to do X, Y, Z. Often you get
something quite useful, but if you ask how many legs to fork out of it, then you just thought
it was a wonderful question. Yeah, then you can be completely lost because it's not using,
there's no data in the corpus that leads to anything useful, I guess. But if you build your own
or enhance the corpus of information, can you make it to be useful? That's the bit that
fascinated me. Yeah. And ironically enough, our short transcript is done by the Open API
group, the whisper program is from them. So, you know, you don't random text as it and
outcomes English random audio, and outcomes English text, it's, it is. That's pretty impressive.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's audio, more shows, more shows, but assume we know nothing, we know nothing,
you're explaining it to, yeah, 270 rolls who have no clue. Yeah, yeah, I would rather not be the
dim width that I have in regard to this at the moment. Yeah, somebody to lead me into it a little
bit better would be good. Yeah, there's more shows there, there's more shows there is what we're
trying to say. Andy, okay. The following day, Mr X and yourself had a chat again. I always have,
I just have visions of you to sit in the car and some park, you know, and worried mothers going
past, rushing their kids past the front of the car, don't look at them, don't look at them.
Now, I think it's people having had interesting, often liquid lunches on a, on a Sunday, sort of
stumbling back to their vehicles, hopefully with the designated driver. And it was incredibly
busy on that road. It's a, it's a main road out of Edinburgh that takes you quite a nice scenic
route. There were some big motorbikes were going up there. Yeah, some reason. Some day would do that,
yeah. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, anyway, it's a, it's a format that we quite like because we get lunch
in there and then a chat. So what could be better? Yeah, exactly. It's just recorded and posted.
I did, yeah. Fantastic. Love the bit about the, the Dutch thing, but as I keep pointing out,
we're good at infrastructure as all. It's just the bikes and they and the trains are a part of it,
but they also build phenomenal amount of motorways and roads and stuff far too much stuff.
Yes, yes. I mean, there's some, there was one video where I remember watching where they were
pointing out that I can't remember where it was with the Utrecht. I can't remember where,
what was a multi-lane motorway thing going through there? Yeah, the city has been turned into a canal,
back into a canal and stuff. So, you know, there's some, there's some good common sense there,
somewhere just, you know, obviously fighting with the car, the car people, a lot.
Yeah. Okay. Utrecht was particularly bad. They had, I think it had, had a lot of
a bond damage from the Second World War, particularly, you know, there's the center of the,
around the railway there, and a lot of the apartments or a lot of the old, you know,
buildings were, you know, very poor repair. And then the car thinking in and we're going to,
we're going to modernize still a city. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's, I mean, it's easy to get carried away
by all of that stuff at certain points in time. I certainly found as a, somebody who lived in
Manchester for about five years, that the fact that the motorway sort of, uh, disgorged close
to the city was, was quite advantageous for you, if you would, you know, drive in in from outside
the city. It was great, but then you suddenly realized, well, yeah, well, but what does it, what does
it make this city? It's just a sort of motorway with shops, type of, type of, you know, it's,
Glasgow's like that too, but Glasgow, the motorway is underneath, so there's walkways and roadways
across the top of it and the city's like that, but it's still, when you stop and look, it's repulsive,
but anyway, that's maybe things will change in time. Yeah, we will see, we will see baby steps.
Yep. Okay, on the 29, which is today as we're recording this, Daniel Pearson's had air,
air gradient measurement station, which is something I need to build. I was just listening to it,
sounds like a doable project, actually. Yeah, there's this number of people who I've seen on
YouTube with, with ready-built ones and stuff. Um, and, uh, yeah, and I haven't looked at them
and thought, that would be quite cool. One, one actually measuring suit, just as his do CO2,
I remember. Yeah, it does, isn't it? Yeah, and humidity. So it's, um, it, it, it would be quite a
a fun thing to, to have. Um, so yeah, it's, it's, uh, yeah, which there was a bit more information,
actually. Yeah, exactly. As I, just bought a book on making a software to find radio and virtually
every page has, this is not a project for beginners. This is a very advanced project. Please,
you know, practice with kits and stuff. Okay, maybe I need to build some kits and stuff before
I move on. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's fair enough. And that was it, uh, for the shows for the month.
Indeed. So do we have any past common stave? We have one. Um, yeah, it's not much, not much,
than the, um, notes for this particular show. We have a, we have a comment from Kevin O'Brien,
to show 3934 from Tula, uh, who's talking about Crusader Kings 2. And Hookah says, I was really
happy to listen to this show. This is a kind of game I need to explore more. So good stuff, super.
And, may I list not a lot of those, uh, events that I want to talk about, uh, fast them.
So that's going to take place on Saturday the 3rd and Sunday the 4th of February in Belgium.
And it'll be at the usual ULB. And you're not going, Dave. And I am not also not going this time.
Mm hmm. But if people were wanting to go representing HPR, feel free to reach out to us.
There's also, um, I have been asked if we want to do the speaker interviews. So if people once
would be interested in helping me out doing that, uh, that will be good. Be a way for HPR to keep
our foot in. Um, so if you're interested in, um, basically it'd be involved emailing the keynote
speakers a list of questions, getting those back, sending them on to, um, the, the team possibly
recording an interview and posting it. That sort of thing. If you're willing to help out with that,
that would be great. Uh, right now, uh, I didn't think I would be able to do that. I might have
time to do that because they, uh, they think there's a big event personally, a person thing that's
won't be happening now until the beginning of the year next year. So that.
Mm hmm. Cool. Um, do you want to talk about the side migration then?
It's not a huge lot to say actually. Um, I just thought I'd keep the subject going because we,
there are still things to do with, we're sort of chugging away doing them. So, uh, we've, we've been
working on fixing broken links, um, in some of the, the, the static site templates, um, have needed
some changes. I think that's, we've done more or less. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. It was this month.
That wasn't it. Yeah. Could be certain it was. And, um, but there's database stuff that needs
changes as well. Um, we made a, made a start, but this tool, a fair bit to do. So there will be cases
where if you go to a show that says to read more, click here, uh, and it will not.
In fact, uh, it takes it so that it doesn't take you anywhere. In fact, is it?
They just, um, so one of the things we've just done is to add the link to the internet archive
version of the show to every show so that if you find that that happens, you could look at that,
look at that and you, you know where it is by virtue of that link in the, uh, on the show page itself.
So we would find the files all up there. So yes. Oh, yes. Well, I think, well, unless you find out
otherwise, when we did it was to do it, was to make sure everything was available on the internet
archive. So you should, should find everything is properly linked there and, uh, and it's available
there for download or whatever else you want to do with it. Um, so that's, uh, that's a sort of
stopgap. I will leave, I think we'll leave it up because I think it might be used.
Yeah, it's not. Um, but, uh, but yeah, so we'll leave that link on the page is what I mean.
But, uh, the, for the moment where we still have the job to go through and change all of
the, uh, the broken links, it's not a vast number of them, but it's enough to be annoying.
So, uh, that's well, there's a lot that's linked about two, what was it? Don't know many
apps, uh, that I've got full show notes. So we've got the full show notes. But within the,
HG, within the HTML, there's a north, a lot of links, 40,000 or something.
That's we all need to, that we need to check. And if we don't find them, then, uh, we want to
replace the link with the internet archive, way back machine version that was as valid around
about that time. So it's, uh, non-trivial. Your solution of putting the, the link to the internet
archive is good, but, uh, is, is good. Full stop. You paragraph. Um, however, it'll defeat the purpose
if we are relying totally on the internet archive. That's what I wanted. The whole thing is to be, uh,
replicatable. And this is just one of these shaving a yak things that, uh, I was trying to
locate the files that we were missing. And then that's led me to, I didn't have enough
disk space to find it on the HPR disk. And then I had to re-op disk space, which I involved
identifying that one of the disks in my NAS had gone down. And it was, I needed to be
remembered. So I was doing that. So in the background, right now, I am thinking by, uh,
thinking the HPR show files over to work on it. So work is continuing, but it's, uh, it's slow.
Yeah, excuse us, excuse us Dave, that's basically what I'm talking about. It's, it's partly because
what we're having to do is to look through the notes of all of the shows as HTML. I mean,
we've done some of the, the fixes by simply doing, um, textual scams using regular
questions and stuff. And that, that's worked. That's worked pretty well as a strategy. But once you
get into needing to tweak URLs, which, and you need to know which ones, um, are, are active.
Because if somebody's gone in there and commented out, or you were out like you were,
you're right, because we could, the link was broken and we put the, the internet archive
in its place. And if we do it based on just text, we're going to go and change the comment.
Um, yeah, I'm not careful. So all of that sort of stuff, it needs something with the,
enough intelligence to understand the HTML and change only the relevant bits. So that's, that's
the thing I'm currently working on. I do have done this sort of stuff before. It's how the
stuff gets shunted off the HPR database into internet archive. So hopefully I can just
port some of the code from that to this. But yeah, it's, you know, it's, it's, it's not going to be
quick, but it will slow and steady. Hopefully we'll get there. And just as I buy the bike, we're running
low on shows. So I will be posting this show and I'll be posting some shows from the reserve queue
to fill up next week. So if you have shows ready to rock, can you please send them in. Thank you.
Yep. Good, good. Okay, anything else, Steve? I don't know. I don't think so.
All right, tune in tomorrow for a little exciting episode of Hacker. Public.
You have been listening to Hacker. Public Radio at Hacker. Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads. Hosting for HPR has been
kindly provided by an honest host.com, the internet archive and our sync.net. On the Sadois
status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
