Episode: 3089
Title: HPR3089: For my Entertainment
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3089/hpr3089.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:33:10

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3,089 for Thursday 4 June 2020. Today's show is entitled for my entertainment.
It is hosted by Archer 72
and is about seven minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summary is
how I have my file server and media center put together.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
.
.
.
Hi, this is Archer 72
and I'd like to thank HPR for providing the servers to record to.
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. I'm calling this one for my entertainment.
I have a file server that's running Slackware current version on Pi4.
I wanted to make movies and TV shows
that are accessible on the TV without using TV or Blu-ray.
It would give my wife and I a chance to sit and watch a show without much plus.
The latest show we are on is Sutamus FBI.
The main character, Sue, has been deaf from about the age of four years.
She is now adept at reading lips and learning to speak despite being deaf.
So that gets her in the FBI and gets her some work.
Far as the hardware.
The Pi2 is enclosed and stripped out power supply that had died on me at one point.
The fan still works so I wired it into the Pi on the 5-volt line
so it runs about half the speed it was designed for.
But that makes it almost silent.
With the heatsinks added, it stays around 35 Celsius when I don't.
And 50 Celsius when I'm in coding video.
Otherwise, networking I have both Pi's connected via Ethernet.
One is on 192.168.2.5 with a gateway of 192.168.2.6
with the other just swapped on the opposite.
So it's essentially a crossover network.
The reason for this is running Coding on Pi4.
I had tried an ad-chomp video.
It is better running video coding.
So I linked it to the Pi3 running Coding via some of the share on the Pi4.
I found out that I could use OSMC which is open source media center for the Coding interface.
It was a lot more stable on the Pi3 and it booted right into the Coding interface
which is something I was looking for.
I'll leave a link to download the image in the show notes.
They did LSBLK which lists block devices and DD with status equals progress
with the input file of the image output file of what you saw on the block device.
Installing SlackWars is a little bit more complex but not too much.
I made a SlackArm mount point and mounted the device that had the SlackWars sources onto that mount point and CD into it.
And then there's a command that's shown on the website about doing an R-Sync to get the sources from the FTP site.
And the site is called Fat Dog and it says don't forget the period at the end of the R-Sync command or it won't work.
I also made a directory called Extras under that SlackArm that I just put the new sources into.
That's under that SlackArm directory.
What I put in that directory for the Extras was the system packages that are shown on the show notes.
After getting all my sources and extras then I can boot up the mini-root with an extra SD card which is what I intend to put SlackWars onto.
And after mounting that second SD card you list it by the LSBLK command again.
And in most cases it should show devMMCBLK0 as the partition that you want to run the CFDISCON.
My particular ran about the P1 portion of it, partition of it, I had put 150 megs because I had a 4GB RAM.
I put the partition 2 as 4GB and then after I exit it out of CFDISC I run and make FS.VFET on the partition 1 to get a FET32 partition and make SWAP MKSWAP on the partition 2.
From there it's just a matter of running the installer and picking where you want your SWAP to be and where you want the partition to you want the SlackWars put onto.
And then from there just let it run its course and it takes an hour or two so you just want to go get a coffee and configure some of it later.
I put a little bit of an example of how I did it.
And with that particular OSMC I had problems with staying connected to the Wi-Fi network or automatically connected when it booted.
And so I ran, brought a mini little script to connect it to the network and then wrote a system D file to start it automatically and boot.
That's about all I did.
This has been Archer72. Thank you for listening. Remember to support Free Software. Thank you.
You've been listening to HekaPublic Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HekaPublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
