Episode: 3945
Title: HPR3945: My chrome plugins
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3945/hpr3945.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:44:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,945 for Friday the 15th of September 2023.
Today's show is entitled, My Chrome Plugins.
It is hosted by Daniel Person and is about five minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Daniel Person summarizes the essential plug-ins.
He uses every day.
Hello, hackers and welcome to another podcast with Daniel.
And I'm going to talk about a bunch of different subjects and I'm doing like ShatGPT.
Really good at creating a bunch of words without any real knowledge behind them.
But the topics that I'm going to talk about are pretty random and I'm going to split them up.
Hi again, in this episode I would go through what kind of Chrome Plugins I'm using.
And what I think is a good Chrome Plugin and what I think is not so good,
or something that you just should stay away from.
And I have a bunch of plugins and some of them are essential for my work.
First off, you need some kind of password vault solution.
I will not recommend anyone of them.
I just would say that you don't use a last pass.
I used it before and I have migrated it from it and it took a lot of work to move all those passwords over.
But now I have them in another password vault solution and having that as a Chrome Plugin,
I think is a very good solution.
And as I used to, YouTuber, I also used the TubeBuddy plugin.
It's pretty good to do some of these kind of bucket or big changes.
If you want to go through a bunch of videos and change descriptions,
and so on, it has a lot of those kinds of tools in it.
So it's not for everyone, but I think it's really useful.
Next up, I have this kind of Grammarly plugin and I am a little bit just electric.
I'm not a native English speaker.
So having some grammar check and some help when I'm writing is also essential for my work.
Next up, I have something that is called Colorsilla.
And it is a tool that makes it possible for me to just choose any point on any web page
and get the color value of that point.
And when you are writing and creating web pages, it's really nice to look around and work
with different things and really quickly could get a specific color either from an image
or from somewhere on the page in order to reuse that color in some other elements.
So it's a really good tool if you're doing web development.
And before I also have this kind of thing for taking snapshots, that was really good.
But now that I run a Bonto, that tool is actually built into a Bonto.
I don't think that Windows has a simple, good snapshot solution yet.
They are working on it.
It's getting better, but the old one was worthless because you had to pretty much take a snapshot,
put it into a document, save the document and crop and fix and so on.
And in Bonto, everything is built in, which is really nice.
And what do I have more?
I also before had these kind of solutions to run things in browser stacks.
A browser stack is this solution where you can go to a web page, use their plugin
in order to log into their web page and then test your solution or your web page
in a bunch of different web browsers.
So you can test it on iOS browsers, you can test it on Android browsers, Mac, Windows
and Linux with different kind of browsers.
You have some browsers that are native to the Eastern Europe and you also have some
that are native to the USA.
It's really nice that you have a lot of different choices there.
So you can see that your solutions works in all the different supported browsers.
So those are the most common plugins that I install in my workflow.
What kind of browser plugins do you use?
I know that there are not that many, but I think they are extremely essential for my workflow.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio doesn't work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
or classed, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our Sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0
International License.
