Episode: 3725
Title: HPR3725: How to use OSMAnd with Public Transport 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3725/hpr3725.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:40:28

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,725 for Friday 11th of November 2022.
Today's show is entitled How to Use OS and Android with Public Transport.
It is hosted by Ken Fallon and is about two minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Ken shows you how to use this mapping tool to display transit routes in your area.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today's another tip for OS and Android and it's how to use a public transport feature which I discovered recently.
It's kind of cool.
So if you open up your OS and Android and you go to a particular location for this example, I'm using double.
And normally it'll have the top writing corner that low icons set and that's just the general OS map browsing.
If you click on that, then you'll be able to configure map for some various different profiles.
One of the profiles that's available is the public transport one.
So you get a car, bike, walking and a public transport or a ferries.
So if you select the public transport one, it'll show you additional information.
And in the screenshots in the show notes, you'll be able to see that now there are a load of bus stops available to you.
So if you zoom in real quick on the Hapenny Bridge in Dublin, you'll see that there's a bus stop there listed.
And it gives the bus stop number 135100.
If you click on that, it'll list all the bus stops, all the public transport that stops at that particular location.
Plus other routes that are within 150 meters walking distance.
If you didn't click on any of them, for example, if I click on one, two, six, what it'll do is it zooms out and gives you the entire line in red.
With all they stops next to it.
And for example, this one says, this is the Dublin bus from Nice to Newbridge.
So that's it. That's all I wanted to do quick show and a handy little tool that's become invaluable since I discovered it.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
