Episode: 3337
Title: HPR3337: I like that the boat is stuck
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3337/hpr3337.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:01:20

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3337 Fortusity, the 18th of May 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, I like that the boat is stuck, it is hosted by Daniel Person and is about
nine minutes long and carries a clean flag. The summary is a dramatic redding of the work by Gaeli.
Tid's show is licensed under a CC by NCND license.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello Hacker's and today I would like to do a dramatic reading of I like that the boat is stuck by Gaeli.
And this is a short story or some kind of comments on today's world and it gave me some thoughts
and also made me see the world in a different light and didn't put as much emphasis on some
things that might have made me angry before. So this is what I see, a pretty good piece and let's
just get into it. I like that the boat is stuck. It's bad that the boat is stuck, it's bad for
lots of people and lots of reasons. I know that. Please don't think that me liking the stuck boat
is an ideological stance. This is not an opinion I have about boats or about canals or
about things generally being stuck but I can't deny it. I like that the boat is stuck.
I like that so far we all seem to agree that the boat is stuck. There is no debate over whether or
not the big boat is stuck. It's a big boat and it's stuck and we are all aware of those facts and
even those of us that are currently located in outer space. Furthermore most of us share the
opinion that it's disagreeable logistically that the boat is stuck. The boat being stuck is
inconvenient. It's a big disruption. Nobody can say it isn't a big disruption.
Nobody of my distant relatives will get into arguments on the face website about whether or not
the stuck boat is making a nuisance for a lot of people. I like that. Another thing I like
is where we know exactly what the problem is that it's making the boat be stuck. It's a big boat
and it's stuck. Sure shipping, manufacturing and boats and canals have lots of connections to
varied and sundry historical and sociological issues but it's immediate problem in front of us
is a stuck boat and we can look at the problem for precisely what it is. It's not stuck for
mysterious reasons related to a long history of human cruelty exploiting other humans. It's not
stuck because of politician wanted money from an organization that profits from a human suffering.
It's not stuck because someone pretending to be in favor of free speech is trying to
remote hateful ideologicals. It's stuck because it's big, bigger than the place where it is
and that's why it's stuck. Unsticking the boat will require making the boat not to be stuck.
It won't take a year or more of isolation or heights of hand washing or phone calls to legislators.
It won't require the courage to face down militarized police forces or the gumption to get a
shot that I know will make me feel a little bad before it makes me feel a lot more safe. Nobody
can tell me if I just worked a little harder or stopped spending money on avocados or getting
a side hustle the boat will get unstuck. If I did all of those things perfectly right right now
on tipitos there would still be a big stuck boat because those things aren't things that need
to happen. What needs to happen is somebody unsticks the boat. It feels profoundly goofy to even
discuss the big stuck boat. You can say those three words in any order and it will describe
the situation. Big stuck boat. Boat big stuck. Big boat stuck. Stuck boat big. See it's great. There is
no way to phrase the fact of the boat being stuck that can miscommunicate a situation or misrepresent it
or hide it the reality of it or manufacture it so it dehumanize vulnerable people.
And again there are a vast and sprawling ecosystem of currently historical horrors that made
the situation possible but we can't say that it is a situation that could never occur in a
just world because even in just worlds things get stuck. Dunk ducklings get stuck. We need a
poo get stuck and now the big boat is stuck and I like it. I like knowing there can be big problems
that caused by something that is straightforward and comprehensible as a stuck boat.
And I hope the boat gets unstuck. I do. I hope that nobody gets hurt and I extend the hope all
the way through to every kind of hurt that's possible and selfishly and honestly part of me
hopes that nobody gets hurt so I can keep on liking that the big boat was stuck. And maybe the
boat can stay stuck for just a minute so I can keep on cherishing the situation that makes sense.
The boat is stuck that's all there is to it. And when it comes to things that is interesting
by this piece is a lot of things that I do in programming I feel that there are in really large
and huge complicated problems that takes a lot of time to wrap my heads around and I can get
really frustrated and not solve the issue but when you look at it it's very comforting that there
are some large problems that have simple solutions even though they might require a lot of work.
And there might be some things that I work on that just needs some extra work it's not that they
are hard per se it's just that they are a lot of things that needs to happen in order to solve them.
So this was what I wanted to read for you today I hope that you liked it and if you have any
comments leave them in the comments section and I try to read them. You've been listening to
HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast network that release
the shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show like all our shows was contributed by
an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our
contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is released under
creative comments, attribution, share like 3.0 license.
