Episode: 3366
Title: HPR3366: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 7
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3366/hpr3366.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 22:11:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3366, for Monday the 28th of June 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HPR 2020, 2021 New Year's Eve, Show Episode 7.
It is hosted by Honki Magoo and is about 163 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hacker Public Radio Episode 3366, for Monday the 28th of June 2021.
Hacker Public Radio Episode 3366, for Monday the 28th of June 2021.
Games, some games, but I was, and before I started, no, I was not, I had no English
prognation right. I can't speak English, but I'm not, no, no, no, to speak English.
Yeah, I get the idea because there's something that happens in your brain, isn't there?
You can know things, you can read and even, it's different from being immersed with people
and copying them, which I think is the natural way to learn.
Yeah, because I, I being here in Norway, and I accidentally talk English to someone,
and they kind of excuse me, I'm from Norway too, because I was talking to someone that was from
not Norway, that was visiting, and they were talking to them English, and I talked to them English,
I didn't think, because I don't know how people in Norway are supposed to talk English,
because I never talked to anyone in English. I used to, I can't understand why I'm from Norway.
I get it, there's a, a YouTube channel called Langfocus, and he is very good, so I've
listened to different, you know, him talking about Scandinavian languages, and who understands
which region in Sweden or wherever, and how, where the borders cross, because the maps are just
written down by people, aren't they? They don't ask the people who live there very often.
The maps is kind of made before the languages, because in the region is a mix between the four
languages, or at least three languages. Yeah, on this same channel I was listening, he was talking about
Frischian, so old Frischian, before English language, and he was, he was sort of the people who were
here before, whoever, you know, the Anglo-Saxons changed the language a lot in this region,
and just, he was talking the Frischian grammar, and it's strange how the brain recognizes
what's being said almost, even though the words are not familiar, you know, it's an interesting
thing that happens in the brain, but the Frischian grammar, for example, is so different,
as Slavic, you know, there's so many more cases, although those cases did exist in an older
English, it's the meaning being transferred is the important thing, is it? So anyway, I trailed
off there. Yeah, so you're starting a ruffling as you call it? Yeah, I'm not having a fixed thing to
say when one starts, but continuing to talk. I am interested in language in general, so my
excitement in the subject carries me into such behavior. Yeah, that is, I like to,
hear on people that talk about what they like, even if it's extreme, more extreme than what I
think I am. So I'd probably flame up that kind of nonsense talking. Well, in a reaction to
trying to reduce ruffling, I will now go and sort objects in the real world of three
and four dimensions, and it's cold as well, so that's five. So Tony, so you can hear us then?
I can hear, you know, I had problems with my computer audio, I had to do a reboot,
some reason, some reason, Alsa and Pulse Audio lost my sound card. So you've been in
mumble before then? Tony, you had been in mumble before today? I've been in HPR in the HPR
before, yeah. Yeah, so it's not your first time in mumble. No, I've got quite a number of HPR
shows under me belt. Because it's the first time people have already had time joining
for the first time in mumble. Yeah, yeah. I used like four times before I was able to talk to some
mumble. Yeah. And my English was so horrible, no one understood me. It'd take me like half
a year before people started to understand me. Your English is better than whatever other language
you speak, because I don't speak anything other than English. Yeah, but my English guess where I'm
from. It sounds like the continent. Am I correct with that? European? Yeah. Germany or Austria?
Tony, someone you didn't say France, so many people say France. But you did not hear me in a long time.
But you? You have not heard me talk that long, so... No. Sometimes 99% guess France.
Or people ask before I'm telling them. Right. But after I'm told, when you come to me for
death, it's hard to remember. So where are you from? Norway. Norway? Oh, right. I was in your
factory a couple of years ago. I wonder if I talked to you before. I don't know. I talked to you
someone named Tony, but another doesn't remember Tony hey before. Yeah, I want to... do you listen to
mint cast? No, it doesn't listen to it, but I have been randomly joining her for some times.
Yeah, I'm on mint... I'm one of the mint cast hosts. Oh, it's kind of funny. So many random mint cast hosts
had been doing over past hours. Yeah, yeah. I don't know who's been around because I was thinking
a couple of hours last night, but no one else was around. Yeah, I think for different people,
as a note, I am a host on the mint cast. Yeah. Yeah, well, there's quite a lot of this. Yeah.
Please tell me this. So for all of us, I know all about all of us pikes. Yeah. Well,
Jerry with some mint cast also does the linux, the linux webcast as well. Yeah. So there was a true
trend there. That's true. Yeah. He has been not talking, I think, in the last eight or six hours
or so. Oh, Joe's usually around because he doesn't sleep much either. Yeah, he has not been talking.
It may be listening, but not talking. Yeah. So you have a second number room here.
Put in. You have a second number room you're doing now.
I had a second number channel. Yes, I've got to, I've got the, I've got mumble set up twice.
I've got the flat pack and I've also got the one that's in the repos, but I'm on the flat pack now,
the newer one, mumble 1.3 point. Oh, 1.3 point. You tried that thought and then you did the
effort and tried the new one. Yeah. Yeah. I thought it might have been a problem with mumble,
so I went into the old one to see whether it was a problem with that. It wasn't. So I plugged in
me, one of the USB sound cards and that worked. So I knew I could get sort of, but then it wouldn't
pick up the microphone for some reason. So I rebooted the computer and the sound card on the
computer came back. So I'm back on that. So I was wondering, because sometimes I was kind of
invited to join you guys on the nincast kind of thing. Is it? Some years ago, probably then.
All right. May have even been before we took over. Yeah, and then I forgot about it.
Then I was looking for you guys in the times that you said you was going to be on, but then you
was gone. And I just told you straightly today you have moved to a new place. Oh, do you mean
the mumble? Yeah. Yeah, we've got our own place. We use the HPR mumble server as a backup,
but we have got our own mumble server now that to young Josh that used to be one of the hosts
set up a while back. So we use that most of the time. People are doing that. Or you're kind of
predicting it. Sorry, I didn't quite get that. So are you lowering people to doing that place?
Or is it stricting or is it low to doing? No, we only use that for the people that are actually
going to be live on the show. We don't we don't we've we've got a YouTube feed for people who
want to listen to the show live when it goes out. So if you go on YouTube and search for
nincast and subscribe to it, it'll tell you when the live shows going out. Yeah, I think it's
trying to say they use the mumble server to make the program so to interview people. Yeah,
that's right. Yeah, we record though, we record because obviously we're all in different parts
of the world. Well, mostly in America, but I'm in the UK. We use mumble so that we can talk to
each other. And if anyone joins us again, they they're joining mumble and we and we all record
locally on audacity and then mix that down to form the show, but during the show Leo's got it set
up so that we stream on YouTube and people can join you know, listen to the show as it goes out.
So you don't use mumble anymore to do the live broadcast. We don't we don't we don't use mumble to
well, mumble is used to stream, but it gets streamed through YouTube. So nothing that you
was using mumble before then? Well, we used to use mumble to stream even before, but it was
on a different streaming service. Kevin, Kevin, that is part of the HPR team. He used to have a
pie streaming box set up that we used to use. So we'd push the mumble stream through that.
That would go out as a live stream, but now we push the mumble through into I think
Leo uses OBS. He's got a separate box set up and he pushes the mumble stream through OBS
and into a YouTube live stream. Yeah, because before I kind of I come to Minkas and I wanted to talk
after the shows, you probably doesn't remember me, but not remember who I was and I'm talking to.
So it's some years ago. Ah, right. Okay. Before Covid was a thing. Before Covid was a thing, yeah.
I think we know, always Covid was a distant memory. After Covid, I look around for a different
different place to meet people and talk to. A number has gone down the drain kind of. It was
opened up on this place. Not sure if you noted it. No. Because it was like 20 or 50 people inside
this place around the lockdown period beginning for lockdown. And then it was going downhill slowly
in the summer when this was unlocking of different places and not returning. So looking for different
places to talk to people. And now here about Minkas drum, that's welcome to people. Ah.
Yeah, when we say we're welcome. If you want to join us and come and talk about something on
what is the show, that's what we mean. And we can only have one possibly two guests for each
episode because it gets too complicated otherwise with all the audio editing. Yeah.
Because we've already got six hosts. So it is. So we had two guests. That's up to eight, eight
tracks to edit together to get the audio going. Oh gosh. So we do enjoy people if they want to come on.
So how do you argue? I'm sorry. The first day of yes. What do you prefer? The way I contact you
about being invited on the show? Yeah. If you contact us through Discord or Telegram.
Yeah. I joined the Telegram today. Yeah. If you're on the Telegram group or the Discord group,
or you can email us directly on the Minkcast. Maybe if you have been on Telegram today,
maybe you see how I'm doing you guys here. I haven't gone into Telegram for ages. I need to
go and have a look at Telegram. Because I don't know today and we're kind of trying to find out
if it was some kind of inwise only member one. But member one that I feel it's not meant to be
open for people to just join. I just opened up Telegram and I've got millions and millions of messages.
If I have a question for Tony. Yeah. About Minkcast. So I listen to podcasts. I wonder what do you
talk about on Minkcast? What level of Linux, kernel, user land, what kind of, I know I should
just go and have a listen. But before we're actually quite eclectic. We tend to swap around between
doing beginner stuff and the average users and more complicated stuff. I'm an average, I class
myself just as a user. I'm not a technology buff. It was never my profession. It's always been my hobby.
So I'm not into some of the technical stuff. So when they start talking about the really geeky
stuff, then it starts growing over my head. So we tend to try and have a balance of the stuff that
the new, you know, someone new or fairly new to Linux can understand. New applications like novel
applications, but always well, often useful anyway, aren't they? You just know sometimes the name
and you get this whole new feature set. So I think I might get. We do talk about things that come
out, particularly if Mint releases a new release and these new stuff in Mint, we'll talk about that.
When we did the last show, the beta 20.1 beta was out and Leo was going through some of the
extras that were in that. Without going too deep into it. So I'm thinking of dumping a bun too. I've
had it for a while. I'm running it on this old server. Well, you're using the main edition,
are you using one of the spins? I've used a lot. I'll probably do an introduction episode for
HPR. I did qualify as Sys Atamin for Solaris, like 10 years ago, and before that I had other
interest in computing since like 1981, ZX81. What's my point? So I've used different distributions
and I'm getting a bit annoyed with the system D just because it interrupts me and it doesn't
shut down when I tell it to. That kind of stuff is not acceptable. I mean, I know it's got reasons.
So briefly, what's Mint following? I know it's simple stuff, but if you don't mind telling me.
In your sense, so what do you mean what Mint Cast follows or what Mint is doing?
If you're talking, what's underneath Mint? Is it used system D?
Yeah, it uses system D because you can get snaps working, although in the latest release,
the Glenn decided he didn't like snaps, so he's put a script in a file to block it out of the box.
You've got to go and delete that to get snaps working, but yeah, system D's there,
but it's by default, it's a flat pack system.
I have got Mint on another system. I did use it for a while, but like I say, I get into,
I'll break a lot of things and I'll move my data and stick it in a raid somewhere so that I can
go back to it, but I've got littered around the place, you know, several distributions that
I really need to blow away. You probably listen to the cast. It's good. I've got time to listen
at work when I'm sweeping, so I'll catch a few. Yeah, but I was going to say, for me, Mint is one of
those, which is why I was a little bit disappointed when Glenn decided to block Snap,
because I think Mint is one of those ideal distributions for a new person to Linux,
whereas everything works out the box. But now, if you want to get snaps working, although it's not
hard, if you're not a technical user and comfortable with either going into the terminal and
doing a bit of tweaks in the terminal, even though these things on the internet, Leo did a little
tutorial about how to get rid of the config file that blocks Snap. You know, if you're not
comfortable with all that, it's just maybe that little bit less user friendly for a new user.
Right, it's quick. People are quick to forget. I remember struggling around with in between
those directories, thinking, what is the point of this? Because I'd learn programming, like BBC
Basic, back in the day, and I just couldn't get, like, my problem was that it wasn't as complicated.
It wasn't complicated. It was dead simple, but my point just this right now is that, yeah,
it's easy to forget, and we need people like you to keep things simple for newcomers,
because I need that help at every level. I remember.
Yeah, I'm compared with Linuxies over 25 years old now. It's about 25 years, isn't it?
No, it's more, isn't it? It's 28 years old when the kernel was written, but I didn't get into it
until Ubuntu came along. So it was a Ubuntu that got me into Linux, because it was an easy,
you know, it was an easy install. And even then, there was still stuff that you had to tweak around,
particularly if you were putting it on laptops with Wi-Fi cards and things like that,
you know, I remember. If you needed drivers to anything, yeah.
Yeah, but that's what I'm saying. If you had a Wi-Fi card that didn't work out the box,
you had to do all sorts of things with then Disrapper and all this kind of stuff.
And it definitely puts you off. I remember one New Year's day, I did the whole
Gen 2 thing, the whole Gen 2 thing. It was working nicely. No, it was a very straightforward
and accustomed to all of that because I'd done the Solaris thing. So it was easy, but then it would
intermittently connect to the network. And because I wanted to do some browsing at that point,
I just switched the thing off when it sat there. I've done all that work and I never used it
as a box. Very nice. But just like I wanted, it wouldn't give me, it was a simple network thing,
but you just have to learn that stuff. And if you're not into learning it, if that's not what you
there for, then in my case, I won't do it. Yeah. I got into Linux originally, because I moved back
up from London to the file case and I had an old computer knocking about. And I had a bit of spare
time on the Amns because I decided to go back to university and I had a summer off and I thought,
I'm going to get this box working over the summer while I've got a bit of free time. And it was an
old Pentium 2 machine and I wanted to get it working and then I decided I was going to give it away
on free cycle. And of course, free cycle required, their rules are that anything you give away
has to be perfectly legal. And I couldn't stick Windows on it because there was no Windows license
with it. So I thought, I know a bit about this Linux stuff. I've got a disk floating around,
so I stuck it on and got it working, got everything working on it. And that's what got me into Linux,
was fiddling around with computers to give away on free cycle. That was your story. It's not
to sell it to give it away. Yeah. Yeah. So you need to learn things to give it away.
But yeah, because you couldn't give anything away that was moody or using dodgy software,
I couldn't stick a dodgy version of the Windows on this on this tower because that would have made
it illegal. I also propagate the Windows virus. Yes. Yeah. Well, at the time, I was a Windows user.
I was using my XP at the time back in 2006. So I was an XP user. I wasn't a power user,
but I was a little bit of bug average. I couldn't install it myself. So you've got to
pay the user, not that poor user. Yeah. But yeah. So that's how I got into using Linux. And
the more and more, I was installing it on these computers as I was giving away on free cycle.
The more I thought, actually, this is a good system. So I installed a dual group on me on
tower. And that's how I got using it. I did Tiny Core once. It might have been a very early
Pentium. I think it had, like, it only had .48 Meg of memory or something. It might have been low,
it might have been 16. It's just a real time and call reply on that anyway. Yeah. Yeah.
It's impressive. I love that stuff. Yeah. There was, there was a couple of different versions of
Tiny Core. Yeah. You have very, very small versions. Put it in. You have the
terminal version that is so kind of about 12 megabytes. I think it was. Yeah. I think the one
that gave you a DE was came in at about 30. Yeah. I think it's 45 or last time I used.
Yeah. I've not used Tiny Core for ages. The only one you use puppy. I've tried it.
I tried it. I've never used it for more longer and kind of, oh gosh, this just looks so
rotated. Yeah. I tried it in the early days. And because I wasn't very confident with Linux,
I probably dismissed it too quickly, but I should go back and have another look at it.
I didn't use this because this was too kind of noisy. I didn't understand I can just delete
all the images on the desktop. It doesn't need to keep them. Because I was still new to Linux.
I was not sure if it was okay to delete stuff. Yeah. No, I know. I know. I hope you use to
delete all files that have, we can probably not delete 99% of the system. 99% of the X things
and still have a node to get it working again. Right. Something I don't know anything is about
this Pulse Audio. Yeah. So funny. Is some people talk about Pulse Audio? One number I know
does nothing about it. Right. I think I also just hack out it until it's done and then forget
about it. Because next time I do it, it'll probably be different, might be different distribution.
I'm sure that's why a good tutorial is always good to have around.
Yeah. I think since I started using Linux, I think the fact that so many people put some really
fantastic stuff up on YouTube, but it's fairly easy to find answers to things or find tutorial videos
in how to get started with a particular distro or doing something nowadays.
Right. The stuff I do remember is that SSH. Because often you want SSH into that box to get it started.
Especially if you're rebuilding, if you're hacking something back together.
Right. Pulse Audio, though, kind of seems like luxurious. But in your day to day, you want that.
And when you're getting settled in, who've got a bit more of a stable system, then it's really nice.
Brilliant. So whereabouts are you based? I'm in the Midlands.
Oh, right. Okay. Birmingham area. Oh, brilliant. So you're another, you're another
for four. Yeah, since a couple of days. Yeah, we went into level four on New Year's Eve.
I find it a little bit because they're not being able to go into my brother's garden. I
should want to go over to his house and go and fix his shower. That would be allowed, you know,
and I've not been stopped by the police yet. So one that offers funds, are you from the UK? Probably
I've done many times. Yeah, well, yes, I am. Yeah. And Tony, where are you? I'm in Blackpool.
Sonny Blackpool. I've got family around there, Chester St. Helens.
All right. Okay. Yeah. Well, I grew up in South Manchester in a village called Cheeble,
just South of Manchester. So you just have the same, um, I would be the language team, uh,
Derek. Uh, no, dialect dialects, uh, in, in the UK can be quite subtle. Um, so it just depends
where you live. Yeah, because I hear you up from your UK, but, um, one of those spoons,
I cannot help him from whatever way he's from. Uh-huh. That's why I end up asking me
probably more than once. I'm not. My accent is, uh, not even my local accent, you know,
I think because I've paid attention to my voice and also been learning language, but it was already
strange. I've been told I sound like a 12-year-old, you know, I'm, I'm 48 years old. Yeah.
There is a bit of, um, middle in Zinnanda. Yeah. Well, no, when I'm being in which
public and heritage is still around, but I'm trying to find out about, if it English is
tongue-wish language, because I have sometimes talked with someone from Australia and I cannot hear
them from Australia. No kind of one 20-year-old, I know it's from Australia. From where, sorry?
They're like kangaroos lives. In Norway? No, Australia. Australia. Uh-huh. Then kangaroos,
you know, the punching thing. Kangaroos. Yeah. Yeah, for pronunciation makes all the difference,
especially Chinese. Oh, you, uh, I learned my English, yeah, not say the third and try to
describe it. One of those are going to work before later. And more you talk to one person, you
better, that one person, learn how you talk. Yes, I think if you listen to different accents often,
or if you have concentrated on learning another language, you've become much better at recognizing
the, the relatives, like the relative, um, differences in one voice. Yeah, because we long
have talked to someone the better way I understand me somehow, but not always are getting better in
language, because I'll tell you, in the end, which is a power gun or a power drug,
Patrick. Patrick. I get the most and most in our pronouncing, but he kind of still understand me,
and then I start to loosen what I'm saying myself. But he still can't follow what,
but want to go with my sentences. Code shifting, the linguistic term is it,
where people begin to talk like the person they are talking with? Yeah, so it's kind of thinking
up kind of deal. Practice, I guess, do you read out loud? Or do you take an English text and read
out loud? Yeah, I kind of sound out to it when we're on the number. Or even to listen and then copy,
to do you say listen to music with good clear lyrics and then sing slightly after it, you know,
to echo it. It's a good way to pick up language and feel confident. Yeah, I don't listen to music,
but I have the lyrics normally. Do you sing along? I have a hard time. I used to sing like the last
four years sing alone, but before that I didn't know how to sing alone, but I have a hard time
sing alone. For now listening to Russian, learning Russian, I found it useful,
well, two things. One, of course, to listen with subtitles. Another to, yeah, listen
whilst reading the language, because the script is different, you know, the Cyrillic text is
different, rather than me struggle to pronounce, to try and recall from memory, each of the how I
should say those symbols, to just listen to someone else say them as I run my eyes over those words,
was just so much easier. And then additionally, to take English language like a phrase that I would
say in English, but use the sounds, I use the Cyrillic text and transcribe in Cyrillic the English
words, if you know what I mean. So if a fantasy, you would use the symbol from Cyrillic and the
symbol from Cyrillic. So it would be written like Russian language, but it would be actually English
language. And then I could practice saying those phrases so that my brain could associate and
quickly say, you know, to learn to read basically. But in the script, I guess Norwegian is very
similar to Latin script English anyway. Yeah, it's a very similar, because the moment you
help me to pronounce name that I read them. And you hear my Norwegian coming through,
it's more quiet and more tired. I used to read the full letter already, I heard myself,
a good job of name. I think it works okay, if you're for some time with the same person who
is listening to you, that will work just fine. And they can then correct you if you're part in
the expression, but basically, you know, they can say how to pronounce that. And you'll learn a lot,
but if you just practice anyway, even when you cannot pronounce, if you consistently read the
word of the same way, then learn the English. Yeah, that's a very good at the number, but then I
have a two years, three years from a member and I still can talk English and no sound totally,
but talking, not talking two years, it was all people said, it was very damaging for my fluency.
I wonder how long, how much time each day though you would need, maybe not very much to just
practice pronunciation from reading or something. Yeah, I don't do it so much probably,
kind of because I only butcher the names of different people, and I don't know how to pronounce
a name. It's also easy for me to say, because I'm sorry, what's that Tony? No, what do you mean,
was that Ken? Yeah, that's buttering people's names as my job. Thank you very much.
Yeah, I bet you're only all of my names that I've never had before.
Anyway, by the way, I'm not wish everyone happy new year. Yeah, happy new year.
I'm just looking at the countdown. The next new year place is in 10 minutes. It's
Halloween, Halloween. It's the pantheraic one. Oh god, pantheraic.
Because the name gets me to see out of thing. Yeah, but your reading is as an English word,
it's not an English word. It's a Irish alphabet. No, it's alphabas. Hasn't switched, so the
vowels are still the original. I'll be back in a few minutes. See you later, Tony. Also, Ken,
pantheraic was saying his name is also because he's from Netherlands, pronounced slightly
differently. Oh, that's for sure. Yeah, there has been a wide selection of buttering their names.
It has to be there. So is it right that you are from Netherlands,
Ken? Oh, this is understand what he was talking about. Are you from Netherlands?
I live in the Netherlands. I'm from Ireland. So you and family with the pantheraic?
The pantheraic is my son, yes. But I'm glad he was asleep the whole night and wasn't awake at all.
Like a good parent that I'm supposed to be. Tony, is it a champion talker?
Yeah, it is, yeah. Then the moment you left, you don't?
Uh, yeah, I sent him to bed. No, he's actually up. I don't know why he's still trying to do it.
He was talking about getting something to eat because he'd been talking six hours nonstop.
Yep, that's, that's pucky alright, yeah.
And not going to toilet or drinking or anything.
Yeah, I find those wide-necked fabric conditioner bottles are very useful because
it took me a long time to make the smell of the fabric conditioner go away. I hope that's not too crude.
I work in the garage sometimes, you know, it's cold out there.
And I just heard, it's just recalled people who are playing world, what is it? World of Warcraft or
something? How they would just stay by their machines, not wanting to leave and therefore be
urinating in their coffee cups and all that kind of nasty stuff. Yeah, they just, they just,
they're that hooked. So they just got a five gallon bucket. So they're just kind of drinking and then
using it to piss and... Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
It's very tough, very don't hear the topic.
Yeah, but addiction, addiction to uh, or obsession, obsession. I've been on
membel over 12 hours nonstop, wanted to be within or treat membel as a game.
Time again for me to grab the blue teeth, headphones and go and sort some objects.
What objects? But I've got boxes of things you know, I've got, I'm probably a hundred boxes,
I'm just trying to sort, I'm trying to move house, but that's going to be six months.
Well, I'm into it's Brexit stashing. No.
I'm not at all the illegal EU contraband. It's kind of recycling, isn't it? But not knowing when,
like, is anyone going to buy the house? I'm going to get out of the country like somewhere,
what to keep, what to not. Yeah, I totally understand that. We're in the same boat ourselves.
So what's you in that boat? The four Covid or after Covid started?
I would say before. Yeah, because some people kind of want to move after Covid started.
Because of Covid. I have four small children and we live in the city and I did not grow up in the
city and it's very difficult for me to adjust to being in the city and I want to get out.
And I wanted to get out for years, but now it just seems easier. The housing market has actually
gone through the roof because of Covid. It's going to hell in the world. It's probably good
for all people, but not me, I'm trying to move away from the city, not into the city.
I need to move away from the city as well. Yeah, because it's no, he said to move into the city, not
away from the city. I'm looking for crew and farmland, you know, a community, a bit more resilient
where you can plant stuff. There's lots of people to help and things to enjoy and develop all
of the time without being pressured, you know. I have a hard problem. My family want me to live
close to the city, but I want to live far away. So I'm looking for a place that they are going on
and I can still be myself on a problem, especially with Covid, but all the places I was looking at
have vanished. Yeah, now that is something. The places around here that have been for sale that
have been ideal. They're listed on the market for a week to two weeks and they're gone. Yeah,
I pointed like four. I was used to randomly lucky and see them and I will listen like two days
and I will just go most of the way around. But there is still not not from a public listing,
but it's just some farmer putting a sign up in his yard because he needs some cash. Yeah,
and I was just broke. It was looked at like 50 different places. No, it's zero different places.
I'm thinking it's going to sell or go ahead, sir. No, I think it's and the process go up around
10 to 20% of all the different places. I was going to I knew about Covid, so I thought,
okay, Covid is going to lower price. I thought they were holding off on buying. But instead it's
going to 10 to 20. I think it's here. If they just go on, it's going to be 60% over what is
the last year price. But it's good to live out of your house here. But it's good
cheaper and cheaper. I think to live in the bunker kind of city that you have a little
small room between people. So the housing they got cheaper in the city. I think if you want to
live just a little outside the city, they got real pricey, very fast. Mr. Horrible. I knew one
I looked at it's got 10 times asking price. That's kind of one of the problems we're having right now
is with the land and things that are available. So yeah, it's van coming and they go and when they
come back, because they'll be re-listed, it'll be more than it was the last time. So I believe that
landowners are getting interest shown in their land and they're like, oh, well, let's up the price
a little more. They'll go a little more, a little more. And they're not accepting anything and
to start getting the really high offers. And it's good time to be selling houses for now,
because the demand is so high and the supply is so low, because we are in the financial position
Happy New Year, Alala, Luiru. Got it, but you're not. He's just gotten it. Yep. Happy New Year.
Just two more left. And then it's over. And then it's over for another year. 2020 done and dusted.
Yes. And now we've just got to crawl our way through 2021. Yeah. Is that light of the land of the tunnel?
No, it's a freight train. So obviously, Ken. So what was that? I said, you are so optimistic.
Well, at least he's still in the eight year unlike some of us.
So you can just move to Northern Ireland and you'd still be at the best of both worlds.
Do you remember the still wouldn't have the free movement I don't think would wish.
Yeah, that's going to be a problem. Surely you have an Irish grandparents somewhere
locked away in the cupboard somewhere. Well, I've got, I've got Polish or Russian
relatives somewhere. So I don't know when they are. You don't need to like them.
Do you just need to get the passport? That's all. Yeah, I'd have to track it all down first.
Yeah, I saw here a market where a lot of people are going to a lot of rounds to find out their
to get paper work done before the transition.
Well, if you if you if you were born in Northern Ireland, you're entitled to an Irish passport
anyway, aren't you? Yep. So I would imagine there's going to be a lot of people
applying for their Irish passport. Yeah, it's yeah, that's the most of issue.
Yeah, I would imagine the loyalists probably wouldn't, but
I would imagine there are people who are just, you know, conservative with a small say, you
will probably think about it. In order to apply, you need to have a person of high standing,
you know, sign the thing and that tends to be clergy or members of a political party.
And they want some of the unionist parties, we're saying, yeah,
that they were seeing a large increase in applications for Irish passports.
I'm still a unionist, but I do like to I do like to head off to my holidays down in the lands of
Rossi. Fair enough. Or I want to go to be able to retire into Spain whenever I want. Yeah, very much.
Yeah, talking about giving ourselves both barrels in both feet. Yeah, it's, yeah, I don't know.
But yeah, it's interesting. I'm just glad I'm not on that side of the interesting. I was
being concerned about the island of Ireland thing to be honest with you. Yeah, it did kind of
undermine the truth. People call it the peace treaty, the good Friday agreement. Yeah.
And I can really see how that was puts the unionist community in a very awkward position.
So I'll just speak the whole thing. Yeah. They had no choice but to support it in ways to
support Brexit. And then, yeah, it's, yeah, because nobody wants to return to that.
No, no, we don't want to return to that. I know there's still occasional
outbreaks of violence and stuff, but nothing like it was for 30 years. So Ken,
wait. Are you in the D&D thing? No, no, not only enough. My son got the D&D genes from
somebody else. I don't understand it myself. Because you are always in there when I have been
working over it. Ah, yeah, but that could be because I have a backup machine in case
he can't connect on his machine. So I'm just sitting there as a droid, but I am absolutely
nowhere near it. Although, Patrick is very persuasive. He has managed to get me to create a character.
So yeah, essentially, I think D&D is just a lot of maths tied up in a story. And that
maths, I'm not a big fan of. Yeah. But he enjoys D&D and that's the main thing.
Lot of maths. I tried to talk to you so many times, so good to hear you. Just not there then.
Yeah. So, no, you're not going nuts, I just, it was just computer connected.
Yeah. Because so many times, I just gave you up. I forgot you was
totally annoying me on purpose. Oh, no, no, no, no. It's so tall.
Because it was kind of the only person I knew beforehand from that group was you, so and I tried to talk to someone I knew before and before.
Ah yes, yes, no, I have nothing, I have nothing to avoid you at all, that's just a whole no.
And I kind of pedric, I thought to pedric about cutting in maybe the next time, if I remember then it is.
Clatu has drawn a little bit of a break at the minute for one reason or another, but he has a calendar that he can subscribe to and will tell you when the D&Ds are happening.
Let me just check and see if I can find that now.
No, no, no, no, no, no, let me speak, let me speak.
Ah no, sorry, just channeling my...
Does anybody see Clatu?
He has been around, I don't think I've seen him around.
Tattoo.
Oh, that's a weird new year.
Indeed.
Yes, someone was asking about someone here, but did I never do it?
So you kind of make a point, I want to talk, be done and then you got to require it.
I'm just searching HP R to see if I can find an episode on making sourdough bread.
If you go to the main page, look under tags, tags.
Ah, my main page, look under it.
Let me see, I'm on the mix signal, stop ML Games blog, one second.
We're getting closer.
And sorry, that was my impression of Nigel Farage who was known for the Brexit interviews.
If you listen to the BBC comedy shows, this whole thing was...
No, no, no, let me speak, let me speak.
So yes.
So you are trying to copy that one.
That's it.
The indie talk, absence of Clatu, very good.
I had a very hard time jumping back in here without listening to today's show, Holy Grape.
That's a good one for today.
So you joined this run other time of video of one day, Copa?
I missed that, but you're going to have to say that again.
Do you join other days and this once a year?
This one, this memory one.
I was here yesterday a little bit, probably about this time, maybe a little later.
Ah, so some people using this place?
Yeah, mostly it's just a community new show.
We do occasional interviews on here.
And there was a big discussion as well.
I'll just give you the summary.
This server will probably be shutting down and moving to another server, where there is more...
Yeah, because a lot of the podcasts...
I think it was already done once.
Oh, okay.
No, because I was giving the new thing because the server was moving.
Oh, okay.
The ones before.
Not to remember, that's probably.
I think I've even got this from you, I'm not sure.
Okay.
So, will that mean a new link that will be to...
Don't know.
No, no, what I'm going to do.
It'll probably be mumble, dust, heckaphublicradio.org, anya.
First, I got a link in to the from places that have a connection to this place.
Probably one of them, no, it's a bit new place.
I can't find a...
Are you going to run your own mumble server there, Ken?
No, no, no.
Love to be doing.
Thank you very much.
Delwin has a server and I'll probably just put a DNS entry into his.
What was about to say to everything, how can you do anymore?
No, no, no, no.
I just get...
Everybody thinks I do everything.
If Marist does all the work.
And so, he just goes politely in the background about it.
So, you think I had his work in the scene?
Yeah, I'm a puppet state here in HPR land.
Nick, will you keep the other ring currently in this HPR server?
The thing is, the thing is the reason I...
Well, the previous person who was paying for this, and I can't remember the name,
I'm a bit ahead against the wall trying to remember who they were, which is terrible.
It's all fun when you cannot remember who is paid off a big thing you are using.
Yeah, exactly.
So, they had their...
They were paying for the server for years and then there was an email sent round saying,
are you still using the server?
And we were at HPR war, so I was happy to take it over.
But then, when the issue about client compatibility and the server not being upgraded
came up this week.
I had a look at the rooms and the majority of the podcasts on there are either pub-faded
or they have moved off to their own server or are using it as a backup.
Yeah, we're using...
Link cast is using it as a backup because our server's still a bit...
Sometimes gets a bit flaky.
Yeah.
So, it's only used for a backup or a bit of a radio thing.
And...
Well, HPR uses once a month, so Delwin has offered us a room over there.
And he...
I presume it's a...
He keeps the server up to date and he's got a room that you can go in and...
When you go in there, you can test your audio and all sorts of stuff.
So, he's got the podcasts that you take of different random things,
different random thing read...
Oh, oh, load.
Or that other show too.
No, I think he just has a mobile server for other podcasts.
No, no.
I mean, your show is better reading or load different people sending different random stuff.
I almost forgot those.
As long as it's of interest hackers, that's the only, only requirement.
Which works for everything.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're literally everything.
Because I remember one time I joined, it was cooking kind of food topics.
The whole good thing.
I've done a cook, a lot of cooking.
Cookery shows.
Yeah, maybe that's why I can remember your name, but not talk to you.
Maybe I heard what you feel reading is something.
Yeah.
You can.
And can you read an employee from before?
Yes.
Yes, I can.
You're on 24 hour show and you're on the community news of your time.
Still haven't gotten a show from you though.
Which is interesting.
What do you mean?
Still, you still haven't recorded and high.
This is where I come from.
This is how I found out what HPR.
This is da da da da, recorded and go to the calendar show and upload the show.
Have your own show.
You're a real person on the internet then.
You're a real podcaster.
Yeah.
No, I'm not.
No, because probably where I got to this place.
I didn't know about any podcast.
I got to say some place I couldn't get to talk to people.
The probably not the right introduction to this place probably.
Still can't find out where to search tags.
Hold on one second.
I will get it for you.
It's not.
Yeah, it's on the list of stuff that should be more prominent now.
Probably sounds very bad that doesn't listen to any podcast at all really.
So I put it into the e2pad.
Oh, into the show now.
Yeah, and it's on the HPR thing underneath me.
The team and right above the latest shows.
Please help out tagging others.
So we have two shows on dole, which is 1327 and 131827.
13271827.
One by Frank Bell who breaks big spread.
Yeah.
And one by Dave Morris.
This is this part of the series.
Cooking.
Interesting.
And cooking.
We have your one.
So rift it all.
Whatever that is.
As I put you in there.
Making crepes.
Making sauerkraut.
Making bramble jelly.
Killer claspas.
Kill.
Bassas.
Baking your bread.
Chaffee chip cookies.
Dot dot dot.
On oats.
Alpha 32 pine head oats.
Frank 5c bread.
How to make kombucha tea.
Steele.
This is actually a lot longer than I thought it would be.
Cooking.
Cooking.
Cooking.
Cooking.
Okay.
So there you are.
And sourdough.
Do we have a sourdough?
I can't.
I'm still sick.
Yeah, sourdough.
1327.
That's the one.
1327.
Right.
I thought you were going to read four wild things.
Oh god, it's a whole list.
Yep.
Do you guys have a mailing list?
Yes, we do.
Yeah.
Because...
I can't public read it that hard at the end.
I...
No, I don't want to get in on this.
Because I didn't realize it was a mailing list.
Oh.
I thought it was like a recipe that used to give me updates.
I didn't realize what it was.
Oh, the mailing list is for...
The mailing list before.
Okay, the mailing list is for the cooking as such.
No, no.
But I didn't know what the mailing list was before I...
Oh.
I didn't know it did to your place.
And understand my whole mailing...
mailing application gets very fast filled up.
It tastes like spam.
Because you said it didn't happen.
You didn't know the mailing list.
Then I don't know it.
It was like...
50...
100...
500...
100 m...
Eh...
100 m...
So I got...
It's just keep going in a book.
You probably don't use...
Your mail...
A different mail end or something to it.
Oh, okay.
No, no.
It was...
Going and growing and you do...
I didn't understand what it was.
Because each time someone reprise, it gets sent to all people.
That's interesting.
And it was...
Before I knew it, it was...
Because I had all my mail clients in one application.
And...
Normally I had around 20 unread messages at mail.
But after I donated you, I have like 500 unreaded.
And the next time I look at it, this was the 1000.
And it's just growing and growing.
That money.
Yeah.
It shouldn't be...
There's something wrong because it's only...
There's only a few mails a month left.
Yeah, it was...
I just joined a very unlucky year.
You have more...
More traffic and normally.
You normally do.
Oh, okay.
I was very unlucky because I...
I kind of talked to you about the place and...
Oh, it's unreadable.
Like maybe 20 a month.
Okay.
Totally fine.
But this...
I kind of tried to follow.
I hope they...
But after I added like 500 messages, what kind of...
Oh.
Talking about the mailing list.
I've gone into my email and found...
Founder.
That's an email.
Yeah.
Yeah, because I thought this was like a...
A recipe that you have on...
On kind of...
This is your...
On a blog kind of thing.
I thought this was like that.
But this is not like that.
I didn't know what I'm...
I didn't know how horrible I...
Mainly, this can be...
If you need to read about too much as you get...
On email.
Okay.
Are you going to have breakfast back in a bit?
It's...
It's like your telegram thing.
I think it's funny.
Yeah.
The mailing list is nothing like that.
No.
No, no.
But it's...
As horrible in...
You get a radical number of...
Tealing.
Yeah.
But like I say, the HPR mailing list...
It's got nowhere near that.
Some...
Someones you don't...
You know, someones you only get the one...
Yeah.
I probably just...
Was very, very unlucky then I don't.
Because...
It was...
More was getting into me.
And I was...
Get rid of it.
It was...
No, maybe not...
It was...
No, maybe you didn't...
A problem is...
It's...
I have some...
Autosand...
Backing kind of stuff.
I probably...
You...
But you do as myself.
Because I didn't know that then how it worked.
If someone said that...
Then I...
Please do not send this message to me.
Or something like that.
I used to...
I used to...
Hmm.
Someone's got an echo.
Someone's got an echo.
Yeah.
Yeah.
One of spoons.
Hmm.
Just a minute.
Yeah.
I can't...
I'm on my phone, I'm trying to mute.
Phone should auto mute.
Come on, that should be like a default setting on...
Yeah.
Android.
What kind are you using on your Android?
It's mumble, mumble, mumble or something.
Robble.
One of all three.
Because I got my friend to install a mumble.
I didn't mean to get in to install that.
But he found mumble so...
Okay.
He got mumble or when it's fun.
I wonder if that's going to work at all.
How's that?
I think maybe the volume was too loud or do you still get the...
Doesn't seem to be...
Doesn't seem to be loud.
There.
Because it was very loud.
The new was feeling back.
Give them noises.
Okay.
I'm mostly listening now.
Yeah.
I'm going to go for a little wonder.
Because me back pop this morning and just sitting on the computer.
It's just making it stiff or not.
Oh, can it?
It's going off.
We've all flown you.
It's going away.
On the finish.
On the phone.
So, hmm.
Who is left to talk to?
I'm still here.
Oh, you asked it out.
You asked it out.
Sorry.
Sorry, I forgot you.
You're probably one of the ones here.
Because Joe has not talked in either or so.
And he might have not talked since I joined.
He has taxes, but not talked.
Not sure if he had a mic at all.
And then...
Have it taxes...
Have it taxes, but never talked.
And he has...
Someone could have no headset.
And he's on his opening mic.
So, I'm on talking.
It's totally echoing.
We're all alone.
I forget about him.
Sorry.
Hi, Mordancy.
It's been a long time, bud.
I know.
I still have a HPR in our Q-shirts for you.
Oh, my word.
Oh, my word.
How do I get in touch with you?
Mordancy at Gmail.
Probably work.
Any address you had for me before should work.
I made the screen just for you.
It's a hand-made screen.
I hand-painted it.
And I put...
So, it's got a...
We're going with an A on it, like kind of...
Or punk rocky, then...
Official Anarchy logo.
And in the crossbar on the A,
I filled in...
HPR.
Real small.
I'm quite excited.
That's Christmas present.
And I don't know what...
For shirts I still have.
I haven't printed in a long time.
I brought a handful of them to the...
The Linux best was after the last time I saw you.
I brought a whole stack of them
and ended up giving them to people.
I think...
The flip got a couple of them.
Somebody was supposed to get some to you.
Probably not clad to, but somebody in that...
In that group, when we got in trouble,
out in the...
Or circle talk during the closing keynote...
At the Linux Fest.
Why did they never made it up here?
Why did they never made it?
But...
Things happen.
How's it up there in Maine?
You're still in Maine, right?
No, I'm a little bit...
No, I'm a little bit...
For Northbud.
Canada?
Yes, sir.
I live in New Brunswick, Canada.
Should we not talk about personal stuff?
I keep forgetting.
I...
It's public knowledge.
I...
Public knowledge, I believe.
Okay.
How have you been?
How have you been?
I mean, I've probably haven't talked to you in four years.
That sounds...
Still about right, maybe five.
Um...
Um...
I'm the Soul Linux Admin Architect Engineer,
whatever for North, South, and Central America
and have a part in Asia, Africa, Europe.
Have you heard of GRIF, industrial packaging?
I have not.
I have not.
Um...
They started in Ohio, 146 years ago.
Or something like that.
The railroads were being built after the Civil War.
Also...
Um...
They're...
A great green company.
They're socially...
Or...
They're logically conscious.
They are one of the largest land managers in the US,
in Canada.
Um...
All the way back in the late 1800s.
They were...
Um...
Making sure they had enough oak trees growing,
land with oak trees to supply 30 years of increased productivity.
Increased product.
But they make like the steel drums that things are shipped in.
Plastic drums.
It's the square cubes.
Um...
The stuff everything is shipped in globally.
It's a...
A hundred factor.
A hundred and twenty countries.
Yeah, sounds like it sounds.
It sounds like the way to work.
Um...
It is very stressful.
The infrastructure side.
So, understaffed.
Uh...
In Europe, the counterparts said there were three or four Linux guys,
when I started in 2017.
And all but one of them have left,
and they have no plans to replace anybody.
Um...
You know, in the office, it's where they had the two bobs.
I believe so.
I believe so.
That they came in down size to everybody.
They had one of those consulting firms.
They hired...
Yes.
That came in.
Make more money.
Cuts.
They tell you to make.
And uh...
They told Greif they needed to hire more IT people.
Didn't you hire more?
Didn't you hire more?
Didn't you hire more?
Wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's uh...
No redundancy in any of our positions.
Our DBA passed.
Um...
Um...
Not officially, but um...
Uh...
Both him and I had in February.
We had people in...
In and out of China.
Um...
And there were about a dozen of us that got...
Deathly ill.
And the ones that did go to the doctor...
Figure out, you know...
The...
They tested negative for everything at the time.
And COVID wasn't here.
Uh...
But I'm pretty sure that we all had.
And...
And then he passed away, uh...
Two months later.
Uh...
We had no Oracle DBA.
Uh...
Our Oracle stuff's been messed up.
Old company is going to class.
But other than having too much work to do...
It is all Linux work.
So...
That's...
That's good.
I've gone...
I've gone out of technology.
Now I'm...
Now I'm going...
I went into some electrical training.
And now I'm an electrician.
Uh...
I have...
That argue, uh...
Type of a skilled...
Um...
Occupations...
Uh...
Or...
The keystone to...
To keep a society running.
But that's what won't be replaced by AI.
I...
I...
Programmer as well.
I work a tissue plant.
I work in it.
So...
It's...
It's kind of fun.
It's kind of fun.
I don't see much automation replacing what I do.
I'm a cleaner.
I'm a cleaner.
I'm a cleaner.
I'm a cleaner.
It's straightforward.
Take forward.
You don't have to have...
You don't have to have to be ordered.
Um...
I don't have one.
Am I...
Echoing now?
Echoing now?
I've just...
I've just ran out of one point range of it myself.
I've just run out of one point range of it myself.
I cannot hear you, Echoing.
I believe it's you.
I believe it's you.
Even more than they have seen it's doing the echo.
Should I put on headphones?
Or...
Or an enable hosh-tattac.
I'm on plumble.
I don't see it pushed to talk.
You should uh...
Look up.
Moomla.
It's the updated version.
Plumble.
And then headphone transmission mode, I was gonna see if somebody else is talking on Android.
I'm on Android. What was the name of the deaf again?
Mummela. Hang on a moment, I'll drop a link in the chat here.
I don't, I don't know how to access the chat.
M-U-M-U-M mic, uniform, mic, lemur, alpha.
There's four of them. I got mine from F-Droid.
As did I. Oh no, right off-mournancy.
What's that? You think we lost the modens?
Oh it's fantastic. We just got a snowfall warning.
A what warning?
Snowfall. We're gonna get a lot of white stuff.
It's times like these I wish I lived in Australia.
To not have snow? Wait, actually they do in certain parts.
I'd want to live in Melbourne. It's a more coastal, maybe close to Peter 64.
Yeah, but then you'd have a lot of latency.
There's snow here in Australia, also the big car wash.
I just dumped all over you when I spoke. Go ahead.
Really not important. I can't find my cold chisel.
I'm only mentioning it because you do when you're a while.
That looks like everybody went away 5 a.m. time to make coffee.
I wonder if anybody discussed how they make coffee in the morning.
It's 5 a.m. my time.
Good morning. Good morning.
Yeah, I will actually make coffee now, I guess.
Grind your own beans.
Yeah.
You have a lot of Echo Orch or 72?
Must be where I'm at. I wasn't the kitchen.
All right, I think you do.
Must be where I'm at.
I know is that better.
I don't know. It seems that every time anyone says something, I hear it again
one second later.
Maybe the server or maybe the mobile app I'm using.
Including myself, which is weird.
Anyway, no, I generally don't grind my own beans.
Well, not generally, I just don't.
No, I'm lazy that way too.
I use an uncoffee maker and it's a pre-warms section.
And so you pour in the cold water and to put out the hot water that was in the reservoir.
I think it's fine if you don't grind your own beans.
It's obviously better.
But sometimes you don't go the instant granules root.
Okay, I think I might have fixed my sound problem.
No, forget that. No, I don't.
It's Friday then.
Yes, it is.
I still can't find that link. Hold on a second.
Which link?
We know you're...
Yes.
35 minutes to the last one.
I'm going to check to see if that must have done anything work.
Oh, the bot.
Did you get it now?
Yep.
They approved an account, yeah.
But I didn't see anything coming in.
But I'm just going to check the account now.
One second there.
Nice, that was too quick.
Yeah, considering the day.
And again, I forgot to switch my input when I turned my laptop.
Yeah.
I wish I could figure out how to auto-switch that.
But I was asking does Baker Island include the Hawaiian Islands?
I think they already went.
There's a good um...
Interactive Cunder time and date that come.
And that's what I was going off of because of Zulu time confused me.
Completely.
Just trying to go off the show notes.
No, the account is up, but it doesn't seem to take the OSS feed.
But why not?
No, I didn't see one for you.
I'm the mess that I'm 10 open.
It's uh...
The account is HBR-as.
HBR-as.
As HBR-as bots in space.
Uh, don't say anything.
There I just found you and it's uh...
Subscribe to it.
Very very good.
But why did no work?
Where would I see my own posts?
Seems to have no posts yet.
No, no, no.
There we go.
There already got some community engagement.
Excellent.
No need for diaspora, is it?
Unbelievable.
I haven't been following you on my own account.
Anyway, we'll fix that.
Huh?
I don't post much.
Yeah, I did away.
All right, a lot on drum.
Wait, today's not a work day for you, right?
A lot of it did work.
According to Dave Morris, this is more...
Morris is as he has a screenshot of it.
Okay?
First, that brings up two important questions.
Why am I not seeing it?
And why is B?
Why is B?
After A?
Oh, I need some sleep.
Why is Dave Morris not on mumble talking to us?
It's probably having some coffee.
Wait, it's 11.
Probably in the kitchen, working on this database.
Why would you have a database in the kitchen?
Because Dave has a database for recipes and stuff.
And cooks quite a lot.
And Dave's database is for everything.
Does he want to share that on his PR?
Because at some point, I think I might actually start
saving recipes somewhere.
Well, I'll just keep cooking as I do.
We have a recipe series, a cooking series.
So feel free to join us.
Okay, I'm mostly going to go ahead over.
I was just saying I mostly rip off Chef John over.
Nor is over.
The overall gets very annoying for people after all.
Over.
Indeed, over.
Sometimes it's best to go under over.
But it was already made yesterday.
Yeah, good.
Okay, so why am I not seeing my own pulse then?
Have you tried following yourself over?
Can you?
Why would you need to do that?
I mean, you could follow HPR at BOTSEN space
with your can felon account.
Oh, I have, but I don't see it.
That's the thing.
Oh, goodness.
I see them.
Oh, hold on.
I see it now.
I see that.
On A.
Okay.
Okay.
Yes, that's perfect.
So that's my problem.
Why it's up on A.
But okay, if I'm going to leave that off.
Everything's working fine.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thanks.
Right.
Fair enough.
One second.
Yeah, now when I click on it, it has three toots.
All right.
I didn't see that toast until now.
Yeah, that's strange.
Maybe it needed a hello world click in the bus one.
Yeah, all this helps.
Okay.
So fine.
That was panels.
Something off the list.
Good.
Okay.
I pinned it in my profile.
So I can use my, you know, influencer profiles.
Influencer.
Influencer powers.
Okay.
You've lost me.
Does that like help?
I have no idea.
It's like putting an advert in the middle of the woods.
Yeah.
Very good.
Hello, Dave.
Hello, Dave.
Hello, Dave.
Oh.
Hello, Dave.
Hello.
Hi, young.
Hello.
Voice commander closed the ticket about the
operating the server with the message.
This notification is select, you know,
that's we are changing the status of the ticket to
closed because we didn't receive a response for you in 72 hours.
Well, that's because I responded.
And you ignored me.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We received your message while we weren't looking and didn't look any further.
So yeah, it sounds like a good excuse to, uh,
to leave those people and go somewhere else.
This is the mumbles.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I am in my kitchen.
Well, the kitchen dining area.
Which is the working on the database.
Uh, actually uploading next week's shows to the internet archive,
but that's what I was doing.
But, uh, we're going to have a family cook out or cook, cook in or whatever you call it,
a bit later on.
We're making something moderately complex and they're all going to
pile in together and cook bits.
So I'm just getting a little bit of that.
Nice.
What do you have a select asterix from?
Ken is winding me up because I do have a database in which there are meal
things, not recipes, but meal things.
And because my son, this girlfriend and my daughter come over once a week
um, two evenings to eat with me,
I wrote this thing to, uh, allow me to select from the sort of favorite
recipes that we have, favorite menus that we eat.
And it does it randomly.
So I run this every Thursday or something and then, uh,
we know what we're having the following week.
So as you do, you know, I mean,
your computers, your database is normal.
Yeah, yeah.
Why not? Why not?
That is a great idea.
Although it does smack or something that the
in that your two thousand people will be using the databases in their
kitchens.
Cooking is not the rules of the family.
So true.
So true.
Even today.
That is very much in, uh,
in something, I don't know.
I, my coffee still isn't working.
How?
Laura.
So anyway, what I was going to say is that apparently metropolis has become
public domain today.
The 1925 movie or 27, something like that.
Oh, wow.
Finally.
It only took 95 years.
Not, it's absolutely not.
Uh, what database, uh, DBS do you use for that?
I was trying to time share there.
Uh, it's nothing else.
Um, I use SQLite for this because it's just a single, single user,
single use thing.
So, uh, and it's pretty easy to, to make, um, databases that stuff.
And also gets some quite sophisticated features.
I always thought it was a, a toy system to actually start
with using it.
It's really quite powerful, given what it is.
Yeah, also always use SQLite.
Yeah, it's, uh, when you enable the relational stuff,
which is not on by default, at least it wasn't in the version I, um,
set up originally, um, then you can do pretty much everything you'd want to do
as triggers and, uh, and all of that sort of stuff.
No, I mean, in many cases, if you want something very sophisticated,
you have to write it yourself, but there's an API that you can work to, um,
that, uh, you can write stuff in C.
People have been using it in that way, even in multi-user mode, I believe.
So, remember somebody talking about it on, uh,
Bloss Weekly, some month ago, years ago.
Oh, okay.
I stopped following Bloss Weekly a while ago.
Yeah, I stopped once, uh, Randall Schwartz, um,
left, or was pushed, or whatever.
It was, so you know what happened.
I don't, I don't, I've tried to get as much information as
possible about that, but I'm, it's so little, he's very,
very coy about, uh, and of course they were very, um,
not very forthcoming about what they'd done, but, uh, yeah,
it couldn't have been very good, because he didn't want to speak about it.
Yeah, I was a bit confused one day.
I just came back and he wasn't there.
What?
Yeah, he's, uh, you've been doing that, that job for a long time.
It's, uh, it's a shame in a way, though, I was, I don't know,
I was just getting a bit bored with it, with it, because
the ratio of stuff that interested me to stuff that didn't
was, uh, was, was changing in the wrong direction for me.
So I was thinking of, uh, stopping listening
and that precipitated as far as I was concerned.
Yeah, Floss Weekly actually got me in here.
The interview we can.
Yeah.
Oh, cool.
But surely you'd been around before the, or not?
Or, I'm sure you had been around in the community prior to that.
I, I only really noticed the community at, when,
yeah, when I saw it on Floss.
Oh, there you go.
That was a really strange experience given an interview like that.
Yeah, I imagine so.
It was very, the, the, the description, one podcast a day sounded a bit excessive.
Yeah, I think we probably said that a few times, Ken, I mean.
Yeah.
Especially when people said, well, why don't you do some on weekends as well?
There's probably another one.
Yeah, more on, we'll say that, dude.
I don't know, I don't know.
Somebody completely misguided probably.
I'm going to have to know you're.
Good year and happy new morning.
Who is that?
Hong Kong Wu.
Ah, he's back.
You just want to close it off and start the editing now.
So take about six months to get it all that together.
Probably.
Well, we're going to keep recording.
You know the rule.
Then, long after people here talking.
Hi, Hong Kong, how are you?
What a day, five years.
Oh, good, good, having, having a good new year.
So far.
It's a part.
Good, good, good.
Okay, now find tattoos or SS feed.
Oh, it's an SS feed.
I have it in my SS read your home on one second.
Found it.
Mix signals.ml forward slash games, forward slash rgorpg.xml.
Is this Vulcan?
The calendar, the I call that's, um,
tattoo keeps for the games.
Okay, that's what happened.
Sorry, go on.
I was going to tell you that all of the shows
but from the community news got uploaded to internet.
I'll go, okay.
Super.
I'll be posting the rest of the backlog today.
Oh, if I get around to it.
Excellent.
I actually want to, do you want to have a talk about the, um,
well, just for people's backgrounds and information.
Well, in nine minutes, 30 seconds.
This thing is officially over.
But, uh, 20 in nine minutes, 24 seconds, 2020 is officially over.
So let's, let's do it after that.
But I did want to have a chat about the heart broken heart disc and how
the composure to the archive straight away.
Is it a good idea to have the, uh,
dummy shows in first for the next year?
And then replace them and how will the archive feel about that?
Oh, I'm sure they wouldn't bother at all.
I certainly, uh, rewrite stuff, um, on the, uh, the internet archive.
I'd rewrite our shows, I should say, when there are changes.
I mean, somebody asked for a edit to be done to the notes and I would go and, uh,
propagate that to the EIA version as well.
So, no, I don't think they were at all bothered.
Um, yeah, it's, it's certainly doable.
I'd need to change my code to, to handle it.
Because the thing that does the upload assumes that it is to go and find all
bits of the show on the HBR database and upload whatever is relevant,
notes and other files.
But, uh, replacing stuff is manual at the moment.
So, um, um, so it would require some, some coding.
Not a lot, really, because I mean, the, the manual process of doing it isn't
usually complex.
Well, it's a coffee the wrong way when you made me laugh to the earlier,
still suffering.
So, in principle, yeah, why, why not?
But we need to work out the details.
Yeah, exactly.
Um, so the way we're doing it now is, uh, show gets upload.
All this is on the GitHub page, by the way, including sequence diagrams.
My GitHub GitLab page.
Uh, and then we put the, I process the, the,
we encode the shows and put them on to the hard disk.
I post them onto the HBR website.
And then Dave then takes the shows from the, uh,
the internet archive version and then puts that the week before the shows
can post it up onto the internet archive.
And unfortunately, uh, to, to, uh, some bad luck in our part, uh,
the hard disk broke and we lost, I had to re-encode the HBR versions,
or the internet archive versions.
So, that just highlighted the fact that we should probably post directly as soon
as we're processing the shows.
Basically, spit off, I think that would actually allow us to spit off
the encoding and the show notes, uh, editing, Dave,
because it wouldn't matter on which order they were done that.
Yeah, yeah.
So if you say I take down the shows, the physical media, do that bit.
And then post, if, okay, say we already have slots on internet archive
for the next, uh, 263 slots and then I can post,
that's giving me a placeholder to push the content to.
And then the show notes can be done either before or after it,
they will actually make a lot more sense.
There are some weirdnesses in the way that internet archive accepts stuff,
because each show that we upload is a separate item.
I know a lot of podcasts just basically have one item with lots and lots of shows attached
to it, lots of bits of audio, but I designed it to make an item per show,
because that was the way to make it also display the notes
as the description part of the, of the internet archive entity item,
I think they call it, the object that you're building.
You've got to be careful the way that you initially upload it.
And I'm a little vague about how, because I've been down this whole before,
and I've gotten it, I'll have notes, I'll have notes that are going into the cori detail.
But if you don't get it right, you end up with an item that you can't then
turn into the shape that you want.
So I've had to go to the staff and ask them to take it down so I could rebuild it.
So that, it's just a thing you need to plan properly.
But that's not something we're going to rush into now.
No, no, no, no, but it's probably doable.
I mean, basically, there's a tool that I use, that I didn't write.
It's written by somebody who is a controller to IA,
which is a Python script that lets you do this stuff.
So you can do things like say to it, go to this item and replace this component of it and stuff like that.
So it's not, it's pretty easy.
I have not had any, there's not been anything that I've failed to do, except if the show gets posted
wrongly, the categorization, there's only something that the stuff can change.
So we post them with Mark the podcast, and if they, if you post them without saying what it is,
they get added to, I can't remember what category it is, but it's a miscellaneous category,
and the users can't change them.
Okay, you're going to do the deed.
What say happy new year to everybody?
Because like you said earlier, we're going to keep the recording going until
we have to do an official ending, you know.
Oh, sure.
Seven o'clock, I'll do an official ending.
Yeah, I'm going to check with Kevin.
I have one point where all of a sudden came down here to restart the audio recording,
and it was just not running.
So my recordings, I'm going to be missing a little bit of a chunk.
I have everything here.
With my cool epoch date, and I saw it six or one date.
So yeah, it should be easy enough to align the latest in UTC.
Cool.
Thank you.
Might be no harm also to paste in the chast from mumble into the interpad at the bottom of the
interpad probably.
Yeah, we could do that.
The issue is if you close mumble for any reason, it disappears.
So I don't know if somebody has had their mumble open the whole time.
Would have got the whole chast because I don't.
Yeah, mine was open the other time.
Okay, do a select all copy and put it into a text file real quick.
So are you going to close it up officially?
Yep, one sec here.
I'll just put that into the text file.
Three, two, one, go.
All right.
So this has been the end of the 9th Annual Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve show.
We want to say greetings to small region of the United States Baker Island and
howling islands.
Oh, does anyone want to sing all kinds of times?
Nope.
Yeah, thank you.
Now that can I, I was going to rely on the rest of you.
Don't even know the lyrics.
Can sing the show for a song.
If you want to kick it up, I'll back you up about that.
Oh, there's that countdown script.
I was wondering where it was.
Was it at the beginning of either pad?
It's at the very end of the day.
Oh, the end.
This is the thing about the New Year show.
You go, all right, yeah, everything's on there.
I'll kind of definitely tidy up that.
And then next year comes along, you know, how did I do that again?
In fact, all versions from four years ago.
No, I didn't edit the end here.
Mumble server was supplied by the wonderful HPR community.
Or Ken Fallon.
No, who originally had the Mumble server?
John, I'm just saying.
Oh, yeah, John.
God, sorry.
That's right.
The stream was a good Kevin and Wisher and then you read it as well.
No, Kevin had the stream.
John had the Mumble server of Rages and I just took it over.
So, yeah, good.
But I don't think that that's fine.
The joy of the community is enough for me.
One of my dealers is a surfaced.
I'll go and say hello back in a bit.
All right, I'm gonna go get some, I need some breakfast.
I'll leave the recording going.
I don't want to say thank you again to everybody for coming on.
It seemed like this was a very, very good year for the
New Year show.
I don't think I was ever on here once where there wasn't
somebody talking.
So, there's probably lots of good audio.
Yeah, thanks for all your efforts, honky.
I was appreciated.
Oh, problem.
Is that a big deal?
Like I said, the hardest part is usually just the audio
what I think is getting it all together.
Yeah, you know, yes.
I've watched from a distance in the past and I've been
directly involved.
I can still add the show notes if you need help, please.
Thank you.
Yeah, I feel there's so many things that so many audio
applications that seem to choke on larger audio files.
And I think that's the challenge really, huh?
Yeah, Audacity's fine and stuff, but there are limits, I guess.
I've not tried to push it to the limits.
I've found so many audio players too that just seem to choke on larger audio.
It's not surprising, I suppose.
Like I'm mobile, but there was last year's audio
that I had my version of the audio.
And it was, the VLC choked on it.
I was really shocked by that.
Yeah, I've not had that experience.
But it's probably because I always listen,
mostly listen to stuff on MP3 players.
And I've got a bunch of those.
And they don't seem on the whole to be that bothered by
by file sizes.
You know, I've got multiple hour shows on there with no trouble.
But yeah, that's the antenna pod.
Antenna pod's pretty good now, actually, on the phone.
But it has had problems in the past.
Now, do you just throw a spread of audio files at Antenna pod?
I selectively download stuff on Antenna pod.
So I don't have auto download set for all of the feeds.
I just go to a feed and download everything and put it in the queue.
And then listen to listen to them that way.
It's very...
It's sometimes it's a good thing to do
because my homebrew podcast management thing
just turns away with downloading every day
and then making a sort of...
It makes a database of everything.
And I can then go and play stuff from it.
But I usually do them in time order and grouped by feed or a batch of feeds.
So the problem with doing it that way is that
I get so behind sometimes.
At the moment, I've got 16 gigabytes of un-listened stuff
on the system.
So this time I'm thinking, I really want to listen to this one.
I want to catch up.
I'm currently listening to the next logcast, actually,
because I'm way behind of that.
So it's useful to do that on the phone.
Yeah, but on the phone's the only way I can do it.
I got a new pair of Bluetooth headphones.
Earphones, I guess, for Christmas.
My kids bought for me.
And so the phone plus them is really quite nice, actually.
I might switch away from my homebrew.
It's just what I do.
I don't know.
You'll see.
Well, recently I got into the audiobooks.
I know I'd listened to Joe talking about the Dresden file books.
And so I was going to go get my teeth worked on.
And when they initially were talking,
they said that there was going to be a long process.
So I was debating.
So I was going to try and listen to something during this,
because just sitting there clenching my eyes
and holding onto the site while they work on my teeth
to just whatever music they had in the background
didn't seem very like a very good time.
So I found Ready Player One from archive.org
and archive.org, actually.
So I wound up downloading that.
I didn't mind up listening to anything during it.
And they didn't wind up spending as much time working on my teeth
as they had actually said they were.
I think just looking at me,
just the one hour that they did work on me,
looking at me, they decided to just space them out
a couple of days, one month at a time maybe.
But it kind of reinvigorated my love
for listening to audio books.
So I went and I downloaded all of the the Dresden files.
So I've been listening to a lot of audio books.
That's good.
Yeah, I just recently contributed to the Kickstarter.
I think it was Cory Doctorow,
the he's a science fiction writer.
And he made quite a lot of his books available
as audio books by the Kickstarter.
Plus, he gives away quite a lot of his stuff.
So I was happy to, and I listened to a fair bit of it.
And I was quite happy to throw some money his way
because of his generous look on this sort of stuff.
So you ever listened to him?
Have you come across him at all?
No, I prefer of him, but I haven't listened to him yet.
I think he was a founder of the EFF or the EFF or something.
One of those activists organizations.
So he's quite an impressive guy.
I've seen Cory Doctorow the name about places,
but I don't know where.
Yeah, he used to live in the UK.
Doesn't any more.
He's a Canadian, I think.
I think he's, I'm not sure where he is now,
but he is often keynote speaker of various things, you know?
By a minute, it's a digital certificate, actually.
Ah, okay.
I think he was a keynote at the Hope Conference, for example,
the last one that was done virtually.
And he's been on previous ones as well.
So yeah, he's an excellent speaker.
Anyway, his audio books are pretty good.
So he reads them.
So nothing quite like having the author read in their own book.
They get all the pronunciations right, which is cool.
Very American centric as books, sir.
So I don't get as much out of them as most people would.
As in, I don't know about American football or baseball,
et cetera, et cetera.
And obviously, then the science fiction
derivatives are safe.
When I was in my teens,
I went through the local library reading
everything science fiction.
And the vast majority of it was American based stuff,
you know, apart from maybe Arthur Clarke,
but Arthur C. Clarke, I would say.
And so I sort of got into the way of basically skipping
over those references that I didn't fully understand.
So it doesn't bother me over much.
All right, I think the kids are getting a bit
rowdy upstairs.
So I will talk to you guys later.
Hopefully people will be on later.
Juryl.
Bye, Hungry.
Happy New Year.
And to you, continue with Marie.
CD archive in your problem project.
Well, I'm going to go and do very cooking related things,
I think.
So I'm going to disappear now.
My kids will be over in the next hour or two.
It's quite a nice day here, actually.
But so they might be walking in the hills.
But anyway, there'll be over later.
All righty, to the books.
K, bye.
Talk to you tomorrow.
Yeah.
True enough, yeah.
See you later.
Bye.
We'll see you all night out, Laveanna.
It's a simple, interesting one I was talking to,
and I just hope he comes out of the community.
All righty, next.
He's back this time, it's personal.
So turns out there's a database of leap seconds
in your computer.
Yep.
Yeah, I didn't know that.
I had to work with leap seconds a while ago,
and it was very annoying.
I was just checking out the lounge.
Couple guys are catching up on each other.
Good, good, good.
I just thought I'd leave them alone.
Nice and sunny here.
Nasty and rainy here.
Nothang yet here.
You learned?
Stockholm.
Tuck, tuck, tuck, tuck.
Faster, good.
That's the extent to my Swedish.
More than I knew when I got here.
Where did you get there from?
Portugal.
Yeah.
Did you come up for the snow?
Yeah, I was thinking of emigrating
to Portugal.
Why did you leave?
Just came here for studying and stayed.
It is a fine country, too.
I'm a great two.
I would say I would think.
I'd like growing things, plants, you know, for food.
Yeah, that's more difficult than Sweden, I can tell you.
Where are you in?
In the UK, Midlands.
Nice.
It's fine, really.
It's just a bit lonely.
I mean, there are plenty of people, just sometimes you want
to be with people who have similar interests
and want to build a place.
Yeah, another feeling.
Dressed in my wife is, she is a something that doesn't
translate into English, but it's amazing how often
she refers to the need for finding your own community
and stuff in her work.
Yeah, you can give to a lot of people,
or you can sometimes you want to keep going,
and you want to keep building things.
But you see how your work kind of just evaporates,
or it gets cannibalized by, I don't know, enough said.
Yeah, I have a feeling we're going to head into
interesting territory over a pint of perhaps,
or not the entire world, I was listening to it.
Right, well, like I've mentioned three times
since last night, I've got audio in the directory,
but it needs stitching together.
And it's just, you know, how you're there,
I guess it's going to be along the lines
of, I'll probably go by interruption,
by what cancers of valid interruption to the thing
that you were doing already, you know,
and what is that based on?
Intention, about intention.
It goes quite well with computing, you know,
and directives and all of that stuff.
Okay.
You're going to do a show on this?
We'll see what it turns into.
Before you put it back in, sir.
I'm recording a correction.
Right, just as long as it needs to pass,
you know, it needs to be grammatically consistent.
Well, now you said, yeah, sure, so I guess it's old now.
Like I said, there's audio in the directory,
and I know how to use the, I know how to do it, I think.
I've got a friend, I've talked to my friend about,
you know, altering the audio to make sure it's,
we just put a filter on it or something, he's up for it.
Yeah, but don't, don't, listen,
the number of shows that I've lost due to people going,
oh, I haven't recorded it,
and I just need to edit it a little bit or whatever.
Wack it into audacity, truncate silence,
and send it in, that's all you need to do.
And if you don't know how to do any of that,
just upload it.
This is what HPR is all about.
You get your first show in,
and then you can do the perfection later.
Yeah, no worries.
I've been encouraged by all of the
non-perfect versions.
And it's quite funny.
Did you say someone used their speaker as a microphone?
I didn't hear that episode, but I thought that's,
that's in spite of it.
That's how I call it, that is.
Well, it was an excuse for a back in the day,
because when HPR started, you know, mobile phones didn't exist,
even mobile phones in the current form,
you know, super computers in our pockets didn't exist.
So like people who had, maybe might have had a headset,
but not a lot more.
So yeah.
Yeah, that's cool.
I did the, I did the yoghurt pots and string.
I made a, I made a record player out of Makano
when I was, I don't know how old,
it was a little sub nine years old.
And yeah, I used to, I think you remember
the polystyrene curry pots from the chip shop,
and a pin.
And I used one of my parents, a jukebox records,
and I just wound the thing by hand,
but it worked.
Wow, awesome.
Makano's are really cool, a cool thing.
I never had enough.
I preferred Makano over Lego,
but you can never get, it was really expensive.
And now the mother inversion of Makano
was just all plastic and bits.
I nearly said that very same thing,
like my dad had a bunch of old, you know,
there was some bits of Makano, not enough,
but compared to Legos, no contest really.
No.
You just had a lot more freedom with Makano.
There's some of the Chinese brands
that still do the, like, metal bits.
The brand is not Makano itself,
so whenever I get a chance, I'd buy my son
some random thing, and then eventually just encourage him
to, you know, just don't follow the instructions,
try and, you know,
create something of your own,
and he's come up with quite a few good things.
But personally for me, I just prefer Lego
when I was small.
Also a bit of hacking in that,
because we had the, which is called Lego Technica,
but then I would take one of the gears
and glue it onto a little DC motor,
one of those 1.5-volt motors,
and then start to make, you know, electric
or reactive Lego things that I bought.
Yeah, I mean, that was one of my favorite things today.
I'm a brother at the technical Lego,
but I remember him now walking in,
and he was, he had the main's electricity,
240 volts plugged into a cactus.
Oh, that was great.
But it was dangerous.
I mean, he must have been what, 10 years old.
That actually reminds me of one of my first mishaps,
since at Africa, we've got 220 volts.
And I've always wanted my own, like, bead lamp
or night light or whatever,
and my bearings didn't want that.
So I said, okay, well, I'm going to bolt my own.
And I saw, like, I don't know if you guys know
the bayonet style globe.
It's got the two little nobbies on the side
that you push in, and then you give it a twist,
and then it connects to the sockets.
It's not the screwing time.
So I figured, okay, no, go to the garage,
get a plug, get a piece of wire,
and then I just wired to those two little knobs,
because I thought those would be the connection point,
and wired it up, and connected it to the plug,
everything sorted.
It's got, like, I think, probably,
what, 30 centimeter piece of wire.
I was seven or eight at the time.
So I plugged it in, and when I heat that...
Oh, I want it off, and because you've got
a small storage, as you're here to tell the story.
Yeah, but I crap myself.
And then the light went off the power tripped,
and I was white.
I was, like, silent, shaking,
and my parents just came running into my room,
and there was still some smoldering bits of carpet,
and I was just sitting there,
it's like, what the hell just happened?
They are.
My mother, and we call her story now.
She said, my brother did make a blue light
in the sewing machine with a screwdriver.
That's the same...
That's the same blue light
that makes the magic smokers come.
Very, very angry pixels.
Oh, that's hilarious.
Big clothes would be proud.
I did appreciate that HPR episode
on basic electrical safety.
And I didn't, because when I go out the house
in the morning, about four o'clock,
and I shut off the electricity,
you know, my switch was slightly loaded.
Now, I do use the, what you call it,
the, not the circuit breakers,
the other things, the RCDs,
which are more, you meant to test them once in a while,
but not as often as I was doing.
So yeah, I do unload my switches now
before I go out.
It's good to know.
They're quite affordable, they...
You can get them for extension.
I got one for about 23 euros,
for an extension, for power tools.
So it's like an outdoor weatherproof IP60 something.
Cool thing.
It's just an extension guard plugs into the socket,
and then you plug your power tool into that.
And then, yeah, that's pretty cool.
I went on the, in the box in the wall,
which I did fit myself actually.
Yeah, true enough, true enough, yeah.
Is it a funny story?
I might relate that one time.
I've been showered by molten droplets of copper
when I moved my own power supply,
because it's expensive to get that stuff done.
No, I mean, where the box comes in from the mains.
Yeah, look, 400, what is it?
400 volts in your house or a thousand, I can't remember.
We have to move the meter.
That's what I mean, that spinning wheel.
It used to be a spinning wheel now.
It's a smart meter now, but, yeah.
We had a metal, an ancient metal fuse box,
where honestly, you pull out the fuse,
which is in a bake-alite holder,
and the bake-alite cracked and snapped
and left you holding, left me holding the fuse holder
that I took out.
But anyway, I was, yeah, when I was,
I had my insulated pliers and gloves and everything,
but the end of the pliers,
it cut through the insulation
and touched the side of the metal box.
And yeah, the end of the pliers just disappeared,
and I was showered with the molten copper
from the cable.
So yeah, I nearly died there,
for sure, I nearly set fire to their cupboard as well.
Oh, all to beat it, like you definitely don't do that.
Yeah, now I've had some similar experiences
where I installed, actually quite recently,
I think it was about a year ago,
I installed some extra power points in the garage,
because every time I had to walk around the corner,
if I want to plug in a grinder or something like that,
or use extension leads, just at my workbench,
I wanted some power points, installed that,
and I switched off the, on the DB board,
I switched off the power, so I thought I was safe.
And somewhere along the line,
the neutral and live wire was swapped around,
somewhere in that circuit.
And then I just gripped with pliers,
and I was, because it's a solid copper strand,
and I just wanted to flatten it out
so that I can get it into that screw hole
and tighten it down.
As with full force, I gripped that wire
and man, that it bit me, it bit me solid.
So yeah, now be careful.
I think watch lecture boom
and just learn from these mistakes.
Yeah, and yeah, yeah, big cloud does us,
and there's another chap once again.
Oh my word, as the electrician,
I am dying of laughter over here.
I think a good thing to relate to people,
because a big strong guy at work, you know,
and I'm trying to tell him, it's not the,
it's not that the current needs to knock you over.
Yeah, it just interferes with your heart, you know,
it needs to be that less than sub 30 milliamps is it?
It's like, and it starts,
it can do damage it less than that.
You're interested in some of this stuff?
Yeah, so I think the most important thing is,
I think the most important thing is,
it's some very good stuff.
Yeah, John?
John Ward, you know the YouTube channel,
recommended to me by,
yeah, I'm going to look out for that.
But I think, yeah, one of the most important things,
if you work on something that might end up giving you a shock,
just keep one of your hands behind your back,
so that it's just one hand getting electrocuted,
and then you'll find that normally it just goes up
all the way to maybe your elbow or whatever.
But the moment that you get shocked
between your two hands,
that current is moving straight through your heart,
and that's not the ideal situation.
For sure, you were too close if that was your last resort.
But it's true.
It's one of those little voltage testers
that operates off of a counter electromagnetic force
and detects the EMF field around the wire
that makes a little BBB is current on.
Yeah, I have one of those.
I always go in with a multimeter and test for positive
and have a reference test as well, you know?
So, but yeah, for sure, if you can't just turn off
that one circuit breaker,
it's being covered in the HPR episode,
but you don't know who's been in there before you
and you have to turn all of that power off, don't you?
And then test, and then test again, really.
Even then I don't know how to do it.
Even then I don't know how to make sure your power is off.
It's to cut the wire.
Yeah, I think what I do these days is I've got a,
like a main switch on the outside of the house,
which is a 60 amp switch
and that one disconnects both live and neutral.
So once that's disconnected, then yeah,
it's basically as co-reset, then it's like the wireless cut.
And that is the safest way.
I guess it's when you're in a UPS.
So he's, do you have a baby backup,
uninterrupted power supply?
I've got one connected to my computer,
one that I modified myself.
So I've built a, is it 37 amp hour UPS
with an additional charger,
just it on my Mac and my screen and maybe the fan.
And it's good to go for about two and a half hours.
I just want to put some links to those YouTube power supply.
Yeah, with an uninterrupted power supply,
you can turn your breakers off
and you still have power there.
But it doesn't feed back into the main circuit.
So it runs from the main circuit.
I've plugged it in there and then my Mac and my screen
is connected to the UPS.
Okay, so it's a standalone device.
It's not feeding back into your vinyl.
Feed back into your panel.
Yeah, yeah, no, it's standalone.
But yeah, this actually reminds me of another story.
So I'm quite into electronics and things like that.
So I've built my own hi-fi.
The preamp is a vacuum valve
and then the power amp is solid states
based on the, what's it, nap 250 design from Avendale.
And while I was busy building the power supply boards,
the caps were charged with about 150 volts DC.
And I was testing the board
and making sure I'm safe and everything.
I disconnected, then I wanted to test the channel
from the other board.
And not thinking about these caps,
I'm sitting in like small running shorts at my desk
and I placed that fully charged board
with the pins down on my leg
with a swing voltage of about 150 volts.
Man, that left the mark.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
The LX.
And that was DC, that DC hurts a lot more than AC.
Yeah, just that current across the interfering
with your nervous system to stop your heart.
I mean, you get burns anyway, right?
But heart attack is bad, it's bad.
Yeah, so I think this one didn't reach my heart
and couldn't because it's basically just,
I placed the board on my legs
and it was localized in that area.
But yeah, that gave me a bit of a reminder
just to think while working.
And some of these vacuum valves
can operate up to about 400 volts
and that will just not be fun.
Right, I'm quite attracted by high voltage
and like I'd like to mess around.
I've studied electronics before.
And so I've looked into inductance
and for making switch mode power supplies
I made a little switch, you know, just using a chip
and nothing.
I've looked at the papers, I suppose,
but not really, I don't understand all the maths.
But yeah, I can see myself getting
messing with that stuff again in the future.
I'm again the other way around.
So what speaks my interest in this is something
that I'm probably going to do this year.
So I want to build my own DC arc welder.
So basically take a couple of microwave transformers
to remove the secondary coils
and then replace that with like eight gauge wire.
Just to build like a 30, maybe a 40 volt power supply
but running like 100 or more amps.
But yeah, I need to think about that one
because that sounds a little scary.
Yeah, again, batteries, when you, yeah,
you know what you're doing enough, you know enough.
I made a couple of axial flux generators
for a wind turbine, magnets and coils and three phase
that kind of stuff.
And I actually didn't think at all at any point
during that that I could shock myself, but of course.
I think for me at this stage,
I think the easiest for that project of mine
is I've got an AC arc welder.
And it will probably be based just to take that
and modify it and put in some very, very large duty diodes
to build a rectifier and a massive cap
to try and flatten it out.
You know, you'll watch out for the aluminum coils
in those microwave ovens.
I didn't realize those were aluminum.
Some not all, but some it's cheaper than using copper.
So yeah, there's some aluminum coils out there,
which would melt more as much as what that do.
Yeah, you don't want that to vaporize and breathe that.
I pulled a few of those apart.
And you know, when I was looking to build
those flux generators, I think I ended up buying
a proper wire magnet wire, you know, thicker
because I needed the current for that.
I did consider going higher voltage,
but I thought about using it for attaching it
to some other thing at a later date
because it's application was a protest site actually
for an open cast coal mine.
And if the wind wasn't blowing,
we could bring it down and pedal it instead.
So it went for thicker wire.
But yeah, I found some aluminum
and that's what I was a bit disappointed.
So with playing on the inside of microwaves,
have you ever had the thought of playing with a magnetron?
No, I know that little burillion, that pink burillion,
you don't want to be inhaling that dust.
And you have, of course, but my brothers told me,
I told him, oh, went up the top of a hill next to the big
antenna pole, you know, with the big wires coming down the side
that you think are holding it up,
but are actually the antenna.
And they're saying, don't just don't stand there
and whatever you do, if you see a state square tube,
don't look down it because you will go blind.
So mind out for the waveguides.
I don't know what you meant about magnetrons.
Neutrons?
Yeah, it's that magnetron basically that creates
that whole thing.
So I've had this idea, but I don't think there's much use
for the information of experimenting with this.
But using that with a custom guide to interfere
with what's this near-field things and RFC
and things like that, and to see how that works.
I think that's a really destructive thing.
Yeah, research it.
And because it's good to know you might
be protecting yourself from some environmental danger
that you were already exposed to, you know,
it's worth looking at up.
Yeah, I'm assuming.
But for me, it was more about using that particular technology
to remotely disable NFC and RFC and things like that.
I'm not going to ask why.
I mean, like, it's physics, isn't it?
You find an application for the knowledge you have.
Are you getting curious?
I get curious.
Yeah, we're all curious.
This is what drives us into this hobby.
But for me, I mostly, I will go and spend money
if there's a client willing to pay for it.
If you want to find vulnerabilities, physical,
or online, or network, or whatever, that's fine.
But this is something that I've been wondering about
and how that can be exploited in different ways.
But yeah, again, if nobody's going to pay for that,
then that's sort of pointless to go down that route
except curiosity.
There's payment and there's value, isn't there?
But it's a similar kind of thing.
You, if you need a thing, then you find ways.
I think it might make an interesting talk.
Yeah, in communities like this, or TEDx, or whatever,
using completely unrelated technologies
to be malicious-based.
If it's straightforward enough for someone to do
in a short period of time, like a week of playing,
there are people who probably have done it
in environments where they had nothing else to do
because they were just in a very deprived environment
and there's all this junk lying around.
Yeah, no, most certainly.
I mean, there's a lot of curious people out there
and I've done some really crazy experiments in the past.
OK, so curiosity, just out of my coincidence,
and the last week of running to twice,
I think there were separate sources.
RFC testing, not RFC.
What is it when you're compliance testing,
when you make a product and you need to get it tested
to see that it's not interfering with aeroplanes
or with medical equipment and how this tests sweet
in a special place and you pay tabular, you get tested.
You could learn something from it if you didn't know already.
You might see some tutorial about that,
which might relate to waveguides.
Related waveguides?
Yeah, I think that that's actually quite interesting.
I'm pretty sure there must be some papers published on that.
I've briefly looked to find some, which I haven't been successful,
but I think if I just go and apply my mind properly,
then one should be able to find some white papers.
And then that knowledge.
So I might not have noticed half of that or other.
I can listen, say, to electronic engineering podcast.
And I can understand what they're talking about.
And it's odd occasionally I recognize
where I wouldn't know what they were talking about
if I hadn't read that thing,
if I hadn't spent half an hour going down that rabbit hole.
And then you pick up that extra knowledge
because you had something to attach it to.
Giana, that is indeed.
It's always, once you get the context
then everything else falls in place.
Right, and I don't feel so bad if I'm reading.
Occasionally, I've been, my ego has tempted me
to read about particle physics.
And whenever I've had a quick try at that,
it just does nothing in my mind or my day
to attach that stuff to generally speaking.
So it means nothing to me.
I don't retain it.
It was useless.
But if I'm building around,
I have enough trouble trying to,
when I come back to trying to supply my laptop
with 20 volts and four and a half amps,
starting from nothing in the back of a van,
like I think it shouldn't be this difficult,
but the fact is things aren't straightforward
and a little bit of knowledge does go a long way.
Yeah, I was lucky to have studied in technical school.
So I had electrical engineering from what age 13.
I actually wanted to do electronic engineering,
but if you want to do that,
you have to have 80% for maths at higher grade,
which I was just not able to do.
So they said, well, electronics is not for you,
but you can go electrical engineering.
Right, I got qualified as a cis admin for Solaris
before Oracle got bought by, sorry, Oracle bought Solaris,
bought what did they got some micro systems,
but I've never under penny doing that.
What's my point, electrical engineering?
Oh, I did hear another podcast.
They were talking, interestingly,
about swapping out transformers,
you know, on the village level,
on the industrial estate level,
with is it gallium nitride switching
to make it more efficient and smaller,
to make a power go further
while we reduce oil consumption, that kind of a thing.
So there's a heck of a lot of money to be made there.
And I did consider for a minute,
I'm capable of that, none of this is a risk of death,
but there is work there.
Yeah, definitely, but it's not quite interesting,
how you mentioned you were involved with Solaris.
I was really disappointed when Oracle stopped making
the free version of Solaris,
which was basically a Linux alternative,
because I think that would, oh yeah, well, that was,
just simply the base Java development environment
that you could ask for.
Yeah, I was just qualifying,
I passed my certificate for Sysadmin,
and there's some initials for it, I forget.
They were gonna give me, you know,
you get to use their logo on your website and stuff,
and pretty much as that happened,
are Oracle Borts and Micros,
and I was into open Solaris at the time,
I just got my head around all that,
the fact that I could package my own DVDs at the time,
DVDs, with all the, and make it bootable, you know,
I was stoked, and then I thought,
oh, there's no way that Oracle, you know,
they're just, I'm not working for a bank,
don't wanna do it,
and now the universities are gonna switch over
away from Solaris to Linux,
and yeah, open Solaris,
I was thinking I'm gonna develop this,
and then it just kind of felt a bit,
except for a Lumos project.
So smart, smart us is still cool,
or it was, we've never seen it spinning this,
when it was spinning this.
Oracle now has what they call Oracle Linux,
I haven't tried it out yet,
but I think that may be an alternative
development platform,
but yeah, I just need to take some time
and test it out and see how it goes.
The way my head works, like I said,
I've never earned money with the Sysadmin,
is now, what do you need to do in your day,
and what's the difference between a microcontroller,
when you're feeding a microcontroller
or programming that, or whether you're using,
what level of code, who was it that you needed to talk to
when you just tried to send this message
in this weird code that somebody else developed, you know?
Have you got enough food?
From most people in the world.
The other funny thing is how,
basically since the beginning of Java,
it's always been sitting on three billion users,
and it's never moved for the last decade, at least,
that on that little screen when you install it.
Yeah, it's surprising how long that code sits there,
isn't it?
If it works.
Yeah, no, it doesn't.
But anyways, I need to drop off for a bit,
I need to take my daughter to the shops,
so I'll be back probably about an hour, maybe two.
Enjoy.
Is this still going to be running in two hours?
I don't know, I need to talk.
I need to fix it.
I'm still going now.
Well, good day, and I'll hear maybe here
some of you on HPR.
Good day.
Happy New Year and have a good, I think,
50 and I talked one year for two or three days on this.
Really?
I know he was having issues,
logging in, so gave up.
So I guess he's not going to be on this years.
I'm not 50, net minor.
50's not with us anymore.
We heard stories about Lord D, but I never talked to him.
He's the one that got me into all this in the first place.
I met him face to face at Ohio Linux Fest in 2008 or nine.
I got to meet 50 at Texas Linux Fest.
And we met Danny makes.
Yeah, Danny still comes by my house.
So is that more than see I heard?
It is.
I got plumb to work in early.
Awesome.
How have you been, man?
I was listening on a live stream,
most of the last day.
I had family things to do where I would have been on more.
When are you going to start jumping on tilts more?
I'll take that as a probably never.
Oh, I didn't hear a question.
Oh, no, I asked more than see
when he was going to start jumping on tilts more.
I have been non-stop for the last two years in my job.
It's really difficult to hop on the stream,
let alone get wake wise running.
Right, okay.
But I try to at least listen.
Yeah, but usually I see you quite often in listening booth.
Okay, I used to do the show from the office.
What was that?
I used to do the show from the office or on the drive home.
I am so far behind on the Linux lug cast.
I'm sorry, a mint cast.
Yeah, we've had some decent shows recently.
Let's get in board there for a little while.
This last show was the prediction show,
but the one before that was
who were going over Kevin Mitnick's art of invisibility.
And then I think the episode before that,
I went through and explained how to set up a secure VM.
I'll apologize if you're not being more of a talker,
but my whole family is around here and they're loud.
Yeah, that happens.
It was funny here in your daughter, rantup, Joe, about the...
I'm not sure.
The streamers that animated the other people's Twitch stream.
Oh, I'm not Kai, it was, it was Tala talking about that one.
I'll have to get the RAWs again from,
I'll have to get the RAWs again from a hockey
and see if I can cut that out.
I tried to convince entertaining.
Yeah, I tried to convince them both to join for a little while,
but I'm the only person in the house interested in Linux.
Technology in general, except for my son, but he's 10.
So give him a little bit more time.
Well, I'm not really interested in the Linux at all,
but she'll miss it when it's gone.
Yeah, everyone will miss it if it goes.
It won't.
It really can't.
Oh, it could, from this house.
Oh, well, from the house, yeah.
The only thing my wife would be annoyed about is that we wouldn't have theplex anymore.
That would be.
Have you run the jelly fan?
Yeah, I have not.
I've been using Plex for a long time.
And finally, you can get the lifetime and like once a year they'll do their sale where
they offer their, the price that they first posted for Plex to get the lifetime subscription
for it, which is like 70 something dollars.
So I got that and it's not necessarily because I use any of the premium features for it.
It's because, you know, I like to support the things that I use.
I wouldn't run jelly fan, but it has troubles with freeBSD, which is what I run Plex on.
I don't know.
When I completely upgraded my server, I started having issues playing MKVs, and I'm still
trying to figure out why.
And I'm getting occasional skipping.
Okay.
Views are the only thing that work on my server.
Yeah.
AVI seem laggy.
I think it's the AVIs that are skipping a little bit and then the MKVs didn't want to load
it all for a while, but I'll have to go back and double check and see if that's still
the case.
It does have an older graphics card in it, and I do want to upgrade that eventually.
So see if that helps.
I've had issues with files that are aged to 65.
You'll have to check that.
I actively look for that now, and that's usually what the issue is, is that can't be played
back on my, from my NAS.
I'm switching to a little mini MD box to run Plex and just using the NAS storage.
Okay.
Well, no, I've got a, what is it, a Ryzen 5, 3600, and 8 terabyte drive, a 4 terabyte
drive, and a 2 terabyte drive, a varying ages, and I'm going to have to do some more testing
to see if it's like read speeds on one of the drives, or if it's just the file types,
or if it's H265 at this, at this point.
What's your problem there, bud?
Some MKVs don't want to play from Plex, and with some AVI files, I get skipping.
How hard are the AVI files?
Generally TV show size, so probably 720p, 30 minute videos, although we did see some
skipping with white Christmas as well, I'll just mount the stuff.
Does it, does it spawn other things, or just on Plex?
It's on Plex, because when we started having the problem with white Christmas, I did a
fuse mount to my laptop and just used VLC to play it, and it worked fine.
Because I always have Cody set up to play a NFS, and have NFS, that's my backup to Plex.
You said you were using NFS?
Yes, NFS 2 Cody, version 3.
I'm not a big fan of NFS, but SSHFS works really well.
Well, the NAS that I have, being that it runs, it's an NFS server, what serves everything.
And Cody is on a separate machine and mounts everything via NFS, so all of my network
is saturated.
It works really well with us.
I'm using the NFS share off my NAS also, and I did the same troubleshooting as you did
and if I mount it from my laptop and run it in VLC, it's seamless.
Right, usually I don't use NFS, well, because I don't have a NAS.
I use SSHFS for basically everything, but with my troubleshooting, that's what I identified
was that it was H265 files, but weren't playing off the NAS.
It's probably the same thing and then, other fact, let me mount everything and see what
white Christmas is.
If you go to it in Plex, I think you can go to more info on the movie or TV show and
it'll give you that information.
That might, I do manage.
What Christmas?
It's listed as 720p.
I'm not seeing H264.
I do have in two places, so maybe I'll play the other one.
Yeah, okay.
The 1080p version that I have is H264 and you said that was what was giving you problems?
I'd know ones that are H265.
Do you have hardware decoding for H65?
I should have hardware decoding for everything, go into my settings, general, no, trans coder,
it's trans coder is set to automatic background trans coding, what's that?
I don't see disabled video stream trans coding, disabled trans coding of the video stream
and trans coder operations with this set, the trans coder may still trans code audio
as well as remux video.
I do have use hardware acceleration when available and use hardware accelerated video
encoding.
Did anyone want a screaming baby?
I give them one.
I've already had three of those, I'm good, I'm too old for that crap, but with MKVs
I had to start setting up optimized versions.
Why is that?
Because they wouldn't play on devices or all devices, does anybody watch anything good
lately?
Mandalorian Wonder Woman 1984, what do you think?
Mandalorian was great, what was that?
I said Wonder Woman had too many special effects.
Yeah, I think they were trying to chase too many storylines with it, the special effects
I didn't think were bad, except for the special effects for the sake of special effects.
Let's bring in the invisible plane and fly it through the fireworks, red and the good
books, anybody read, ready player too yet?
I can read physical books anymore, that's what audio books are for, that's what vacation
is for, lots of good fiction podcasts I'd listen to, scary, scary tales told in the dark
and STP archives, things like that, things went up, both seasons in, let me see if I can
find what it's called, a picture, but I haven't started it yet, like three books to
it so far, I think sure, a weird West trilogy, so I guess I got all three books.
I'm curious, why are you using Plex, you're not running a NAS for your storage?
Well then everybody else can enjoy my movie collection too, because I have a server with
massive amounts of storage in it.
Oh, your Plex is that?
Yeah, yeah, well I call it my server, but it's also my garage computer, so it is hooked
up to two giant monitors.
I acquired it.
I had to be fun.
My server is the Ryzen 53600 with the B450M motherboard, got an inside it, there is the
8, the 4 and the 2, and then I have an external enclosure that has a 4 and a 2, but I think
both of those need were placed.
Are you running ZFS?
No.
Yeah.
The only things that are backed up that are on the server is paperwork and pictures.
Yeah, it's important, you can do a refund the OFAS, entire ZFS snapshot to like S online
backups.
How long does it take?
I have really fast internet support.
Well, usually with the really cheap backup systems, it's throttled at their end.
I don't know about S3 specifically.
How much is S3 costing for backup?
It's $5 a terabyte with Sobby and it's cost me $5, but it's not something that's
trusted.
Right.
Offsite backup.
I've actually got some friends that live across the state, so 1,100 miles away, 1,200
miles away.
And I was thinking about sending said friend a Raspberry Pi and a couple of external
drives and using that as a backup, either that or sending them to my dad in Florida.
What's priority shipping state side these days?
Second.
How much does priority shipping um, here to Florida, it would probably depending on the side
of the package, size of the package, $15 to $17.
Not bad.
I can also order some of it through Amazon, have it sent straight to his house.
No, no, I wouldn't do that because then he'd have to hook something into something else
and that just wouldn't work.
The dude still has his Wi-Fi password though, so I could set it all up and say, hey dad,
just plug this into the wall.
You don't even need that.
Oh, well, I guess you'd need the Wi-Fi, but you can set up auto SSHFS backwards and set
up a reverse tunnel.
Yeah, yeah, but it would need power, so that's it.
And um, for something that remote, I don't know if I would do SSHFS, um, not for a long
term backup.
I'd rather do something like BT sync and then just have it read only on his side, so any
changes that I make to the things that I want backed up automatically get changed.
You could do it old before being around and just run R-Torrent and pass R-Torrent A-Torrent
about.
Technically, I could just, you know, code it all with R-Sync too.
R-Clumb.
So would BT sync or what I guess it's called as what?
As R-Clumb style config.
I'm not sure, uh, BT sync basically, I have it point to two folders, one local, one remote
and then it uses, um, parenting to keep them in sync.
And it's called Brazilio Sync now.
And then it's just a admin web page to set up the new syncs and I can't remember.
I know I've used R-Clone in the past, but I can't remember the setup for it.
I swear by R-Clone, very easy and it runs many protocols.
Okay, I remember.
I just looked it up.
Vagely remember setting that up when I was trying to set up, um, Google Drive as a local
mount.
I started using R-Clone because I got annoyed, um, a couple of years back because every
time I found a different way to, um, locally mount things like Google Drive and, um, what
was it?
Amazon storage, Amazon cloud, Amazon drive.
Every time I figure out a way to set it up, they'd, uh, make a change and yeah, you can't
do that anymore because you used to be able to do Amazon with a fuse mount.
It's just to help to facilitate their vendor lock-in policies.
Yeah.
I think I actually did an episode of midcast on it.
So if you were setting up G-Drive, were you trying to use G-Drive and a massive amount
of storage, um, my Google Drive at the time, I think I had a hundred gig, but yeah, um,
I was also at the time big into using, um, Windows tablets as Linux tablets and most
of those, the ace, it was, at the time, it was the ASUS transformer, the T100s and they
just plain didn't have a lot of storage in them.
So I wanted to set up cloud storage as local storage and, and use it that way.
Yeah.
Cut that out, start opening your claws on my chair, then at the same time, I also had a
terabyte on Amazon when they still had those plans and, um, I think I had cloud storage
with, um, ASUS as well and I know for a while because of getting the different transformer
devices, if I did the initial setup with Windows, they would give me, it was a hundred gig
of, um, Dropbox space for a year as well.
So I had a bunch of them, was it a hundred gig or fifty gig, eh, it's been a while and
I haven't slept.
I run, I run.
What storage?
I run my own.
Oh, yeah.
Well, now, you know, hard drive space is also a whole lot cheaper, so yeah, I have an
eight terabyte hard drive, so yeah, I set up SSHFS on all my devices, um, including
my, um, what is it, uh, the tablet that I'm using, the Dell, then you, I'm turning enterprise
SSD.
Ah, but it's not what I have, but that's, that's what I'm looking for now.
Yeah, that would be cool, high speed storage that way.
No, but I got SSH set up with using if up and if down, so whenever I connect to the
internet using my tablet, it will automatically connect to all the storage on my server.
And then whenever my internet connection drops, it will cleanly close that all out so
that it can reopen it when it comes back up.
Dell Venue 11 Pro 7130 running Linux Mint.
I, I do like the, uh, free BSD and the ZFS integration.
Yeah, I've heard good things and I've heard BSD can, is set up to be able to run most
things that run on Linux.
Yeah, most it doesn't run the mono very well, which is why I'm still running Plex and
not jelly fan or imbi.
I should try jelly fan and see what happens.
Oh, right now I got 48 terabytes of raw storage, 24 years old, and most of the night I have
external enclosures.
Oh, most of that's an in external enclosures?
Yeah, five, five big external enclosures, uh, external power over USB 0 and one of them
is 0.1.
That is cool.
Now, I'm thinking about getting one or two more eight terabyte drives.
And if I get two more, then I will pull the four terabyte and the two terabyte that are
currently in my server and put those into the external and transfer all the data over
to the eight terabytes and get rid of the other four and two that are going bad.
Pat?
I bought 90's, two terabyte, 90's, two terabyte hard drives, or I got a pallet deal, 400
for all of them.
Really good.
Especially if all of them, you know, worked.
Four were bad.
Right off the get go.
But I should rephrase, four failed bad blocks.
They still mounted, they were still accessible, but they weren't going the last very long.
All reasonable and died with it.
Still, the external enclosures aren't cheap either, the, any of the five days.
I have four of the Oracle and Amazon had, and did you try rennancing right on your, uh,
failed disc?
No, I took them apart and put the magnets.
Yeah, the spin right is good for, you know, recovering data that one last time, but
then I don't know if I would trust a drive that needed spin right run on it for anything
long term.
I brought their swears by it.
He has repaired several drives for people and they have run flawlessly for years afterwards.
Cool.
Well, running all my data in a Z pool, even though I lost drives, I never had any downtime
at all.
Other than turning it.
My kitty is calm down finally.
Now I have a cuddle, buddy.
I'm routine cabinet.
I'm expecting my son to be up any minute.
Immortancy.
Are you on the, uh, the mid-cast discord for the telegram group?
Uh, no, I don't know how to use telegram or discord only because I haven't tried.
Yeah.
I assume that's why.
No, I was going to post a picture of my cat deciding where to post it.
Telegram it is.
Imager.
Anybody worked on any interesting electronics lately?
I, um, recently got my heliosnast, um, I'm going to be building that.
Cool.
lately, it's been PSPs for me.
It's been what?
PSPs, PlayStation Portables, buying them in bulk, broken, fixing them and selling them,
well, fixing them, putting custom firmware on them and then selling them.
Custom firmware master.
Um, no, no.
The custom firmware is to make it so that you, um, don't need the physical games in order
to play.
And it allows you to play a lot more retro games as long as you have the game files.
So I toss about 5,000 games on 64 gigabyte micro SD card and then use, uh, M2 adapter
and basically, but Neo Geo, um, N64, um, Genesis master system, PS1 Atari, quite a few
Atari games on there, Game Boy, Game Boy Advance.
Yeah.
I have an end playing regular.
Yeah.
PlayStation emulation has actually gotten a whole lot better in the last couple of years.
There used to be, well, at least with, you know, handheld devices, there used to be a
lot of issues, um, with, uh, any game that required more than one CD and 64 emulation
still sucks.
It's not that bad.
Oh, not on the shield.
The pretty, it's pretty responsive and very performant.
The controller, so mapping the controller to have, uh, all the functionality of the
N64 country is quite different.
How old does it, um, emulate 007?
I don't know.
I don't really play any first versions.
Okay.
Uh, just 007 is one of those ones that I've never really found a system that emulates
it well.
I still have my original N64, um, uh, do you want me to try 007 or perfect dark?
I love perfect dark too, but, um, only the one with the expansion pack for the N64.
Yeah.
I've got the expansion pack too.
Okay.
Um, are you going to try and run it on your shield?
That's, that's what I'm asking.
Like, do you want me to try and run just 007 or try and run perfect dark?
Just try 007.
It won't be today.
Okay.
Um, how do I get in touch with, uh, jb at mccast.org.
All right.
I'll drop you.
Put that here.
I use retro arch for my setup.
Yeah.
Um, I have, um, have one really old think pad set up with, uh, badass era, and that works
really well.
How old is it?
Is it, uh, x120e?
I think that's right.
Yeah.
I have an age.
The x120e is from 2011, but pinning them cover my gold, uh, when I got mine, it didn't
have a hard drive in it.
So it has an SSD now.
Mine still has ingress.
Yeah.
Mine's definitely not original.
I, I kind of like buying broken things and making them work.
So I haven't bought headphones in bulk in a little while.
Less that worked out pretty good.
I got 10 skull candy, crusher, one of, it was one of the earlier models of the crusher.
I got eight of them working.
I think I sold or gave away five of them.
And I guess I still have a few hash threes left that I haven't finished fixing yet,
but they're boring to fix because they always break in the same way.
The hinge breaks.
Woo.
Really prints a new hinge, a little bit of cutting fits right in.
And I'm waiting for a new motherboard for the M song, um, gear S3, but because of the
holidays, it's taking forever to get here.
Is it the holidays or just the COVID?
No, but I'm pretty sure that it's a mixture of not COVID, but, um, something a certain
person did to the, uh, postal service along with it being the holidays, but it's just
a test, a test motherboard for me since, um, the pedometer and the heart rate monitor are
not working on that motherboard and it only costs like 15 bucks instead of the 60 that,
um, a working motherboard would cost me.
That'll also mean that I'll have a test motherboard for the next time I get one of the gear
S3 watches and need to figure out what's wrong with it or what's still working with it.
So you pick a lot of, um, it's hard work, yeah, it's just a hobby.
I work in financial technology for the longest time, um, I would pick up a couple of different
lots of, um, the HBS or the LG HBS 770s or the eight tens or, well, basically anything
in the line, um, I think I even have some, um, nine tens and a couple of five fifties and
just, um, fix them.
I mean, with those, it's almost always the same issue where the, um, board for the headphone
gets crimped right where it comes out of the, uh, side of the device and all you have to
do is shorten it up an inch.
And then so you buy ten of them, you get them for five dollars each and then you can turn
around and sell the working ones as refurbished for 20 bucks each or you end up giving them
away as Christmas presents as long as my hobby pays for itself, I'm good with it.
Well, eating food kind of pays for itself, I also, oh, cool, yeah, I do, so I haven't
smoked jerky, what was kind of rare, I'm in, uh, we've gotten a bunch of rain this last
week.
Yeah, it's where it's coming from.
Thanks.
You know what?
You can have it.
It's all yours.
Take it.
I'd rather have them.
Like I said, you can have it.
It makes it difficult to ride your bike when it's 30 degree, well, 38 degrees and, you
know, pouring rain.
But at least, you know, that's true, just nearly frozen.
I guess within what, less than a hundred miles of me, there's some snow cover.
I mean, it's not Canada's snow cover, but I don't know, I don't know, I used to live
in Northern Iowa, so we used to get quite a bit of snow there, but I was a lot younger
and sturdier and acclimatized.
Having been in Texas for the last 20 years, I have to say, I greatly prefer not snow.
I'm Georgia, I'm greatly, we're at Georgia, I lived in, uh, I didn't spill for a little
while.
What cities are closest?
When I say I lived there for a little while, I lived there for a little while when I was
in second grade, third grade, yeah, when we lived there, when we got back from Germany,
Zeta Air.
No.
Ironsville, Georgia, the dad was Army, Fort Stewart, granted, I spent most of my time in Texas
in El Paso, which is warmer than North Dallas.
So yeah, the weather here kind of sucks too, but what?
Dryer.
Yeah.
Once the desert.
Yeah, the humidity will kill you.
I know, we get this exact same humidity up here because we're right on the, we get it
with a cold too and it's just as bad.
This, that does sound like it would suck.
Tell me, um, the humidity when it's cold, does it still make you sweat?
No, it, it just makes you, uh, because the water still plings to you and, yeah, acts
like sweat.
Right.
It has an operation.
It condens difference.
Yeah.
No, I'm good.
Usually.
At first, um, I did spend some time in a little, not so little place called Doha.
And, um, basically, I lived in a tent and we were right next to the ocean and like, I,
I mean, I literally kind of grown, grown, a rock, a rock, is that more or two?
Some happen to your audio, some happen to your, uh, to talk to, okay.
Well, I, I could have thrown a rock into the sea and, um, 140 degrees and that close
to the ocean.
It's not really a good mixture.
The ocean here is a tide hue, the water's slacked, uh, on the other side of the high and
the low tide when it's more like an hour, but a slacked tide, the water doesn't really
move.
And all the rest of, um, and I'm talking like 30, yeah, that, that, that, I think that
would suck.
It might make fishing easier.
Not really.
Not really on the bottom.
Oh.
Like lobster.
Does it make lobster and easier?
Does it make what easier?
Does it make catching lobster easier?
I don't know any other way.
So are you talking like industrial, um, lobster fishing or individual lobster fishing?
Uh, okay.
I did not know that you can't go out and catch your dinner.
That is highly illegal.
Okay.
So you can go out and catch your dinner.
You just prefer not to get caught doing it.
Yeah.
Don't like that.
Is there a particular reason it's illegal?
Be like the out of the tax.
Okay.
And it likes to tax everything.
Well, it's not illegal to smoke a deer out of season.
It's just illegal, you know, get caught hunting one.
I think the license that had a balance and well, what if a deer steps in front of your
car?
It's not your.
And it's just supposed to rot on the side of the road.
Yes.
Okay.
I'm just checking.
What if a deer fell into my smoker?
What if a deer jumped out of its skin and jumped into my, uh, smoker?
That would be a neat trick and I'm gonna see it.
I've switched over to Moomla.
Moomla?
I like Moomla.
It's not my go-to on Android devices.
It is or is not?
It is my go-to.
I do still have plumble installed, but when I'm on Android anymore, I'm using Moomla.
That's when my push to talk switched over to, uh, I need to set it back up again.
Uh, no.
I understand, you know, poaching, hunting out of season.
It's illegal for a reason, but there was a time when I was a kid when, you know, my
family didn't have any money and sometimes it was the only way to eat.
Problems to trophy.
Hmm?
The problem is trophy.
Yeah.
The don't eat.
Yeah.
You mean those, um, I can't say the word on here, people that, um, bag a deer and all
they take is the head and leave the rest there?
That's a poster.
That's trophy hunting.
Sink trophy.
Now, that far north, do you guys, um, do you get pheasant and quail?
There's a lot of pheasant.
I haven't seen any quail.
Okay.
Pheasant's good eating anyway.
We get pheasant.
Pheasant?
I don't think I've done pheasant.
Like a big pheasant.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how
easy it really is, HackerPublic Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon
Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated.
Today's show is released on the Creative Commons' Attribution, Share a Light, 3.0 license.
