Episode: 3761
Title: HPR3761: HPR Community News for December 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3761/hpr3761.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 05:07:12

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,761 from Monday 2 January 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for December 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 45 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in December
2022.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fowland and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today it's Community News for December 2022 and joining me as ever is Dave.
Hello everybody.
I got an introduction this time after the interview.
Yes.
Wow, lecture, lecture.
I'm forgetting how to do this.
Stick with the script, Ken.
Stick with the script.
Anyway, HPR is a community podcast where the shows are submitted by people very much
like you.
And Community News is where the two janitors come out of their closet and put down their
mobs and go through all the shows in the last month.
Any comments that there have been on to them on those shows and deal with anything that's
been on the mailing list or has been happening in the background?
So Dave, can you introduce the new hosts please?
Well, it won't take long because they haven't got it in its time.
I'm so sorry.
Ouch.
Ouch.
That hurts.
We had a call for shows open as well.
Still do, actually.
Strange, actually, this month, this is the first year where we are this, we are this
late closing off the year.
So I don't know what it is.
I think there's been a lot more podcasts around since, since the COVID pandemic.
Yes.
I joined the podcast, hash podcast thing on Master Don and there's loads of them popping
up all the time.
They're not real podcasts in the sense the purest sense when there are people doing stuff
you know.
So yeah, it's something to do with it.
An RSS feed and Creative Commons license is all I need, Dave.
I know.
Okay.
Shall we go through the shows?
First one was multi-pastures for the masses by one of spoons.
Yes.
Multi-pastures.
Multi-pastures.
Yes.
No, no.
It's a word I've never seen before.
Quaz talk of modern science, fusion, electricity and all that sort of thing.
Very interesting.
Yes.
It was the thing I had no concept of at all.
I do follow Robert Murray Smith, though I don't actually, you know, watch his YouTube things
a lot.
I just got too many.
I've got 300 in my list of subscribe thingies, so it's self-to-feeling.
But yeah, he's really interesting.
He's got a lot of interesting engineering skills.
I don't fully understand this.
I think you can produce fusion of some sort using the methods that he's talking about.
I did look it up a little bit, but I don't fully understand it.
It's not a usable thing that you could put energy in and get more out, as far as I understand
it.
He was less than one.
It's kind of apropos, actually, because there was quite a lot of discussions and talk
about fusion this month.
Yes.
Okay.
There were no comments on that one, so we'll move on to the next, which was Hooker's DOS
series batch file, batch file variables nested batch files.
For DOS, this time using variables in batch files and nested batch files.
So there was one comment from hyper-nike forkbump.
Thank you very much, Hooker, for this interesting series.
I really enjoyed learning about this old OS.
Also I wanted to add that you can use call command to create a forkbump using a file like
this as echo off, call on top, call percent zero, go to top.
So yeah, that's a DOS.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that would bring many systems to the knees, I'm sure.
And oh, Kevin O'Brien, oh yeah, yeah, I'm not reading this one.
Kevin O'Brien says in reply, you are most welcome.
I'm glad you liked it.
It seems that people enjoy this series for the most part.
Very good.
Yeah.
It's good to know about.
It's delving into the deep dark history of operating systems, but yeah, good to be
aware of.
Exactly.
Zenf, the next show was the community news for last month and Zenf floated to our resident
squirrel and residents, said freedom versus free.
Just use BSD or as squirrel say open BSD, but Ken is right, good point Ken.
Excellent.
I'm glad to know I'm right.
I'm going to copy and paste that onto a t-shirt.
Yep, yep.
Very good.
My wife might have a few comments, something to say about that, but I knew.
Maybe the kids too, I don't know, if they're allowed to do that.
So the next day we had a show call from myself called battery and it was about the Wikipedia
article on a battery.
This may seem very, very strange that I'm doing something like this, but it is actually
one of the syllabus items for getting your common European amateur radio license.
So it's one of those things that is kind of a building block because the next show
will build on this and the next show will build on that.
So simple enough on, we will continue on.
And if there are any other hams or electronic engineers or hardware hacker people out there
who would like to take one of these individual topics as a show or you're there thinking
I am struggling for content, there's a whole series, a whole complete list of things
on that list from resistors, integrated circuits, the whole range, electrical safety,
the whole gambit of stuff.
So if you have any knowledge and it doesn't have to be expert level knowledge, it just needs
to be knowledge to go up to the level of introduction and middle or past your advanced
amateur radio license, then that's, I would say entry level college course and electronics
is kind of where you'd be.
Yeah, yeah, that's interesting.
I, we didn't go too far when I was doing physics at school, but we definitely covered batteries
and that, but that was quite a long time ago, so they have changed a lot in that time,
I think.
Yeah, so get in touch and we can discuss the syllabus, what you want to peel off and
what you want to include on this series.
At some point we'll have an article or a web page on the amateur radio section describing
this.
So then if you're doing your homework for the course, then you can jump to the particular
sections and download these shows, which are all going to be great of comments, so you
can use them and give them to your friends and etc, etc.
Very good, very good.
And we have the history of news, news for the community by the community.
This is by some guy in the internet and it was ransomware, malware, phishing and security
breaches.
So a good up to date, brought us all up to date on the various different leaks and all
sorts of hospital data leaks and yeah, it's important to do this.
It's really hard to keep up with it, all that's going on.
So it's usually somebody to sort of point the way and really appreciate this, very helpful.
Yes, fantastic stuff, thank you, Scotty.
Advent of code, they want for Daniel Pearson's and I'm wondering how, so he was doing
the advent of code, which is a series of challenges are giving you to you in the month of December
and you can solve them using the programming language of your choice and Daniel has been
following along with this links to his YouTube channel are in there.
So to do Tray's comment?
I will do yes, Tray says fun with advent of code, also known as AOC.
Thank you for sharing, I decided to do AOC this year to refine my Python skills.
I'm working on day eight this morning, some have been more challenging than others,
but I've learned new skills in each one.
The leaderboard is intimidating, however, for folks who are competitive and have
friends who might want to participate, you can join private leaderboards to show how you rank
against each other, not quite so intimidating again.
If anyone's even curious, you should give it a try.
Yeah, I love to have the spirit time to be able to do something.
I know, I know, I did enjoy following one or two, possibly two of Daniel's YouTube's.
Well, the first one was relatively straightforward, you could see your head,
but I could see that it was going to get not so, not so simple further on down the road.
I just too busy to do it again to that one at the moment.
Yeah, these are things are good.
There's a pearl one as well, which is also challenges, but the solutions for each one as well,
suggested ways through them and stuff, so yeah, cool.
Okay, the following day, we had Archer 70 to teasing us with the pencil,
and I have vowed never again to purchase any products from
from pint 64, not because of pint 64, but because of the Texas duties and my
incredible bad luck with the products.
I know, I looked at this and thought, oh, that looks really nice.
I don't really need one, but I could see as the show went on, that there would be advantages to have
having a thing that soldering on that you could just sort of carry around and very lightweight
and stuff like that. It needs to be connected to run, but you know, it's still really, really cool.
And then I went looking for prices, oh, the prices got, oh, if you're in Europe, then the price is
massive. So, right, that's the end of that one. Yeah, it's a bit of a busy, but yeah, I'm going
to foster them because we've got to stand there. It should be in the show lots.
Yep, and I hope to at least give them my phone and keyboard just to see, you know,
quick sounds to check, is it the keyboard that's dodgy or what?
Anyway, let's see.
Well, yes, good luck with that.
I just should say this show is amazingly detailed. I really, really admire the amount of work
that went into it. I just wanted to see what actually, look at the notes, the notes are stunning,
this notes are so detailed. So, thank you very much for all that effort.
Excellent, excellent show, Archer 72, well done, carry on.
Following the CPU info, how to get CPU info from Linux? And it's my turn, is it?
Or yours, I think it's mine. Zolloster says a tool with a very detailed information about
cache configuration on CPUs. This tool is displaying valuable detail information about the CPU
and system topology. And it's open-mpi.org projects, blah, blah, blah, links in the show notes.
And it gives tons of output formats in text, s-skillable vector graphics, png, pdf, and so on.
And I was also thinking about the old venerable s-h-w.
Yes, there's a number of ways to do this, aren't they?
Yeah, I'm not completely able to speed it, I've used them probably, but
no, then they fall out of my head. So, yeah, good to have these alerts and pointers.
So, our resident squirrel had dinner with some humans and discussed the topic. So,
this was Zolloster 2, obviously. I like the show. His shows tend to
become conversations.
Yes, yes. And it's a good technique. It does it well too, I think.
Yeah, I'd love to be there with a beverage of choice, sitting around, said fire, or whatever,
and be able to respond and discuss in an open and friendly manner.
Oh, quite, yes, yes. Not all opinions are necessarily agreed with, but that's the nature
of life, isn't it? Yes, yes. And again, the following day, we had Zolloster 2,
who squirrels gives to HPR, a modified bash potter to do something different. So,
this bash potter, one of the links, one of the programs written by Link
Fresner of the Linux link textual theme, and heavily modified by Zolloster 2. I think
I ran Chess Griffin's version of bash potter for years.
Is that mash potter? Yeah, I think it was. Yeah, yeah, I did use it a bit. Actually,
I before I saw that I'd hack my own quite a lot. And yeah, it's a very clever thing.
And it's extremely elegant and simple, and it's original for me, but it was for an RSS world
that was different from what we have now, so you do need to hack it to get it to correspond to
today's world, but yeah, good, good for Zenflotor doing this one. Exactly.
Delta Ray is back with making your own parts. We've got a 3D printer
useful for making custom parts, and he modeled it in blender, some of the stuff, and then went on
to open, use OpenSkid, I think some of these parts are pretty cool. They do, don't they? Yeah,
yeah, the, yeah, his pictures are good, I thought they were very impressive. I think they're on
his own site, oh yeah, I can't remember whether we've got them or not, anyway, it doesn't matter.
But yeah, they need to be tweaked. Yeah, I tweaked the links to make them,
so they didn't disappear off the edge of the cover. Oh, I'm sure you did.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I'm just looking at them, and they, they want, original, yeah, no,
they're not the original, they're slightly tweaked, but you can see the full one if you click on
the, yeah, the thingy underneath, so yeah, but it's, it's very cool, it's, I'm just trying to get
back into 3D printing, so this is, this is good. I do, I do into space for us as such, but we'll see
in the middle of reorganising here, so. Well, yeah, yeah, I don't have space either, but
but somewhere other, I keep sort of pushing other things aside.
So Ahuka, it's Friday, we have a show from Ahuka, and this one's about southern Arizona,
close to the Mexican border, so they stay in Topok and move down to Agio, Arizona, not far from
the Mexican border. I don't know if you pronounce Aho, do you? Are being Spanish maybe?
More of a luxury, more than luxury. But yeah, I found I pronounced Spanish names completely wrong
when I went to Spain. So yeah. Anyway, yeah, I love this, this is really good. I'm, I'm really
enjoying it. It's something quite nice about being along with somebody doing this sort of journey.
I think these are readings from from a journal or a diary or something, or you know,
paraphrased. And yeah, it just feels such fun to be, to be coming along and experiencing some
of these things. Yeah, really good. It's really good. Windigo says, Agio, I'm always surprised when
you hear anything about Agio, Arizona. Mrs. Honeycomb served as their art teacher around a decade ago,
and I was able to visit occasionally. Thanks for the trip. Done memory lane.
Good, good comment. Brian and Ohio says, history, good show. I like the travel log style. It
gives us all the gritty detail. I would remind people that right and left wing violence has been a
part of US Capitol Hill history since the founding of the Republic. And it gives a link to a Wikipedia
article entitled Timeline of Violent Incidents in the United States Capitol, which I went and
read. Yeah, it's pretty, pretty grim. But yeah, not uncommon thing.
First century is 1814. Oh, there are quite a lot of them.
10, 8 and 9. Anyway, using noise torch, a program for Linux that creates a virtual microphone
that removes background sound, something which I have seen people refer to on the mastodons,
to seeing about this in relation to HPR commenting that they were going to install it. I too
shall install it, because I absolutely desperately need this. Yeah, yeah. Well, judging from
Delphere's talk about it, it does seem to do a pretty amazing job of filtering out all the junk.
But yeah, yeah, I'm just I'm just to examine this one as well, I think.
So, just as only took him two years to record using some new hardware.
Yeah. How's in the wise of recording?
So, basically, as a microphone, it wasn't as microphone that was causing the problem.
It was its speakers on the laptops that he was using. So, yeah, he got a Pine64. Glad he
has worked. And was cheaper than others might experience. Yeah, my mark is just the keyboard
as a musical. So, I'll probably be giving it away and foster him to somebody swapping it for
a HPR show. How'd she do? How'd she do? Indeed. Yeah, good show. It's interesting. It's nice to hear
Joseph from him. Yeah, he's actually following a vlog. Yeah. Or his mastodon pulse, which are essentially
one HPR show after another if he would only be bothered to record him. Yep.
So, the following day we had you with Ali, Ally, ALLY, E 11Y. Yeah, which are called
numerous names I discovered and it was quite interesting. I prefer the word numerous names.
I wouldn't put numbers in that one between the end and the s.
Of course, I think it's cool, but, no. It would be a surprise.
I know, but it's just me wichring on about stuff to do with this thing and also throwing
in a little bit of bash just to make your own if you really want to.
No, this was interesting because when we had this discussion last month, I was really
interested to know how many words would fall under that.
So the room for overlap is immense, I thought, yes indeed.
So yeah, that was partly my point, but nobody's actually doing that to be fair, but I'm
just a bit bothered by the fact that they actually get written down to having them as abbreviations
in an editor which are then expanded for you would be great.
I do that all the time, but to have them actually written in text and stuff, I find
a little bit jarring to my brain.
Okay, we can solve all the problems in the world, Dave.
So we will move on.
No, no, no, no, you certainly shouldn't be worrying about my problems.
So I had to have this very similar problems to you, Dave.
God, God will probably use a Chromebook, Zenflot or two.
Yeah.
I, yeah, this is a stranger.
I have to admit, I have to admit, not agreeing with a lot of stuff here, but then I stood
back and realized this was somebody's opinion.
So yeah, yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a ramble, I thought, but yeah, it's some
interesting, interesting views.
Yeah.
That existed.
Yeah, I think at the end, Zenflotor basically did a dystopian future where AI occurs and stuff
was, I don't see any evidence to suggest that even if we did have that, that, you know,
people would be, that it would come out that way because there's still economics involved
in what would be the benefit of even feeding the masses.
You know, right now you see us, people, they're hungry people in the world.
There is no incentive on anybody to feed the masses unless the masses are generating
income to support the, the, yeah, to support the economy, I guess.
Yep.
Is it my turn, yeah, it must be my turn, is it, just to read the comment.
Yeah, please.
Yeah, please.
Says Twitter.
Guy, who starts by saying, I've never used Twitter then for analysis about Twitter, says
Twitter should respect the office of the president, the presidency, then when the president
who they banned didn't respect the office or truth or public health or the constitution.
I think it was the other show that contained that, was it, or did I get that wrong?
Yeah, I think so, but, yeah, that was fun.
So, point main, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, Senator G over SSH, I did this show because I was, it came up and we were short to show
it was one that was on my, on my back burner for a long time.
I, ages ago, I had this one started, so I thought, I'd delve into the database and do a natural
show.
Yeah, I, I, I don't even, didn't even know what synergy was, I don't really think I
have a need for it, but it's, it's, there would, I would have done a work, but that's
a few years ago now.
But, yeah, I found it really, really interesting and realized that there was such technology
around.
So, it's good to, good to understand and know about it.
Yeah, for example, Dave, our, I have a inside network and an external network.
So we have some raspberry pies on the external network.
So if I wanted to have a monitor on one of those while still being inside my own network,
I could use that keeper video mouse on that, but physically somewhere remote.
Luckily, it's also a laugh, if you're in an office and you set this up in somebody's
computer, then you can just nod you over to the edge of your screen and their mouse
was all over the shop.
I went to a digital equipment course, where we haven't got deck terms or something
or that.
These were like MIPS, MIPS workstations and we all sat at those things.
There was some smart someone who had worked out how to, they must have been really insecure
but attached to any, any of the machines.
So they were going around and suddenly changing the background colors or, you know, warping
the mouse and all that sort of stuff.
I think they were found in the end.
They weren't kicked out, but yeah, yeah, I know it's a temptation, I think.
Yes, people will be childish, I guess.
Indeed.
Shoo, the next one was on how to verify yourself amassed on using PGP and key oxide by
Klaatu.
We got a request today to extend the show notes, which we did.
We also linked to the article Klaatu did on opensource.com and the YouTube video of
the same.
And there it also now includes a transcript of the show.
So yeah, which is our command.
Excellent.
Yes, that was the note I made to myself.
Oh, this is fantastic, but I didn't get it all as I was pouring around the house with
my headphones on and so I'm going to have to go back and write my own notes for
from it or something.
So yeah, you beat me to it, which is fantastic.
Definitely something I'm going to do as soon as I can.
I just did this as I was going along and following the notes was absolutely word perfect.
So excellent there.
In the show Klaatu mentions that it didn't took him a long time to get a working, but
I'm glad he has suffered the pain so we don't have to.
That's very, very generous of him.
Yeah, yeah, that's really, really helpful thing.
So the following day, we had career changes.
This is some guy on the internet is doing exams to be a commercial driver.
My thoughts on immediately jumped to smokey on the budget.
So yes, yes, that was, I find it quite fascinating actually.
He did mention stuff about it on Matrix and I said, what is CDL?
And he said, oh yeah, sorry.
But yeah, these three-letter abbreviations are sort of fairly, really local.
Not local to a big area or not, but it really need to be spelled out a bit for us.
Us what don't live in that locality, but I mean, you can always look it up,
which is what I did in the internet.
But yeah, the driver from the context of the show, so that's, mm-hmm.
Yeah, yeah, I'll be just looking at the notes actually.
But yeah, it was good.
It was quite insightful and some interesting factors that had never really considered.
You know, I had an opening door and closed a door and it's all a consideration.
And then an important thing as well, I never really considered it.
Oh, not to get scanned by people, that's beautiful.
Pretty poor suckers who, you know, get a new job and then somebody does that, scans you.
Oh, actually, yeah, not good, not good, not good.
Anyway, so the next day was first sissidening job by Norrist.
It was good to have him back.
And it was, yeah, basically how to, he transferred into IT, got a job.
And transferred IT, got a job and he always left to debug a NFS issue
and eventually found it in the weirdest ways.
I'll let you listen to the show, it's very good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's, I found it fascinating.
It's, it's nice to hear about people's journeys to these things.
And this one was, this one was good, I enjoyed it very much, not nicely done.
The NFS thing, I've also been bitten by not that specific aspect of it,
but it doesn't behave the way you would think it would.
And we were burned quite badly by it at my, my worst.
So yeah, but I won't go into detail.
But it's, yeah, really good.
I like these very much.
I like the way he does his shows as well.
So yeah, good all around for me.
Then we had a two for one deal, some guy in the internet and D&T,
doing one of their shows on pretty much everything and anything that comes up.
Lots of good stuff there on gays, task wearer, radical, and the show
and also very detailed and gives you links to all the stuff that they talk about.
Yeah, it's a lot of work going into those notes.
Very impressive, thank you.
Because the prices of Raspberry Pi's at the moment are very high.
That is ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous.
I have, I have several here, so I bought before things got bad.
And I hadn't got around to using them much yet, but so I'm okay.
But yeah, it says dreadful, dreadful, and all the Raspberry Pi equivalents
that are popping up, but are not necessarily all that interesting.
That's being triggered by this.
Yeah, not good, not good.
Yeah, good, good show.
And yeah, get annex.
I've been hearing about that recently and somebody who used it
to manage the writing up the PhD thesis and found that it was the best way
to store all the images and that sort of thing for going with a written thesis.
So yeah, something I have to get into.
It's on that infinite list of things I need to do.
I haven't done yet.
Well, is there something like it is on our list for HPR?
Because we want to have a get repository at the end of the day.
And the files themselves integrated so that you can do a get pull
and then everything comes down, including the years.
So this might be something that we need to have a wee look at.
Yep, yep, yep, absolutely.
So yeah, something I shall be looking at when I get a moment.
But a very good show, I endured this.
I like the format very much and they have a good dynamic.
These two guys, they made me laugh a few times
with some of the things I was saying.
So yeah, it's cool.
Yeah, excellent.
Following day, we had a hook again with a bookworm show,
An Autonomous of Goodreads.
And it's strange hearing this one now because when I heard it first,
it was in the middle of summer, and I was working out the garden, so.
But yeah, I've seen a lot of these Goodreads stuff come along
on the Fediverse in Mastodon, specifically the hashtags.
So it does actually work.
Yeah, I think I'm probably, I would have processed the notes as usual,
and I noticed it and had a quick look at it following one of the links
and thinking, oh, that looks interesting.
I haven't done anything about it yet.
But having heard the show now, I mean, I'm very much inclined to dig deeper
because it does look pretty cool.
And the last show of the year, is that correct?
Well, this is the last show of the December, that was a bookworm.
Yeah, that was the last show of December.
It was the last show of December, which is the last show of the year.
Yeah, exactly.
So that's pretty much it, David.
We're done.
You've completed our assignment.
Not the left to do here.
Oh, look, it's cute.
There's another year is just opened up.
Yeah, yeah, time to do your show now.
Yes, folks, please send it to us.
And if you're only going to do one show, send it in your birthday
for your birthday, in around your birthday, whenever that is.
So that we spread them out.
There's no reason to clump them all up at one space.
It's a mix, our life a lot better if every week even
go now for the next month or two that there are a few shows
better than there, because then filling the slots
is a lot easier to do.
And you have to ask people if they have some vacation time
coming up to record some shows.
So if you could just take half a day or something,
write down some show notes and record three or four shows,
that would be absolutely excellent.
Just space them out over the year,
spring, summer, autumn, winter.
That would really help us a lot.
Yeah, cool.
Thank you.
Yep, yep, yep.
My, I shouldn't commit into this, but I think she's up for it.
My daughter is thinking of a series that she wants to do.
And she was here making notes yesterday.
Don't do that to me, Dave.
Don't tease me with series, please.
I don't know, I know.
It's not a show unless it's on the server.
I know, I told her that.
I told her that those very words, but she said,
yeah, yeah, she was sitting there writing stuff
in a notebook, bore it.
So let's see.
We shall see.
I'll say that I mentioned it.
Any pressure at all, you know?
Excellent.
Okay, so let's have a look at our agenda.
Is one comment on one previous show?
Yeah, can you do that, please?
Yes, indeed.
It's from Ron's review of Kobo Libra H2O.
E-reader and Aaron Cocker says Kobo E-readers.
I had a similar dilemma when it comes to E-reader.
My ideal device would have been,
would have a six inch pocket size backlit screen
and run Linux.
Seven inch Kobo was the best alternative I could find
from this decade.
It served me well so far.
There's a great choice.
A free e-book is knocking around
and knocking about, and Kobo Libra was finally posted
to Python 3.
Happy days.
Excellent.
Yeah, good, actually, good to know.
So we've had three items on the mail list,
old for me, nobody's replied to them,
so I'll read them for a vision.
Hi, everybody.
If you have an outstanding 2022 New Year's Resolution
to record a HBO,
then this weekend will be a great time to record and submit.
We're running a special up to the end of December.
Just record a HBO now and submit us
and you're going into 2023,
guilt free with your New Year's Resolution
covered for next year as well.
By the time people hear that offer
will have expired, Dave, bummer.
So the next was the New Year show promotion
and a fast end podcast table.
This was also sent out to the mailing list
for the free culture podcasts.
Hi, I'll some good news from fast end.
The free culture podcast will be,
will have a table on the booth on the fourth
and fifth of February 2023 in Brussels.
This means we will be promoting your podcast
to the 5,000 attendees that will be visiting
during the event.
We could do with some help as we are only expecting
to get one offered one day
and instead we got both.
So if you are going to fast them,
then please consider helping us out for a time
even an hour will allow us to go and get some lunch.
Your podcast details together with a small summary
will be printed on flyers that we're handing out.
If you have any swag or stickers
that you want us to hand out,
then please contact me off list and we'll arrange shipping.
Also, thanks to those who promoted the New Year show,
I'm looking forward to chatting with you all.
Happy holidays.
And we have a call for show open.
Please fill up the slots for the coming week
and if you don't have some shows,
then please allocate some time over to Christmas holidays
or whatever holidays you're taking to record.
So that will be ideal.
Very good.
So Dave, do you want to tell us about
older shows and HPR?
Well, we're recording this few days before the end of the month
and the list I'm keeping of progress says
that for December, there are 23 shows left.
Well, that is three days.
If I'm doing a rate of 10 a day,
I might do 13 on this or the second day actually,
but so we're very close to finishing.
So I will update the table.
I will update the table by the time
the notes become relevant.
But by the Monday that they're the shows released.
So yeah, so yeah, very, very close to being finished.
Excellent.
And I've just started transcribing all the shows,
starting a show one and getting a transcript
for each of the shows done with the whisper,
a whisper application freely,
but open source software from OpenAI.
Very cool, very cool.
Yeah, that's actually quite good.
It's a tattoo comes out as CLA space and the number two,
but okay, fine.
Yeah, yeah, it's not, it's definitely going to be thrown
by unusual words.
I mean, yeah, yeah, it's not going to have a dictionary
that includes clout to the correct spelling of little.
I think it was one I had the supermarket.
But yeah, yeah, yeah, that's great, that's great.
We need to debate exactly how we're going to manage
the transcripts and stuff,
but we're already doing that on the matrix
that the discussion, so we're pretty close to having a conclusion,
I think, so good.
Now, the final AOB thing is
the tradition which we seem to skip last year, I don't know,
where we list everybody who's done a show in the past year,
and just put, we have in the past, read them out.
I don't know if you want to do that this time.
I think we should take one line each.
Well, I've put it into lines of same length
so that we could do it without too much hassle, so.
So yeah, shall I start?
Please do.
Okay, so thanks to Ahuka and Drew Conway,
at just 72 Beezzie, Beezer, Benny,
Binassie, Black Colonel, Brian in Ohio.
And thank you to Carl, cchids.net team,
Celeste, Claudio Miranda, Daniel Pearson's,
Dave Morris, Delta Ray, D&T, and Focke.
Thanks also to Hypernike,
I think that's what you say, Honkie McGoo,
H.B.I volunteers, that's awesome.
Can you show us your room, Batten?
I hope I got that.
I never, in a room, Batten.
Batten, yeah, I'm close, but not there.
Jessera, J.W.P. Ken Fallon.
Thank you. King Heasy and Claudio.
And our thanks go out to Nightwise,
Lee, Lurkin, Brian, mode seven,
Mickey O'Choney, Ak, Monochromic.
That's their Linux and laws.
Mr. X, Norrist, one of Spoon's.
Yeah, thanks also to operator Paul J,
Poke, Roe, Roan, which catches me that one.
Sarah, some guy on the internet.
Stash AF, tack off, 751, and Tim Timmy.
And the last line is Tony Hughes,
Trey, Trumper John, Tukatoruto, Windigo,
and Zen Flutter too.
Thank you all.
Yes, thanks to you.
Oh, that's great, it's a good list, 51.
People have contributed, so it's one a week.
Yeah, it's, but it's a ratio of one to five,
four, two hundred and fifty shows, two hundred and sixty shows.
We, I would like to see that number at two hundred and sixty.
It's never going to be two hundred and sixty,
but I'd like to double that by next year.
Yes, so if you can do a show,
and also try and get somebody else to submit a show,
just one, get them to dip their toe in, that will be excellent.
So submit a show and press gang somebody
to do a lot of the show, that will be awesome.
Yes, yes.
Oh, yeah, I met my new neighbours the other day.
They had a parcel delivered to me instead of to them.
And I just got chatting to them and I said,
oh, we do a podcast.
You might like to know about it.
It might be, she's got young kids,
so they might be interested in listening and or contributing.
So no promises, of course, but you know,
spreads the word when one can absolutely.
Okay, folks, if you've got your send them in,
seasons, greetings to everybody.
Hope you have had a good year and hope you have an even better
near next year.
And with that, Dave, thank you very much.
Thank you very much for all the contributions
and all the other people who have helped out on the background
here on the generous clauses.
I don't keep track, but you know you are.
You're on my special list, which is in my head.
Very good, very good, yes.
All right.
See you on the new year show and tune in tomorrow
for another exciting episode of Hacker, Public Radio.
Cool.
You have been listening to Hacker, Public Radio.
At Hacker, Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
then click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an onsthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons' Attribution 4.0 International License.
