Episode: 3455
Title: HPR3455: Podcast Recommendation: IBM and Quantum computing
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3455/hpr3455.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 23:43:51

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3455 for Friday, the 29th of October 2021.
Today's show is entitled Podcast Recommendation, IBM, and Quantum Computing.
It is hosted by Archer72 and is about three minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is highlights of the podcast from Lures Lobby.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello, this is Archer72 and welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
This is my podcast recommendation, but before I start, I would like to encourage anybody
who is listening, who finds a subject that is of interest to hackers, pick up a microphone
and try your hand at podcasting.
My podcast recommendation is Moore's Lobby, Episode 34, and it brings the latest from the
IBM labs on an eventing what's next.
It is hosted at all about circuits and I will put a RSS feed in Lipson.
The interview is with Dr. Jeff Lee, Welsner, VP of Exploratory Science at IBM Research.
This year, they have released the first two nanometer chip.
They discuss engineers versus scientists and how they drive innovations, goes to replace
the transistor when Moore's law stops scaling, how they manage thermal loads, discussions
about finding new structures and materials to control current, also neural nets, an
image recognition AI, and then they, in 34 minutes and 35 seconds into it, they started
what was more interesting to me was a discussion on quantum computing, and what qubits are and
superposition, and then there's a part related encryption and how the NIST standards relate
to it, how they cool the quantum chip in the Kelvin range to achieve superconduction.
The Josephson junction, and how it relates to referencing the vault is described by NIST.
Another point of interest to the community is that in May of 2016, the first quantum
computer was put on the net, and I'll leave the link in the show notes, and also to the
newsroom article, and since then, as of now there are 300,000 users, and there's another
place directly related to it called Kiscit, it's an open-source software for working with
quantum computers at the level of circuits, pulses, and algorithms.
Thank you for listening, bye-bye.
I forgot to add that I cannot host the audio here because it is not creative comments, but
feel free to follow the link I put in the beginning of the show notes, it really is an interesting
podcast to listen to.
Thank you again for listening, it's been Archer32, bye-bye.
You've been listening to HECKA Public Radio at HECKA Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
HECKA Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated, today's show
is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
