Episode: 3999
Title: HPR3999: Holiday Challenges Series Ep 02 TryHackMe Advent of Cyber Challenge
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3999/hpr3999.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:26:34

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3999 for Thursday the 30th of November 2023.
Today's show isn't titled.
Holiday Challenges Series Episode 2 try hack me advent of Cyber Challenge.
It is hosted by Trey, and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, discussing the try hack me advent of Cyber Challenge to help you enjoy the holiday season.
Hello and welcome to Episode 2 of my holiday challenge series.
We'll be discussing try hack me's advent of Cyber Challenge.
Since some of the information you are about to hear is time specific,
I want to let you know that I'm recording this near the end of November in 2023.
If you missed the first episode which introduces this series,
you can go back and listen to HPR 3996.
I have been using try hack me for several years, and I recommend it to all of my students.
It is a great environment where people can get hands-on experience with technology that relates
to cybersecurity, all from the comfort of their browser, and free year round.
The try hack me advent of Cyber Challenge is a free gamified environment which focuses on penetration testing,
security operations, and engineering, forensics, and incident response, malware analysis,
machine learning, and more. This year's challenge opens on December 1, 2023,
which is the reason why I'm posting twice this week.
Typically, the advent of Cyber Challenge includes daily beginner-friendly exercises
for people new to cybersecurity. These can consist of walkthroughs, video tutorials, and challenges.
There are also prizes available based on random drawings and on participant success.
InfoSec personalities like John Hammond, Gerald Ogger, insider PhD, and InfoSec Pat
are featured in this year's challenge. You can play with last year's advent of Cyber Challenge
by visiting tryhackme.com or following the link that's in the show notes.
It outlines the overall story and shows all of the tasks last year's participants experienced,
including both offensive and defensive topics like log analysis, open source intelligence,
scanning, brute force attacks, email analysis, cyberchef, blockchain smart contracts, malware
analysis, memory forensics, packet analysis, web application hacking, the list goes on and on.
Everything can be done with a free account from within your browser.
If you want to learn more about cybersecurity, transition your career into InfoSec or just have
fun playing with Cyber Challenges, you can give it a try by visiting tryhackme.com or the link in
the show notes. Please note, I am not affiliated with tryhackme in any way other than having been a
paying member for many years. Students and others who have participated in previous years advent of
Cyber Challenges have told me how much they enjoyed it and learned from it. Even though I have
been an InfoSec practitioner for more years than I want to admit, I also have enjoyed taking
part in this challenge. If this is not for you, I will try sharing another option for a holiday
challenge in my next episode. Goodbye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording broadcast,
you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and our Sync.net. On this
otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International
License.
