Episode: 3683
Title: HPR3683: Add a favourite to OSMAnd
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3683/hpr3683.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 03:48:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3683 for Wednesday the 14th of September 2022.
Today's show is entitled, at a favorite 2.0 S.M.A. It is the 200th show of Ken Fallon
and is about 2 minutes long. It carries a clean flag. The summary is, Ken keeps forgetting
how to add a favorite 2.0 S.M.A.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you are listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today I want to give you a tip about how to add a favorite 2.0 S.M.A. and, which is an offline mapping tool for Android.
It is available on the F-Droid store and on Google whatever.
So, one of the things you would imagine that when you are doing a destination,
so for example, you put in a press the destination button, which is like a right hand sign,
and you go set destination and you add your destination there.
You would imagine that you would be able to click a button and press save to favorite
or something. No, you can't do that. Furthermore, you might think that you could go to my places,
which are where your saved things would turn up, and that if you hit the plus button,
that would actually add to it. Add your places as well.
No, that doesn't work either. And every time I do this, I get extremely frustrated
because the only way I found to be able to do this is actually by pressing the search button,
which is the magnifying glass up at the top. They're typing in your address.
That will bring the map over to that location. And then on that location,
you do get the option to add. And once you do that, then you can add it to wherever you want.
So that's pretty much the tip for this one.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
