Episode: 3924
Title: HPR3924: Mass Quick Tips for August 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3924/hpr3924.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:28:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,924 for Thursday the 17th of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Mass Quick Tips for August 2023.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 26 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Operator, we'll never get to some of these as full episodes.
So here you go.
Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host operator.
I'm going to shoot from the hip on this one because I have a large list of quick tips
and things that I'll never really get to as a full episode.
Or they're so old that they're not in fresh in my head enough to do a follow-up with
them.
So I want to try to do a quick shoot to show notes.
It's going to be kind of like a long quick tips, essentially.
So if you have any of my other old quick tips, basically they're not long enough to be
an episode but important enough to tell you about, like using zip ties to repair stuff.
Just drill hole in both ends and you got a hinge that breaks, drill hole in both ends
and then put a zip tie in there and you're done.
I try to repair everything with zip ties that has to do with plastic.
So that's an example of a quick tip.
So I'm going to a bit of a side tangent there.
So I'm going to try to real time do this without driving everybody crazy.
So that one, I'm going from the oldest to the newest here.
So the first one I have here is Vosk and Yatsi, which are Yatsi, Yaki.
I used it to essentially pitch the idea that we had multiple ways to create show notes
for shows.
So I'm going to try to see if I can't find my, I think I did an episode on this.
So I don't really have to talk about it.
But I do have on GitHub home theater, I honestly don't know what it's called.
But the idea is that you can run this script against and it will convert audio, it will
rip the audio from a video or an audio feed and convert that to be consumed by the Yaki
or Vosk, which will convert it to text.
And then that text can be run through Yaki, which will create a, basically, the idea
was to create automated transcribing and automated show notes for stuff like that.
It's called HPR and audio fun, maybe, possibly.
Oh, speech text, episode three, four, four, six.
So I will reference that.
So Yaki, and there's also a script that I'm going to get for you guys.
So this is work in progress, never going to finish.
The idea is it's a shell script that you run and it will take input and it will automatically
use on URL, YouTube BL or YouTube downloader to parse that URL, pull the audio out.
If it's a YouTube video, it will pull the captions out if the captions aren't available
then it will pull the audio and automatically rip it all.
So it's kind of two parts, more or less, but the newer one is called Not Windows Batch.
And I've been using it to do an example.
To Transcode, I transcoded a bunch of three years of DefCon videos, I transcoded a podcast
and then created a hit list or a key terms list for those.
So if I want a particular episode about focus or a particular episode about getting along
with other children or whatever, you can use that to search through the keywords.
So it's kind of interesting.
So I'll put those use cases up here.
Let me pause for a second to figure out where I find my notes.
Yeah, so it's parentingADHD and autism.com, natural language processing, which is what
I did with the, as an example, or proof concept sort of whatever, a bunch of HVR episodes,
DefCon videos, I put a zip at the top of all the information for all of that, for all
of the DefCon 26, 27, 29, like all the texts from there, it's like 15 megs worth of text.
And a bunch of DefCon and then I want to say something else is in here, yeah, like I said
HPR, that's about it.
And then I have two scripts, one is called Stream2Text with Keywords, which is the first
time I tried to make it.
The second one is a little bit better because it's actually using the full-blown thing and
not some kind of weird, it's using like a full install of it and it's using better models
to do the speech to text.
So anyways, that's that piece, I was a quick, quick, quick, quick one, and high contrast
black background.
I think I already did one of these, so let me check and make sure that I did that.
Let me untact this as a quick tip because it's pretty involved, but I'm going to put the
notes in there if somebody wants to talk about a high contrast black background.
So essentially this is for desktop windows and it's part of my script for high contrast
in Chrome.
So I'll put the link in there.
You have to do some settings to set it up in Chrome and get it kind of enabled and then
you can use the regular high contrast features and stuff.
It's also part of my Auto-Hot Key script for generally making things easier on keyboard
and it has that in it.
So you turn it on by pressing F11 and turn it off by pressing F12, the high contrast
mode.
Sometimes there's some places that it doesn't work, like for example, Spunk, so if I'm
doing a lot of work in Spunk, it causes a problem.
So I don't use it all the time.
So that's one little piece of something that will help.
This next quick tip I don't really have any notes for, and VLC has compression built
into it.
There is a mono-based or stereo-based compression, called like lib something or other lib
compress.
Let me see if I can find it.
So back when I didn't have like 4K and surround sound, or I didn't care, I was using LADSBA
dash sig is a library for a Linux to compress audio.
So I wanted like an audio compressor for old people that can't hear audio or voice.
So you know, quite a loud stuff.
If you don't have that and you want to do surround sound-based compression, VLC is the
only other tool I know of that supports audio compression.
So you can tell Cody to use VLC with some shenanigans and some configuration files, which
I might have on my GitHub also.
Let me add that.
This could be another episode if you're interested in my Cody experiences, but now Cody's kind
of become depreciated.
But if you're interested in coding and it's just thing you're noting about on Yoko codes,
Yatsuy custom commands through a VLC and Yatsuy can pick files.
Let me know.
But I'm going to put it in the show notes as a quick tip because it's pretty niche and
it's pretty whatever.
But the idea there is you can use Yatsuy to control a receiver or Cody along with plugins
for your receivers or whatever else you want to control.
So they have several plugins for different receivers.
But I thought there's a common protocol with all your receivers and stuff and it's
all a common protocol.
No, there's no common protocol for audio devices.
Like legit on Yoko's is like a binary protocol.
You've got to look at this table and figure out which is which, so it's kind of annoying.
But if you're interested, I can do an episode on it and the hosts don't count as being
interested.
It has to be somebody that actually wants help with it.
I'll kind of go down that rabbit hole if you want.
Or just hit me up.
I can up you up.
So we've done high contrast.
We've talked about that quite to loud how water bird works.
So yeah, apparently water bird works by, I don't have a video just Google it.
But my son got one is interesting.
It's like what do you call it, coolant, coolant fluid.
And then it gets hot and goes up, weighs less, weighs less I guess.
And then when it dips into the thing, it cools down.
So it becomes cooler and then I guess falls down.
And then when it falls down, it heats back up just by being in the air itself at the bottom.
And then when it gets heated up to a certain point, that pressure builds and then it goes
back towards the front.
And the part that's important is that the bird has to be, the bird head has to be wet and
that wetness is the difference between the, that makes the compression, you know, the,
the thing expand and compress.
So it's kind of kind of interesting.
I used it to keep a, to keep a light on in front of my cube way back.
So Philips X screwdriver sizes, if you're using a screwdriver, always start with a bigger
screwdriver than you think first, because you will strip it out if you don't.
So I'm trying to get my family and friends kind of to do that, but nobody really does.
So then they end up stripping out the screw and I have to like try harder or even drill
it out to get it fixed.
So use a bigger screwdriver head than you need to start with as chances are, you'll probably
be right if you go bigger.
Far couldn't, if you can fix a fluff up carpet with a brush, so we have some high traffic
areas in the living room that it's got an old wire brush, like an old hair brush.
It's wire.
They have things you can buy home depot that's like a big, if you're doing a bunch, it's
like a big plastic rig that you put on your carpet.
But you can just use an old brush to fluff up little parts.
Leo re, that's going to be a new fluffing carpet.
I just talked about that sleep optimization is going to be its own thing.
So headphone repair, honestly stick with like the DLXR connections because your headphones
or earbuds will die.
So eventually they will die and you'll have to replace them or you'll need like instead
of an up and down connection, you'll need a L connection because just because or you
want to put in your pocket and you don't want to break your phone port or the headphone
port.
So eventually you're going to need to swap out the wires because they're going to fail.
And things you can't do is like zip tie stuff.
A lot of problems just like your headphones or earbuds have crappy wires.
You should get like I said a plug-in based one whether a modular, so you know they're just
that your buds are fancy enough to where you can unplug them.
Don't buy earbuds without a modular based connection that whatever it's called, XMX
connection or whatever.
And there's like three different kinds.
So make sure that you buy the right connections that's right for you.
I guess electric tape, I don't know, I don't know what I put here, but I've switched
offsets.
Boycott it any earbuds or headphones that do not have like that MX connection.
So yeah there's, I'm going to put up, if you have a fire TV, you're basically fire stick.
You're basically spammed with ads all the time so you can do some stuff to get the thing
to go from going to sleep and kicking you back to the menu.
So you know like oh there's no ads on whatever, no this whole thing is just a bunch of ads.
So the problem with the fire sticks is when they go to sleep they default back to the home
screen which is not what you want because I don't want to see a bunch of ads.
So the only way to work around that is to turn force the sleep mode off.
So when you are for example in the Plex app it won't go to sleep and take you back
to the home screen after 5 minutes or 10 minutes or whatever.
So that's where they get you.
But you can bypass that by, you know, disabling the sleep mode or making it really long.
So cool cool.
Sponsor block new pipe, I'm sure people have already talked about that.
You can get it with Firefox and on Android so I'll link to that, it's quite difficult
to do.
Yeah, it's on, I put it in the show notes, sponsor block for Android.
You use Firefox developer and enable a bunch of stuff to enable plugins, additional plugins
or any plugin to run on Android when you put sponsor block on there and it seems to be
working for me and it's worked for a while so I don't have any ads and I don't have
to use anything like a new pipe or any of those YouTube bands during that crap.
I just use the browser.
So it makes a big difference to put that in the show notes for us.
Let's see what else we got.
How did not look for stuff?
So I have a hard time looking for things and searching for stuff.
So I spend a lot of my time looking for things, I don't remember where I put stuff.
And for me, I have a tactic or a thing that works for me is if I'm looking for something,
I look at everything and I say that's not what I'm looking for.
So instead of looking for something and I know what I'm looking for is a blue shirt.
And I dig through the pantry or I dig through the land laundry and I'll dig through my clothes
and I can't find it, can't find it, can't find it.
Well, it ends up being a red shirt or something else to that effect where you're not looking
where you think you're looking or you're not looking what you think you're looking for.
So what I end up doing now is I look at every object and I say is that what I'm looking
for.
So you're in a room, oh, computer, nope, that's on it, computer screen, that's not it.
Speakers, no, you know, glasses, no, this, the documentation, nope, the hint, no, nope, that's not it,
that's not it.
So I look at everything in the room and tell my brain, ask my brain, is this what I'm looking
for or is it going to help me figure out what I'm looking for?
So that's how I look for stuff, kind of a quick tip, bash bump, burp, coral command.
So if you're using burp suite or if you've never used burp suite, check out my project
jamboree. So that's what I've been pitching here.
Eventually, hopefully we'll have safety in that bypass with Android and I'll do another
stream for that and hopefully be able to get on a podcast for that.
But if it gets working, Beatty as jamboree is a Windows power
subscript that will download, it's open source that will download everything you need to
do Google, Google Android environment and then it will allow you to easily root it and
do testing and use Frida with objection to do like inspection of Android apps and stuff.
But included that with is burp suite free that gives you all kinds of extra stuff you can
always use, you can also use Zed Attack Proxy.
So I'll do a big, big episode on that.
But if you're ever on a website and you want to easily download something, you can right
click and burp suite and right click right before you get the download and it will give
you the command you can copy and paste it into your server so you don't have to send
one giant file to a server and then download it from the internet and then upload it to
your server.
You can just download it directly from the shell 99.9% of the time with a right click copy
to curl or copy as curl command and burp suite.
Let's see subsonic and empty three tags are dead, a plexamp.
So the tagging in plexamp is not great but it has weird thing called mood which I don't
really quite understand, it doesn't really work, genres and stuff tagging has always been
broken in np3s but I use use subsonic and Java and it's kind of depreciated.
Last time I checked it has it been heavy.
Last time I checked it hasn't been updated in quite some time and I had some issues around
something like clock 4j or something and I finally tried to oh maximum amount of songs
to be played in the queue or something like that and I did some hackery to get that to
working and then eventually I realized this is not going to work.
So I switched to plexamp and using plex, let's see, Android bullet script that's actually
part of jamboree now so it will kind of try to automatically do it all for you.
If you have Android ARM it will automatically download all the information and details
about the application so it decompresses, decompiles the application and gets information
out of it and then adds that to the list so you can easily search for keywords like Verizon
or Samsung because sometimes a lot of times they name them like services, phone services
and it's all at some Samsung garbage or Verizon garbage or your carier's garbage.
So I tried to do a mast e-boat script and that didn't work because it ends up breaking
your phone and making a big mess.
But let me put the notes for that guy, actually it's all in jamboree so if you haven't
checked out jamboree, go for it, it has automatic 1111, image, whatever, it's got all kinds
of cool tools in it that are fun to play with.
If you haven't checked out the HPR feature feed, check it out, it helps, it's kind of
interesting you're getting in front of stuff faster.
Let's see, Outlook filters, if you're using Outlook for work, back up your Outlook filters
and I do it by subject from and I think by, so that's how I filter out and I also put
everything in, because I'm in security so I put everything that's external in the junk
folder.
I have to filter out my junk folder manually basically, it's kind of annoying, but I don't
get any spam at all.
Let's see what else we got, these are different quick tips, water bird works, we got that.
Calendar, I've talked about the calendar before I use a family calendar, I have, Kathy
has a calendar, I have a calendar, I have a personal calendar and Kathy's calendar is
actually like the family calendar I think or my calendar is the family calendar.
These three calendars I sync up, I share two of the calendars and then I sync them all
up to a URL and you can publicly share Google calendars, but you can also stack them.
So I can take all three of my calendars, Scouts calendar, Boy Scouts calendar, Cub Scouts
calendar, the family calendar and my wife's calendar and put them all publicly facing and
it will show what's busy, what's not busy.
So that's pretty good, let's see, Philbox for Scrooze, I don't really understand what
that's for, I guess, you know the whole Monday through Wednesday, Friday or Monday, Sunday
through Saturday, Philbox is you can put little tiny screws in there, if you don't have
like the massive screw thingy, I talked about the fixing brush, I put multiple quick tips
on here for the same thing, let's see, the fire stick I'm going to sleep, we did that,
how to not look for stuff, oh Dr. Sholes, and like a repair, they call them mullskin and
if you have shoes and you're old and crotchety like me, you'll buy shoes and wear them for maybe
like five miles in the back because they're not on tight enough or you're wearing the wrong
socks, I don't know what the excuse is, but the backup the shoes start blowing out.
You can take this mullskin, I use the Dr. Sholes mullskin, you take the Dr. Sholes
mullskin and cut it out and you have to be careful, you might have to try once or twice,
but you have to be careful to start from the middle and work your way out when you put
on it, it's like duct tape but with cloth on it and it's a little, it's better than like
gaffer's tape, it's kind of a cloth base tape, you can find gaffer's tape in a cloth form,
buy it and buy some for me because they don't even make it anymore, but they have the
plastic gaffer's tape, it's kind of like that but it's got the cloth and it's a little
more cushiony, I'm supposed to use it for when you get blisters and stuff like that if
you're hiking, but I used it to do my shoe repair and I've been using the same pair
of walking shoes for way more than I'm supposed to, so old guy, old man, make your repair
all the crap I should protect it.
Yeah, yeah, it's M-O-L-E-S-K-I-N when we're at mullskin, yeah, so that's actually, I'm going
to do a thing on searches, there's SEER X and G, which is a custom local proxy search,
privacy based, I think it's more privacy based rather than utility based, what I want is
a better search engine, this is a like a privacy based search engine that you can build
like custom, basically customize it however you want, but I don't know if I'm going to
be using it anymore, there's no local Koji and it costs you like $5 a month anywhere
from $5 to $24 a month, but I'm done with Google, so once I do that, I'll do an episode
on that, so it's quick to engine, so the doctor's shoes repair, shoe repair, I think that's
it, there are some other ones I want to do, the legit episodes on, I re-link review, sleep
optimization, autism spectrum movies, autism shows, neurodiversity shows, movies, I
WLED stuff, I don't know if I've done that, carbon powder, a laser or lightsaber stuff,
I don't know why I haven't done that, that's got to do it done that before, cold feet
and hands, ants and bugs, persistence, ants, privacy and piracy stuff, I'm going to talk
about how that's changed, top and like process-based stuff, equalizers for Android, Jambo,
or Jamper EL2, WLED is already in there, status cake for monitoring stuff, I'll probably
do one on that, a bark audio for cloning, there's also, was at level 11 or something, but
they won't let you download the model, it's a building your own audio models, the front
door, which I haven't assessed yet, but it's supposed to be helping you to do projects
and they like, remote in, or like, you share your screen, you share your camera and they
tell you how to fix stuff, but I haven't tested that out, so that one's going to be coming.
DRM and notifications and browser, how to get rid of those, what else we got, that's
pretty much it, I'm going to talk about watches, Samsung watches, I got a Samsung watch and
the Lille Pro, whatever, it's a, you know, ESP32 watch that has Wi-Fi and something else
on it, Wi-Fi Bluetooth in a screen and should be part of my agent that I'm going to try
to make that's basically replacing Google Assistant with like a real assistant that will
help me with time management and like communication, it'll reword all my communications for me,
the idea is, you know, if I'm doing a text message or an email, it'll kind of inject itself
into that process and like rewrite any communications I do, and make them less powdered.
DRM and like, you know, 20% Robert and, you know, the rest and the whole person.
Also beeper.com activation went through, it's a multi chat, multi-ion client base, it's
some chat, but it doesn't support all parts of chat, so you get, right now they support,
it's beeper.com, it's in like beta or something, they're probably going to charge you at some
point, obviously, it supports Instagram, WhatsApp, I message Twitter, SMS with Android,
it doesn't count, Google Voice doesn't count as SMS, Google Chat, I don't understand
how that works, well, I guess Google Chat doesn't, it's not the same as the SMS Google
Chat, that's hanging out.
LinkedIn Facebook, Signal and Telegram, Slack and Discord, which are labs, which are testing
group for features, they may be chained, break or disappeared anytime, please listen
to get some of any issues.
So Slack and Discord are like a proof of concept.
I was looking for Macedon and Metermost, which you would think because that would be the
first one they implement, but I don't know why they're not doing that, I guess I don't
know people, I don't know why they're doing it, so the idea would be to have that eventually.
That's pretty much it, I know I went through and rambled a bunch of random stuff, but I
got show notes and I will be doing episodes on the last ones that I talked about at some
point, but these quick tip ones have gone on quick tip for a long time, so I had to go
through them all and these are ones that I'll never make an episode on, but the other ones
I mentioned towards the end will definitely be 8 PRs at some point, hopefully in the near
future.
Take it easy, stay safe, it's going around, making its rounds again here, it's
August, and we're already seeing kids going back to school and getting sick and stuff,
so be careful.
Watch your hands, have your kids watch hands, take it easy, and let me know if you need
anything, later.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio, does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
a podcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our sims.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
