Episode: 3864
Title: HPR3864: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3864/hpr3864.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:00:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3864 for Thursday the 25th of May 2023.
Today's show is entitled, 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 8.
It is part of the series HP Our New Year Show.
It is hosted by HP Our Volunteers and is about 123 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is 2022-2023 New Years Show where people come together and chat.
Oh, that is cool.
Old style radio and you rip the guts out and put something else in?
That's something I need to do.
I haven't done that yet.
Okay, I'm back.
That's my telephone.
That's my telephone.
That is cool.
It was, you ever seen one?
No.
You said it was a tele, what?
Telefunkin.
It's a German radio.
It's AM in shortwave.
Oh, cool.
It's got the bass sound quality of any over the air radio that I've ever heard.
It got dropped in a move and a tube broke inside and I haven't opened it up to look at
it.
Someday, I will, before that, when you turned it on, the signal strength was in this green
tube.
It looked like fucking plutonium getting tighter and tighter that the stronger your signal
was and you could watch it tune and it glowed like fucking kryptonite.
Superman was run in fear when you tuned in your radio station.
It was terrific.
Nice.
That's very sad that it broke because I would make an AM transmitter just to see that thing
work again.
It was that cool.
Yeah.
You should fix it.
I know.
I should someday.
I have to learn about tubes.
I don't know.
Nothing about tubes.
But yes, that's awesome.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
You mentioned sound quality while motorcycle and like my brother, like I said, he motorcycles.
He wears a helmet.
He absolutely hates inears.
So he had me make a custom pair of the LGs.
Hates inears.
Hates inears on the bike or hates inears off the bike.
Two different things.
Hates inears in general.
Okay.
So I love them off the bike, but yeah, they're impossible on the bike.
He's right about that.
He had me modify some of the LGHPS's so that he could use the ones that hook behind the
ear and then sit on top of it.
And that was an interesting build.
And it sounded quality.
You even know the driver's worth that expensive.
What I would recommend for an even dober project in that is find out if he uses Senna or
Cardo and buy a helmet, clamp a helmet, kit, whatever matches that brand.
The kits are universal.
So it does, you just find one, if it's Senna, get a Senna, like whatever model he has,
match that.
And wire a cool set of headphones to that.
They need volume.
They have to be clear at volume.
I usually wind up blowing mine out because I turn them faster.
You're going the more wind noise there is that you're trying to defeat.
So you just smoke the speaker.
So a bigger speaker that you turn it down over here.
A bigger speaker that you can under drive is definitely preferable, but you have to be
conscious of the size of the ear cup.
Right.
Because it's got to be right up against your ear plugs to work.
Take apart some ET770s, some of the high-ohms.
They allegedly come with some pretty good ones now.
The Cardo's are coming with JVLs and Senna, after being just smoked in the reviews for
like three years, are doing harm in Carden, which apparently is owned by JVL.
So it's probably the same speaker anyway.
Time out real quick from audio stuff, honky-migoo, it's Taj and Lyle, X1101 or not here right
now.
Do they love you so much?
I've heard you've never met you and I.
I'm thrilled to meet you.
We haven't met.
Then I'm an asshole.
No, no.
What's that?
And I've heard these Linux best.
Did we really?
Which one?
So I had, when we first started the lug cast, you're the one who sent us the audio that we
used for the beginning of the show, which was put together by Clot 2 and Brom, that weird
little...
That's all.
When I was sitting around in one of those rooms, I was talking with Rich for a little
bit and then I kind of came over and was like, hey, you know, thanks for sending that
to us.
You actually sent it, I think, to 50.
But, yeah.
Probably very rich.
Yeah.
But I talked to you very briefly.
So.
Oh, well, I'm pleased to do.
You're awesome.
They're right about you.
Okay.
Thank you.
No.
But, yeah.
Oh.
Oh.
Yeah.
The fish thing.
Blue parrot.
Audio-secondika.
No.
I was skull-gandy.
No.
I was goofing.
I was riffing on Grateful Dead's wall of sound.
Razor.
Thank you, Gorkon.
Thank you.
Seeing people.
This is one of the spy guns.
I thought it was spy guns.
I thought it was spy guns.
Sometimes you give them a layup.
No.
I think that would be interesting.
Actually, one of the things I think would be kind of nice to do.
I currently have a blue titset I use for Zoom calls for work.
And it works.
But I'd like to have one that's more comfortable.
I just haven't found one that's reliable and more comfortable.
He just, I'm telling you how to build one.
I know.
Here's the one Joel sent me.
No, no.
No.
No.
No.
The battery still works on them all really good.
I don't know.
The battery didn't look swollen, but something had obviously shifted position, and that had pushed the, the drivers outward, and all I did was pushing back together in this room and place.
The battery didn't look swollen, but something had obviously shifted position, and that had pushed
the drivers outward, and all I did was pushing back together in glueman place, and it's
they've worked fine since. So has anyone else tried the pine buds yet?
No, they've got more yet. I got mine. They seem to work pretty well. I'm not a big fan of any
sort of in-ear headphones, but they have pretty good quality, and they seem to work.
Nice. Nice, Murph. Murph in NJ? Indeed. How's the Hyundai, brother?
What was that scream among the Hyundai? I don't have a Hyundai. No, you did when you gave me a
ride in your Hyundai. I had never owned a Hyundai. I had an Accura RSX, and now I have a BRZ.
No, before that, like 2009, when we met at NEL, or 2011, it might have been the third NEL.
That would have been the Accura RSX. Are you sure? You're questioning whether I know whether I
own a particular brand of car? I'm pretty sure, yeah. No, it just strikes me that I saw a picture of
your Accura. It was a red one, but the car we were in was a Hyundai, a white, not Tiberon. What was
the other, the real hot shit Hyundai? It did a lot of shifting. No, no, I'm pretty sure I had a
dark, silver RSX and have never owned a Hyundai. Really? Who's car did I, that might have been
flying Rich's car. That's flying Rich. Flying Rich's genesis, which is Hyundai's best. Yes, thank you.
I'm sorry. Probably talking about his, I hope. I was only looking at pictures. Yes, I drooled
at your car also, but only pictures. I'm sorry, did my bad. It's okay, I love the fact that you're
lucky. Are you sure you didn't know that? But yeah, pretty sure I know which cars I've owned, yeah.
I was just making sure that my memories weren't like completely invented. There had to be some,
you know, root, you know, to ground and truth somewhere. I'm still processing the fact that you
mixed me and flying Rich up, but you know, I'm working on it. I would, I would call that an insult.
Yeah, me too. No, no, no, much love for both of you. You guys are on, are on equal love levels.
It was just lusting after one guy, lusting after one guy's car in pictures and going for a ride
in a lusty car. Come on, you got to forgive me for forgetting that, you know, 15 years ago.
Come on, man, get it together. Hey, if you want to see the car I'm driving now,
you could look on my Mastodon profile. So there you go. I did, I got the ride in,
what was her name? Crap, I can't remember her name, Amber. You got the ride in Amber,
and then you forgot her name. No, Amber greener. Sorry. Amber always gets a little,
little messed up show. Yeah. Does your wife know? She knows I took a ride with her,
but in her car though, she had a, oh, by the dashboard light, you guys were doing it in the car.
That sounds like no. No, Amber. Come on, folks, are we not doing phrasing here? Hold on, hold on,
hold on. No, it is absolutely comfortable. You have to have the right car. You have to have a
fox bloody Mustang coupe. Oh, that's old. So am I? What do you think? I know. So am I too.
Hey, Amber has a Dodge Challenger, one of the newer ones that was pretty freaking sweet. She
came to self for a little bit. She spoke at OLF this year. So for what OLF was this year,
which wasn't a whole lot. Well, I live in the same town as OLF, so it's kind of hard to tear
myself away when the family knows I'm just a few minutes away, you know. Yeah. So Murf,
did you keep the Acura or you just sold it on with the next one? Do you have any older cars?
Nope. I only have the one daily driver. The RSX, I drove to 289,000 miles and then dumped it off.
Not wow. Nice. Wow. Well done. Yeah. The car I'm driving now, the BRZ, I only have 160,000 on it.
So it's, you know, mostly broken at this point. Do you say 108 or 168? 168. Wow.
And so in what year's that one? That's a 2014. Okay. What was the cut off for the first gen and second
gen? Good question. 2018, 2019, something like that. I'm definitely first gen. That's what I
thought. Okay. I just drove a 2020. So it's second gen is the first time I've ever driven a BRZ.
And it was plenty impressive. It was absolutely, um, communicative and responsive and
communicative and responsive. Like it just, dude, it had it. It spoke to you. It was a great car.
Yeah. I really enjoy driving it. People look at it and say, oh, is it fast? I'm like, no,
it's not fast. It's fun to drive. Yeah. I have a mountain range and it's just a riot to drive every.
I would rather have a car I can drive and enjoy every minute of it than an exotic
a pounding, pounding pieces on the street to New Jersey and not even getting it to, you know,
four tenths of what it's potential. This car I can drive and it's fun with the way it is.
Do you ride motorcycles, too, Mark? Indeed I do. Middle weights, light weights.
I have no idea what classifies as what I have a 2009 Triumph America. And it's a an 800 and it's
plenty for me. 800 is upper middle weight. Yeah. Yeah. I love middle weights, dude. The lighter the
better. But I like to ride long, long distances. So it's hard to go with like a 300 or 400.
But yeah, I love it, dude. I love long days on middle weight bikes. That bike's got to be,
do you ride it long? You know, I don't ride it that long anymore. A lot of the, you know, they're
not doing the tours as much, you know, the charity runs. So I don't get out as much as I used to
that and working from home. So I'm not commuting on it and I'm not doing any big rides. So I don't
ride as much as I used to. No, I didn't mean big rides with a lot of people. Like I go out alone,
but I go, I try to go out, done it two years in a row now. I try to go for four days, three nights
and just go camping. Nah, I tend not to do stuff like that tend to do, you know, one day trips or
one day out and back type of thing. Yep. Yep. Yep. We've done it in the car. We got them
out of it. So I do it. I totally get the BRZ. Yeah, definitely cars in the same spirit.
It's in the same spirit of that size and class of motorcycle, particularly. Yeah. Yep. It's all
about just ringing it out from time to time. You don't always have to be nuts, but you don't always
have to be sane, um, you know, and occasionally making your passenger scream. Yeah, I was like to say,
a little minor. Oh my gosh, you're watching a wild other than that. You almost got a spittic out of
you. Oh, I wish I would. Oh, this has been so lovely, but I think if I stand a chance to
get into church in the morning, I need to start closing my eyes. Hey, I'm glad I caught you while
you were on, though, uh, haven't talked to you. And man, when was the last time I talked to you,
uh, one of the most Linux fast, I think, which is a zillion years ago. Yeah, that's, oh,
and that's what I'd like to figure out before I go. If, if you don't mind, um,
honky me go, which one was it at? Which location? Um, I, uh, I talked to you at the one,
the, uh, the last one. So it was at that hotel. There were two at hotels. Uh, one in Worcester.
No, one of those Cambridge in a hotel. No, no, I think it's back. Oh, we talked in the hotel
after Cambridge. Yes. So there was, there was, uh, I went to the one where it was at, um,
the MIT college, but not MIT. I think the one where, uh, that wasn't in work that, uh,
class. No, not class. I'm sorry, um, because it was run by, uh, uh, wasn't MIT. It's not Harvard.
It might have been Harvard. Was in Cambridge, aren't that many of them? Was it the hard at school
of computers? Is that what it was? Um, maybe they had no any act there. So the two people who ran
the event was, um, Jonathan made out in, um, um, my, one of my best church buddies actual,
but it was the best man at his wedding. Total, total coincidence. Small world. Um,
which Jonathan? No, Jonathan's partner. Oh, um, yes, I'm trying to remember his name too. I was
buying you time. Thank you. Um, yeah. He's the one who worked at, uh, at the college.
But, uh, I went to two, so I went to two nelves. I went to one that was at the college and then
the following year, they did one and, uh, they had to swap venues several times and then it
wound up being in a hotel and they had like, uh, two, they had two, but they had like two rooms.
One, one was like a bigger room for maybe like three rooms. Well, I know I spent, uh, the good
time, uh, sitting with door and then I, uh, there was a big hall. Oh, okay. So they had a separate
whole, uh, they had a whole separate, uh, a whole separate room for vendors and you were all
from in there. And we were all just kind of hanging out in that room for a while. Did the room
with the HPR booth? Did it have a really high ceiling and we were throwing party poppers that
jumped in the air? Or was it like a low, lower ceiling and a bunch of makeshift, like tighter?
Okay. Okay. So I can almost say that the, that the HPR tale was way in the corner, like,
almost by like where there was a window or something like that. That was the year the next one on
one actually showed up and, um, uh, started talking to you and I didn't wish I was a little bit more
talking about then that I would have to, uh, you know, met and talked with him and other people,
but I was in our floor of the house on you random. I, I mostly talked actually, I, you
would have been the third host and I wouldn't have been involved because you're a lot more likeable
than I am. That's not true at all. They've, they've told me so, especially since, especially since
you ran a shot from off of the, the book club and I had missing the book club. It don't, well,
it also shot off of, um, Dev random. There's even still an HPR room up there. It shot up and,
when Lyle went to get the, um, domain, he went for it. Dev random's like, damn it. Someone's
already got it. Who's got it? Motherfucking Pokey. And, and I don't have it and I don't have those
shows and I would give almost anything to get them. Dev random still around. I had, I had a bunch of them.
I got a multiple, uh, I want to say, our guy's got orgasm. There's something like, oh, I gotta have him.
I got to have the little hot whorehouse skit. Dev, I, I know, I'm loaded a bunch of them big
that would, um, I want to say around the time that 50 died, I said I was going to listen to a
lot of the older Dev random's because I, I was searching around for the past things that he had
done. I found links and I found links to all of the, the older Dev random's. Does anybody, does
anybody know a sound chaser still? No. Cause I, I chased him off then Dev random unintentionally
and I would love to apologize to him for it. If anybody sees him tell him I'm, I'm sincerely
deeply sorry and I, and I still love the guy. You know, you mentioned that the, uh, episodes
are up on archive dot org. That sounds like something that they would very likely have and
would be really hard to search for. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Which is a really nice way of saying,
here's a link, Pokey. Yeah. Either way, if, if, dude, it'd be great. I missed chat with Peter 64. He
was just such a great guy. Dude, he was everybody's brother from another mother, isn't he? Yep.
He's, yeah, I'm friends with him on Facebook. Can I see all the, he's been posting a lot of
astronomy pictures lately. Yeah, he was the first guy in my circle sphere that ever mentioned.
I don't know, maybe like Google Earth or something similar on a handheld device.
Yeah, he's great guy. It'd be cool if he would pop in here, but, and as was a fitting man,
I miss that guy. As was as, since you mentioned him. Yep. You remember as?
Uh, I think I think I do. Yeah. Yeah, as was so cool. So, so cool. I see how past, right?
Oh, what's, as no, I have no idea. I hope not. Got it. Hope not. He was just such a cool guy.
Just so mellow laid back. He's one of the older guys. So that's, that's why I said that, but I hope he
didn't need her. Yeah. He's out in Montana. Just super friendly, super neighborly. You know,
you want to go meet him personally? Go right ahead. He'll meet up with you. I think he met with
Peter 64. In fact, when, when Peter came to the West Coast, or I completely fabricated that
because they're both such great guys that they would do that. Yeah, they both would. I tried to go
I don't remember where Peter came out. He came. Well, that was the same year. He came there to
go to the South East Atlantic West. And they happened to have been more of the years I missed. I
can't, I haven't been to every South East Atlantic West. And I've gone to more since they've switched
to the, I've been to more of them at the shirt, shirt, shared in Charlotte Airport, which is like
their permanent home now. Um, then I have been to the others. I didn't go to the one of Clemson
or the one at the, uh, trying to remember that hotel. Jeremy tells an awesome story about, uh,
about that. Um, and he had that in his speech a few years ago. I think it was the tenth year for
the, uh, South East Atlantic West. And he did a recording with, uh, Asnoah on, uh, the history
of South East Atlantic West. And it, I was also to the one where, uh, the wedding party crashed the, uh,
the, uh, fest party. Me, Dave, the eights and, uh, Patrick Valkerding, we're all hanging
outside. And one of the, I'm assuming a prize maids or somebody attending the, the reception
to that wedding, uh, she comes out, goes, we love computers and flashes her tits. And Dave and
Patrick never even noticed some me and Dan or Steve double in dance or Steve and they're like,
with our mouths open. We're like, uh, okay. You know, it's funny. I was at that one and I had
run it and get something out of the hotel room when that event happened, right? Yeah. You just
missed it, I think. Yeah. Exactly. And I'm like, Dave, how could you not notice this very fine
set of tits? Actually, I know how to admit his wife, who's super nice.
So I find that the original, uh, show podcast link, I believe is, uh, still available. It's, uh,
Dave, I put both links in, um, in mumble here, uh, devrate them show.org. And then the,
the first thing I put in before that, I think was a link to most of what's available to download still.
Uh, honky magoo, that was the politest anyway that I ever heard.
And it was a slam dunk and you missed it. Which would you call a alley?
Yeah. And I'm sorry, everyone, even Gorkhan, who's nodding and laughing only honky magoo knows what I'm
talking about. Verbal. Oh my god. Hi, man. Hey, what's up? Verbal, I know we've spoken before,
but I'm going to have to hear your voice for a while to even recognize you.
It's been so long. How you been? Yeah. I have been good. Oh, oh, you're coming into sharp focus,
Verbal. Oh, you are my favorite Linux brother. Are you not? That was too quiet. Am you? I think you,
dude, I remember your HBRF, they're coming into focus. You have done HBR episodes, haven't you?
Way back in the day. I asked that question in this room earlier. There were seven people in the room
and everybody said, no, they've never done one. And then proceeded to talk about the
awesomeness stuff that should be HBR episodes. Wow. You know, we may not have spoken in person.
I just might be remembering your episodes that fondly. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think we've spoken.
Well, I'm sorry. I had to go kiss my wife. It's new years. Good thinking. Happy new year to
your wife and you and your family. You should have been on earlier, Joel. Oh, I was on.
The kid was on. One of the one of the kids was on. Yeah, but they always make an appearance every
once in a while until so that's cool. But you get to hear the eldest one on every week until.
Yeah, because she's short. Because she's short. She's tall. No, no, we're talking about Kai.
But you were talking, you're talking about cars. My dad bought a 2008, 2009
centered sky. I don't know what you're for sure. But it's not the kind of cars we were talking about.
No, it's not. He does have what he's trying to do. Oh, two points. There you go.
He does have, um?
He just, you know what else he's even doing this swing around town whole thing while he spins in a circle.
This might be the drive they need if they make it to the next. Happy new year.
three minutes late. Happy New Year.
Right.
So he does have a corveyor to sell and that's
he bought it.
Awesome. Have you been in it?
Well, no, because it hasn't been able to run since he bought it.
He accidentally dropped it.
That shouldn't have stopped you.
You go in and go.
He broke it home.
There you go.
Oh no.
This thing's dangerous at any speed.
It's in pieces though.
That's like thing.
You don't look at the strippers because you can't go home with them.
Yeah.
It's in pieces.
It still shouldn't stop you.
Bring the one chair if you have to.
And sit in the middle of the pieces.
Two or listen to cake.
A bucket seat song from cake is perfect in that scenario.
Never there.
And I don't know.
No, the other one.
Bucket seats.
Right.
His head buckets.
But yeah.
I think never there is the reality though.
That's right.
Anyway, um, the, uh, anyway, I said anyway.
Um, but he bought it, uh, intending on he was going to rebuild it.
You know, and he actually.
Okay.
Okay.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
This is how I drove sound chaser off.
So you guys have to cut me off.
His, his, no, I mean it.
I mean it.
Please.
I'm not trying to be in court.
I sound chaser.
Used to say actually in three percent.
And I did.
Let's drink to actually.
And it drove him away.
And it never hurt someone again.
I don't want to do it again.
No one's trying to do here, Gorkhan.
And it wasn't what I was trying to do.
It sound chaser.
I got it.
It's all right.
Uh, um, there you go.
Anyway.
So, um, he bought, um, bought this fully intending on.
He was going to redo it all.
Um, and make it actually looked nice and drive nice.
He actually managed to drive it home.
How I don't know.
Cause after he started taking stuff apart.
He realized that the, the floor plan is complete.
The floor plan is completely rusted out.
So.
Yeah.
It's a, yes.
Of course.
Yeah.
So, um, I mean, it's like.
I was going to say Corvair.
But then really it's GM in the 60s.
It's.
Well, yeah, well, yeah.
Corvair is exemplary.
Yeah.
But.
Hey, Hey, Merch.
Yeah.
Have you ever while driving one of your cool cars?
Have you ever made your passenger scream on purpose?
And then they were like, oh, no.
Not only have I done that, I've also done that.
The car salesman on a test drive.
Oh, yeah.
There we go.
Okay.
Pretty good.
No, there's a road by me that I've learned how to do that to.
And no matter how hard and the criminal, I can make them scream in my passenger seat.
It's one particular turn that's terrifying.
Yep.
So.
And we could save to do.
Cause you go into it on the brakes.
So you just have a little harder right when they're the most scared.
And then you know, they bounce off the dashboard.
Hey, Jackie.
I was looking to see if you wanted on for a few minutes.
Yeah, you know, when you know the road, you can play these small cars and just push people over the edge.
It's great.
Yeah.
Never mind.
Yeah.
Say it again.
Yeah.
In Iowa.
And we have these, uh, this double set of 15 mile per hour curves between Ballard and West Bend.
Did they, and did they cross a railroad track?
We had one like that.
No, hi, oh, that shot across a railroad track.
You know, those particular ones didn't, but that was because there was absolutely nothing out there.
But same chicane shape.
Uh, yeah, essentially just an S.
But yeah, 15, it was supposed to be 15 miles per hour, the one way and 15 miles per hour, the other way.
But we always took them at 80 because we knew the road so well.
And I knew my car and, you know, back end sliding the whole way.
But yeah.
I was not good at sliding cars or really controlling them all that well as a teenager.
But there was a, a 35 mile an hour zone growing up where at 70 plus, it was a jump and the better, faster you're going, the better jump was.
Um, but I've gone back there and looking at it from a logical standpoint, the breaking zone.
If you land perfectly is so short, it's, um, lucky to be alive and so was anyone who was ever in a car with me when I did that.
Yeah.
Well, we also did, um, other crazy things like, uh, you know, those ridges going up to our, we'll do those ridges on your way up to a sudden stop sign.
Oh, the cuts across the road.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
And they've got different, different speeds.
Yeah.
And, um, I once decided I wanted to know what they sounded at while doing a hundred.
So, yeah.
They sound the same.
The pitch is just slightly different.
Yeah.
I wanted to know.
Well, there's that one road in Japan where it plays a song and it's completely out of key because they like use the different tape measure when they're laying it out or something.
Still.
That would be cool.
You're actually saying anything.
Who?
Joe?
Me?
Yes.
As far as I know, I'm having conversations with people.
Am I hallucinating again?
It happens.
No, wait.
No, none of us are hearing Joe.
Uh-huh.
Am I not going fast enough?
Is that the problem?
I got to bring it up to a hundred again.
If only Joe would speak.
It'd be great.
Right.
Drugs.
You know, I didn't set out to screw with Joe, but opportunity just presents itself.
Opportunity knocks.
Sometimes, sometimes you just got to work.
Yeah, well, I'm going to be waiting until next year for Little Mike to come back.
Oh, did you want Kai on the call?
Well, it was so delightful when she was out here.
I mean.
Or Talon.
I think it was Talon.
Yeah, Talon was on the call earlier.
And Kai was on last year.
Kai's been hiding from me today, though.
Is Joe Joe home?
Huh?
Is Joe Joe around?
Joe Joe went to bed.
Uh-huh.
With some of this probably should do soon.
Yeah, folks, it's been great chatting with you, but I'm fighting off a cold.
So I'm going to, uh, I'm going to pack it in.
Good talking with you all.
Good night, Murphy.
Good night, Murphy.
It's great seeing you again.
Happy new year, Murphy.
Yep.
Have a good one.
Happy new year.
And I was just typing good night.
So I was going to slip out quietly.
Good night, all.
Good night.
Good to see you.
Great to see you guys.
So I've seen before.
Great to meet you, new guys and ladies who were on.
It was just been awesome talking to everybody.
Cool.
Like old school phone freaking.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I think Talon.
He's talking about a sharp is about two of us.
Yeah, she's pretty bright.
But I tried to convince her to like get on here on her phone and she didn't want to.
Just too busy reading fanfiction of some flavor.
Is that a new box or something to be able to one?
Yeah.
No, this is a new one.
The old one was larger and like black all the way around.
But this one just a little bit smaller.
Just got it just got it done printing today and got it screwed together while on here.
So show it.
Nice.
And put.
I'm going to put shorter cables in here.
Don't you want to speak cables?
Am I still printing?
Yes.
Yes, I am.
I actually right now.
I was working with my printer earlier and I had.
Haitian issues took took apart watch to bed down.
I still need I have the fan all the replacement fans.
I need to replace all the fans and the controller.
I just have gone around to it because once in there while noisy are still working.
So I'm going to probably do that.
We got one of them.
Banker holiday things coming up because I get some of those off because I work with a.
Higher ed.
So there's quite a few days.
I'll get off.
Yeah.
I think that's the one next one on my plan today.
That day doing that since the wife won't get off work.
So I currently have a very modified CR 10 mini.
It doesn't have the original board in it.
I replace it with an SKR of some sort.
So has the salad drivers on it.
It's got a double the.
Metal extruder fee that has the wheels on both sides of the filament.
Not direct drive.
I don't know if I'm going to go direct drive on this one.
I'm kind of overdue forget I'd like to get another printer.
But that might happen later this year,
but actually just ordered another drone this this afternoon.
Oh, yeah.
I ordered the DJI Mavic mini three,
the mini three and the complete kit with the case and extra batteries and all that stuff.
So that's my kind of touched a little bit on both my hobbies that in a photography.
Have got us currently have a Sony.
It does work with dark table.
But because I just do so much of it and it's worth it.
I use use use of further things.
I do subscribe to creative cloud.
Unfortunately,
but just haven't really found a good workflow for video editing.
Although I haven't made a video in over a year now,
so let's count the little ones and make them on my phone.
Now, what type of things are you in for?
That's a good question.
I've just tried right now.
It's just been give me fits right now.
So I've been trying to make it work reliably again.
So I might just have to pull out the filament.
I ordered some Glowner dark filament.
That was he trying to use to make a Christmas ornaments.
I used used to make one a year for like four or five years in a row.
I did it and I just I just didn't get it working well enough this time and time for the holiday.
So that's why I started using Glowner dark filament.
It's very harsh.
It can be.
Yeah.
And I don't honestly care about wearing my I have the standard brass nozzle.
I don't care about wearing it out because it's cheap.
Yeah, no big deal.
You know, so.
But what I found like since the pandemic.
And the stupid amounts of printing people were doing to make protective gear for doctors and whatnot.
So a lot of the filament I've gotten after 2020 has not been great.
What type of glow in the dark filament did you get?
PLA.
PLA.
PLA.
It's PLA.
And I got like a cheap pack which was which is probably part of the problem right now.
I probably should try to put myself a tech back on see if that if it works any better.
I've actually just got another hot end.
I think yesterday in the mail from Amazon over here.
Yeah.
Hi.
Oh cool.
Oh.
So I'll probably do that maybe but I want to spend some time dialing in the leveling on it.
And try another print.
I did print.
I found the thing the worst basically there's these two clip like things very very short print maybe 20 minutes for one pair.
And you take your cable and it has like a spot for you to wrap the cable.
Then an end where you can take the end of the cable and stick it in that and kind of keep it kind of thing.
Yeah, I do a lot of cable management actually.
I had printed a lot of those.
There's one that's like a print and placing where you can bend it.
It comes off the print and basically it snap shut really nice.
I got them hot glued under a couple of my desk and got the cables tied up so I don't kick them.
So I went.
Oh, I think you make unique cable management.
Yeah.
Well, so one thing that I get is at work.
They had put in a new security camera system.
So they put in some new security cameras.
So they were running cat six to the place.
But they had like six rolls of cat six that they were just going to throw out.
There were like three quarters of them.
So I got I got like this that I can.
So my plan and I got a while ago.
I went to learn how to make my own cable and stuff.
So I got to cut the wires and stuff and I got a couple of ends.
So I just got a.
I got to practice and learn how to put my hands and write.
See that might has to say see that reminds me of when we build our house.
Since we were building it from the get go.
I talked to the electrician and said, Hey, can you because the electrician is the one who puts the phone cabling and all that in the house and the end of coax.
So I said, Hey, can I get some ether at ran and I did.
It's like an extra 500 that we had to.
I just pay for separately because they have to do it and get everything to pass inspection and all that stuff.
So they would not let no builder will let you run your own cable anymore when you're building a new build.
So 500 was worth it for me.
I got four cables ran from where I'm sitting now in my office to the living room and to all three bedrooms.
But then I found out like two weeks before closing that instead of having coaxial cables.
So it had a regular cable modem.
This entire neighborhood was wired for fiber.
That's all we had.
And they had to put the end point in the garage, which I'm like, let's ask.
Hi, Jackie.
So anyway, I said it again, I'm sorry.
But I, for a while, I just stuck the main end of my router in the garage right next to where the fiber was coming in.
And then I figured, wait a minute, I've got all the coaxes running in the wall and had coax ran to my office too, which I'll never use because I don't.
I'm a dot a cable TV person.
I'm a streamer now. I have Fubo TV for my life TV, which is usually sports.
So I went to Best Buy and I found they had a coax to gigabit ethernet adapter and I put one in my garage figured out which end.
A cable that was in my garage along to the one in the office and then just hooked that up there.
Then I was able to move my main router back into my office.
The only thing it's downstairs is the coax to ethernet adapter and the fiber point itself.
So it made my garage looks so much better too because I had a power strip hanging on the wall for for all that when they came and installed the stuff back July 2021.
So finally I could get to use it all and I have ACES mesh routers that I think has run a lot of version of DDW RT I think from the factory.
So, but the mesh routing works really well.
So I have one in my office and one in the living room and then one of my wife's office.
So Joe's flexing.
I wouldn't have just be the fiber to a modem and then the modem to the rest of the house.
Well, the fiber comes fiber right into my house.
So there's a piece of fiber that goes out to the curve that runs into my house and then it plugs into the unit that's downstairs that has ethernet coming off of it.
So there's no cable modem involved.
Right.
Basically this.
Yeah.
And then basically you attach your router to the end of that and then.
Yeah, but it's supposed to have I'm supposed to get a gig a bit, but I'm the closest I've gotten is right around 700, which that's fine.
I mean, I'm not a I know it's never going to get exactly what they said I should get, you know, because it's just the way modern ISPs are.
And it's more than for sufficient me will have multiple people streaming.
I'm on a Zoom call and then Windows remote desktop and little in a multiple SSH sessions all day.
No problems a way better than what I had in 2020 in the 20 early 20 21, which was AT&T DSL 50 megamits, which is horrible.
And then there were six months living or not six months, 60 days living in a hotel while I waited them for them to finish my house.
Because the last freeze Texas had had no was like 16 was like six months.
No, it seems like you talked about it so much.
It seemed like six months.
Yeah, but half and I talked to people here.
Does that mean that I have to listen to all your house stuff again?
When did this turn into the actual house?
No, this is technically oriented. I mean, come on.
I didn't have to run all my wires.
How about this Joel C-PAP? How's your C-PAP machine running?
It's fine.
Have you reprogrammed it yet?
I don't need to.
Every program I ain't a couple of times.
Yeah.
I have a appointment with my AT&T because apparently I'm still snoring through my C-PAP machine.
Do you have the automatic one?
Or did they press a pressure ring or something?
No, it might not happen.
So it's supposed to figure it out for you, but it's not.
I guess.
You don't have to work on my...
Are you surviving on nasal spray yet?
I use it every day. I don't use it a lot.
But I basically take a shower first thing in the morning, use my nasal spray, and then use a...
You're using it directly before bed.
I do sometimes.
Along with taking 800 milligrams of ibuprofen to reduce swelling, if you're having problems.
I don't have any problems sleeping.
I can...
Well, snoring while you sleep, that's a problem.
That's okay.
That's a problem for my wife more than this for me.
That may be...
I sleep like a baby everywhere.
Yeah, it's not necessarily a great sleep.
I wake up some days where, you know...
For the whole day.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
He is apnea, some sort of interest, a matter of...
He probably will have me have to go to another study, which...
That's the most ironic thing in the world.
They have you go to a sleep study, but I don't know one person that sleeps well on a sleep study ever.
The ones that take time.
I follow the group.
Oh, I can't, too.
I have practice.
Yeah.
Again, I can sleep pretty well anywhere.
But for me, I never had to go to a place to do a sleep study.
They sent me the equipment.
And I put it on before I would sleep.
And then I used to go back to them.
Yeah.
Oh, no, no.
I always had to go in.
You always had to go into the sleep center.
And then they took me up to 50,000 diodes.
And they get comfortable and go to sleep.
Yeah, right.
And you have a pulse oxymeter on your finger, because they want to measure your blood oxygen in the whole time.
Yeah, it's...
That's when I got friendly with some Tylenol PM.
Yeah.
I take...
Usually they'll give me something, or I just take my dose of tracidone, because I do have tracidone for sleep.
Two Tylenol PM and two melatonin.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I get like a hangover in the morning, but...
They always want you to come in at like nine o'clock or ten o'clock.
I'm like, I don't remember the last time, but I'm on the bed at nine or ten o'clock.
Usually it's one or two.
Wow.
And then getting up to 5.30 again.
By the only time I ever do one or two is on last night.
Yeah.
And choose your one.
I don't...
We didn't work from home, and I'd also start till 8 a.m.
I...
Well, some days I'll get up at like 7.30, so I have enough time to grab like coffee.
I wake up at 5.30.
Yeah.
I don't have to drive it.
Oh.
I'm not talking...
On days that I don't drive in, I wake up at 5.30.
Okay.
But it's...
But that's because...
Well, Joel, I remember...
Yeah.
The fundamental thing that those weights aren't going to lift themselves.
Well, there's that.
Yeah.
You seem to have forgotten that.
Yeah, well.
Can I go to the bathroom?
I want to start.
In January, with all the other, you know, new year and new many people.
Yeah.
Probably.
After him forks his hair cop tomorrow.
Yeah.
That's my awkward look meal here.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But.
You know, I'm most of the time my my aftia.
Yeah.
I mean, I've gotten used to wearing my machine and all that jazz.
But then sometimes if I'm extremely congested, there's a problem or.
If it was a really bad allergen day, then there's a prime.
And then the other day, oh my god, when the power went out.
In the middle of the night while I was sleeping, I woke up.
Yeah, of course you did yeah, yeah, I just haven't gotten the money just to buy that huge jacquery battery
I've also seen like a lot smaller
To style things that are supposed to be coming out in the future the things that just go into your nose and
Supposed to do it and then there's a there's a travel CPAP machine that rest
Resmed makes it's supposed to do the exact thing but use less power have a smaller profile
But they were like $1,100 for that thing. Of course. Yeah. Well, it's a thing to you know what that's you'd just hit a hot topic with me
And what and one thing you piss me off about
Those machines is that they're simple devices. They're not I mean, they're not it's a fan
Okay, and it's one pump and it's like a simple thing. Yeah, we have to remember they're they're pricing these things with the idea that
People's experiences are going to be paying for a large
Right, so that's kind of that whole
medical
medical
You know medical and money, I guess will be a way to describe it
That's that whole field of things are charged a certain way because of the idea that that most of us gonna be covered by insurance
And that's why you need to have insurance to them. Yeah, it's what they're talking about
I will yeah, I will tell you one one one little thing. I found out too because what'll happen is is they'll send me a mask
Everything the mask the head year and everything like once every
Six months, I think it is but then they'll send me three every six months, right? They said well they they send me cushions too
All right, so basically I just locked the cushions out. I'm a fool. I have to have a full face one
Yeah, me too. Yeah, so then every three months
They'll just send me the frame and and and uh
Not everything but the history right. I haven't had this a strap yet. Well, the thing is is the straps really the only thing it wears out
I mean that and you know possibly rolling over on top of your frame. Yeah, well that too
Yeah, that that wears out too, but the frame never wears out and it makes you no sense to send me the frame
Send me the head wear the head year. Well, yeah, that does wear out
That comes in my six months. Well, actually that comes over three months. So but filters the filters and yeah
That'll come yeah, that one small portion that you're talking about on the the new res meds. That doesn't wear out
Right usually unless something catastrophic happened
And technically my mask is fish or paykale. It's a it's a simplest
Medium but it's with mine
I know what mine starting to wear out because it starts making it whistling noise. Yeah
Yes, all the worst the worst is when it gets like right by here by the eye and you just feel that like gap over
Yeah, we should rent your right
Yeah, yeah, so like can I recede it for tonight? Can I recede it for tonight? Right. Let me fix it tomorrow
But the headgear will stretch out and that's the thing it wears out quicker on me than the rest of the stuff
So I could go by the headgear for like $17 on the Amazon. Oh, you're lucky
But it's 30 really wow. Yeah, I can try a generic one the specific one for my headset is 30
I could try a generic one and see how that one works it might work
My biggest thing is it's not like it's a difficult tool to make
To grab it's that our inner footprint
Well, depending on what is this neoprene or or or elastic band of some sort you know
They'll make that crap. There you go. My biggest thing recently was so I got I was eating my supply stuff from
what a local
You know medical supply companies
And they're just basically and they're they're supposed to have some general basic
Medical knowledge as to what there is what what's going on with things so I would at the same time that the machine
I had
The film stress products there were the machine I was given from them was on a recall and the only thing that they kept saying over and over and over again was
This was a manufacturer recall. We have nothing to do with sir
Okay, fine, but I'm gonna be down. I'm down this machine that you
prescribed to me or you gave to me what you want me to do and there's like yeah, this manufacturer recall
There's nothing we could do by it
Call the manufacturer get your name on the list and no this is the only I heard from them and yet they constantly they will
I've got the name right now. I can look at the man
If they will constantly and they I don't have I don't have like a
You know, they're not sending me stuff monthly, so I'm basically ordering my own stuff as I needed so I
I'm basically they they'll start calling me and they'll call me one day
Then they'll call me the next day and they'll come in the next day and then I'll talk to them be like look
I don't want anything right now stop right and they'll stop for like a week or so
That was me when they switched to me and the writers on me
Yeah, I was at one company and then
And this all happened right in that timely mood in the house, you know what so one company calls me
It says hey, you want to ship supplies and I apparently wasn't listening to the message
Hey, and I said sure and then the other company just sends me supplies automatically
So I got like a whole year's worth of supplies for one
And I'm like
So then I finally got the other company to stop freaking call me because I'm like I don't use you anymore
But but to talk you brought the interesting you had the Respironics one the Philips one right
Yeah, my wife did too, and she's got her replacement. So I don't have the problem is is that it took time to get the replacement
No, what I did was well, I had my wife's help because she found it
Um
Was we just kept our eye on Facebook marketplace and eventually there was someone that hated their CPAP machine
And died of a friggin heart attack and their spouse um sold their CPAP machine and it was the exact same model as mine
Never freaking used and cost me the what 150 bucks. Yeah for for a
Fully working brand new matches my model exactly. I know how to reprogram at CPAP machine right and now I have a backup
One goes down. I bring up the other. Yep. Well, that's why I never I never will throw out my old machine
Especially since my old machines is exactly the same as my new machine
And that word different, but they still work right the only thing I have to do uh to reprogram is swap the memory card out and
I think it picks it up off the memory card, but um
Or I can just bring it in double check with the with uh my my uh my sleep doctor
If they're well, they're only in my city like maybe two three days a week
So I just have to call them find out when I can bring it in if had to have
My go to the VA I got to try about right and jealous to anything. Well, that sucks
But hey, what we ended up doing with my wife's because yeah the whole reason for the recall was um uh cancer
So she didn't want to use first anymore and I'm like well you got to use one so I said look
Why don't we take my my old one over to the doctor so you think it puts your script on it and that's what they did
so um
Until the replacement came but the upside is is that she would have normally got her replacement um probably this year
Uh, but now she doesn't have to so
I should we do yeah
Five years depends on your insurance and so insurance will they will watch it watch your your stats and stuff from it like a hawk
And they make sure that you use it my insurance doesn't give her that's us
Well, a lot of times they do that they have it uh like the first 90 days or something like that
I have it to make sure that you're using it
What my dad's my dad refuses uses like I just can't I can't do it. I can't sleep with it all right
Okay, well just practice
Right
Did get my dad to go go get it exam go get a sleep test and all that and and uh they did figure out he doesn't have it
Which I thought he would because he smoked from the time he was 14 till about 2003
So yeah, but I'm not sure that that really has an impact on on apnea
It can thickness of your neck has an impact on
Right, but when I've actually witnessed my dad stopping you know like he falls asleep in the recliner and I and I heard him stop breathing
I'm like I was concerned
So I'll hear him gasping for air and stuff. He he doesn't doesn't wake him up
You know, so but he did get tested. He's fine
Uh, which means he has few enough in our instances of stopping breathing and it doesn't count. Is that correct correct
That's kind of stupid about isn't it? Yeah. Well, I figured out too. I probably had it
I would say probably since I was 18 or so. I mean because you know
Yeah, I mean that that one of the reasons I probably over eight was because
There was a that there was a time in my early 20s where I hadn't been diagnosed yet
Um right after I got out of the military
So I assume that this was also an issue while I was in the military where I was afraid to sleep because I was having
horrible nightmares and and jump like I was choking and you know everybody assumed that it was
PTSD, okay grand fine, whatever it could have been
But it turns out what it really was was
I was choking when I was sleeping because I had apnea
And I was snoring so loud that my wife tried to kill me once or twice
While I was sleeping and um, I wouldn't got tested and got a CPAT machine and now I get to live
right
Right
Yeah
Really pissed me off about that recall too was um, well there's two big things that pissed me off one
was the fact that I
Because I had to sit there in the
My the the company that gave me the the CPAT machine that had the
That was defective or whatever didn't want to do anything and I didn't have another machine
I want him spending about a year sleeping on the couch because
Got to sleep in an elevated position to keep from dying
It's that in the fact of if I didn't my wife would it and you know it's
Your wife would kill her and then so she she first they'd be on the couch
She finds up getting like issues with like her back and her side and stuff and I I can see when the couch and be fine
It's just I don't I want to sleep in my bed, you know, right and that's my bed. I want to sleep in my bed
I want to sleep in my freaking expensive now, too
Well that then I want to sleep in my bed with my wife, which would be nice, you know
I have one of us sleeping on the couch because of some issue like that
um the second thing is if you looked at the
What it said with the the recall for the the CPAT machine number one the issue with the CPAT machine was if you had used a certain type of cleaning material on it
That it what it broke up some of the
the noise canceling stuff on inside of it the foam and if the foam got into you then that could cause problems
But one of the things that you can that they recommended if you absolutely still had to use the machine
Was there was a filter you could buy that would go in between it like the the mask and the
the hose
That was supposed to filter out if there was actually near any of the particulates
Nobody wanted to share that information the sides that or be like hey
You're having a problem with this by this and then after a while after what I've said of sitting in the couch
I've fed I figured this out and I went on Amazon. I could buy a pack of 12 and for
Like
$15 dollars on the list. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like are you fucking kidding me?
I've been sitting on the couch when this has been a viable option and the people who were supposed to be selling me and taking care of
My you know, they don't care about you. It's just been like you're a pain. Yeah, in fact for me call
Yeah
Feel real good about our medical
People, right? I was talking smack about this turning into Joel's CPAT
podcast
Yeah
It's an important topic
Sleeping is important
Yeah, because like I said is because I still snore with the mask on I like I've been on vacation this week
With the holiday and stuff and so I'll sleep on I'll believe me to sleep on the couch
But I would much rather be sitting in my bed
Yeah, and that's just in the fact that the medical supply companies are just basically
There's they're supposed to have somebody on staff who's supposed to have some medical knowledge to help you up with the
These situations they basically don't give a shit at all and they're just there to push their product as much as possible
And that's very frustrating. I got so used to sleeping with my
CPAT machine that for a long time that if I didn't have it I couldn't sleep
I did re-teach myself on like sleeping a chair taking nap in a chair and things like that
But if I if I go lay down and I don't have my CPAT machine, I'm I'm not gonna be able to sleep
I can tell when I don't you know if I accidentally fall asleep or something when I do finally wake up
I have a splitting headache and you know the only thing you know I can do is is feed caffeine
I feel like crap. So I mean it's just mainline caffeine
Tell it you know me like caffeine take some acedron migraine and then move on with life
Because the acedron migraine has caffeine caffeine
I do something on some nights where I like push the tongue my tongue into like the roof of my mouth or something where I can
I can feel it in the roof of my mouth in the next morning
But some weird stuff in something like that. I should be putting water. Yeah
I'll get that swelling and that pain. Yeah
Right here or in in in the roof in the back. Yep
It makes me a very unhappy person that next day
Absolutely and I can put the water into it in the pool of moisture and with it the foam is I got it at some point
I got to sit down and actually play with it to the to get it set right more it doesn't feel like hot breath on my face
Because the hot breath of my face is absolutely miserable and I'm not doing that
And so my choices are either hot breath and my hot moist breath in my face or
drying my mouth out where you know I wake up first in the morning and I got to drink a couple of water just
Yeah, if you feel that if you fill that up and then set set your heat at like a one at the lowest setting
Yeah, then you'll get the um you'll at least get some moisture and you'll get the least of the bad side effects
That comes with running hot water through one of those things right which includes mold
Yeah, yeah, well one of my things in my insurance changed and they used to give me the heated hose
Um, but they just give me the regular hose now
Fortunately, I don't have the home
Yes, there's the
The it's kind of depend on your on your machine
but mine has uh
If you look on it, there's like a port worth like two wires right below the hole and that's for the heated hose and basically
Heats the hose to void rain out. So what what happened is is them as the moisture is going up to hose
The hose will get you know cold because room temperature, right?
Right
Yep, so the heated hose would prevent that um, and I also think it has a better connection to the machine as well myself, but that's just me
um, but um, they won't pay for it anymore
So it's I have to look and see how much it costs for one of those
But I have one thing I won't I won't we'll in the summer because it's generally hit more humid here anyway
I usually don't run water in my machine, but actually need to start running it right now because it is the winter and the heat is on and drying out the air in my house
Yeah, let's have our own about it is when allergies are bad because it helps keep things working down in the nasal passengers
Right then I'll have the sneezes in the morning when I wake up
Uh
We when you when you have a uh a bit of um gas and it just builds up in the chest, but because the pressure difference with
The CPAT machine once you take that off and it just like all comes out and you're just sitting
That happened when I lost weight
A bunch of weight once in that happened to me. I actually had to have internal pressure
But try having apnea then you'll know what nightmares are
Uh-huh
Okay, poking
But
Joe Joe's phone he stole it again
Uh-oh see cut off
Yeah, well, it's because he can't regulate and sleep at night and he has to you know do things like get up and go to school
Well, yeah, they don't have school in mind though
Or that's true, but he needs to start getting in the habit and
Not staying up until 3 a.m. Yeah, but he was doing on school nights when he actually did have school because he would sneak off
And steal back his electronics from wherever they were
Yeah, he's put the charging for and the garage
Yeah, it's gonna be fast and it's an S7 so
Micro
Still at night. It's got a bit of a tongue. It's got to be charged inside the garage where you are
Mm-hmm. Yeah, and then he'll sneak out after I go to bed and steal it
Is it comfortable in your garage now, Joe? Right. Oh, yeah, it's great. It's a snap freezing. Look
I got short sleeves on. I'm not sitting here sharing or anything. It's like 70 or it's probably like 50
Computer what's the temperature? 58 degrees?
58
Computer is what is is that not an Amazon device is it? It is. Yep. Okay. He just did the computer inside
The word, but yeah
My bathroom is set to computer down here. It's echo
The living room and the kitchen. It's Alexa and then the
Upstairs kids bathroom. I have a little like outlet ones. You stick in the
In the plug. It's just sticks in the out
And the computer is on is fun, right? Using using computers. You're activating word
Fun and less you work with computers
Yeah, and you're constantly talking about it's
So renamed to like echo diggy. Well, you I was going to use Ziggy because Ziggy is an option now
It wasn't really yeah Ziggy is an option
Which is why I'm um, but you know everybody in my house is very very used to using
Computer so it'll take a while to transition. I have one transition right now and then um later on
I will start transitioning more of them until I get to all of them. Don't you change the voices yet? Yes, I got
I have used Samuel Jackson and I have also
I have the male voice that is the default on this one
What I did I think it did the Australian and one British and the other and I did just for fun the Canada one
Which really wasn't much that much of a change
Canada a
Computer delete my home directory
Yeah
Samuel what time it is computer ask Samuel what time it is
Samuel
computer have Samuel tell me about them snakes on that plane
Yeah, I remember my time. Well someday I should probably try one of the micraft devices just for
Chits and giggles. He'll do your own first
I mean the problem is micro the micro systems are so damn expensive. Yeah, yeah, it's not hard to build your own
I mean I got a pie already with the screen on it, so all I had to do is
Get a microphone
Yeah, basically, you know, I wouldn't take much is just installing all this stuff
It's a Raspberry it's still Raspberry Pi based so
See that's why it's still open source too. Yeah, and I want those insane people to have both the echoes and the
The Google Home stuff of the two I like the Google Home stuff a little bit better
I
Think it's faster
Just give it a commands and stuff
I have less lights and stuff on it now because when we built this house
I don't want to make it talk on all about the house, but will we build this house?
But we're talking about cool stuff, so great. I do want to set up homes smart. Yeah smart stuff
Yeah, that would be awesome to now the light fixtures they put in we have these
Well, they look like can lights, but they're not really all over the house
My dad used to call them burn lights any light in the ceiling is a burn light
but
Because they put all energy
You know
Efficient thank you energy efficient when they build this house
There are LED fixtures and the lights are built into the fixture
Which means when it burns out there replace the whole fixture. Oh
There's not much room above it. Otherwise if there was I would probably
Get all the hand fixtures and say in call up an electrician say put these in and I would put smart bulbs and everything
Do you ever like the idea of the smart bulbs?
Yeah, well, that's what I like down here in the basement
I have one of my basement lights and I it's one of those things where you screw it in and then you screw the bulb into it
Because my thing is the bulb is going to burn out later before that switch will or whatever it is that you're plugging
up the thing into it depends you know because the most of the
Smart bulbs are LED so they last a whole lot longer than the old curly cues or the incidesc
They turn out trust me
And it was where where where the light bulb doesn't burn out a lot of times the
The portion that you know connects to the Wi-Fi will burn out right there
I am aware of this but like with my overhead light the computer turn off stampede
There you go that one
The light itself is just a regular old light light bulb an LED bulb and then it goes into
A socket that has all the Wi-Fi stuff built in
You know smart and then that screws into the regular socket, right, right and that works like that down here too
And the in the basement is is one of those computer turn on green like green is its own
It was a smart bulb now. It's hooked up to a smart socket
Right there you go because you're better off
You then there's there's less of a chance of that smart socket burning out than the smart bulb burning out
Well, then you also run into this this situation when this is why I probably if I do do this get the switches
I'll probably look into seeing if I can't get them to run the
The open firmware because the light bulbs and stuff used to have at my old house
Were a
So then you asked from lightify bulbs. They just shut the system down last year
They will not work at all. I did I did pick up a couple of smart bulbs like the bulbs themselves are smart
I did pick up a couple of those the other day, but that was because they were in clearance two for ten
Right
Well, I don't want to say Walmart had several. I try to remember the name brand, but those were Wi-Fi bulbs
Yeah, and
Yeah, Mercury Mercury innovations. That's what they were. I think if I remember right and they were the ones I had
Could change the colors too, which was actually kind of nice
But I don't know on those see the bad thing with those is is you're pretty sealed and there's no chance of opening it
Open it up and reprogramming the firmware and those so you know
Well within keep it functioning
Yeah, I did watch Tony be misted a good presentation, and they should really record an HPR episode for that
on a
Setting up home assistant and all that stuff and technically I probably could
do home assistant because the security system and
The few I have one smart switch that controls the lights out front and
Both of one on a porch and around my garage
all right and
All of that stuff and I am a lot the smart lock I have on my front door is
Z wave
So in the thermostat as well, so
But it all works through my security system. I really have no complaints about my security system
But there is always a chance that they may not support it in the near future. So
That's something I'll have to address when that when that happens, but you know for now
I'm fine with it at least what what where they did put it in my house if I need to take the panel out
It should be easy to take out. I just had to remove the panel itself from the
The mount and then pull the cable from you know unplug the power pack which they didn't wire directly into the house
Which that's okay, maybe they just had a power pack that they fish the load the cable up through the wall
So you can't see it all right, and it's plugged into the
Outlet right below it
Kind of sucks the way they had to do that, but you know that the builder doesn't put that panel in
80t does because it my systems and 80t systems so but uh I can eventually add
I have like sensors on my windows
in my bedroom and
In my son's room my wife has a motion in her office
My office has a have pretty much anything because it got to the point
I figured out if I wanted to put sensors everywhere with them when they came to do the alarm system install
It would have ran me about to grant
So do you know what the Zigbee plays with home system?
Yes, I'm pretty sure does Zigbee and Z-Wave are pretty much the same thing I think
But I'm pretty sure it will all you have to have is like a the USB-C wave dongle that you can plug in your pie or whatever you're using
So I'm pretty sure well I would do that just to play around and see what you can you can control with it
My biggest important assistant is most of the stuff that I do I have integrated with
You know the Amazon and Alexa
So I which doesn't doesn't actually work well with home assistant. So if home system will work with Alexa then I would have like
Yeah, I'm just a good work with Alexa if you were using IFTTT. Yeah, I have to do that using IFT
I don't want to pay for if this than that. I don't you know, I don't have necessarily pay for IFTTT
Yeah, I think there is a prescription that there is you can
There is one time I think you can pay for yeah, I think it's if you go over a certain amount of API calls I think now
Yeah, I was using it so much at one point in time a long time ago that I did I just freaking paid for it
But that was a long time ago and then I stopped using it and then I went back to using it and yeah, it's all still there and paid for it so
And if huh I said I'll have to look into that. Yeah, if I'm casually into if this and that but not like if
They were here. He'd probably be talking about the sonoff, but um, yeah, what I'm interested in is right now is this
ESP 82 66
That is supposed to be able to hook into home assistant and I think it actually the API will actually work directly with
Alexa, but
Yeah, I I'm interested in trying that out and seeing what I can make and make work from it
Big the big thing I miss from from my old house and the old lightify system was um, I had about motion detectors
And my son had this annoying skill of not being able to turn the light off in the hall
You know after you know, and he had been in the hall in hours, but the lights still on
So I put the motion detectors on there and says turn on the light when you detect motion
Turn it off when there isn't any and that way that light in the hall stayed off. I know it's
Completely minor because that light was also an LED fixture, but
Yeah, it did the job so you know, yeah, absolutely
Yeah, I kind of want to get a motion sensor in my laundry room, which is right on the other side of this door
So I get a warning before the freaking door opens because I'm jumpy
His little motion sensor buzzers
I think it was the the joys of having PTSD and yeah, but yeah, it's like I was cleaning the laundry room and my son fruit
I don't know why I had gone outside for something out in the garage
And I'm standing there and I've got the closet door open because I'm putting something away
And all of a sudden the garage start comes flying open and like Jesus Christ
Like oh my gosh
But yeah
I kind of think about that one if my thing is is I want to if I want to put smart switches in I
The switches themselves aren't pricey and I have put them in before
But if I'm doing that many of them I'd rather pay someone to do it all so that it's all done in one day
You know for me it would take a while
You know because I don't have you know tons of time
But yeah, yeah, I guess I can you can say I'm lazy and I'm completely fine with that
I guess it depends on how extensive you want to go with all that right
Yeah, yeah, you know generally though I don't you know do I wish I had them again in certain places
Yes, but I don't really care about it as much as I used to I do have
Schedule set so that the the lights outside come on automatically at sunset
And then come go off at sunrise and I did the same thing with my christmas lights outside
But then it's badly like my son still will hit the switch to turn the light on so I filled him
I just put a routine in Googles has shit shut the light off every hour
I
I'm like
Daylight those don't need to be on
I'm like, yeah, I think we had something similar with like the Christmas tree
I had the plug in there. So I would turn on at a certain time and then shut off at a certain time
Um, and the biggest thing is I find with the I use the plugs from lights, which is as basically like
We're from lights that I don't have a light switch for and they should probably have a light switch
So like there's a light in my bedroom that is way over to the to the side and
The light switch just covers one that's over a plug that's over to the other side of the bedroom
So it doesn't really help so I have a
I have a switch hooked up to that
It's living with my son's room. I got a switch hooked up to one of his lights in his room
It's just it really works well for for like the voice activated light switch
Right
Because it's it's those like the light that I need is not in the spot without actually has a switch like
We had the one in the living room especially because my living room has like two lights, which is one turns the outside light
One doesn't do anything that I can tell and it doesn't affect any of the switches in my living room
So we put a plug up to it and so I can actually get a full of a little light
And I had that one set on a timer too, so it'll turn on
Time to turn off at a certain time. Mace me wonder
Um, is that near like an attic access? No, okay
It's when they're fun to work
I want to see one where there's something else like outside
Huh?
It covers the outside light but which one I'm not even exactly sure I think that both my curly outside light
I'm sure which is lazy wiring or there was two things outside at one time or maybe
Yeah, that was mine uh my house, you know, it's built in 2020 2021 right in that time frame
Um, my city requires them to put
A light socket in the attic. Oh, yeah, and it has to be controllable from a switch and the whole reason is is
So when they come and do the inspection to make sure they put enough blue enough insulation into my ceiling right
Don't want to see it. I'm not there's a thing around for um, there's there's a gauge that they nailed on one of the
Pieces of frame up there where you can literally look over it and see how many interest of insulation you got
But yeah, so it's just I'm like, well, okay, well, that's the you most use the switch in my house
And then and then every other route like now every other house I've ever had
Almost every room had at least one switch that was switchable
And that was in every room in this house. No
Um, the only switch that is like that is in the living room
There is a switch that will control the socket. It's just to the right of where my TV
Entertainment center area is so I'll plug in like I have a little Christmas village. We put in on top of that
Uh, during Christmas time then I'll be taking down in the next day or so
Um, and that's what I used to if you use that switch for it other way other time. There's nothing plugged into it
So it's just
I'm like ever and all the other other rooms just have the lights in the ceiling. I don't need lamps anywhere in the house really
But although the one thing I would would like to get lamps for is when I want more subdued lighting than the ceiling fixtures will give me
Because they are bright
I have technically in here. There's in my office. There's two
There's also three because I can see the top of the stairs and I got a light at the top of the stairs
And then light at the bottom of the stairs and my I almost always leave it off
But because my son likes to come far to round up here literally
Um, that's still on right now and I'm pissed off about it
Um
Kids and elected kids just have no idea that electric cost money
Most of them have no idea that anything costs money
So there is it they're aware that it costs money, but they're also aware that it doesn't cost their money
Yeah, that's right. That's right
But I used to think well
If my smart thermostat burn out what I replace it with in in broke what I replace it with another one
I'm not sure maybe
Yeah, I have um, I have the eco be set up okay and um, I enjoy
Being able to use because it integrates with the Alexa
I've been able to
Number one
Like during the summertime turn on the AC and have it sent
You know before I get home to get to high school either for me when I get home or it's like my mother-in-law was dropping off the kids
And hanging out with the kids at the house
It would get a cool for her
So you know what the temperature is you can check it at any time to see if anybody's messing with it
Yeah, yeah, and I'm just being able to just uh, you know use the
The Alexa devices to set the temperature right which is let me tell you
I have dumb thermostats and there are reasons because in Texas if you have a smart thermostat
And your electric company knows about it. They will reach into your house and control your temperature for you
But um, no
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, you had to kind of buy into that. Yeah, that those other key for electricity for it
Yeah, there was something where you had to you had to sign some sort of agreement where they would you you basically let them do that
Right, yeah, but they didn't tell you that but anyways, I have I have dumb thermostats and and they're programmable
Right and I yeah
It would be much much easier to go through a much much smarter interface
Right
Yeah, because I can me and my wife will have a battle
Because my office is over the garage is always the warmest room that I hold entire house
So she'll get in her office and it's cold so she'll go and turn a thermostat up to like 72
Not long not later. It's 80 in my office. I'm like
In the garage
Yeah, there's ways around that she could just cover event close your vent
Well, that's what I do the one that's right in front of my desk
At least in the fall winter is offset that then up it doesn't really help though because you know the heat rises up
I am the for you being out there and more exposed. Yes, so I can see that what I'm saying is with her office if she closes off the vent or
Nero's the vent
Or it allows the space heater she has in her office and allows stuff to head your way instead of you know stopping off in her office then
All right, you'd be better off and she'd be comfortable. Yeah
I'll be honest with this true because he's the one overheating and she's the one freezing
That's right
I'm over which is why if she closes off her vents. It should push the cold air further out, right?
Yeah, and I would switch I would switch with her because at least her office has a door because it's the third bedroom
But too much shit and I wouldn't fit in there
I've got my 3d printers. I got a 40 inch TV. I got an Apple 2C and an Atari 800 XL
I've got all sorts of retro stuff around me. It's like yeah, I would never fit down there
but
You find a way oh
Yeah, I probably would but if I really wanted to but it's
Not going to happen because I like my space. I mean that's I mean really in the summer. It's fine up here
You know, I do have to I have a I did 3d print some
I have a curtain to my office
So I did 3d print some clips that'll help me keep those clothes so the because usually what happens is as the sun sets because it faces
What my window faces west the sun will shine right in my window in the office and usually laying on my computer screen
So I try and make it so that none of that comes in that. I'm usually pretty successful at that
But it's only the end of the day. Well, that's bad in the summer up here
So it is
Let's see wait. Yeah, it's two in quarter after two
I probably should get going and get the bag because I do have to serve in the morning
as the video switcher so
And happy new year to all
And we'll see you next year maybe talk to you on Wednesday Joel. Yep. We'll see you Joe
Thanks for having me on and hope you have a good one hockey
So who's left on nobody
I will assemble that remark. I'm still here. Hey, bro. How's it going?
It's going. Oh, anything exciting
It's 2023 is it it is other geezer are already killing me
Gorgon go to bed. Yeah Joel went to bed. Oh, I got you're how much longer I'm gonna stand for
I'm there with you. My kids are gonna be up in three hours
That's what Cartoon Network is for
Then they'll want something. Yeah, like I said because of my snoring
I've decided I'll be the one sleeping on the couch for it and affect on my vacation
I decided I'll be the one to be on the couch
So they're gonna come downstairs at five and after about being downstairs for about five minutes or so it's
Dan, I'm hungry
All right, so I'm hungry. I'm feeling excessively violent this morning. Yeah
You'd be surprised how well that fixes things quickly. Yeah, we'll try it
Oh
More than the answer you can you don't like it all uh curly like I like it. I didn't think you wanted to play that tonight. Hi verbal
Hey, hey
Hi, slower
Hello, we're talking about her curly hair. I hear natural. I like it curly. She doesn't like it
Was that it's your tendency or it's what time is it reworse
We're on the jutsi
220 p.m. 120 a.m. Here 220 a.m. Here 128 a.m. here
Well, we're on the jutsi still or again, I should say we've been off a couple of times
Hi
So if it's 220 p.m. Did that mean you're all um parted out from you know the new year already?
Oh, yeah, we went to bed about two
Two a.m. Two at three
A local time here in Thailand
Her brother's stuff fireworks. They were like uh like the big ones that you can buy
Must have been what 60 of them
Uh
About 10 15 meters in front of us. I was terrifying. I just uh
I thought a final destination the entire time
Nothing could go wrong
Taking out by the fireworks
Yeah, so since we missed the the plane
To fly north
Uh to see her family
Um, we were gonna have somebody drive her car back
And we were gonna uh, uh, I think our return trips still
I don't know
All right um
We were gonna fly back together uh because we still have those tickets um
But uh it fell through somebody driving her car back to Bangkok
So she's gonna drive and i'm gonna fly
Oh, it's dry
Is it one that six hours it turned into 12?
Uh, six hours was 14
That was because of the uh
The biggest biggest holiday day everybody was was traveling
Like the four of five in California
And google maps need some active contributors in Thailand
There's a lot of things
Fractored
So that was like a job for mordancy open street maps
I can't read the straight signs. I have no idea
That doesn't matter
So
Yesterday marks two weeks without a cigarette for me
Or without nicotine for me. Oh, yeah, yeah, and i'm really jones and right now. Oh
I didn't want to say did you go uh cold turkey with
You just want to cut like the straw that shit didn't work for me
I tried that several times even just you know keep doing what I was doing
Just lowering the the amount of nicotine right and
That just didn't work for me and so one day i just said to hell with it
I'm a non-smoker as of tomorrow and that's what i've done so far now do you vape or would you vape without any of the nicotine?
I can i don't have anything set up right this minute. I suppose i have some
CBD, but i would have to
Clean the vaporizer
Might be helpful in the CBD
But i was trying to stay away from the physical habit too because um, yeah
It's pretty easy to get drawn back into it. Well, I mean
So when i quit there wasn't much vaping around really vaping was just starting to be popular or just starting up
So i when i quit it was it was like a straight cold turkey, but
Like that i tried one of the those uh e cigarettes or whatever those like disposable ones
And that was just like a weird experience where it just like the nicotine or whatever just kind of numbed my lips
and
If i take a pick up
And maybe i don't know it was i enjoyed still having that feeling of
Of smoking the motion, but i did not enjoy the
Weird numbing of the lips feeling and just yeah i think part of it part of what i when i missed all together was just the motion and the action of
Of smoking as opposed to just the uh the nicotine itself
Taste i got i'm a i'm a horrible quitter when it comes to smoking because i i miss the whole smell and taste of
Of cigarette tobacco
i miss my mango kiwi
Plus it is really messed with like my hunger signals. Oh yeah, but i'm way over on my calories almost every day
i'm up like you know like eight pounds since i quit it's pretty good for two weeks. Well, that happens
I said yep that all happens
Find some realty food that you hate and eat it when you're hungry really healthy food that you hate
Like lima beans. Oh lima beans. I love lima beans
No, the only thing better than lima beans is edamame
I'll agree to mom is better than lima beans
I'll agree that just
Like like homie. I hate homie. I'll eat lima beans, but I will not eat homie
I like food you like food
I have not tried the rat. It's been offered to me two or three times now rat
I would eat it. I would eat it. I would eat it
No, but not try to get rat
I would eat it. No, I've eaten cat. I've eaten dog. I've eaten snake. I've eaten alligator. I would eat it squirrel
Um, no, I don't think I've ever had squirrel. I've had buffalo
Gritty and rainy squirrel. Yep
Dove whale, game hand
Have you had beef hello? No, I haven't had I haven't had a porcupine. I've had a lot of deer whole lot of deer
Yes, like I grew up in Iowa and you know, I spent a lot of time a lot of my youth in Iowa and
Sometimes the only way he ate was when I shot it. Bear beaver? No, I
Well, I don't know if he's being sarcastic about the beaver
Well
Listen to all you men
My brother ain't there. I've been along with everything else
I don't know about beavers. Alligator is delicious. Really? Yeah, do recommend
See now you gotta be confused know the other beaver you just said it was terrible a second ago or
Uh, no, I don't know what the hell you're talking about, bro
My brother had air in Alaska and everything else in Alaska now we we get it. Polkie likes the polar bears
I said I didn't like the squirrel
No
Polar bears they're they're they're people that like jumping into um frozen ponds generally male
Generally furry
Not to be confused with otters
They're the skinny ones
They look like bears, but they're skinny. All right
Look up polar bear club. You'll figure it out. I know
I know you know
It was probably more in preference to the conversation
Well
These squirrels too is easy to make
I mean you just got to get the bowl in the right position and aim your shotgun correctly
Like I said easy to make it's not easy to make if you're using a 22 if you're using a shotgun it gets all pre shredded and mixed up
Better off with just the pellet gun. That's basically what a 22 is
I need mine now you
Yeah, every bullet so far my 22 pellet gun from back in the day was okay
But if I was going to use the the 22 pellets I tended to perform my sling shot over the the pellet gun
It's a name with it with enough practice
You imagine hunting beards like going out there guns
Are you talking about being on a pull
Out there be for hunting of course
You've been married a long time too
We'll say a $20 bill and a half lay it down gently
I don't know how to fill in your zipper and strip
Oh, we were we were talking about sling shots. I think he printed this one nice
Yeah, I want to get the the longer um
Three elastic pieces so I get more pull because the draw on this is pretty shit
I want one that does a fall on like arm length draw
I can pull it back by my ear
That's what she said. I bet she did you know hunt be where you tap it. Yeah
That's true to and again
Well, you can't your ear responsibly shoot into water
I mean that's the whole thing about water is it's going to slow your bullet down quickly
It's not really going to cause a problem, which is why when you go fishing you don't use a gun you use dynamite
That's right
Well fishing and bulk
I got a whole bunch of these they were low cost the the rubbers
Did you get ricochet off a water?
Good question if the angle if the angle is very like acute thank you
If the angle is very acute then yeah, I suppose you could get a ricochet
I never thought it makes sense so
But I think he also said extremely shallow so you'd be ricocheting off the bottom wouldn't you?
That would be that would be stupid
Because if it goes well, it had to be like a hard bottom like a hitting a rock or something
Okay, so he is saying the service of the water and so he is talking about an acute angle
Like I said, that's why you don't use a gun to go fishing use dynamite
Yeah, that makes sense with the acute angle a BB the the slightly slower speeds
Um, I could see how that would skip very well across the water. You got a pretty mouth mordancy
Thank you
Oh, you knew it already. Don't pretend like this surprises you
Oh, but I'm gonna keep that slingshot till the next time I head out to my dad's house in Florida
Keep it a try out there. I know if we replace the shoot it here. No
Normally I would have gone out for Christmas and still be out there now, but that just didn't work out this year
No, but hopefully with my
Promotion
It will put me in line for other positions at the company. I can get a management position
And that will come with a pay raise and I can do things like afford to go visiting people
I think you need to get a pay raise and transfer to somewhere out of Texas
I would like to get somewhere out of Texas. It's just not as simple as that
I know and where do you go? I mean
Some were some were there in Colorado. Where is it not as stupid?
I like to say that the northeast is not stupid. Yeah, but it's the northeast
I have some issues with cold. What do you want me to say?
I can't argue with that. I've expressed my issues with cold. You've seen me when it gets cold in Texas and how much I hate myself
Hate yourself or just hate the cold. Yeah, my body hurts because it's cold. Yeah
So verbal you should talk more so I can talk less
I
Join us on the jizzi and talk more
I got to get a webcam. You don't need a camera. No, my reason. I knew I got a camera. I was
You know what? You know what? I'm going to hook up this this piece of garbage camera that I got for $10 that I was telling
I think I was telling you about it a few days ago
Shh
was I telling you about this
cheap oh
I'm below. Yeah, it's gonna come in as upside down because I don't have a proper way to mount this
But I'm I'm gonna switch cameras if it'll let me can you see my camera? It looks very dark
Computer turn on stampede. This is a high quality camera right here. Mm-hmm
The hormones. That's it arm length arm length. It's supposed to be a dash cam
But I do like that you can potentially use it as a webcam and literally $10 of five of them. That's about as good as the
The one in my love monobochi 430. I was
This at least of mine and this looks a lot cleaner looks like shit. All right. I'm looking at it. Yeah
I don't know. This is a new camera and this is as far away as my other camera
And it looks like you know, I've got it shoved up by nose
Now I can okay, it automatically switched back to my other camera. I didn't do that. Okay, it switched back again
That's because I'm moving around the the thing got disconnected reconnected
But do you see the difference when it switched? I think I'm gonna 3d print a different mount for it
If I want to use it in here like this just for screwing around
I do like the fact that it you know costs $10 and it's a it's a webcam
But it I got it hold on let me switch back
I got it because I wanted to play with the screen. I want to take it apart and
See what I can do with the screen on the back. Don't I mean? Yep. See if it's usable for other type of project
It's not bad for so much just pops off that little mount there and
Lides back on to it like I said it's made to mount to your dash. It's a
Dashcam, but it's an extremely shitty one
But um either if that's a 17 millimeter ball then all I got to do is like hook it up to one of my other adapters
And I'm good to go when I think it's smaller than that
But I might need to 3d print another adapter. All right. I would love to stay and talk for the rest of the night into the morning
I got a question really really really go to sleep
Sleep is healthy for you. It'd probably be a good idea. All right. I'm gonna check off right now
Well, what time is this supposed to end in the morning?
So the time that I'm gonna be checking the last time Zola crosses over I believe is
7 a.m. But if there are people still in the room that I'll just keep recording going
Until there is nobody in the room or there's people in the room and nobody's talking for a while and I'll kind of
Check in to see if anybody if there's anything going on and then I'll just shut it down afterwards
All right, hello verbal
Hey, hey, hey like it's you and me against the wall. I think so. I've just been studying up on some stuff
What are we doing? What are you gonna be doing? I'm gonna be
putting a server
Control panel on a lot of my computers and part of the control panel includes
VM management sounds awesome
Well, the nice part about the VM management is it may actually work remotely
And the control panel does updates. It does a lot of stuff storage management
I've got all kinds of plugins for
So when do you think you have it up and running?
Well, I've got got it running on on my main machine here, but I haven't used it much
It'll take me a couple of days to recover from this
devil all-nighter
And then I want to get a
I have a small
Many PC server that I'm going to be configuring so
I will probably do that and then as part of that installation I will include the dashboard
Yeah, I've been watching the
Ada fruit site and
They are just not like
They don't have any Raspberry Pi's in stock, so it's like crazy
So I
I may set up some Raspberry Pi's for 24-7
operation
But what's going to replace my desktop or tower-based systems is going to be what they call a one-liter
PC it's a
It uses a relatively low-power processor the ones I'm aiming for a 3035 watt and
Is a very miniaturized about the size of a regular hardcover book is it arm-based the ones that I'm looking at are
x86 specifically intel what that sounds interesting well even getting them through
Amazon you could get them
Keeper than you can Raspberry Pi's at the moment. Wow, that's awesome. Yeah, I think
I recently saw a video that was saying that
People you know, they're still making Raspberry Pi's but they're
mainly supplying it to like
larger companies that kind of depend on
selling Raspberry Pi's to keep the
You know business going rather than
Summing them to like in users. So they're trying to take care of those people first, but uh
Yeah, hopefully you know
They're especially in Europe. There's a large
Or a substantial industry which
uses them as the core of industrial
Management of monitoring system exactly the Raspberry Pi foundation says allegedly
They had some 100,000 units for for this christmas. It was supposed to be let out at least
I don't know if they ever got out at least not getting scalped and things were supposed to be tight through
Through the first quarter of this year that is the late 2023 and
Second quarter they're supposed to be easing and further normalization through the third quarter in the rest of the year
I can't wait for that. Well, I'm I may have to shuffle. So I have I have one eight gig
Pi four and I have a two gig five four and I may be shuffling those around
Because I want to set up a pie
uh as an app cash and as a DNS
Cash for
For my home network and I may have other tests for it
Uh, but perhaps local time service for other similar function
You know, I have to check and see what's going on with like uh
Like old droids maybe maybe they're a little bit easier to get these days. I don't know. I have to check
One system if I were going to look for something else that the orange pie people have what they call it
P8800 which is a keyboard computer it uses rk 3399 or something like that processor
Which is a hex core machine however the rk unit I think have four full size cores and two which they reserve for lower power
idling operation. I don't know how it works, but it's it's supposed to be
They have two more limited function cores and then four full power cores
So that when when things are idling the uh higher powered segment section of the processor are
Putt asleep. I have to look into that. Well, I'm yeah, I'm I'm going to be uh
Working on setting up
Basically retiring a lot of my older desktop machine. Not that they were higher breathing
Galing machines, but for any kind of long term you up here in the Boston area
They're just two power hungry. Yeah, I can see that
Actually, I may try to find a second source ebay or something else for when the smaller server
I'm also interested in seeing how
Uh the market reacts to mean uh with machines that are officially
Not windows 11 certified. Yeah, I have no use for windows machines
But what I'm suspecting is that machines that can run
Upgraded to windows 11 like what I've got is is allegedly the third generation of this many
Uh many computer package the fourth generation is allowed to upgrade to
Windows 11 and you'll see those machines are sold as premium. Yeah, I can see that happening. Yeah
When and these are refurbs off leads, but the machines that are just slightly older
Which don't have a Microsoft approved upgrade to windows 11 will gradually become more
Well, they will be less favored in the market, which means their price may drop. Yeah, that sounds right about right
But right now I've got to get this one machine configured
Uh, I built it with two SSDs inside one of them
Uh half a terabyte and then another one is going to be a full terabyte. Yeah, I just I just upgraded the old
Desktop that I had about
I upgraded about maybe a year ago
To a SSD and um, it's doing quite well
Well, I found out a bit late that this has well first the boot drive that came with it is a
Brand X 240 gigabyte drive
um, and and it has the capability of taking
Either
NVMe m2 long form drives what they call a 22
80 80 millimeters long and 22 millimeters wide
Uh, I could have used the NVMe drive, but for the point of stuff that I'm going to be doing
I don't need the absolute best in speed. I
I need inexpensive and
storage so that I can
set up
laboratory networks with
Under the hypervisor and not really worry about some being a little slow. Okay, got it. Yeah, and
Also since I don't know
Docker or any of the the myriad of hot solutions. I wanted a lot of room for
Different experiments and storage for the thing. So which VM are you using?
I'm using the native
QM Q you and m you
VM you
As as the basic hypervisor. Okay. Now I may be running
An emulator to run an emulated dog system because I really you know, I like the the challenge
You're working with the minimum tools of dogs in the modern age
Oh my goodness. Yeah. Hey, hey, as long as you don't go back all the way back to a cpm
Oh, I may go back further than that
Oh
I'm in Massachusetts and
We were the home of digital equipment corporation. Oh, so you can probably find some of that stuff laying around somewhere
All lies
There is a two-legged project because there are two development channels of course something called sim-h
Simulated hardware with a modern processor. I should be able to have an entire army of rather primitive systems
The pdp8, which I've had some personal experience with had a 12-bit word
generally used six-bit characters and
um
At 32
Well, but 32k or 12-bit memory now did that did that one have like a big dispatch or did that come later like with a pdp leavens
So a standard single platter drive which was removable like a pizza carried two and a half megama
That's crazy
Well, it also supported deck tape, which was your basic sort of videotape
um with 250 some odd kale of
About memory 32k 8-bit
32k 12-bit words and it's a very simple machine
and accumulator
Yeah, and and it's a very very primitive machine, but that's what I grew up with and it was available
Up to I don't know some fairly substantial hard drives at least for the time
Which which would be nothing compared to um today's hard drive sizes?
Yeah, I also saw a hard drive adapter made to hang off of the old
OS 360
Revit, you know OS 360 stuff with all kinds of
peripheral right right and
That same generation
They had these straight-8s which were basically something like your average bar fridge a tall bar full of
Circuit boards about the cards with the screen logic on it and
And it plugged into a back ring that was wire wrapped it was
The wire wrapping was a fascinating project where the machine would have one of several heads
and
Under computer control the
You know these many computers were used like you would a micro controller these days
The ones I took apart to salvage their transistors were part of the disc controllers of
transistor era mainframe made by digital digital for a long time
ran
It's
computers based on a six-bit word or a six-bit byte
I think the first of their eight-bit ask you machines is the pdp 11
Okay, and the pdp 11 is so popular that there's a Raspberry Pi
based panel and emulator kit that you can get for it the kit emulates a
a
pdp 1170 which was a 16-bit machine with a I think 24-bit 22-bit address space
So they could get about four megs of main memory into the machine or we minus some space that was used for
Use for
peripherals, okay
An interesting one of digital equipment corporations
Later computers was called the pdp 15 it was contemporary
With the pdp 11 but as it was getting longer than two they didn't want to create new devices for it
So what they did is they hacked a
pdp 11 as a storage controller or as a device controller hung off of this 18-bit computer
So they could use pdp 11
Accessories with this 18-bit relatively low production machine
Okay, now if you want to do things with
um
Amigas and other things they are
Making a lot of cards for the Raspberry Pi that turns it into a peripheral controller as well as providing a network stack and every
So, you know, you can use anything from a standard pi to a little pi pico or whatever
Pi zero. Yeah, those were really nice machines the amigas. They were wonderful
If you hang a Raspberry Pi off of off of an interface
you can get
Your entire pi can be basically buffer cash for for stuff that the main system is calling for but
and these days
Just like back in the day you can slip a Raspberry Pi into your amiga probably works it
Similarly for the Atari's or whatever and have the modern
The modern arm-based system handle all the IO while the
processors just there being school and fed
data and generally
And handling anything from terminal concentration on that's amazing
For what's really amazing is you can take
a Raspberry Pi with with appropriate
addition hanging off the serial port on your cpm machine and using a modified case command set which your
Terminal program can be programmed in because it's simply civil asky you couldn't take your
Old gaming
Low-end gaming machine and put it on the internet through telnet or
ftp or some other protocols, but it just makes the computer think that it's talking to a dial up mode it and
later on
I mean it's not a cell net is not a secure protocol, but it does bring back memories of
With logging into these various things looking for company or
Use that postings including the
Brazier ones converted to text. Oh, yeah, definitely. Hey, I remember using like
Like the old vbs's
With the dial up modems and things like that and then I remember
um
I can't remember what it was. I don't know if it was fight on that or whatever
But saying like a messages from you know places like
Hawaii and you know
West Coast and the East Coast and that was just amazing back then because
You know usually when when you had you know dial up you were dialing like local places
But then you know, yeah, I can't remember what the name of was, but it was just amazing to see like people calling in from like
All over the country. Well a lot of it was your
Computer would have two or three serial ports and they'd have their motive and
Usually there was some kind of a schedule when so you could know what the machine is going to be tied up
Transferring fine often they would do them got off of the morning or something
Right, right, but just like unix to unix coffee which is where you
Use net came from
Flight on it would call I believe it was a hub and spoke modified hub and spoke architecture
So that the flight on that would look basically it at your verification code and
may well
Have someone waiting for the old chip to shift to close out
While the the new shift is sitting on his hands, but the whole deal is you would be you would make these local calls
And then sometime in the night your the bulletin board would call a hub system and pass stuff on and
That system may call another system in the area or regional hub or what have you until eventually the
Messages got pushed over the phone upstream into it off routing hubs so that the messages got spread to
All of the bulletin boards were a part of the community. Right. Yeah, that was amazing
Well, what was amazing is that they were doing this stuff with relatively unmodified
PC some some of them as limited as an apple too
And
All this stuff was real memory. So unlike your
BDP 11's where your units units coffee and use net came from these would would be relatively unsophisticated
Ordinary desktop PCs or towers, but because of the economics of things and whatever was going on the country
Uh, they these network could be done dial up over both to the client computer and to
whichever administrative hierarchy that network they belong to and they were doing this with very limited memory protection
None of the modern bells and whistles that you're even simplest with Linux machine would have
Multi-tasking
Creative things
Timer all the bells and whistles definitely. Yeah, so now you got me thinking trying to remember what was the name of that like
multi-tasking software that was out there. I can't remember the name of it. Yes, exactly. That was it
That was it. Yeah, desk view
So IBM had their own
Similar version whose name escaped multi-tasking or dogs required which was the basis of windows three three
required doing some fairly cruel and unusual
Punishment to a very simple and straightforward program loading system
Yeah, and then back back in those days you had a sidekick which was like a
Terminate and state resident program that you know, you could just like you know pop up like a little notepad and other things
That was that was amazing back then too
There were a whole bunch of country programs like that now I
I have to step away for a minute and I'll be right back. Hey, no problem
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com
The internet archive and our sings.net
On the Sadois status today show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License
You
