Episode: 3043
Title: HPR3043: How I record for HPR
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3043/hpr3043.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:37:08

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,043 for Wednesday 1 April 2020.
Today's show is entitled, How I Record for HPR. It is hosted by Archer 72
and is about two minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summer is. The tools I use to record a show for HPR.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at Ananasthost.com.
Music
Hi, this is Archer 72 and I'd like to thank HPR for providing the servers to record to.
Here it goes. I heard Hacker Public Radio was needing some shows.
So I decided to record how I record. I'm using a sentry Bluetooth headphone with a mic
and audio recorder app from FDroid. It meets incoming calls, which is a pretty nice feature.
And it has a variety of formats that it encodes to.
Which is, AUG is the default and then it can do WAVE, FLAC, M4A, MP3, and ALPIS formats.
And then to get the recording over to my computer, I use Explorer, Android File Explorer, which I'll leave in the show notes.
And also I'll leave the audio recorder link in the show notes.
And in Audacity, I just use Amplify tool to do it just under Clipping and then reduce the base and treble by about 60b's for each.
Oh, I guess that's about it.
So I forgot to add something about the Explorer File Explorer. It has an option to have a summer share.
And so I set up a summer share between the Android phone and my Slackware laptop.
This has been Archer 72. Thank you for listening. Remember to support Free Software. Thank you. Bye.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
Thanks for watching.
