Episode: 3256
Title: HPR3256: Update, MS Teams, Covid 19, Raspberry PI 400 Raspberry PI 4 8GB Centos
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3256/hpr3256.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:46:19

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3256 for Monday the 25th of January 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Update MS Teams, COVID-19, Raspberry Pi 400, Raspberry Pi 480 GB CentOS.
It is hosted by JWP and is about 9 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summer is, hey guys just a short update, what's going with CentOS?
Raspberry Pi 400 goodbye.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Thank you very much.
Good day.
My name is JWP.
I hope that you're having a great day and I wanted to talk to you about some recent purchases
and how my life is going and all these things.
First, I live in Southern Germany so I'm adversely affected by the COVID-19 virus.
They've locked down everything and as a Texan of course,
while I do agree that masks and social distancing are important,
anytime you take my freedom from me without me having done something wrong,
I get a little perturbed about this.
I'm in the middle of this and it doesn't look like it's going away anytime soon.
It's been going on since March of last year and the German government continues just to
take my freedoms from me at a record pay.
And with work, it's been really interesting since COVID started in March.
So we moved as a company completely to Microsoft teams and with all of the file sharing
and stuff like this happened and it really amped up my amount of work and
the work gives me a phone and it has this team's app on it and so if somebody's changing a file
at two o'clock in the morning, it lets you know.
So eventually I had to just turn off the phone after, say, 10-30.
I have to physically, the Android had a feature where it would automatically turn off at 10-30
and automatically turn on at 5-30 and so that we worked that out but because of Microsoft teams,
we had a really good year. I probably had the best year selling things that I've ever had in
the IT industry. So what has been going on, well you know I have my little embedded
farm downstairs and I have my sent OS server farm at work and these have been very interesting
and there's been, I got two changes that happened to my little embedded farm and things.
This thing called a Raspberry PI 400 came and I live in Germany so I ordered the UK model.
Now the UK model comes with a UK plug but then it has a UK keyboard which is really convenient
for me because I'm an English speaker but it didn't come with a German plug so I had to order
an extra German plug. So I took it out of the box and it came with a kit, it had a book,
the first thing that I saw that was that it had the dual monitor plugs and I set it up in a dual
monitor configuration and it worked well and I was able to, it was smooth. I could open up
open office file pretty quickly and I installed Microsoft teams and it took two gigabytes of space
and it worked very well as well. Also and then I uninstalled Microsoft teams, I just wanted to see
how it would work. So I would say that the 4GB PI 400 is very close to a, if you're looking for
a light office kind of machine that's definitely it. And so then I liked the 4GB PI 4 so much
that I went ahead and bought an 8GB and I had previously bought an Alnon case and it's a really
nice case with a power button and now they offer the same case with an M2 option
for option and it hasn't a fan and everything and so I ordered it from Banggood and it came
and I put it together and put the 8GB in and I have to say that that 8GB is probably the
most useful Raspberry or embedded thing that I've ever had and I would say that if it had a hard
drive, if it would boot like my nook, like my, I have a 5 or 6 year old nook now that's got a
Celeron in it and 8GB of RAM and I would say that the performance is pretty much on par.
Now granted with the, with the Celeron, I'm doing a full Ubuntu focal on there.
But I would say that it's really good, a really good performer so I mean for 100 bucks,
for 100 bucks you could very easily have a, you know, a pack, a cigarette pack size, a desktop
thing that you could for sure do all of your office work and run Microsoft Teams and do all that
stuff on with relatively little problem. I mean the only thing would be that the hard drive,
the hard drive and you can even make that pretty high available if you had an extra SD card
on K6, the SD card went bad. But so it's a great hardware, I would highly recommend both the
PI 400 and the Raspberry PI 4 and the 8GB variant. So with the, with the Sennel S, it's very
interesting that the Red Hat and IBM changed the Sennel S model and I was looking around and I
haven't been able to find any, any real alternatives so I don't really know what's going on with this.
I didn't really understand the, the Senn OS dream thing that it doesn't seem like the
stream is going to be the, you know, same plain vanilla Red Hat experience that I've been having
sent all these years and the developer version of my, of the Red Hat that I was working for some
unknown reason every time it went through like a change like a number change, an incremental change,
not a major shift change that I would have to go in, see that my license was updated and then
download the ISO again and reinstall on. So that, even though I really liked the Red Hat workstation
version, I, you know, the free one, it still seemed that it was a pain. So I didn't really
in the market now, the only alternative is to do the free Oracle Linux, which is the Red Hat clone and
they offer, you know, free for hobbyist licenses if you really need a Red Hat thing to play with,
that's probably the only way to go. I didn't, I read somewhere that scientific Linux has been
and also read in the press that there's going to be two or three more Red Hat clones, pure Red Hat
clones. And, and so it's a shame that CentOS changed that they did this. I'm sure that there's
reason, but in my professional life too, I have, I have customers that the CentOS was so much like
the Red Hat OS that it, it ran, you know, Red Hat application servers with SAP no problem in the test
environment and they didn't have to pay for the licenses. So I can understand why Red Hat did it,
it just seemed to be that it would cost them the money probably. Yeah, so guys, like I said,
I've been really busy with work and so I haven't had very many shows. I've been listening to some
of the shows, especially like the gentleman from Louisiana. He has some very interesting topics
about music and things like this. And of course, Ahuka is doing his, all of his very high quality
shows. And so I try to listen as much as I, as much as I can. I'm hoping that this works well,
that I can upload it and not have to send it today, more to get uploaded to the thing.
Somehow, the HPR thing doesn't like my Microsoft account very much. All right, hey, be safe,
be well. If you need to get in touch, it's JWP5 at hotmail.com. Take care, be safe.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our
shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hecker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club. And it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
