Episode: 3297
Title: HPR3297: Nextcloud Application Updating
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3297/hpr3297.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:22:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3297 Fortunity, the 23rd of March 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Next Cloud Application Updating.
It is hosted by Toget and is about two minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is automatically update Next Cloud Applications by a cron.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hey HPR listeners, it's Toget again.
Been well since I recorded one and I saw Ken Falun's call for shows so I decided to record
one of the ones I promised him. Many of you are probably running Next Cloud,
self-hosted provider with a bunch of different tools from Dropbox to Google Docs and all.
Well with all the add-ins in there I didn't want to have to keep spending time going in and
checking all the updates and then doing the updates manually. This is a box I pretty much
set up and run and try to touch it as little as possible other than what my tools that are accessing it.
So what I did is found that Next Cloud has command line tool OCC that allows you to do a bunch of
different functions on there. One of the functions is app update. So what I did is created a cron
job running on my server as the same user that the Apache server is running and you can schedule
to run however often you want. I'm currently having it running once a week at Sunday at five in the
morning. The command to run in the cron job is slash usr slash bian slash php, space slash
var slash www slash next cloud slash OCC space app colon update space dash dash all space to
greater than ampersand one. What that'll do is it'll use php to run the next cloud OCC command.
The OCC command takes app update which basically tells it to check for all applications
and update them. The dash all says everything. You can use it to update just one or a certain apps if
you want. The two into one means that of my error goes into my main output. And since this run on
a cron job and my cron job is set to email me every time it runs it will give me a complete output
of the command transaction that occurred for doing the updates. That's it. Straight forward. I'll
put the copy of the command line in the show notes and hopefully this will help get shows back up.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the digital dot pound and the infonomicum computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
