Episode: 3387
Title: HPR3387: Infosec Podcasts Part 5  Grab bag
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3387/hpr3387.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 22:29:42

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3387 Fortunity, the 27th of July 2021.
To its show is entitled, Infosic Podcasts Part 5 Grab Bag and is part of the series podcast
recommendations it is hosted by Trey and is about 8 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, presenting my favorite podcasts related to various aspects of information security.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hello and welcome to Infosic Podcasts I Listen to Part 5.
Thank you to everyone who's listened to my previous episodes. I hope I'm not boring
you all to death. Why am I recording this series?
Alright, time out. You can hear my reasons for why I'm recording this series by listening
to the introduction to any of my previous 4 episodes in this series. Yes, this is a shameless plug
for you to listen to my other works and I really don't want to bore people by being repetitive.
So, onto the next section because there are so many podcasts to list, I've broken them down
into 6 different episodes based on their topics. Part 1 was news and current events and that
was episode 3324. Part 2 was general information security. That was episode 3334.
Part 3 was career and personal development. That was episode 3344.
Part 4 was social engineering. That was episode 3368.
This episode Part 5 will discuss hacks and attacks, technical information and learning,
and Infosic communities, social and history type podcasts. Then Part 6 will wrap it up with
Infosic Leadership Podcasts. So, on with Part 5, the first category is hacks and attacks and my
favorite podcast in this category is tied. There's really two podcasts in this category. I love them
the same. They're both really amazing. The first one is malicious life by Randletty,
sponsored by Cyber Reason. Now, this is released. I'm going to say periodically. I've not been able
to really determine a absolute cadence for the release of these, especially recently. He's been
splitting up the podcasts into shorter snippets that are released more frequently, but they're
really, really exciting, well-produced, containing lots of detailed descriptions of specific historical
events in cybersecurity. When it comes to specific attacks, I mean, they covered all sorts of
different attacks from the Morris Worm to attacks that have happened recently and the stories
that are behind them. So, I encourage you to listen to this podcast. You can find it by googling
malicious life podcasts or by clicking on the link in the show notes. The second podcast in
this category is Darknet Diaries by Jack Recyder. This is a biweekly podcast and he presents
stories from the the darker side of the internet. This consists of interviews with a lot of people
who may participate in less than ethical or less than legal activities online, as well as people
who are red team or offensive security, security researchers and other folks that are on the more
offensive side. Jack is just an incredible job of putting these together and weaving a story that
draws your interest and keeps it. I mean, this is a series you could binge watch from the beginning
if you're interested. You can find it by googling Darknet Diaries or by clicking on the link in the
show notes. The next category is Technical Information and Learning Podcasts. And I've got two
podcasts in this group. The first is The Digital Forensic Survival Podcast. That's presented by
Michael Aclare. It's presented weekly. It's a deep dive into digital forensics and he presents a
lot of really valuable information. Every time I listen to it, I learned something that I had not
encountered before. Whether it's specific artifacts to look for in logs, specific ways to approach
performing forensics on specific operating systems, specific things to maybe ignore or other
approaches to doing your analysis. A really great way to look at things you can find it by googling
Digital Forensic Survival Podcasts or by clicking on the link in the show notes.
Next in this category is The Offensive Security Podcast by TJ Null and Jeremy Miller.
And this is sponsored by Offensive Security. They're the creators of the OSCP. That's Oscar
Sierra, Charlie Papa, but you really want to know what it stands for, right? Offensive security
certified professional certification. And it's a certification that basically tells the world
that you know what you're doing when it comes to penetration testing and red team type activities.
Breaking into systems for the purpose of educating people on what those weaknesses are.
Now, having listened to this podcast for several weeks now, I realize it probably belongs in
the career and personal development category. But I discovered it after I'd already recorded
that episode. So I'm sticking it here. It's interviews with red team practitioners and other
security professionals. And these interviews revolve around the various certifications or training
that's available within Offensive Security or ways you can prepare yourself to become
a security professional that understands and at least participates in the offensive side of
things. You can find it by googling Offensive Security Podcast or by clicking on the link in
the show notes. The last category is I've split up among community, social, history. It's kind
of a catch all for a wide variety of topics. And the first one that I'd like to list here is
Command Lying Heroes. This is hosted by Saronia Bark and it's sponsored by Red Hat.
This is a weekly podcast with gaps in between the seasons that tells stories about
how we got to be where we are today. From open source to DevOps to hardware to programming languages
and everything in between, she really tells a story and weaves together the different bits and
pieces of people who were influential and technologies that were influential and getting us from
early technology to where we are today. It's a very fascinating, well-produced,
again this is another one that you could binge watch. If you start to listen to some episodes,
you'll want to go back to the beginning and listen to them from the beginning. So you can find
it by googling Command Lying Heroes podcast or by clicking on the link in the show notes.
The last one in this episode is The Beers with Talos podcast. This is hosted by Mitch Neff, Craig
Williams, Joel Esler, Matt Olney. And they're all part of the Cisco Talos Research Center. These are
released periodically, I'll say. It's hard to get a good cadence on when they're released. These
people are all very heavily involved in security research and in a lot of investigations and
they've done a lot related to voting security relating to responding to threats relating to
discovering different types of vulnerabilities that are out there. I mean, Talos is a busy group.
And each of these folks are up to their eyeballs and work. So I can understand the
the challenges involved in getting them all together to record and release a podcast and then
having to edit it. Oh, good gravy. I would not want to be the person who has to edit this podcast.
But it's loads of fun. It's a lighthearted and sarcastic approach to
items of interest to the host. I'll say current issues and items of interest to the host.
It does revolve around information security, but it takes sometimes a tangential approach
and might throw in other things like robots attacking their owners or things like that.
You can find it by googling Beers with Talos podcast or by clicking on the link in the show notes.
So I hope that this series has helped introduce you to some new and interesting listening options.
Give them a try and I would love to get your feedback in the episode comments on the HPR website.
The next and final episode in this series will be about information security leadership podcasts
and I hope to record that soon. Thank you very much for listening.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
