Episode: 3507
Title: HPR3507: USB Turntable fix and sound journey
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3507/hpr3507.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:40:48

---

This is Haka Public Radio episode 357 for Tuesday 11th of January 2022.
Today's show is entitled, USB Tone Table Fix and Sound Journey.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 9 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is USB Tone Table Fix and Sound Journey with our report,
a sound of FFMPEG.
Hello Haka Public Radio, this is Archer 72 and in this episode this is my journey into sound,
specifically vinyl sound. It started about two years ago and I was collecting a couple of albums
before I even ran into getting a deal on a record player.
Some of my collection include songs from Journey from the albums, frontiers,
evolution, the greatest hits album and departure and two albums from Chicago.
They don't have a title on them so I don't have a title on them but one is a single record
and the other is a book of four. Then there is John Denver Rocky Mountain Christmas
and then Inside Star Trek, which was
from a live broadcast in 1967 I believe.
Direction the album was from 1976 from CBS Studios.
It includes William Shatner, a meeting captain Kirk, the origin of Spock,
Ceres Sun Spock, and on site two McCoy's prescription for life, Star Trek Philosophy,
Asimov's World of Science Fiction, a letter from a network sensor and the Star Trek Dream.
With the exception of the albums that I heard heard from my upstairs neighbors around
in the United States Independence Day, they would play patriotic music there
and saw it here from upstairs. I hadn't heard one in quite a while.
A couple of weeks ago I found a turntable at my wife's thrift store where she works,
it's called the Savers and I noticed the spindle ran while I was plugged in but the platter was
not turning or showing any signs of life but the belt had just slipped off and I figured I could
do something with it so I found something on YouTube and it's just a matter of putting the belt
back onto the platter and then kind of stretching over the spindle through the
middle part of the hole in the platter.
After I put the rubber platter cover back on, I checked out a journey record and I didn't have
it going through a sound system. I just wanted to see if it was what would even play through
the needle preamp and I did. So then I found a tutorial using alceloop
to send output through the HDMI from the Raspberry Pi to the TV.
I'll post the command but also I looked and it will also post the man page for alceloop
and it's using alceloop dash t and 500,000 which is turnt. It's in microseconds so that's about a half a
second delay between when it comes through the Raspberry Pi and when it outputs the TV
and then on other parameter that I wasn't sure about
it says default card equals b1. I found out that was found by using the aplac command dash
lorqsl and that verified that it was correct card I was using. So for the first time in 30 years
I heard a vinyl record.
The next idea was to try recording either wave or flag on it to try both and the first thing I
came across was a tutorial for using a record and they used a record dash d for device and pulse
and there's a dash v flag to put in there and it gets this stereo view meter on the command line
and then there's dash c for channels which you want to dash f is d at and that's for a special
device and dash d for duration which they had said at 900 and out.wave.
There was one change I made in this command and it was derived from using a record dash capital L
and I picked under trial error I picked hard work call on equals card equals codec
comma dev equals zero and this did work only after I killed also loop because you can't have two
sound devices at the same time. The next thing I tried was recording to flag and I was able to do
that thankfully to a unit stack exchange where they were asking how to record from mic audio straight
to flag. I could have also and that's using ffnpeg and I could actually use that to have created
the way file. The command they give is ffnpeg dash f also dash ar for audio rate 48000
dash ac1 dash i for input hard work hole in zero and the output is test file dot flag.
I made a couple of changes here too I took out dash ac1 which was down mixing the input to
to mono and I found that from the ffnpeg.org site to describe how to do different channel
minute audio channel manipulation. I also had to change hw colon zero which is hardware
to hw colon two which was based on a record dash lower k cell and that gave me the sound card
two which so I knew what to put in for a type of hardware I'm using.
My resulting command was ffnpeg dash f file uses the also sound system
and dash ar for audio rate of 48000 dash input of hardware colon two hw colon two
and my output file was test file underscore stereo dot flag and of course I found out that I could
also if I do that same test file dot wave then I get a full wave file and I'll leave the link
in the show notes about doing the audio channel manipulation.
Thank you for listening. Until next time. Bye.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio dot org.
Today's show was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for
hbr is kindly provided by an honest host.com the internet archive and our sync.net unless otherwise
stated today's show is released under a creative commons,
attribution, share like, flea dot org license.
