Episode: 3554
Title: HPR3554: Guide to the Science and Technology Section of Bitchute
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3554/hpr3554.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:21:34

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3554 for Thursday the 17th of March 2022.
Today's show is entitled Guide to the Science and Technology Section of Betute.
It is hosted by Mechatraniak and is about 13 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Guide to some cool science and tech channels on Betute.
Greetings. This is Mechatraniak, the Mechatraniak.
And thank you, Ken, for the new appellation.
Only a Brit could make a misnomer that's better than the original.
Outerly brilliant, Mechatraniak, that's exactly what I'm all about.
As we know, everything is better when you add some meta.
And today I'm going to talk about some channels on the bitch, or bitchute.
And bitchute is a video hosting platform with some very good channels, very interesting voices.
And there is one channel I'm going to talk about that may have stumbled upon a propulsion for space travel that no one's ever thought of before it seems.
I've never thought of it.
But first let's talk about the bitch.
It is a dissident friendly platform, and not only because they allow free speech up to a certain point.
My channel's got banned before merely for posting a Palestinian music video.
I guess the group that performed that video is on the double plus bad boy list.
So that's okay.
So other than free speech, other than prohibited organizations for which they'll kick you off.
Bitchute is also tour friendly, which is quite important.
As you might know, YouTube, evil YouTube, wants to know when you've gone to the bathroom.
If you posted from the bathroom and you used to post from your bedroom, they're going to want to know why they're going to want your phone number.
They'll send you text, say, oh, you're approved for that channel that you signed up for.
Yeah, it's for your convenience.
You know, it's not because Gulag YouTube wants to know your location everywhere you are.
So I used to put everything through tour.
I have a orange pie one and a raspberry pie three that I use for that purpose.
I'm homeless right now.
So what I'm going to do is build a mobile dissident platform for that.
And I'm going to put the put a bunch of batteries in a bunch of cells with a battery management.
And I'm going to put the orange pie zero or orange pie one into this contraption.
So I'll have more battery life and be able to go through tour for all my stuff.
Bit shoot is pretty important as a media alternative because as we know Gulag YouTube is evil now.
And they've they've allied with the neocons and anybody that's not a neocon or not a fake walk leftist is kicked off the scumbags like Jordan Peterson.
And the the groomers of young men into a neocon BS are still there.
This after I don't you a dissident.
If you're not a dissident, I don't know.
There's a million dead in Iraq for lies and the media that lied is still around McCain's dead.
But Tony B liar is still unpunished.
George W Bush is still unpunished.
The media that lied killed one million people in Iraq incinerated them lied.
But this isn't going to be a political podcast despite demands.
I know HPR really wants political podcasts and everybody loves to know how they are unwitting pawns hypnotized to a great evil that controls all the countries of the Commonwealth.
But this is about this is about videos.
This is about bit shoot.
So so despite the 95% defend a stable grifters that are on a bit shoot is pushing the boring left right paradigm.
There's flat earth.
There's migtow as for political as for political videos on bit shoot.
You should avail yourselves of some alt media because maybe we could have stopped those million dying in Iraq.
If more of us had access had been availing themselves of alt media such as those available on bit shoot.
I know most of them are horrible grifters.
But there is 5% or so that is absolute gold.
And one channel, especially if you think that big farmer is good now, is the core bit report.
He's well spoken.
He's not going to scare your people away when he won't get you fired.
If someone overhears, well, maybe.
But it's completely fact based.
And you should really counteract that brainwashing that's from this evil carpet structure.
This evil structure that controls the west, that controls all the countries of the Commonwealth.
And has you really hypnotized, especially after Trump split everybody down the middle.
So I'm not going to talk about that though.
We're going to talk about the structure of bit shoot right now.
So if you look at the all categories, main page of bit shoot.
There are four tabs across the top.
There's popular trending subscribed and all.
So just forget about popular and trending.
That's all garbage.
The best tag is all.
And this is a feature that YouTube I suppose used to have where every video that was uploaded.
You could see it in real time.
You could see which which videos came out.
So as a creator, it's also very good because it means people are going to actually see your stuff.
And it's not just buried right away under tons of corporate garbage like evil YouTube Google is.
Don't use Google by the way.
Use another search engine.
Try not to use YouTube either.
There's y-e-w-t-u-dot-b-e.
That's an alternative.
Oh, and by the way, I've uploaded some more robot porn to my bit shoot channel.
Bit shoot dot com forward slash channel.
Forward slash Mecca Troniac.
And I'm going to be posting some more robot stunting today.
So just talked about the all tag.
And so there's also categories.
So on the left, there's a drop down button that you can hit categories for.
And one of the categories is science and technology.
So I hang out there quite a lot.
And if by chance you're one of the rare people that don't like politics that tell you how how faulted you are and how dumb.
How much of a midwit you are for following for corporate lies.
You could go to science and technology.
Well, I guess there will be some fact based stuff there.
You might not be able to avoid the occasional love shy in cell migtow on there who's scientifically explaining.
How its women's fault that he can't get a girlfriend and flat earth and that kind of stuff.
But there also are some really great channels.
There's some from YouTube.
There's EE vlog that Australian guy Dave likes to take stuff apart.
There's Isaac author with his futurism channel.
Great stuff there to feed your mind.
There's several Linux channels and there's one called open source.
Of course, there is metatronic aka Mecca Troniac.
There's Lane OS. He hasn't posted in a while.
He went fascist, so forget him anyway.
Math easy solutions.
He has on Bitshoot and YouTube as well.
He will show you how to do calculus and algebra and stuff like that.
Hexagod, who is one of the, he's sort of a part time developer of Bitshoot.
He helps a bit, but he has his own channel as well.
He's a bit of an edge case. He's a bit of a crack, he's a bit of a crackpot.
He says that the COVID Vax has screwed up the human gene pool.
I don't find evidence for that.
He also believes in crisis actors and stuff too, which I've soundly roasted him for.
So that's a lot of fun.
My buddy CozyTime is there.
He does really great programming tutorials and more basic tutorials on building computers and stuff like that.
So do check out CozyTime.
There's Guy Yannick. I'm not sure what his last name is. Yannick kills something.
I'm not, I don't have internet, but he does machine learning and AI type stuff.
It's really high level.
The last one I'm going to talk about, the one that I teased at the start with the new mechanics.
It's grass roots, mechanical motion. Very interesting.
It's a, this old guy in his garage and he builds some devices that I would call angular momentum to directed momentum devices.
What they are is, he's got these, you know, those mechanical roller trolleys.
They used to go under cars.
He has batteries hooked up to wheels that spin around.
And there's a gear in the middle of this wheel.
The wheels set horizontally. It's metal.
And on this wheel are two gears that with arms.
And they spin out like they extend at a certain point in the rotation.
And so they're just a wonderful clanky clank clank noise to it.
But the thing is rolling forward.
Cliquity clank clank boom. It goes forward. Cliquity clank boom. It's going forward.
So could this actually work for space travel? It seems like it could.
I've come no one's ever thought about that. That's very, very interesting.
So do check that out. That's bit shoot. It's good for dissidents, good for creators.
Tor friendly, even other alternative sites like Odyssey.
They won't let you make an account using Tor.
They'll have a cloud flare thing come up. Say, oh, we're just checking your browser.
Funny thing is, bit shoot also uses cloud flare and they don't have that.
So you can just use Tor as normal on bit shoot.
So if you're making content for HPR.
It means we'll make a bit shoot channel and science and technology category.
By the way, to get into the popular tab and in the all,
you have to have like 20,000 followers, something like that.
It's ridiculous. So all these grifters are there.
But if you're in a science and technology and you make,
if you make your channel and you choose that off the bat as the main category for your channel,
you're going to end up in popular.
At least that's what I found anyway. All right. So yeah, check out bit shoot dot com
and check out my site forward slash channel forward slash mechatroniac.
This has been mechatroniac aka metatronic for HPR.
And remember, everything goes better with the meta.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
