Episode: 3591
Title: HPR3591: Small Flashlights
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3591/hpr3591.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:52:03

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3591 from Monday the 9th of May 2022.
Today's show is entitled Small Flashlights.
It is hosted by JWP and is about 11 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, stuff that goes in your pocket.
Good day everyone.
I wanted to have a short talk about lights.
Lights that you use while you go for a walk.
Normally I find that lights that I use for hunting are extremely different than lights
that I would use going for a walk or lights that I would use in the server room at work.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the lights.
So my birthday was just around the corner and I got some lights.
And normally I've been a big mag-like mini guy.
So I've always carried a mag like mini in many different formats, mostly in a pouch
with a pin and maybe a small pin knife or a Victorinox Pioneer or something like this.
So this year for my birthday I put on my Amazon wishlist and I wanted a ThinX 303R
all metal keychain flashlight and I also put I wanted an O-light.
And I've never done an O-light before.
I've only seen the ads and the O-light is for sure micro USB cable included.
So it's got a rechargeable battery and they're both up here to be very small.
And so what I'm going to do is walk you through and see actually if it's actually better
than the mini mag.
The thing about the mini mag is it's really hard after you do the ELD upgrade to break
a mini light, a mini light and to keep an extra battery, an extra AAA battery or the smallest
one, whatever AAA AA, AAA battery is it's almost nothing, it's almost nothing.
And so the first one I'll look at is the O-light.
And so for the I1R2EOS it has a high of 150 ohms at 15 minutes and that's at 100% brightness
and of course if you take the brightness down to 50%, you get 30 minutes.
The formal interesting is the 5 ohms for 6 hours.
And of course they have a, so it's waterproof, it's got the IPX8, it's impact down to 1.5
and it's good for the camera out to 400 cd, the thing about, the nice thing about it is
it's 0.4 of an ounce or 13.5 grams which if you're backpacking, you know, just a small
light is really all of that I ever need.
And so it's pretty simple, it's got a charging indicator, it's got the micro USB, a red light
indicates it's charging, a green light indicates it's completely charged and it works by the
optics.
The output brightness will decrease as the battery decreases.
The running time is the time when the brightness articulates to 30% of the initial high after
the battery is fully charged and that's really it for this one.
So let me see if it does a, so the USB, it's a pretty high quality, little USB thing.
And the drive itself, let's see if it even turns on.
So it's got a keychain at the back so you can, it's actually got a ring at the back
so you can actually put it on there.
But let's see if it actually turns on and yes it does and it's extremely bright and
you change the mode, to change the mode you just turn the lens, you turn the lens and
it's super super bright so it's exactly what you want in a really small light and if you
get stuck and you're doing a walk then you just turn it to the 5 ohm sector so it doesn't
appear to be like a big in between.
So either you have the full Monte or you, you have, so no it's, so you turn the back
is off and then if you turn the front it doesn't, not for sure, yeah so the back is what
controls everything.
So if you turn it all the way on it's got the 150 and if you turn it all the way off
it's got the small and so it's all controlled in the back there.
And I'll have to see how the USB works on it.
So let's move to the next one.
Okay so first off hats off to the Phoenix people man that's a super tough case that they
got.
I guess they weren't playing around when they wanted to be sure that you weren't going
to steal it from them or not.
And so it, the E03R is all metal, key chain, flash light with a maximum output of 260
ohms and the beam distance is a maximum of 42 meters and it comes in a variety of languages.
So the English, so it's got a white light which is LD and Everlight 2835 red light, LD
with a lifespan of 50,000 hours.
It's got a built-in 200 nl app, uni, polymer battery, battery indication and low level
warning.
It's got an intelligent overheat protection against the high surface temperature, all metal,
CNC machining, light body, premium type, H, A3, hardened, anodized, anti abrasive finish,
recess switch and lookout function.
It's 1.85 inches by 0.94 inches by 0.47 or if you want to do it a metric, it's 47 by
24 by 12 millimeters and it's a little heavier than the other one.
It's 0.78 ounces or 22 grams.
So the other one was 15 grams and this one is 22 grams.
So on off, you press the on, on the on switch for half a second and hold the switch to
turn on the red light for 1.2.
So half a second turns it on and this one does not have any battery.
So out of the box, it doesn't have any battery.
It doesn't have any battery and it doesn't have any battery.
So 1.2 for red light, 1.5 for bright light and the output selection, the white light
click the switch to cycle through echo low medium high and of course if you pick the echo
or low, the light lasts a lot better.
It has a lock switch when the light switched off, double click the switch to lock the light
and the light will blink twice on load indicate.
Okay and charging.
First switch off the light, plug in the USB-A socket of the charging into the cable, USB
socket of those USB, so that's even better.
The indicator will display red while charging and will turn to green when fully charged.
So exactly like the other one.
Once the charging is complete, be sure to close the anti-dubbs cover, note the normal charging
times approximately 1 hour and 20 minutes from depletion to full charging.
And you have the light, you can have a constant, you can flash, you can do red constant or
you can do red flashes and red flashes are the, it lasts the longest and that's why I
really liked it because I can go on a walk and use the red flashes and it works really
well so the bus doesn't run me over.
On high at 260 ohms, it will last for three quarters an hour and have a distance of 42 meters
with an intensity of 444, candle layer.
And medium, it's 80 and it lasts for an hour and 15 minutes, it has a distance of 25 meters
and it does 146 so it's a huge difference between high and medium and low, it does study
ohms, it does 3 hours, 16 meters, echo, it does 5 ohms, it lasts 18 hours, it has 7 meters
and 13 candle, red, it does, red, if it's full time red, it does 5 hours, 30 minutes, 10
meters with 25 candle and if it's red flashing, it only has 4 ohms but it seems to last almost
for, it doesn't have to say, it just has flashes so I would be willing to bet that it lasts
longer than the echo mode with the white light.
And it has impact resistance of only 1 meter and it's IP68, IP68, all right and I'll
get it charged up and I hope it works really well.
All right, hey you all have a great day and thank you for letting me do this podcast.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does org, today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
on cast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is, hosting
for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released on our Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0
International License.
