Episode: 3687
Title: HPR3687: 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 6
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3687/hpr3687.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:08:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,687 for Tuesday, the 20th of September 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Hacker Public Radio 2021-2022 New Year's Show Part 6.
It is hosted by Hong Kimagoo and is about 186 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is, the HP, our community, comes together to chat.
Are you a hamburger?
Yeah, enthusiast, by the way.
Yeah, I have not got the experience.
Well, I think my grandfather did it, though.
As you know, my family did that.
As yes, as yes.
We have a covering planning plan to convert everybody to a hamburger radio operator.
It's my secret plan for the whole 20s.
I did hear a good show the other day about someone talking about their licence.
And, you know, with boats and things, you need a licence to get to be on the water, don't you?
So, if it's easy, I might get into that later in life.
Yeah.
Well, as you noticed, all my conversations were drifted towards the sound radio.
They, I will say, just if you get your foundation licence really with the level of,
from what I've, from your technical level based on what you're submitting shows on HBR,
you would have no problem just getting the technical level.
And that gives you the ability to use purchased radios, so 50 euro or 50 pounds.
So, 50 pound Chinese made handheld.
And then you can operate it on water on the inland riverways in the UK.
Oh, thank you.
There's a guy over the street from here that has got like a big, like two poles, basically,
one on either side of his house and a big wire stretched over the top is clearly into it.
And I mentioned to him about messing with it a few years ago,
and he was just the horror on his face.
He was like, don't mess with it.
Like, please don't interfere.
Why was that just so that you just, I don't know, I think I was coming across very unprofessionally.
And it's fair for him to point it out.
It was, you know, good advice.
So, the foundation exam is 27 quid.
If you can't afford that, I'll pay it for you.
Oh, thank you.
No, I could do it.
I might look at the content like how long it would take and what crossover there is.
They're doing all their exams online at the moment.
So, I'm for the foundation exam.
You don't need a dual set up.
So, you're just doing and they have two screens.
It's like a WebEx conference.
And then you get to this website where it's a quiz multiple choice and you click through.
And basically, if you read the foundation book, I put a link into the webpage.
The foundation book is, you know, it's maybe 50 pages and it's mostly welcome to the hobby.
And, you know, this is a very, very little that you need to do in order to get your license.
And then you can then you at least have a call, I'm radio call site.
Everybody should get that because, yeah, then you're at least able to use repeat orders.
And, you know, in the case of any emergency or anything, you can legally
communicate as well.
You have to have the radio in your hand and during the course of the emergency,
your, you know, all bets are off and you can help with communications and stuff.
I'm looking at you as well, Tony.
Why?
That's a good thing to do.
I've got so many hobbies and that's the beauty of how I'm radio.
It's compatible with all of them.
Yeah, I'm just taking a look at that webpage.
I've just pinned it so I can have a read of it later.
For sure, in an emergency or in any, just to be fluent and to not get in the way to be able
to use that network, I do see that as a useful skill.
Although they do, there are people trained specifically for
within the amateur radio service to have people who are, you know, trained up.
So if any of them turn up, you know, as soon as they turn off,
you step down and all the way you go.
I'm back.
Hi, I'm right.
I'm going to disappear for a couple of minutes.
I've got going to be bread in the open.
Oh, very good.
40 minutes and this thing is done.
Yeah, hopefully I'll be back just for a few minutes before I have to go and take it out
the open again.
We can see if we can beat our previous record of $19 for the longest after show.
Was it nice, you know?
What was that?
Was that when I was going to get to go in?
It was a few years ago.
That was the one I kept going.
It was one that probably, yeah, probably.
For the conversation, the talk of amateur radio.
Has your son gone to bed now?
No, they're both staying up.
I was surprised to hear my daughter was on as well.
Yeah, she was.
I'm not sure if that's the first female sounding voice
that I've heard on here.
It's the only host.
I know there's, although I don't know exactly what's named Sig Flop.
Yeah, I think that was who it was on last night, wasn't it?
American woman, yeah.
I was she, I missed her.
Oh, I would have liked to have a chat.
I don't even know if I ever spoke to her in person, to be honest.
Oh, of the email that was in real life.
That's a busy.
Yeah, I think it was her, anyway.
Yeah, yes, whatever.
Yeah, whatever's called.
What is the flop?
Is that a signal, like a kernel signal?
I don't know.
You'd have to ask for it, I guess.
I might just Google in there.
I'm sorry, searching my terminal.
I don't think there's a signal.
There's probably some kind of joker reference in there.
There's a hop.
Yeah, grab a coffee and back into this.
Feel free to continue to talk about how to redo what I'm done.
Well, what I've noticed now is that,
obviously, it works, all of us in Europe.
Now, I think, I think obviously,
clacky at a minute because you're back in Sweden
and then the other guy must be English as well.
Clacky, you're just back visiting area.
All right, you're heading back to Hong Kong, aren't you?
I'm heading back, so I've been here for two
until Wednesday next week, and then I'm heading back to Hong Kong.
Okay, very good.
It is in your time zone currently, but not for that much longer.
Yeah, so I've been here for three weeks,
and then when I come back to Hong Kong,
I'm going to be three weeks in isolation hotel.
Oh, you go to the COVID thing.
I go very straight with, oh, yeah.
Very strict, yeah.
So I booked, do you even get on the plane?
You need to have the vaccines, the recent test,
like the last three hours,
and you need to have the hotel booked.
And I had booking for two weeks,
and then they bumped Sweden to risk zone A,
so I had to have three, and I thought I couldn't fly here.
But then, actually, when I talked to the hotel,
they managed another week.
Actually, yeah, I couldn't think of it.
You're probably lucky that you can go to Sweden
because at the moment, because that's like the one country
in Europe, and probably most of the world,
to be honest, that didn't even do a lockdown.
Doesn't China claim only 5,000 deaths from COVID-19?
From, like, SARS-CoV-2?
Yeah, they can claim that.
It is remarkably low.
But, like, if you were really strict, maybe?
They had a bad experience with SARS original,
didn't they?
Yeah, and Hong Kong has doing really well
because everyone was so prepped from SARS 1.0.
So, like, the minute people heard
there was an epidemic going on,
everyone masked up immediately, and one have masks,
and one is already washing their hands all the time.
Wasn't SARS original, like, a 50% death rate or something?
No, it was terrible, but not terrible.
It was 10%, which is pretty bad already.
Yeah, that is bad.
So, there were only, like, 8,000 people infected by SARS,
and 800 of them died.
For Hong Kong or China?
In total, I love Hong Kong and SARS original.
And the lucky thing with COVID-19 in 2003,
that was that the virus was so aggressive,
and the incubation was so short,
that you only transmitted it while you were having symptoms.
So, it kind of killed itself very quickly,
otherwise it would be a terrible thing.
Yeah, question is, how did COVID start?
Well, we're getting to terminology.
Do we really want to go there?
I mean, those viruses, the corona viruses.
Like, I don't know, like, just reference
this week in virology, they do a good podcast about all viruses,
and they got some old guard on there,
more modern than they talked for hours about virology in general.
And then, of course, when SARS-CoV-2 came along.
I think the first comment I heard on there was,
oh, we've got this outbreak in Wuhan province.
We've got 19 cases.
Do you think this will go anywhere?
And they said, oh, I probably burn itself out like the last one.
But then they just talked about mostly, like,
they doubled the number of programs.
So, they've got all sorts of information,
like proper virology information on there.
But my concern is, like, obviously, it's a weapons delivery system,
and you can, you can, with CRISPR or whatever,
you can put other things in there.
That's even if you need a bad actor,
because, like, nature throws up viruses every...
There's plague every few hundred years, and they kill, you know,
they can kill a significant portion of the population.
It's just a matter of when, if you think, in terms of other biological populations,
and then it's about what's your response to a societal breakdown, you know?
So, are you saying it came from the lab, or possible, possibly?
I'm saying it doesn't matter.
The disease has always been the biggest killer.
Like, for years and years, like, it's worse than war.
War always makes things a lot worse,
but disease is the biggest killer,
whether you, like, that's heart disease or cancer.
I think, for years, when I was younger,
it was dysentery, was the biggest killer in the world,
and you could solve that with a sugar and salt solution.
And it has just showed you how messed up, like,
how have you want to term it, the sharing out is in the world,
that it killed so many people.
But, yeah, how do you, like, field hospitals
and supply chains relating to, like, keeping just giving people water and food,
is really important.
And you're just lucky in a country that's had
political stability based on weaponry for, like, a century or so.
That's not the norm in history.
And hopefully, like, things will get better,
but it doesn't matter who made it or it came from.
It's what the people do with it,
and don't underestimate the power of stupid, as they say.
So, does it matter about it?
The killer is still malaria, isn't it?
Of transmissible diseases that aren't, like, diet related, or, you know,
it might be, it's a scary one.
And the numbers are mad on that for the number of bites.
People can be bitten, like, a thousand times a day,
like, 500 times a day or something,
and, like, of the females that have eaten, had another blood amel,
like, the numbers are crazy on all of that.
I just looked at the population numbers for humans,
and we were at seven, like, the, I know, it's an estimate,
about 7.917 billion, like, by the end of the year,
it'll be 8 billion, like, in about six months time.
Yeah, we'd, and we'd just basically take over the world as well,
human beings. In general, we're, and we wreck it,
with our pollution, and that our cars, and our factories,
and that all the rest of it.
Yeah, to get your head around what that means, as a, like,
I know people struggle to, because I kind of identify with being human,
but they, as an individual, it's quite different
from the impact of your population.
Well, well, yeah, that's true.
In some ways, we contribute to plastic waste,
and all the things we do.
But then that, where you splung person out of billions,
that also doing the same thing, basically.
Yeah, and it's fun to live, like, the average, isn't it?
So, if you considered, if you multiplied your actions
by 8 billion, like, what should you do?
And that's a fun, a fun thought experiment.
And some of it, some of it's, well, let's take plastic
waste as an example.
It's, you're in the UK, obviously, as well.
It's not just here, it's everywhere, but it's disgusting,
because it's absolutely everywhere.
You buy a bit of food, and you've got plastic waste on it, basically.
That plastic could stick around for over 50 years, potentially.
And then when it breaks down, it's going to go into
microplastic, which isn't good either, a lot of it.
And a lot of it is because the company is doing it.
It's cheap, and the governments don't, like, say,
oh, no, actually, you need to look at alternative,
seriously, now, what can you do instead,
because you just do it, do it, do it.
Right, and that's how, that's part of the human problem,
is that it's going to take the inertia in the change in behaviour,
in a population, and what tools are at your disposal
to send out information in a way that people can act on it,
and make a difference, you know?
Yeah.
The plastic situation in Hong Kong is absolutely this.
When you go shopping, the first phrase you need to learn in
Cantonese is no bag, because people try to give you bags all the time.
No, I have a shopping bag.
No, no, I don't want to bag it around my banana seed there.
No, I don't need a bag around my cold goods,
just giving the stuff I'll put it in my backpack.
Oh, oh, that reminds me, a friend sat down in here,
and maybe Hong Kong is the same, that when they have
rice, you don't just get like one big bag of rice,
they put like a plastic bag around the very small amount of rice,
and then you, yeah?
I don't know, Hong Kong is not like that at all.
When you buy rice, you buy this big five kilo bag,
and it's just the big bag.
Yeah, I imagine it's sack, it's sack amounts, isn't it?
Yeah, we've got sacks in our supermarket actually down the road,
it's they're getting pretty big, the sacks.
You have this sort of vacuum bag,
so you buy this five kilo bag, but it's more like a brick of rice,
because it's been, all the air has been sucked out,
and it's hyper compressed.
What's your supermarket, I was going to say?
Little, little have got big, they've got to be bigger than five,
they might be tens, they're not 25s.
I bought things in 25s before from,
like I'd get it from a whole food shop,
and I'd bring it home on a push chair,
yeah, on the tray of a push chair,
I'd push it that one seven miles,
and have a sack underneath in a sack in where the child would go.
Like a double up push chair,
and I push that between towns,
and you could get like 25 kilos of soy beans for about 12 pounds,
then, and a sack of wheat for like a tenor.
Yeah, little is, well, little can be okay,
but they do have the, possibly,
or, I mean, I've seen the compostable bags in little as well,
the green ones, like co-op, do the cooperative.
Although with them, they've totally got rid of all their plastic bags,
now, I believe, which is fine,
except if you've got some really heavy items,
because then they break, of course,
but we'll just option that.
Now, little's got a lot of bags,
and there's a lot of plastic,
they do freezer bags,
even those Hessian sacks aligned with a plastic,
and they spoil it by sticking a big little logo on it.
Like, it was a cool looking bag.
I'd use those sack bags all the time.
They're, you know, they get littered about the place,
but for the, you know,
they blast the happy shopper on it or something,
and no, I don't know.
So the co-op cooperative, they've got the green compostable bags,
and I've had that for years,
but they still use plastic bags.
But now, as of about a year, I believe,
they've got rid of the plastic bags completely.
Also, they do some online shopping,
depending on where people are,
because I've done some of this.
But the only problem then is that when you order online,
it comes in nice green bags.
You pay 20 P for them,
but then your name and your contact details
and your library number will stuck on them on a label,
which people have complained on the internet,
because secondly, try and take that off.
The bag reps, and it's like, yeah,
you don't want anybody to have your,
if you're going to use the bag again,
you probably don't want to label
with all your details on it, do you?
I saw a video of someone on an island,
and they were making out, well, they were,
they were tidying up the beach
and getting all the plastic items that have washed up,
and they're putting them in a big metal barrel
and cooking them up into various fractions of fuel oil.
I mean, obviously that's nasty,
but it's also was nasty on the beach.
Oh, yeah, there was an article a few months back
on one of those news websites, you know,
that some 10-year-old had been,
boy had been picking up less to one the beach for his dad,
and he found a crisp packet from 1980
that was, the coloring was mostly washed off,
but you could see it was from 1980, yeah.
So he was like, oh, this is older than I am,
and it's like, yeah.
That's a survivor.
Well, we haven't, that's the whole point.
It sticks around in the sea because it's plastic.
The coloring might wash off,
but the plastic itself.
Yeah, turtles think they're jellyfish,
don't they? There's all sorts of nasty
going on, there's big islands and stuff,
but how do you, like the point I was trying to make earlier
is how slow humans are to react to it
and change the situation in the time
that it appears we have left to solve stuff?
Well, yeah, and there's also landfill sites
that I read in under article,
where that was a few months back,
where that was about in the UK,
there are landfill sites that have been,
the old landfill sites that have been put by the sea,
and now, because before they had regulations
on where you can do landfill sites,
and now a lot of them are basically leaking out
their rubbish into the sea now,
which isn't great either.
I got a friend way back,
and he was redeveloped brownfield sites
and did, like, asbestos sampling and stuff,
and he was looking into getting the license
to dig up old landfill sites
to reclaim the aluminium from them,
because, like, before recycling,
I don't know where that went.
I don't know, well, that's the point.
They must be a way to break down plastic.
I think there is sort of,
but that's more seen as a,
oh, that's the future.
I mean, let people who aren't even born yet
deal with it, that's the attitude, isn't it?
You know what I mean?
For sure, and also, there's a local bloke
who sent us the numbers,
like, our local authority,
it's a small city,
it's a city of about 60,000,
like, a big town.
And he was saying,
the local authority sells all of its
recycled, the stuff it gets from the plastics,
recycling bins,
to Biffa.
And he did the numbers on, like,
I think Biffa gave them about £8,000 a year for it,
and he was saying, like,
probably sorted that 60 grand or something.
So, like, plastics,
one of the things you can recover,
if you do it properly.
Yeah, where are you based then?
I'm in the Midlands.
Oh, right.
Okay, I'm in Bristol.
Yeah, you're more forward thinking over that end.
And what they also used to do apparently a lot,
and maybe they still do it at times,
be honest,
is that they don't, like, you think,
yeah, I'm going to send a plastic bottle out to my council,
and it's going to get recycled
or an Italian box for whatever it is.
And apparently,
a lot of it doesn't just get recycled.
In fact, some of it has,
in the past more so,
it means sent off to Indonesia for storage or burning.
So, that's why I've heard.
Yeah, I've heard countries are sending it back as well,
because they're getting such nasty loads and naps
that they're just refused to recycle,
and they sent it back to the country.
That's China's started to do it.
But on the subject of local authorities,
I was told by hours that they shredded everything.
So, all of the glass and everything
that was going in with the plastics
into the same truck and the paper,
they just shred all of that,
and then they blow it up into the air
to separate it or something.
I don't know, but probably a lot of stuff
is not being recycled properly in reality.
That's what we do know.
Maybe they just blow up into the air.
That's it.
I know hours, they incinerate the black bin waste now,
and they did win an award for,
like, one of the years,
they got the bet for recycling,
and then shortly after that,
they just stopped doing the compost,
like, food waste.
They said, put all that in the black bin,
we're burning it now.
Oh, food waste.
Now, that's another one.
So, I've got a flat,
and a flat block of flat,
flat, obviously.
However, did you not pick up food waste
from flats for some reason?
But they do take it from houses.
And separately, or mixed in?
No, they just say, if you're on a flat,
but you've got any food waste,
just bin it in the normal black bag.
They don't take it from flats at all
for some reason, I'm not sure why,
but they do from houses.
Oh, I don't know.
But yeah, they incinerate,
they say to us that we'll make energy out of it,
so they're incinerating our black bin waste.
That's, yeah, that's what sometimes it can do as well.
Make, yeah, make energy out of things,
which is probably good, really.
But it obviously costs to do that as well, doesn't it?
It does, but you think by now,
like, I remember thinking this as a kid,
like, 30 years ago in school,
40 years ago in school,
that the incinerators,
can't they just filter the smoke out?
Isn't there some way it, like,
electrostatical,
some process where they can,
and I know it's expensive,
and they say they won't do it for that reason?
But when you know that money is just like this invented thing,
and it's all about the energy,
then, you know, it seems like,
well, when it be okay,
if we just stop the stuff coming out?
Somebody said you can post,
I don't know if this is true, really,
but possibly with some of this,
I think you can take the smoke and kind of, like,
store it, then put in the ground for storage.
I'm not sure if that's true quite, but...
That sounds like carbon capture and storage,
but I'm thinking, yeah, you can, if you can catch it,
you can do things with it,
like, you can put it in a tank and use it
for carbon dioxide.
But you'd think, like, if there's anything coming out,
that's a particular, as a smoke,
you can either filter it or blow it back in to re-burn it.
And I know that can be done,
and then there's ways, like,
the chemical waste situation from,
you can rinse smoke as well,
but then you have to deal with the liquids
or the stuff that's dissolved in the liquids,
and there's whole industries relating to
dealing with those effluence.
But, yeah, I don't know whether, you know,
you can only be interested,
I can only interest myself so long in that.
It's clacky still here,
because what I've heard, I think,
hopefully, is because what I've heard
before, and seen on the news,
is that, obviously, China, in certain parts,
has been very, very polluted,
because they're always making things over there,
how he is in Hong Kong,
which, you can probably debate if that should be China
or not, depending on what you're talking to.
But, and I assume the pollution issue isn't quite as bad there,
but maybe it isn't bad enough, I don't know.
Well, it's clearly China,
like it's joined on, even, pretty much.
But, yeah, they've got a bad pollution situation,
industrially, but they've brought a lot of people out of poverty,
and maybe they thought they'd clean up the mess afterwards,
or maybe some people think, well, it's a desert anyway,
but the fact is, like, poison is poison,
and it hangs around.
Yeah, I'll, I'm a same with car pollution, isn't it?
Parts of London are the most polluted places in the UK.
I'd worry about the food, like the water and the food,
especially with diminishing
fresh water supplies and the encroachment of seawater
into agricultural areas, apart from people,
when they pull out the water from the water table,
that allows more seawater to come in,
and also with irrigation that brings the salt up to the surface,
and then you can't use those fields to grow plants anymore,
because you obviously can't rinse the salt out of the top layers of the soil.
But, yeah, I know you can reclaim land with fungus and stuff,
but again, you back into the time constraint of how many harvests you've got left,
and how much fertility there is left in the soil,
and when the plants stop flowering, and all of that.
Well, I think in car pollution, again,
like I'm in a reasonably built built up,
well, no, I'm in a busy place when it's the day.
It really is busy, there's, there's,
because by, I say, it's, well, it's by a city, really, I would say.
So, I get all the sort of city traffic coming through to band,
and it's just, it's just disgusting going out there at about five o'clock.
I tend to avoid that time,
unless I have to be out there for obvious reasons,
because you just go, you just walk out there,
and you have to walk, you know, walk past me out of cars and everything,
and I'm thinking like, what am I breathing in here, really?
Hmm, it's probably not that great, really.
It's just, it's just disgusting, and an electric car,
I mean, one idea was electric cars are going to take off,
but we're not quite there yet.
Another idea is, I think it was bio fuel or something.
Again, we're not there yet with that either.
And then all the talk about flying cars for you,
a bit of fun in 2020, 2022 now,
because that's the future and things,
movie, that was fun.
But, well, we're not getting flying cars on you time,
so you need that.
But my point is, we just pollute,
it's just pollution coming out at the end.
It biofuels work, but they have their own issues as well.
Ah, class you back.
Yeah, they have been Sweden, don't they?
Oh, partly.
Yeah, so Sweden has had quite a few vehicles,
now they could run off ethanol,
then the problem is where do you get F,
and that's not entirely uncontroversial in itself.
We've got huge energy problems,
and if you, you know, I thought,
back in days when I was thinking of disaster relief,
and taking food to people,
it soon occurs to you that you can bring the people to you
for the same weight.
And that's not the issue, it's cultural integration.
So there's, why do people even need to use cars?
You can really rearrange things,
so that obviously people with mobility needs are going to need,
maybe need vehicles,
but with some planning,
you can make things more efficient.
And to remember that,
like there's a citizen in Russia where they have to leave
the cars running for like,
I don't know how many months of the year
for the winter, basically.
24 hours a day,
so they'll park their car and they'll leave it running,
and they'll come back to it in the morning
and get in it and drive off.
And if you leave it for like half an hour,
it just freezes up,
and you see all these other cars around
that have got like eight inch thick ice
just all over them until the summer.
And you can't see, you know,
the visibility in that city,
I forget the name of it.
It looks like minus 50 usually.
It is not very far, you know,
like 50 meters or 60 meters or something.
Well, people use cars,
because, well, sometimes they kind of have to,
because they really are going long distances.
However, a lot of the time,
they're not really going that long distances,
it's just because we're a country
where most people can't afford to have cars.
And it's all sort of been the system,
you need to travel for a meter,
be for work or something,
or leisure activity, maybe,
whatever the reason is,
sometimes you could walk those distances,
or you could possibly get a bus, actually.
But then you get back into the hang on,
I don't have buses and all the rest of it,
and then probably isn't really.
And today, I think there's only one bus service
running around here, and it's not mine,
because I was looking at the website for that.
And it's, I'm thinking like,
I'm thinking like, yeah, it's New Year's Day,
but you know what?
There should probably be a few more buses going,
even today,
because yeah,
get people off out of their cars,
you can still travel somewhere,
but they're not thinking it through very well
in that sense.
But the bullet buses aren't perfect either,
because they also pollute the course,
but at least it would stop having certain cars
on the road, potentially,
if they're all trams,
or trains, or other ways to get around.
But most of our cities and places
are not really set up with that in mind,
it's just set up for the road.
When you live in a place that looks like Hong Kong,
you really don't need,
uh, but then in the end,
people have cars,
and yeah,
cars are faster, aren't they?
You've got to remember that's the tide of humanity,
that they're going to,
people are going to do what they do,
and yeah, you can step out of it if you try.
It's how much you care about.
Yeah, if you have a car,
it's basically you need a second apartment for the car.
It costs about the same price
for you to have a parking as you're not flat,
and the car also needs maintenance and here in the sun.
So it really is,
even if you drive every day,
it's basically to take the taxi.
So it's really mo...
I was state to just say,
like, I'm rich,
or I've got some money,
so yeah, I have a car,
everyone else,
no, I'll get,
I'll get a cheaper taxi.
And yeah, that kind of,
that makes sense.
It's also habit,
and people think,
like if they've got children,
then the school,
and then there's hospitals,
like how close I'm out of the hospital,
so there's worry,
but it's really probably an artifact of capitalism,
really, like making people feel that they need
to do what they do for money,
and they're obliged,
and therefore,
they,
we've all the competition,
and the urgency,
people do that really unusual,
like imagine that big,
like moving a ton of steel around,
it's like a big old traction engine, really.
Well, yeah, yeah,
and it's,
and also,
it wasn't really set up for work at home, was it?
However, when the first lockdown here,
last year,
sorry, not last year now,
it was to 2022, obviously.
So, 2020,
you're right.
Well, actually,
there's one last place going in 10 minutes,
I think, and that means this show is officially over,
but we'll carry on doing after the show,
I think,
but anyway,
I'm sure Ken will be coming back,
saying that in a minute.
But what I was going to say is,
when the first lockdown happened,
it was good for pollution,
because
lots of people really were staying at home,
around the world, I believe, as well.
And, you know, not many,
I went out here, for example,
I went to my local shop,
and there's a car park there,
and stuff, and like I said,
it's usually quite busy place in the day,
but it was lovely,
because there were like,
Harley-Anne cars on the road,
the car park,
and there's not cut Harley-Anne cars in it as well.
And now here we get,
and now we're going back to what we call normal,
where it's just like I'm saying,
there's just cars everywhere,
when it's busy.
I mean, it's nice here in the night time,
about,
about after midnight 2am normally,
because
about all I get there for traffic
is to bus every hour,
ambulances,
because there's no hospital nearby,
or nearby enough,
and taxi's a bit,
and a few cars here and down,
and a boil mailed delivery,
because there's a post-place down there as well,
and that's about it,
and you can cross the road,
and it's reasonably quiet,
and it's just nice,
but then come 5.30 in the morning,
on a weekday and stuff,
here we go again,
you know, it gets busy again,
but it was nice to lock down,
lack of cars,
because you could sort of go out there,
and it was like,
oh, that's nice,
but yeah,
it only lasted so long.
There is a period of time,
even if you,
at the point where people,
if they were to stop
emitting a lot of particulates
into the air, like smoke and pollution,
the period where that falls out of the air,
which is quite short,
and that results in,
because all of that stuff is actually blocking
energy coming into the earth,
like it's bad pollution,
but ironically,
when you stop doing that,
there's a period where you get
a bit of an increase in global temperature,
as more radiation can get through,
because the pollution's not blocking it.
It's not the block you need,
that pollution in any way.
It's just that that is also going to affect,
it affects numbers when it drops out.
I think I just remembered something.
I watched, well,
I partly watched one of those,
whatever from the documentaries
that came on BBC One, right,
last year,
Ash, I'm going to say 2021 now,
aren't I?
However, yeah,
and I think they were saying something like,
with the first lock down,
but whilst it was all,
whilst the cars were off the roads,
a lot of them,
and all this,
but the factors were closed as well.
Apparently,
if I've got this correct now,
I think this is correct.
Apparently, the pollution levels
basically went down
by, sort of, like,
14 years back to, sort of,
2006 levels,
which isn't perfect,
but it kind of shows
that there was a difference,
and I think they'll probably make globally,
as well,
but that's something, isn't it?
And it shows you what can be done,
that people didn't,
like, when it came to it,
people were so concerned about their own personal safety
that they did change their behaviour,
but it seems to take
that kind of a threat to,
at least somebody's loved ones,
were, you know,
to every individual person,
for them to actually change their behaviour.
And it's nice that that wasn't,
like, a war.
But it's,
you mean, we're being scared or unsure about Covid,
so it's, like, the first time in particular,
so people are basically doing what they're told,
no problem, or for the most part,
is that, and is that what you meant?
Well, they changed their behaviour,
which they, it seems they weren't willing to do
just on the abstract idea
that the whole population would die
in 100, 200 years or something.
Like, they're not concerned about that,
but if you tell them that they might drown
in their own mucus,
they're not changing their behaviour,
and maybe that's, you know,
that's just humans for you.
Not all of them, to be fair.
Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
you mean, you've got to sort of be scared
enough to do something.
Your government, your government is telling you
to do this now,
and a lot of people are going to be like,
okay, that might affect me if I catch it.
I think that's kind of what you're saying.
Has tag not all of you.
Right, I mean, there is,
I mean, it's interesting, isn't it?
The way people are thinking more about the quality
of their jobs and their lives,
after they've had this brief kind of imposed meditation
where their life's going,
and when they had an opportunity to escape
from the normal routine,
because they had, they could say,
look, what about not dying,
or what about my grand not dying,
that they had this or the like,
I was surprised that the government
closed down their economies,
because they didn't,
it's not their default behaviour,
which made me wonder what else was going on.
But of course, there is pressure
that from people and a lot of those world leaders
are having for themselves.
Oh, I've just thought of something,
we're getting to the actual show as well,
because it's going to finish soon,
very soon, I believe,
but I just thought of being right,
the economy, yeah, first lockdown,
you're right, they closed the economy,
because closed the pubs,
because you're going to socialise,
you're going to spread the virus
potentially and make it kind of make sense.
It all does make sense, really.
However, here's the thing,
and you're in the UK as well,
so perfect and easy,
and Europe will have similar things,
but I'll see here,
in England,
because Wales got the normal line
of done-rowing thing in a bit anyway,
Wales have some slight restrictions, actually,
but we have not had any restrictions put back
at the moment,
except for the where masking the shop,
where masking,
and on public transport,
attacks, EU trains.
So we basically just had Christmas,
a normal Christmas, or pretty much,
people socialising, mixing,
and New Year's as well.
The question is,
are we now going to pay the price for this
as a country?
Well, actually,
when I want to go out and do things,
I want to go to the cinema in January,
I want a little bit,
I want to do a hybrid meeting
for a public speaking group,
which is supposed to be going
to plan otherwise and things.
But are we going to be potentially paying the price
for this now in January?
I think he's going to announce on Monday,
possibly Boris Johnson,
but we're going to have a lockdown
or some sort of restriction.
Is something coming now?
Are we going to pay the price
for some of this freedom,
Eureka, or not?
It's a question.
I'm always wondering about what people in power
are doing to protect their power.
So, you know,
are we going to get another lockdown
coming in January or a circuit break
and they call them?
Is it going to be more restrictions
or is it going to be like,
oh, you know what?
Yeah, we'll live with non-lican now.
It'll be like a flu
and just keep on getting vaccinated people.
I don't live in a locker
and in what's the word,
a city where it's all close together.
So things have been fairly similar for me.
I know in the big cities
there was way more strict policing.
So I'm not sure how much,
like it's difficult for me to comment on
when you say freedom.
I think it's a bit of a small issue
as far as raw and England is concerned.
But the wider
ask the wider considerations
of authoritarian states
like making the most of any situation
that's more what I'm concerned about.
What do you mean making most of?
There are always people who are keen
on hanging onto power
will use every situation.
It doesn't matter what it is.
So you have to read between the lines
and maintain, you know,
like to make sure I still talk to all of my friends
not lose touch with people
because history.
Well, yeah, well, yeah.
I mean, we've not done that on the internet
and stuff luckily,
but I know it's not what you meant,
but I mean, yet, although it would be 1990,
it would be much more a problem
when they contact going in contact
with your friends and so on.
But if there was like a lockdown pandemic
that we've just had
and some countries also restrict
that more communication,
like how you can communicate
with people basically as well.
And if, like, if your whole population
is needing to use electronic communication,
then it's just, I don't know, they...
All right. Well, I think this is the last place
going into the new year.
I don't see Ken back,
but I assume he's going to
close the official show
in a bit or how it works.
Well, happy new year.
I've got breakfast to do.
Or midday lunch, brunch, yeah, yeah.
I'm hungry.
Happy new year, er, sector planets.
Yeah, happy new year, um,
22 to the whole world, isn't it?
2022.
So now we can have...
Now, I guess, this NAFTA show
whatever happens, isn't it?
I don't know if this distinction
is very important.
No, and we were happy with them.
We were, what, what,
no, you can compare something else.
That's fine.
Yorgis Venskolk, so how's Vensk?
I've spoken to you before.
I remember, I remember.
And there was another Swedish guy
on last night as well.
Uh-huh.
It was called Erlock Z-Cold.
No, I just speak to you before,
on this, a year ago, two years ago, maybe.
Yeah, I've been on one certain
ice before.
I'm not sure which year it's actually.
I think I was on last year,
but yeah, it was.
And then the two years ago,
I was going to go on,
but didn't happen.
I think that's what happened.
And then I've been on the other ones a bit as well.
It's Tony there or not.
I am.
Can you hear me?
Yeah.
Yeah. Did you, did you want something?
Or just checking me?
Well, I was lit up.
It's like, it's like, I want to speak
potentially, so.
No, it's just I haven't got a mute set up, so.
Wait, were you in England as well?
I think we from.
Blackpool.
Oh, Blackpool, yeah, that's, um,
about as far north as you can get, isn't it?
And then you hit Scotland pretty much, isn't it?
No, no, there's a few miles before you get to Scotland.
It's, uh, uh, it's about and, uh,
now we're in a quarter.
It's drive to the border.
Oh, it's still, oh, it's still an hour and a quarter.
It's not, yeah, it's not that bad then.
Yeah.
So where are you based?
I'm by Bristol.
Ah, right, okay.
Well, I've just dropped back in before I go off shopping.
Are there shops actually open where you are?
I mean, maybe some are.
Get this new year's day, isn't it?
Yeah, it's new, it's new year's day rather than, um,
Christmas day.
So I think they'll be doing bank holiday hours today.
Food shopping, is that?
Well, yeah, I'm going to go to one of the supermarkets, uh, um,
little, uh, the, the, I don't know whether you shop in little,
but they've got the middle aisles.
They call it the middle little when you get techy store.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The guy just now who was on spoon was also briefly matching little,
where we were talking about plastic, plastic bags and waste and stuff.
And he was saying in little, it was coming by so quite now.
But, um, but no, no, no, I've got, I've got, I've got a little,
I've got two little's quite near me in a way.
There's one down the road, a bit kind of, and then the other one's a bit first
down the other road and it loads lots of little's around here.
There's another little down the other place, and there's another one there,
and there's another one down there, and then it's probably about,
what about, I think there was an article about it.
There's about, um, in Bristol and it's surrounding areas and I'm not,
I'm not going to be exact, but it's probably about 15 little something now.
10 to 15 little's, that's how it really is a little bit of Aldi around as well.
Yeah, we've got Aldi as well.
In fact, Aldi's the closest one, but, uh, so I do most of my shop because I tend to walk
to the shop these days and, uh, so I tend to walk to Aldi to do the food shopping, but
I know the middle aisle, the middle aisle, I mean, I, I tend to not,
we might look a little bit in Aldi or little, little Aldi with those, but,
oh my mum definitely does, you know, if she goes into one, she'll be looking at the middle aisle.
Like, is there anything worth buying here or not?
Oh, there might be. Oh, that's a bloke.
Well, I'm looking to, uh, muggling supplies.
For, for what?
I, uh, restore Daikas models and they do tools and all sorts of stuff.
And I was talking Daikas.
Yeah, matchbox.
Daikas painting at work.
Do you know the old matchbox toys?
Sounds like, sounds kind of familiar, but maybe that's...
Well, have you, you've heard of Hot Wheels, haven't you?
Hot Wheels, oh yeah.
Yeah, well, matchbox were around 15 years before Hot Wheels even was, uh, I thought,
back in the 90s, early 1950s.
Yeah, see, that's what I thought, I thought I thought I was too young when you said,
matchbox, uh, maybe, um...
Well, funnily enough, matchbox is now owned by the people who, uh,
Mattel who make Hot Wheels, so they compete against each other.
No, I have a person in the competition asked, but it's probably good.
But they're all made in China these days.
And you can find some of the stuff you're looking for in the little at the moment, really?
No, I can find the tools for doing restoration and stuff.
Oh, the tools, not the thing itself, but the tools work, which, yeah.
No, I buy the, the, the old beat-up stuff and restore it,
so I've got models all over the place.
Yeah, um, no, that sounds, that sounds all right, but I'll be you to do as well in there.
I did a series for HPR in 2000, uh, talking about it,
but you want to go and check it out.
Yeah, too far, yeah, it shows it's been around a long time, but this, this as well.
No, not 2020.
No, it is.
A couple of years ago, a couple of years ago.
I can't not, not 2000, no, but if HPR was been around since 2000, that's, uh, apparently,
this is the same.
HPR's been around for 13, 14 years, something like that.
Yeah, I mean, what, I think one, the after show now, really, but, um,
that this has been, we are always, this was the 10th, uh, one, apparently, um,
for the new year thing.
Yeah, that's why I read somewhere.
Yeah, yeah, Ken was saying the after show lasted for, uh, quite a long time last year.
About 13 hours or something.
I, I don't know, I might have done or, no, I think it was in the previous year,
because there was one one like, well, I kept it going, actually.
It was, it was me and, um, I don't know what's going to happen with this year,
but I know I'm not doing much today to be honest.
So it's a bit like, um, I'll hang around.
Because it was like, I remember some guy came back from like,
Australia and New Zealand or somewhere as well.
Like, this is about three, four years ago, I think now, uh, four, four,
a bit probably about four years ago.
Time flies, doesn't it?
And, uh, and he, uh, he was like, like, what?
Are people still chatting on here?
And I was like, yeah.
And then I disappeared eventually, but then somebody else was on.
So, so like, they kept it going, and a bit longer and stuff.
I think I might came back, I'm not sure.
And then they got, yeah, I think it got to about 19 hours one year.
It's true, isn't it?
But what I finished there were number I finished,
but some other people kept it going even further.
So it got to around, yeah, sounds right, about right.
19 hours or something.
I think Ken said it was 19.
Yeah, this is about three, four years ago, I think.
I think someone that I kept going.
I got a problem, guys.
My monitor's just died.
No, come back, I guess, if that's the problem as well.
Er, my monitor is literally just died.
You can't see very well.
I can't see anything.
I can see what's happening.
Things dying or going wrong.
I mean, I've got a phone which,
a mobile phone which is having problems as well.
Not that I'm using that now as such.
I'm just trying to charge it, but I've got problems.
It's, oh, I don't know what's wrong with that quite.
Sometimes if the battery goes really to zero, it won't charge.
Yes, seems to be the battery related or the charging port I thought at first,
but it's like it charges.
The cable is doing something, but then it's like,
it has it, I had it charging also I thought the other night,
and then I don't, don't last night.
I've changed the charging charger as well.
The, um, where it's plugged, the charger's plugged in,
so it might mix, I don't know.
But it's like it's powered on now, but it's probably
only going to say it's on about 4%, 6% again,
like I assume.
If you're using that and then it will power off again.
So it could be battery related,
or wait, this time, or it is the charging port.
Or it's, maybe the cable, but it's probably not so much the cable actually.
I understand it, and also it can power itself on as well.
Like, like it, you see, like I had it turned off this phone,
but when it used to try, it used to go to 100%,
nice, green light.
And then it would actually turn itself on again.
But now it's like,
doesn't seem similar again.
It's just turned itself on again properly.
But I should, if I have a look now,
it's going to be on very little battery.
When I log in, it'll go power off.
So, uh,
Right, I'm, I'm going to go, guys.
Wish you all a happy new year.
Yeah, if you want to pop back later,
who knows, there might be something happening to them.
You may be, but I'm off spend some money now.
Well, no fan of it.
Who is that?
You're kind of going.
Yeah, okay.
I might see you later.
I might pop in, see if there's anyone still hanging around when I get back.
And then yeah, and it's probably going to be on really low back,
three and it's, oh,
might send it off to a friend who, um,
hell, it's all, well, I don't know why I got this one friend.
He really does fix all this kind of stuff.
Laptops, for my, for my notes, he's a group as well.
Laptops, tablets, phones, sometimes other things, you know, you know,
that's what he does.
So he's been doing since 2009.
And,
best it's annoying when tech goes wrong.
We did have that chat last night,
with Ken's son kind of,
but well, that's due to a magic and things as well.
But, um, but yeah, it's just, it's just,
it's just annoying when tech goes wrong like that.
Because really, we just want the thing to work, don't we?
And properly.
Yeah, I have this phone that's been in the drawer for four years,
and I just bought a new battery.
Easier to find a cheap source here in Sweden.
So I hope I can get that device back up wrong again.
Maybe I can put off any more film purchases for us.
Yeah, although this is Sony's Pirate X,
and my friend said to me once, he said to me,
like, oh, if you break the screen on that one,
it'll be difficult to fix.
So, uh, maybe that's true.
But, I don't, yeah, I don't know.
It's something you're not quite right there.
I'm thinking of actually getting a difference,
then, or let me get this one taken out.
Probably really, it's just a bit awkward in the particular phone,
but I was just somebody recommended a different network,
because, well, I thought maybe, maybe just as my spare phone,
because I'll put it in different phones,
because I got other phones too.
I could do that or something, but it's, it is annoying.
I felt a bit bad, because while I was here,
I was checking out the second-hand store,
and I finally found a phone that is,
there was a post to be open for upgrades and installing the NGOS.
So, I went and bought that,
and I actually got the NGOS working, finally, like three years.
But I felt a bit bad, because this was the first phone I bought
when I didn't have a good excuse to buy it.
I was just, because I wanted to find a phone
that I could run over a icon.
But then, after I got that working,
I was talking to my wife on the phone,
and she said, actually, I'm looking for a new phone,
and I thought, yes, then I have a good new,
good use for, for this, a spare phone.
Well, okay, Linnich, Linnich OS,
I've heard of that, it's gonna be quite good, apparently,
you've changed the Android a bit.
But actually, this phone here that I'm talking about
is a Sony Xperia X, I called it about two years ago,
and the reason I bought it was,
is because, and I still haven't done it,
because of, you have to do it, obviously,
with your laptop, you have to spend the time on it,
and all the rest of it, and make sure it's done right,
it was not gonna work.
But I am intending to reflashing that
with Sailfish OS, have you heard of that?
I don't know, at some stage.
And also, I got a fair phone free two years ago,
which I've kept my old smartphones.
So, like, I've got 11 smartphones, basically.
All from starting in 2013, so more recently,
and there's also why I found somewhere
that's a side point.
I don't really, I'm not counting that.
That's a broken thing, anyway.
Because one was not gonna S3 Mini,
which was my believable not my, I said this before on here,
I think, my first smartphone was actually a Samsung Galaxy S3 Mini
in 2013, which, you know, sounds, sounds,
probably believable at the moment.
But I've said this, I feel I haven't here,
but I think I've said this on the podcast before.
And then since then, I've had things like to a bunch of new phones
and a Tizen phone and a Firefox OS phone, not
users of phone, but because I was interested in operating systems.
I've had the latest phone I just mentioned.
I've got an iPhone SE, I've got a fair phone free,
which was my last phone, which I could have bought with EOS
pre-installed, to be honest.
But I didn't do that, I got my network,
I've got a physical free headset,
and I've got a little bit of issues claiming.
But that one I'm going to reflash with,
I want to try this EOS out, I think I was reading about.
It's Android with more privacy, I'd be like,
Linux OS, I believe, started by the Mandrival Mandrake
founder as well, French guy.
Yeah, so why is the phone currently your previous phone
system issue?
Fair phone free, I just haven't really done that much with it,
although that is the most recent phone I've brought so far,
you know, and partly because it's, I think,
partly was because it's called Android and I know it's called Android,
I don't want to start using Android, I want too much,
because it could become like the phone I've been using,
where you're just using Android and it's like,
hang on a minute, no, I bought it specifically,
really, because I'm intending on getting rid of Android myself
at some stage, I don't want to, and I want to put something else on,
and also the Fairphone free also uses the newer cable,
the micro USB-C or whatever the newer one is,
where it's pretty, and I've got one or two other devices that I like that as well,
but everything else is the old standard micro USB-2 or cable or whatever for charging,
and it's like, oh, where's my newer cable?
Where's the right cable? Because all these cables lying around,
you know, at times.
Oh, I've got two computers at home that in charge with the USB-C cable,
now I've got my latest phone, it's also USB-C,
so I got quite a good population of USB-C cables.
And yeah, I BS cable thing, partly,
and then it, and I can do, yeah, I'm actually getting another sim anyway,
because at least I have a different network I kept as my network,
so I don't have to use it properly, when I lost my number,
because it didn't act like my account last time, every six months, I used to live,
yeah, okay, log in and improve it, do something, send a text, make a call,
or maybe do a form post or something in the account,
and I did it twice, but then the third time round, I got caught out,
because I didn't do it in time.
Your number's going to aspire on, do do do, and I contact them,
like, no, your number's gone, it's going to be recycled,
we're going to pull the numbers,
but the else could potentially get it into you two, four years time.
I was like, really, and I said to them, and I was like,
well, in that case, you know what, I'm going to just leave,
I mean, I would have kept this network, but I've got something else here now,
so it's like,
but yeah, so I used to have a spare proper number, I've got a landline,
but that's tied into my other stuff with internet and so on,
and it's not good, because if I make a call on the landline,
I get charged for it per minute or whatever, and it's like,
I don't do that, if somebody calls me on the landline,
like my mum or someone, that's fine, but if I make a call myself,
I'm being charged per minute or whatever, and I don't want to do that,
so that's not much good, really.
That's it's an annoying place, but that's a one-way side point.
But yeah, no, I'm interested in operating systems,
I'm not a programmer, as I said last night to people,
well, sort of 12 people saying that last night as well,
but you know, I do find operating systems interesting,
or quite frankly, you know, that's what I do, yeah,
I'm interested in operating systems, and I miss,
and not Windows, obviously, obviously, but, or Mac that much,
but I'll see Linux, because, you know, we're,
for obvious reasons.
So, I mean, the desktop Linux is one thing,
but then you got like mobile Linux and stuff,
it's not going to hit the mainstream, it's very niche,
things like the Ubuntu touch, now carrying on under UB ports,
which is a community, what they're doing is amazing,
this is going to be a big, re-trap date soon, I believe,
or I think it was reading about some updates coming,
sale, fish, OS, from a lot of the former Nokia people,
when the Nokia, the old Nokia's collapsed,
and the community.
So, there's ties, and I've got a phone on it from India, really,
but that's Samsung's Plan B, if they want to drop Android.
Firefox, OS, a number of users has a natural phone,
but that was used like using, made using web technologies,
and that was something, I guess, as well, really.
But I find the operating system is the experience,
you know, like, obviously, you're going to know what I mean,
desktop Linux, we get a good, we get a good experience,
you read it, where the distro will pretty much really,
and then I'll see it depends on what programs you have with it partly, as well,
when you're using interfaces and all the rest of it,
whereas if you use Windows, laptop on the other hand,
or though I have heard that Windows 11 apparently is
that little bit better than Windows 10, for example,
but I'd say I get a worst experience using a computer,
and you'd probably agree with me,
and the Mac, I don't really have a Mac,
but you'd get something probably in between Windows and Linux in a way,
with a lot of eye candy and good, and it looks good on the graphics,
and hardware, to some extent.
Yeah, I would like to write something that is not Android on the phone.
I did lineage on this one because I know that lineage is the thing that has the best device support,
and to just see if just something works or if the phone is blocked.
So now I've got lineage on it,
and then I'll maybe seek out to see if any of the other non-Android operating systems work on it,
but actually, you've been to touch or you'll be porch,
I think used to support this phone, but doesn't anymore.
They support it as five, but they dropped the S6,
and of course they say Patch is welcome,
and they would like people to step in and maintain it,
but I'm quite sure I don't have time for that.
Yeah, so what I think is I think post-market OS,
and what I can do, things, I'm thinking what else there is,
there's a KDE mobile project as well, they think it's that usable,
but you can do something.
If you've got a lot of pine phone, or it's a developer edition,
so I need to still kind of set that up, or I can't really use it anyway,
but you can run things like, that's cheap as well, the pine phone,
and good, and I think, yeah, you can run things like Manjaro,
KDE, but for a phone on it and things, and actually,
that's what they have by default now.
Yeah, would you be porch or sale first?
They went with this Manjaro for some reason,
but like on the desktop, Patch don't have a space thing,
I'm not really used it, but you can,
but yeah, a pine phone, you can run all kinds of different operating systems
with that on it, and as if you look on that and it's cheap to buy as well,
and then I've forgotten, I haven't really mentioned the pure as a man phone
because I don't have one, but obviously, they have their own stuff as well,
but that's expensive.
That's for a dickless price in America,
and bits of privacy respecting phone where you can kill,
how you've got hardware kills, which is on your camera and microphone,
and things like that, and also the pine phone do that as well,
somewhere in there.
But yeah, the operating systems are, I mean,
if you be porch is quite impressive really as well,
because of what it is, it's in the background,
it's very kind of desktop-like, really,
the way it compared the normal bungee on the desktop to the...
Yeah, yeah, it's actually, you can run out of get,
it's very similar to the normal bungee on the desktop,
but it's based on, well, I think they're working,
well, they tend to do on the LTS or they're trying to update that times,
but I think the latest one is 16.04 based though,
and they're working on trying to rebase now on 20.04 LTS,
but you know, it's very desktop-like in the background.
You can run a terminal app on it, you can do things like that,
then you've got the interface, Unity 8 port,
and that's just interesting, but Sailfish is also interesting,
because it's got like, BTFS file system,
and it's got... I think it had Pulse all day on it,
I'm just thinking, I haven't really...
I've got the old Joel look, Joel phone, which is...
Maybe that's the one that's out there,
I was like in a drawing, I'm just thinking,
but they use BTFS, they had interfaces,
they... I was thinking, well, I was just able to do Pulse Audio systems out,
system D, I think, even on the Sailfish RS,
I can't remember quite, I mean, they did some interesting stuff,
they're like BTFS file system as well,
so they're kind of doing something interesting.
Every phone is...
You can run Android apps on the Sailfish RS using their own,
however they do it, I think it's proprietary software,
probably, but they do run Android apps.
You can do Android apps on Tyzen with their thing as well,
to an extent, I've got a phone,
and then you be pulled to try to do it,
the open way using YAMBOX project,
but I heard a few months back that,
well, I actually asked them in the IFC channel,
and stuff, I was like, why is it not working on...
Why can't you do it on the BQ or the MX4,
and it was like...
Because you can only just about do on the tablet,
it sounded like them, because it needs a lot of resources,
but they were working on getting some sort of Android support,
Android apps support,
to it, at least via different projects,
but a conical would never intend to do that anyway.
I think their idea was, you're not going to run Android apps
with a bunch of touch originally,
but that's the other problem,
it comes back to apps, obviously.
Oh, can you run all these little city WhatsApp,
for example, or TikTok,
or wherever else is popular at the time,
and if you don't have to go and say,
oh, no, my phone can't run those apps,
or you say, oh, you can kind of run those apps,
but you need to set up,
then you basically lost the mainstream market already,
because people aren't going to do it,
usual people, it's people like us
who want to play around with operating systems,
but not the usual person,
and so we're stuck with Android's iPhone,
being market leaders,
and apparently actually Windows Mobile
was quite good, a few people have told me here and there,
but that hadn't that problem as well,
they didn't have enough apps apparently.
Yeah, so of these solutions to run Android stuff
on not Android, how many do you try it personally?
Well, yeah, yeah.
So I've got your old Yola phone,
I was thinking, where's that?
Maybe that's behind me as well.
That's got SailFisherS on it,
that was SailFisherS 1.0,
because this is a few years ago.
I never upgraded that phone properly
because there've been a little updates
to SailFisherS since.
I've gotten a, no, I tried to get a tablet crowdfunding,
but that didn't work out.
And another project, doing something similar,
lost money on that as well, great.
Actually got refund for the tablet,
but anyway, SailFisherS,
I've tried at least 1.0 a bit,
but like I said, it's a lot of updates since that.
UB ports, I've tried, I mean, I could do an update
in my MX4 again,
but I'm mostly up to date on that anyway.
So a bunch of touch or UB ports, yeah, that done that.
And I've used that on my MX4 as a real phone
for about two years ago on BQ.
I had a tablet or the screen is broken
and there's actually got another tablet as well,
because somebody bought me that can pick my screen.
Tizen on the Samton, I've got,
I bought a Samton, Tizen, SZ1 phone on eBay on India,
because that's what they were trying out in India.
I've not used it as a real proper phone
with making calls and texts.
However, I have installed a few,
like Angry Birds via the Android app,
support and things like that.
So I've used that to some extent.
And I'm missing something.
Firefox OS, I've got a port of cheap Firefox OS phone,
a few years back, it was already like five years old as well.
Not used it as a real phone,
but I've booted it up and done,
looked it in, done a few little things here and there with it.
So, I mean, they've dropped that.
It's only on TSMART TV now, I think,
Panasonic possibly.
But, so yeah, and there's, I haven't done that in it,
so yeah, I wanted to do EOS, that's the Android based one.
I had a pad to me called Remix OS Ultra Tablet
in the past that all got dropped.
That was also based on Android.
Was that actually using the Windows X86 project
where you basically put in Android to wait,
it's like to a normal PC, Android X86,
and then they sort of forked that.
They forked that and came out with a tablet
and also Remix Mini, which these are all these devices
have stopped, they don't do those anymore.
But Remix Mini, you're not really used that,
but I could plug it into my TV
and I've got like a smart,
some sort of smart TV thing, I think.
But yeah, there's some interesting stuff
that pops up here and there,
but some of it just dies out and the rest of it's on,
in some form, it depends a bit.
Did you know that Firefox OS is actually still alive?
I did say it's on this panel,
it's like smart TV's I think and yeah,
it could have been forked again.
What's the name?
Yeah, it's KIOS and they're actually selling
the loads of forms in Brazil and KIO, yeah, KIOS,
I've seen that somewhere.
I think I was gonna like nearly buy a phone once
with that or something, but I didn't,
but yeah, okay, so it still is going, that's good.
Yeah, so I don't think it's super important
with like WhatsApp and TikTok and those things,
but if I'm gonna have a phone that I care around
with a pocket, it's really good
if I can put like the bank apps and those things.
So it's still interesting to see how well
those Android graphics work if you think.
Yeah, that's the thing, isn't it?
Maybe not some TikTok WhatsApp, okay, bank apps.
And that's the, yeah, I mean, I think so,
I mean, haven't used latest versions or versions,
but I have a feeling that,
but when I did, but saying that when I,
when I, on my original Jola phone, what I did,
when I did that, why try that,
loads of Android apps in their support.
I just threw pretty much anything at it or nearly.
It was like, right, I'll have that app,
I'll try this, I'll try that and I started
fighting games on it and all kinds of things
and it actually worked quite well.
Although I did end up having eventually sort of
bricking the phones, that was cool.
It went, well, it went wrong because I'd installed
a version of the app that was made for like Qt5 or something
and the support on the particular version of operating system
was Qt4, I think, and it just sort of broke the whole thing
and I had to like reflash it out of the reset
via the computer once, but that was, that was then,
that was years ago.
But before that, I was trying out all kinds of apps
for Android and what I found is that
pretty much everything I threw out,
throughout it seemed to work, work at enough.
Some stuff might look a little bit odd with the interface,
but I'm talking like, I'm talking about five years ago,
four or five years ago now, and I have a feeling
that the Android support on the Sailfish OS
has probably improved quite a bit since then as well
and also the operating system itself, obviously,
but that's where if it can run bank apps or not,
I can't answer the question, but I have a feeling
that it quite possibly could.
Yeah, that sounds better than I expected, I encourage.
On the other hand, the bank apps, so I had one phone
where actually I installed the bank app
and then it said, specifically the phone you have,
we're not gonna support that because we know
there's some issue for some security.
So maybe they will have the same attitude towards
running some Android wrapper.
Yeah, I think, but I was one of the sort of selling points
that Sailfish OS had, I think,
actually, like, yeah, we came on Android apps
and that was one that they actually wanted
to run Android apps.
Ties, and we have to get a thing from India or some
but that no one really uses that.
That's, like I said, Samson's plan B
if they want to drop Android, I think,
but that had some sort of Android apps support.
If you want Android apps and you go a button
who touched, it's probably the wrong operating system
because the only way you can really do it
currently is this inbox and it doesn't,
and I don't think it works, it takes you well
on the devices that do support it still.
So that's probably the wrong one for that.
But I have this Sailfish.
I just have a feeling we'd have to ask
find some developer or someone asked them that,
but if you really want to know,
but I have that feeling that it, like I said,
it probably could do your Android banking apps.
You might have to trick it somewhere and go,
I'm going to some Android or I don't know how it works
quite, but I have to have that.
Yeah, it's quite possibly.
Or yeah, you stuck within it to your OS
or one of those Android-based operating systems
that are basically Android, but with more privacy,
which isn't really a proper alternative,
but it's in a way, but it's better than,
but it's still something, isn't it?
Yeah, it's more like it's a start, something,
I don't think it's a long-solutive one.
No, the EOS is another one, basically Android
with the privacy more so,
and although I think it says,
well, if I can wait the permissions and go,
I'll have this happen, it'll go,
well, when the answer is to this, that,
and the other, you're like, okay,
but then you might have broken some of the privacy
saying, anyway, because you install some other app.
But yeah, it's still about apps, so I mean,
I only just started doing online banking with Mike,
Mike, mine, my bank, because for years,
they were trying to get me on it.
They used to send keys or something,
something in the post, I think, and it was actually this,
and I tried, I couldn't do it, or I gave up,
well, I don't know, but then they were saying,
hey, if you join recently, we'll give you 10 pounds,
as well, just for using the banking app, and I thought,
and I thought, okay, I'll have 10 pounds
from the bank for using the banking app.
Sure, why not?
I've got it on my phone, but then I'm used to paper statements,
and I was like, I want to have my paper statements,
and I couldn't find a setting,
I think where I could just enable that,
I'll have to bring them again and say,
send me it in the post as well,
but yeah, you can keep an eye on your money a bit better,
instead of phoning up each time to the automatic system.
Yeah, with my Swedish bank,
I've never bothered with paper statements
because I can always go on the website,
and I can get all my history back to it.
But in the Hong Kong banks, they're like,
oh, you want the online statement,
well, I'm gonna give you six months, or maybe a year.
And then if you wanna go further back,
it's just not gonna provide it.
So, if I wanna go back and check something,
oh, did I pay this once?
I'm still receiving the paper statements,
because then I'm sure I have the record,
suddenly I want the records, and then...
Yeah, so on the app, it goes back about five years on mine,
I think, although I think if I asked the bank,
still looking to get back to even further.
But, well, on the Swedish banking statements as well,
I mean, I depend on who people are,
but what I've noticed, especially via the pandemic,
as well, is that it basically takes it,
I mean, it not just takes it,
but it shows what I have been doing,
or not been doing in general, in a general sense,
like, okay, I've been shopping for food at this shop,
or I did a non-line shop here, that's one thing,
or I've got bills here and there,
it's not something about the bills,
but it should be like, okay, I went to cinema,
on do-do-do-day, I paid to go to cinema,
or I went for pub on this day,
or I went way possibly, something doesn't happen that often,
but sometimes, and it basically shows what I've been doing,
or not been doing in the month,
because unfortunately, most things are about money these days,
isn't it, if you see what I'm saying?
Yeah, I don't really read my statements that way,
so I just shove them in a box.
Yeah, but, well, or I've been shopping differently
in it, showing on the month here,
and it sort of works with my bills,
and it's actually as well, but, I don't know,
I mean, it can be useful.
Some people don't bother with them all,
they just go, well, I don't need to read my statement,
because I just shop at the same place,
and there's nothing exciting on it,
but, like I said, it depends on who people are, doesn't it?
Yeah, I think I noticed,
if there's a surprising end balance on what's going,
otherwise, yeah, it's pretty much pretty.
Yeah, and if there's a weird transaction,
things to look for as well, yeah.
And I feel about changing bank occasionally.
Yeah, I don't know,
because it's more just to place a store money in my case,
and that's it, really, I get no proper benefits,
or hardly, or nothing proper, so it's like, yeah.
But, yeah, I guess we have to have some sort of bank account,
really, that's just how it is, unfortunately.
A storing money in the mattress doesn't.
Under a mattress, no.
Or in a safe, well,
well, I watched Die Hard again,
it was on the 23rd of December, right?
On TV, on TV here, ITV, yeah.
I mean, yeah, the day before Christmas Eve, so,
I mean, there's a date, I hope you've seen Die Hard,
but the date is, of course,
if that is really a Christmas movie,
or not, that's one thing.
It's all about stealing the money from the safe,
or whatever as well.
Quake, quake film.
Showing its age a bit now, though, it really is.
Got one off showing, I think of 20-year anniversary showing
about two years ago in the cinema as well.
And, yeah, it's about a lot of films like that,
really, all about breaking in, stealing the money
from the safe, and all that, you know?
But, or more recently,
getting into a computer and getting some bank account
and doing electronic transactions, maybe as well, yeah.
He does write that note, ho, ho, ho,
now I've got a Christmas, now I've got a Christmas gun,
now I've got a machine, and I think that,
that seals it, then it's a Christmas one.
Yeah, yeah, well, yeah, at the end,
and at the end as well,
they're going like, Merry Christmas, and all that.
And there was a decoration that falls in the office block
that I noticed, or like, oh, yeah, yeah.
And you see it again, they try the film as well.
It's like, okay.
No, yeah, it's a Christmas movie, really.
It's just not the standard one that you're going to think of,
but neither is a Christmas horror,
because there's a few of those.
Like, there's a, like, crampus.
There's a 2050, have you seen crampus?
I haven't, I would like to.
I tried a bit, but I think there's free.
There's a 2015 version, which I saw in the cinema
version, and I've seen it again on TV,
but I think I've got DVD or something.
And I think there's another two versions as well,
but that was, yeah, crampus.
I'd say watch crampus if you want a Christmas horror,
because that was something for what it was.
Think something else turned up, or did they?
Yeah, there was some tingle go.
Another good movie to ask if it's a Christmas movies
or a night before Christmas.
Is it a Halloween movie?
Or is it a Christmas?
I claim it's both.
Which one? A night time.
A night man before Christmas
where the town of Halloween kidnaps the town of Christmas,
basically, or Santa Claus anyway,
and take over Christmas and do Christmas on behalf of
Christmas town, because Jack the pumpkin,
he's upset that everyone is always scared of.
He wants to contribute with Christmas,
and of course, everything goes horrible.
I can't think of a scene at all now,
but I mean, I probably possibly have,
but I'm not sure now.
The Tim Burton movie, it's play, figure, animation,
and it's Denny Elfman's music.
So it's quite characteristic.
If you've seen just a brief scene of it,
you will know if you've seen them.
Yeah, no, I don't know.
And I'm thinking there's another film
where like a bad,
not a movie, but there's a one called Bad Santa,
but I don't think that's the one I'm thinking of,
but there was another film where you get like a
nasty Santa and stuff,
and I'm coming for what that was called now.
Before these low budget horror movies
that were made, I think,
but I'm enjoying what I'm thinking of,
but at the end, in the credits,
all about naughty boy and girls.
This says it went down.
Now I like that, actually.
The producers of the film and stuff,
and it was like, right, this person is naughty,
that person is good,
and the credits at the end of the,
they did that, which I thought was a nice little touch.
Now, this one on the naughty boy list,
and that one on the naughty girl list,
or naughty girl list, a good list,
but I can't watch that film called,
oh, it's on the horror channel in the UK.
That, well.
Is that not his art shirt?
Literally 72 here.
I don't know.
I think it's Billy Bob Thornton and he's a cop.
Is that just 72 here?
Here, but I think they're speaking.
Yeah, there's a message in the chat, wasn't there?
Link.
Oh, yeah, there's something.
Oh, art shirt.
So are you listening to the web stream?
The chat, is that what you're doing?
The web stream will be on the other thing.
So he's still on mumble.
You can see him here on mumble and list.
They muted the speaker on mumble,
so I thought maybe they just went on mumble
for the chat and getting Cleo some word to be responding.
I'm not sure why he's only talking in the chat,
but he's responding in the chat.
So we have to scream out,
die hard there as well.
Oh, so there's a Huckaboo public radio episode
on the topic of die hard?
Oh, oh, oh, that's what we think too.
I will have to listen to that, but not now, obviously.
But yeah, well, listen to that one, I think.
Yeah, die hard, so we said Christmas movie,
but also there's like full die hard now, maybe five.
Yeah, one, two, three were the main ones,
and there's these one more with computer hackers, they say,
yeah, and then there might be one more, I'm not sure.
Yeah, too many as far as I'm concerned.
Die hard and die harder, that would be fine.
Feel like the matrix, there's been one, two, three,
there's been a car, two, you better see the matrix.
I mean, come on, and the other guy,
and the other guy as well, whoever that is.
So I assume we know what we're all talking about, right?
Matrix, one, two, and three, which was a trilogy,
and there's been a like a cartoon thing, I think, as well.
But very bad, but now they've just released matrix four
out in the cinema, I don't want to go and watch it,
I haven't done that yet.
I've read some views on Facebook, on the thing.
Some people go, no, it's all full,
there are too many flashbacks.
Other people were like, no, this was good.
It added to the story, it was one of the better,
it was good.
But some people think, I think a lot of people think,
no, should it have been made?
Wouldn't it ruin the original trilogy?
But no, it's probably going to be good for what it is.
But they're going on about Spider-Man's and Marin,
and just another film, no, Spider-Man's stuff.
Another hyped up marble film, I mean, there's too many Spider-Man's
good, but there's too many marble films coming out and stuff,
but yeah, when it hopefully I can go this month now,
January, January, and later on, and get down there,
and I've got a choice of two cinemas nearby.
One is, is a bit old, and it's not really as nice,
and it's one that's more popular,
because people, a lot of people go there normally.
And the other one is actually nice,
and it costs a little bit more.
Got some days with discount,
and we get some credit back on the card,
and it's not nice down there,
but it's right bang in the center of the city as well.
But I'll be going down there to watch this.
And, yeah, Matrix is great.
And I've got CD, the anniversary showing of that
about two years ago as well in the cinema,
to the sort of 10, 20-year anniversary
of the first one.
And, yes, I don't know, Matrix is just amazing as well.
It's one of those films.
Die hard is good for what it is.
And, no other films like that too,
those kind of like, must-see films, you know.
I think for Spider No Way Home,
if you're a Marvel completionist, you should see it.
If you're a huge Spider fan, you should see it.
But otherwise, the story's pretty much told
the trailer.
Do you see that?
Yeah, I enjoyed it.
It wasn't amazing and no pun intended.
But it was good.
It was basically what I expected,
just a lot of fan service and resist.
And it was quite enjoyable.
I was nice to see some interaction
between these different generations of Spider-Man.
That was quite funny.
Did you see that in Sweden?
No, so just before I left,
saw it with my son in Hong Kong.
So, do they, so in Hong Kong,
do they just leave it in English
and give you some subtitles in Hong Kong now
and Chinese or whatever, or what they do?
What?
Yeah, live action is really in the original.
So, they put some subtitles down the bottom, do they?
For Chinese as well.
Yeah, if it's a cartoon, they might dub it, but never.
Yeah, I mean, I saw like the Simpsons,
I think it's Sweden, or Germany,
well, put it Germany actually.
But in like German, before I think,
it was like really awesome.
And Germany, they dub everything.
Yeah, and Sweden don't tend to,
well, they do with some stuff, I guess, but it's,
more about the subtitles.
Yeah, in Sweden, it will happen for live action.
Also, when they, we get like some of the like,
crime for frillers and some of the Swedish stuff
on the TV here, we can find it on some of the paid channels
sometimes, or content.
Like, there's a few Swedish movies out on Netflix
for example, in the UK version,
and I was being to watch, but we've had things like
Wallander on BBC 4 before when they're killing
which is a Danish string.
But the, and there was another Swedish string once, I think.
But what's sometimes interesting as well,
when as somebody who is half Swedish, you know,
so if I'm watching a Swedish movie or TV program here,
and it's called English subtitles, I think my mum,
when she was doing it, usually trying to go all those
English subtitles as much as possible,
unless you need them for some reason.
But what's interesting sometimes is how things just don't
translate properly as well.
And sometimes you get some quite funny examples in the way
when you know like what they're really saying in Swedish.
And then, and then the translation in English,
whatever, it's just wrong.
And I think you have the other way around as well.
It's just, you know, it's like, it's like, really?
Yeah, I think some titles, it's a business that used to be
like almost like a guild.
It was a few people doing it.
It wasn't so much stuff to translate,
so they could have these people doing a proper job
and putting the time into it.
And these days it's all done on the lowest possible margin.
There's really a lot of mistakes.
And that's before counting that there's some stuff
that is really able to translate,
even just some pretty bad things.
Yeah, and somewhere it's just don't translate anyway.
It's like some Swedish names, they just don't go.
Like, you know, people's actual names,
you translate that into English.
And some where it can come across kind of offensive,
you know, just funny here.
And I can think of a few examples
and you probably could as well.
Some stuff just doesn't work.
It's like, it's like, I'm not offensive,
but like, it's a bit like,
some names just don't work in general.
Like my mum's parents and stuff
are called Brant Barrier, right?
Brant Barrier, if I'm saying that clearly enough.
And you translate that into English.
Seat Mountain?
Yeah, you can really translate them.
It just doesn't work.
It's like, hello, Femidae,
where have you called the Seat Mountain?
What?
And there's, you know, there's worse examples than that.
It's just, yeah, it's just like, whoa.
And then there are names that,
not because we try to translate them all,
it's just, it's a perfectly reasonable name
in one language and it looks terrible in another language.
For example, in Sweden, it's not a super,
a weird name.
You can be named Puke
and when an English speaking person sees that name,
they read it like Puke,
which is not very international relation.
No, and there's another one as well.
I'm thinking though, I don't want to say it on there.
But that one comes out even worse than that probably.
Yeah, there's loads of examples.
Our product names as well that they do in travel well.
Yeah, and that's why I got calls the Bastien
because it works between the two languages
and Christopher does as well, Chris and Freddie
and other names as well.
But some names don't work between the languages
very well at all.
Clacky, clacky, clacky, clacky, clack me
at that, that sort of works.
There's a shoe company here called Clarks.
Oh, yeah.
They make shoes, obviously, or we'll sell them.
I'm thinking we might have a long, long time, actually.
But, yeah, it's, it's interesting
and it also, yeah, it's interesting with languages like that.
Just how some stuff just doesn't work.
And sometimes they don't have to write English word
for some of the Swedish stuff as well.
And then, I mean, just demo translation as one thing,
but then also things like phrases and stuff and quotes
and stuff like that.
That can be an Englishist full of it.
There's those of different sayings and slogans
and phrases that can be used.
And, and I know, sometimes it surprises me like,
how did I know that thing?
Where did I get that from?
How do I know how to use that?
And it just comes naturally and you just say
something sometimes you're like,
sometimes Google something, I thought that I just,
yeah, just checking that was correct what I was saying.
But, okay, yeah, I was correct.
But, it's like, how has that come from?
How do I know how to use that phrase and that saying?
And Swedish, I mean, I suppose it probably has some as well,
but it's not as bad as English,
but that English is full of it.
And that's the thing we're learning a language.
It's like, I do public speaking groups
and I'm one of the roles and they do them all around the world.
140 countries is a part of a international thing,
but one of the roles that they have at times,
not always in a meeting, a standard meeting,
is the grammarian where the idea is
somebody's supposed to look at the language
and the phrases and tell people what kind of language
they're using.
Some people do this really well.
And they're like, yeah, that's illiteration,
that's power free, that was this quote, that was whatever.
But, be like English teachers.
But it's interesting, because everyone can learn,
even a native speaker, you can still learn things in English.
And I mean, they teach English at school as well,
like you were in for a secret in the GCSE,
but like, you know, you learn some of the literature
as well possibly, but we're always learning kind of thing.
I don't know every single word in English.
I need, no one does.
You can, you know, addiction really has
few words have been added in more recent years,
like probably COVID is down as being a real word now,
for example, and COVID, the virus, also.
The Swedish Academy, they publish a list of new words every year.
And this year, to 21, one of the words was, for example,
hybrid meeting, clear.
I've got as a proper word now, I play.
Yeah.
Yeah, hybrid meeting, yeah.
Well, it was that last night, were you on last night?
I don't know.
Yes.
Were you on the last night as well?
Well, yeah, would you have to say?
I was around the two UTC, I got on the phone.
Oh, right, yeah, hybrid meeting.
COVID, COVID-19, as they've been calling it,
I assume you could, even though that's got a number
in the name as well, really.
I assume you can put that down as being a real word now
or an addiction really, really.
And hybrid meeting has become a term.
Face masks, face coverings, they can call them here instead.
That's like a term.
What else is there?
Lockdown has become a big general usage term.
I mean, lockdown was a word anyway before,
but not quite as big as it is now.
Not quite to this extent, now it's like,
oh, lockdown, pandemic has become a big word
and also the other one, epidemic is it, epidemic?
That's become like words that we all kind of know now
or start to know.
And yeah, and there's probably some other ones too.
Yeah, I'm looking up the Swedish list.
They don't listly if words have become more common knowledge
or more in general use or any of that.
Just words that are new coinager.
Yeah, it's interesting there.
And even not just COVID, but in general,
but there are other words I can't think of.
I mean, I know something else.
I think there was an article like,
oh, this is now a real word and I was like,
oh, is that okay?
Or the Collins English section re now has this
does a real word and it was like, okay.
I don't know what it was now,
but things do get added here and there.
They really do.
Okay, they do have some words here.
They're actually not like new words,
but they are new as official words in the diction.
So they've been used before,
but now they're prominent enough to the dictionary.
Like what?
Crowdfunding, which is now a Swedish word,
literally crowdfunding.
How does that sound or English?
Yeah, it's a lot more than that.
So you haven't been adapted in any way,
but you say crowdfunding.
Yoke style, you're a crowdfunding.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I suppose, well, yeah,
well, I guess it kind of makes sense
because if you won crowdfunding in general,
where you're thinking internet,
if you know what we're talking about,
it's an internet thing,
and usually internet is global.
And then crowdfunding is what we say in English.
So if you try and translate that,
or I can't, I'm my Swedish, I'm thinking,
yeah, yeah, try and translate that directly
because I can't think of what it is.
I'm not going to go on Google, translate and go,
hey, let's put crowdfunding in
and see if it gives me a Swedish translation
because I've got a native Swedish I'm talking to anyway.
What would crowdfunding be directly in Swedish?
If you translate like component for component,
it would be flocked financiering,
but I don't think anyone would say that.
It would sound a bit silly in Swedish.
So flocked for anti-nearing?
Yeah, flocked for crowd or heard.
Yeah, yeah.
And then financiering for final.
Yeah, yeah, that sounds right.
No, that sounds a bit like a mouthful,
doesn't it actually?
Yeah, so I'll just say crowdfunding.
Sounds easier, doesn't it actually, doesn't it?
Right.
Yeah, so apparently filter bowl is a new word,
filter bubla.
For what?
What's that referring to?
No, the filter bubble, where when you search for things
or you discuss with people,
you only encounter things that agree with your own position.
Hey, right, I don't know, like one book, yeah.
So where platforms like, even Google search,
but certainly Facebook and so on,
they shape your search to what you already know
and what so that means you don't get exposed
contradicting opinions.
That's your filter, they filter out
so that you're in a bubble of opinions
and you think that your opinion is to general.
Oh, right, yeah, okay.
That sounds, yeah, I'll filter bowl, filter,
filter out things you don't agree with sort of thing.
Yeah, this one I haven't followed the Swedish media
very much, so I haven't seen this one before.
Plus the banter, so going on a plastic diet,
I suppose that's reducing your use of like
plus the banter.
Banter, yeah, that's when you go on a diet
and try to restrict your use.
Yeah, banter's diet, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, banter, yeah, plaster.
I like the sound of that, plaster bike,
because if that wouldn't work in English,
that would just sound weird in English.
I'm going on a plastic diet, it just doesn't work.
Yeah.
It's Swedish, it works, it sounds good,
but in English, it's like, what are you going on a plastic diet?
You're going to be eating plastic, are you?
No, that's not why I meant.
Yeah.
Apparently one is becoming a hipster now,
because Hwegg Olja is one of the new words, beard oil.
Was it beard oil?
Beard oil.
What's that?
Hipster.
I assume it's making a beard or keeping oil.
Beard in good and shiny shape.
Hipster, yeah, we've got that in English,
it's a Swedish word, is that or is it the same?
And Vicks Basera, plant based.
So it's against Swedish?
Vicks Basera.
I like, well, I like the sound of both.
I'm actually vegetarian myself, so not vegan though,
but I do look obviously for plant based food as a result,
and a little bit of a cosmetics,
but that's one of the vegan thing.
You go all the way, maybe make sure a shampoo is a plant based
and you're detergent and close ideally in all the rest of it,
that's a bit far, but yeah, plant based food.
Plant based is a very common or becoming a more common term
in the UK, and actually in saying that in January,
they've been doing something called
were January the last, until how many years now really,
but the idea is to get people try out being a vegan
for 30 days or less a challenge they have,
and also the companies have been embracing that more recently,
the big like, even Matt Dolls and some of the big companies,
and the smaller ones, and you find there's more vegetarian
or vegan food out in the shops,
suddenly a bit or in fast food or restaurants
and they've got certain products,
and they're not sure what they're doing for this year quite,
because that's what reminded me,
I should be looking at that,
but and the companies are embracing it,
and then somewhere it sticks around,
if there's enough for a market for afterwards.
And that's, and two years ago,
I did have your January here,
tried some of the food out,
then I went to Brussels for fuzz them again,
fuzz them, you've had a fuzz them, I assume.
Yeah, I've been there.
Yeah, you've been, yeah, you know, can you know fuzz them?
But if you know Brussels,
Brussels is also absolutely horrible
for vegetarian or vegan food,
generally speaking, it really is.
In the past, it was like,
people said you'd get a bowl of fruit,
a veggie, if you're lucky, or a mug or a pizza,
and that was about it,
if you could say vegetarian.
And so I went with a next girlfriend, basically,
as well, that time, two years ago, 20,
well, 2020 now.
Oh, but just before the pandemic,
yeah, started really hit off,
so that was lucky, in a way.
We went to this,
went to a place called the Atomium, as well,
on one of those days, on the Friday,
I think we had a Friday.
I don't know if you've been to the Atomium?
I've been there, yeah.
Yeah, so you know what I'm talking about, right?
You don't know, just in the 72,
when you're listening to us right now,
or we'll in the future, but either way,
21,000, who doesn't know the Atomium,
it's basically a massive, tall, high building,
which is quite impressive
from an engineering point of view.
But inside is just a boring museum, basically,
and there's also an expensive restaurant on the top,
and we want to go and eat.
So I went to people like,
oh, get food somewhere,
oh, there's a restaurant in the Atomium,
and we went up there,
and I ordered, and well,
we, she eats a lot because of other reasons anyway,
certain reasons anyway.
So it was like, we hadn't eaten anyway,
and it was like, okay, we're gonna have food up here,
and we're getting for proper foods now.
Again, for like starter, main course,
and the dessert plus drinks, right?
But I knew the second that waiter came,
and it came with a menu on a tablet as well.
Well, you know, at the top of this Atomium building
in the place up there,
and you used to know it's expensive straight away,
like, the menu's on a tablet as well, oh, oh.
So she ordered meat, because she eats meat,
no problem, right?
But I, but I as a vegetarian,
one, two, obviously, vegetarian food.
So I basically said,
so I was like, the guy, the waiter, like, okay,
and I got started like,
bravely also being a vegetarian, it was all right,
but then he was telling me about the main course as well,
like, you get, you get something,
give me the French term, and I was like,
okay, I guess I'll have to have that then.
And so the starter was okay,
but guess what I got as a main course,
even in this place, seriously?
It's just a salad, isn't it?
No, well, I mean, if I go around Brussels
to a normal takeaway place,
and now that now, when I go,
if you've got a menu turned,
I'd be like, flaffle, flaffle, flaffle everywhere.
It's like, okay, flaffle, I guess they're no flaffle,
I'm not like, you know, flaffle,
but in this Atomium, it was a joke, really,
because, you know, I'm in a expensive restaurant,
expensive place, tourist place,
and all the gamey, seriously,
was a bolt, was that saucepan full of vegetables, yeah?
Potatoes and stuff.
And I thought like, you know,
I'm paying, I mean, you know, I'm in a expensive place,
and all the rest of it.
And so the way it came up to me and when I said,
oh, how was your meal, like they're doing places, yeah?
And I just, this time, I just basically told them
how it was, I really did.
I said like, look, look, I've been in Brussels before.
I know that Brussels is not, is generally not
a particularly good place for vegetarian or veganism.
How are we setting that?
I'm from England now, and in fact, even in England,
we've had some in call, but generally recently,
and where the company's been embracing veganism food,
not the company, not the big company,
it's testing about that as well.
And then he was like, okay, like, okay, sorry,
I'll, does that was all right?
There was like an orange chocolate thing,
but he was like, okay, sorry, I'll see what the waiter can,
I'll talk to the chef, he was like,
I'll talk to our chef, we'll see what we can do, sort of thing.
And then we've had our free courses,
we've had two drinks as well,
and I'm paying as well, and I'm thinking like,
oh, geez, this is going to be like 100 euros or something.
It really is.
And the bill came and it was like,
it was out about 70, so I was like,
oh, why is it down to 70?
And he was like, oh, because we can't really take the meals off,
because that's sort of set,
but we've, because you were talking about the food,
not being very good, we've given the drinks free,
so that was nice at least.
But yeah, but, and then he said,
oh, and then we were like, well, improve the menu,
and I was like, well, I might come back some other time,
but, but yeah, it was a bit,
but I don't know, it's just like,
also, actually, it went to a speaking group,
like to free one of those years as well,
we've paused them,
plus I stuck around for these groups,
and one was a Dutch, an English group,
and I didn't really know any Dutch speech set for Blor,
Blor, yeah, you know, you're sweet as well,
so I've said, I've had Swedish, didn't I?
You know, Blor, Blu, Blu, yeah.
Yeah, it must be the same in Dutch, I assume,
colour, Blu, yeah, didn't know much else of that speech,
but there was an Irish speaking club,
there was an Irish one, that was nice,
and there was also a dinner party,
one of the oldest clubs been there for a long time,
and went to a nice restaurant.
Before I went, it was like, pick your menu,
online or whatever, with the person, was like, okay,
but why nervous is it sad, basically,
normal and vegetarian, which in a way is,
in a way is a little bit offensive, kind of,
to vegetarian, et cetera,
because, you know, it's really, you know, normal,
and then vegetarian, yeah.
I'll have the abnormal meal please.
I'll have the non-normal meal, right?
And France is quite meaty, I think, as well,
because I had a story that apparently they,
I think by law, they're not allowed to call things
like vegan sausage rolls, for example,
or any meaty terms, like they're doing the UK,
although you know it's cool, you know, it's not meat,
because it's like a corn product or something,
but they're not, I think in France,
there was a law now, or more recently,
where it was like, you cannot call,
you're not allowed to give things,
a meaty name that are not meat,
it's like, really?
And, but yeah, the same with that nice,
posh restaurant for that group, it was nice place,
but the vegetarian was, well, I wasn't impressed at the time,
maybe it wasn't too bad, actually,
but I had like a sort of spaghetti-type thing
as a main course, I had a pudding
that wasn't maybe the wrong thing,
so I gave it to somebody else,
it wasn't great, but it was a nice place otherwise,
nice lights, and the way the building was,
how it was lit up and things,
but yeah, Brussels is horrible for vegetarian,
also, I gave in a few years back now at Fosdem,
and I went to the, I went to the hot,
one of those hot dogs, and I ordered chips
because I've stood there too long,
and it's burning of chips,
or French fries, some people say and stand, right?
Yeah.
Because we, actually, yeah, Sweden can be chips,
can mean crisps, we say crisps over here,
but you're saying chips and some Europe,
but yeah, or French fries, some, yeah.
In case anyone else hears this, as well,
to make sense, and you as well.
So I'd been there too long,
and I wanted some French fries,
and I went up and I said, look,
okay, I'm vegetarian, it looked very meaty
this particular food, and I mean, it was,
and I said, can I have,
I want some French fries, I was like,
okay, yeah, you want me to go,
do you want mayonnaise on that?
Because that's what they're doing Brussels,
so I was like, yeah, okay, I guess I'll,
I guess I'll have mayonnaise on that, fine.
I mean, that's got egg in it,
I'm not vegan, I'm vegetarian, as I was saying.
But then the next,
or then later on, or the next day,
and it might have been later, I'm not sure quite,
but I just remember I was feeling a bit funny
in my stomach and stuff,
so it might be that,
because I got meat fat on my chips,
because some places they cook,
they really do cook the chips inside,
with the meat stuff,
the oils and stuff, I don't know,
but there is actually a vegan stand in Brussels,
or more recently, or at times there is,
because I've had food from there the last time,
one time before,
and I hope it will be there again
when I possibly get to go back again in 2023,
I believe, possibly,
depending on the pandemic situation still.
I mean, I thought they were thinking
that the FOSDOM website,
because it's a virtual FOSDOM next month, February,
again, like last year,
and then they want to get back in person when they can.
So you're actually sensitive against meat products,
because I've been a vegetarian for 16 years,
and then sometimes,
you know, if the family doesn't eat the leftovers,
I will eat it rather than throw it away.
Also, from time to time,
maybe once in a couple of years,
I will give myself a free pass
and try some meat as a kind of,
actually, my stomach never had that.
I know that some people.
Oh, you're vegetarian or, well, 99%,
didn't realise that, I thought you weren't,
but I don't know,
I don't know, I've got some,
I don't know, I get some sort of stomach issues at times,
anyway, I don't know what it somewhere is in general,
you can get some,
you feel a bit off or a bit unwell at times,
but I know that some people do potentially get affected
then if they've done vegetarian or vegan long enough
and then suddenly they have something meaty or fishy,
because the body doesn't get home with it then,
but I don't know quite,
but yeah, some people,
that's what the reality check comment.
So be like, say, no, I really want to be vegetarian
or should I do this?
Yeah, I don't know, I used to think,
I used to think that vegetarian was,
I was a bit unsure,
like, is it good or bad thing sort of thing really,
because especially when most people that you know
are eating meat as well around you a sector,
but then when I thought things through,
I realised that, you know,
more effectively it is better to be a vegetarian
or vegan really, that's my opinion,
because we basically just use animals
and too much and a lot of these animals
don't have a particularly nice life
when they are live as well,
especially more so in certain countries and others,
I think, as well,
and you know, it's just all that side to it as well,
also, I thought, you know,
what if I can be a little bit ethical about software,
I'm not a free software actress,
I'm not like, you know, like Richard Stalman
or one of those people,
but obviously I use Linux and I use things
and I like to use things that open source,
just like, probably everybody who's listening
to this podcast will be as well,
because then we're doing it partly because of FX,
I think a lot of us,
because we know even as non-programmers some of us,
that the code that, if the code is available,
now lots of advantages to that
and probably ideally all,
most software should be available,
maybe not weapons, so much and certain things,
but general software,
and it's like, I thought years ago also,
but like, if I can be ethical about software,
then, you know, maybe I should be ethical
about something more real as well, actually,
and that's the meat, the vegetarian thing,
because that is more real.
That's, in fact, that's life or death for animals as well.
And one debate is that a lot of these animals
wouldn't have been born as they're gonna be used
by humans for meat or milk or whatever,
but I don't know,
and then they're working on lab meat,
apparently now as well,
a bit where they can grow it in the lab
and then you don't have to have animal being killed,
but I did it for FX and I'm quite happy with my FX,
although I found out the other month
that by mistake, I'd be needing a
rennet on occasion.
You know what, rennet is?
Rennet is?
Yeah, from teas.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I, there's, we've got,
dolmyola's annual sources in the UK,
that's a big brand, it's owned on the Mars now,
or it was all maybe about a Mars all along,
I don't know, but it's like, you know,
got nice, there's annual sources,
and somehow it got, must have got overlooked,
so the red sauce is vegetarian, no problem.
But if you go for a cheesy white sauce
or something like that,
same with the Lawy's Grossman brand,
I've found that recently as well, but anyway,
it's got rennet in it, or panna's am,
so it's like, oh no, panna, yeah.
So I've had the zanyas here in there the last four years,
without realizing, and then more recently,
so looking online and shopping like,
why is that not label vegetarian or all that is?
And then it was like, kind of all sort of clicked,
it was like, oh, let's check that panna, it's got,
but that was a bit annoying,
because I used to be really good at checking labels
at the beginning as well,
but like, I've got OCD anyway,
obsessive compulsive disorder in some ways,
but I really mean on a obsessive kind of basis,
where at the beginning I would go and check
keeping products, even things I'm buying normally,
that I know of vegetarian,
and I would be still looking on the back of that back here,
like, as I got the suitable vegetarian,
because in the UK, most products are labeled,
oh, I don't want to label fruit and veg
as being vegetarian or bottle water properly,
or in my name I might say vegan on some of that saying that,
but if it, for the obvious products like fruit and veg
are not really going to label it
as being vegetarian or vegan or probably not,
but for things that you may be a bit unsure about,
most things are labeled,
and it's very good like that in the UK,
all the companies pretty much do that,
but I know in Sweden, for example,
they don't label anything, it seems,
I mean, really do a little bit,
but I've seen I've had Swedish products,
and it's not labeled,
but like the ballerina, just to boil cakes,
you know, you must have had those,
I used to have those growing up,
and then then the lovely,
and there's the Singola, or the other one as well, I think,
and you get them in IKEA over here,
and we've got some called OKdo or Cardo
as well, non-line supermarket,
and there's a bit of a Swedish store on there as well,
but I know that have anything labeled as vegetarian,
so I'm thinking like, okay, it's a packet of biscuits,
it's probably OK,
I mean, there's going to be milk in it, but that's fine,
but it doesn't tell me bang on,
because like the chocolate mousse can have gelatin in it as well,
like yogurt thing, and there's these little hidden traps,
and you don't always bang on there,
and so I was like, ballerina cake,
so I want there's again,
but apparently I don't, are they vegetarian?
I mean, they're probably out,
but it's not label, all the way,
it's like, it's just one example.
The Singola ones will have gelatin, the jam jelly.
Are you sure?
Have you found that, Jack?
I think I googled it.
It's not having checked, I'm saying it's likely.
What about the ballerina chocolate?
Probably not.
Yeah, well, they might maybe go from that,
maybe they're not vegetarian.
Yeah, jelly can be gelatin,
and it's like B-lar, the sweets, and Shilia Halon,
yeah, you remember that?
Yeah, they've got exactly, yeah, you know what I'm talking about,
they've got gelatin.
Oh, well, just in case anybody is going to hear this,
or listen to us now, I don't know,
but I'm just going to say B-lar is Salia's mesh-shaped beehlers,
they used to sell on the packet, and police still do.
Sweden's most brought car.
Yeah, that's right.
And it can's got gelatin in it, because we're talking,
I'm talking about Swedish,
oh, sweets, or goudes, goudes, as you say in Swedish.
Yeah, that's a good word, isn't it?
Goudes, goudes, goudes.
And mell and moll, mell and moll,
my afternoon snack.
So yeah, B-lar, and then Shilia Halon is like a cherry thing,
a little bit like Cari bear, I suppose,
but better than Harry bear, really.
But unfortunately, it's got gelatin,
gelatin raspberry thing, isn't it?
But yeah, it's got gelatin in that as well.
Although I think I heard it had one without gelatin
in for something, but like Harry bear, but yeah, it's annoying.
Gelatin, granite, even beer, even beer.
I've been having a drink cider, usually,
if I'm gonna drink alcohol, I'm not,
I don't tend to drink much alcohol,
but I know that you can get like,
fishing, Shilia, or whatever,
the clock at Birk had that problem too,
whereas it's something towards fish,
or the way it's produced, I think.
Have you heard of that before?
What, so fish I used for making beer,
I never heard of that.
Fishing, schliss, or whatever, it's called it.
It's something to do with fish and the reduction, I think.
I'm not banged on shore, what that is myself,
but I've heard of this.
Yeah, for a clapperburg,
the Swedish cider has it apparently,
and also Guinness, the Irish beer,
has been quite commonly known to have this issue as well,
and there's some other ones.
So I went to, I went to Old Camp in some of the people
some of the people who listened to this or been to that,
but they've won a little bit of conferences in the UK,
and I've done that since 2012 in Fosden,
but when it's been on,
but the other year we're up in Sheffield,
2018, up in North England, yeah.
And I went to this, we're gonna just brewery
to get some food and stuff,
and I remember I went in there and I thought,
hmm, there's no factors gold up here,
because I'm up north,
and we've got something called Fatsha's Gold down here,
which is a summer set cider.
It's, some people don't like it.
I've got a friend he goes, oh, it's not nice,
or I always get it hot, it's not nice,
but it's very popper around here,
they're getting wails a bit as well,
and maybe you're up in Birmingham just about somewhere,
I don't know, I don't know,
but it's a summer set cider, it's around here.
And when you go up north, they don't have it,
you go to Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield,
they don't have it.
And so I was thinking, I can't have that
because I'm up north, I can have a beer,
but I'm trying to do vegetarian properly.
I did this in Brussels once as well.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha,
there's that kind of British beer in Brussels,
that's it, because I wasn't bang on,
sure, I've had Brussels beer before anyway,
but I was checking it's been on Google,
and I want a vegan beer, what can I have?
Oh, okay, I can have this, apparently,
but that's actually a British make,
and it's in Brussels, and it was like,
really, having a British beer in Brussels at that time.
But anyway, I've been Sheffields,
and I went into this place,
and I said, I said, like, Coke at first,
because I looked at them,
I don't know what it's drink here.
Men also, the food menu,
it was like, what's vegetarian there?
I didn't see anything.
So I went up and I said, like, look,
I want vegetarian foods,
and it was just like, this and that is vegetarian.
So I was like, oh, is it?
Okay, I'll have that then.
And then I'll also went up,
and I said to them, like, Coke at first,
and I was like, oh, actually,
I know it's some of the drinks,
not vegetarian, I said.
So she was like, oh, actually our brewers in today,
apparently, they're still lying to me, right?
And he's in the back sort of thing,
I was like, okay, is he?
I was like, okay, I'll go and ask our brewer,
what, what, because we make our own beers here sort of thing.
I'll ask our brewer what beer is vegetarian sort of thing.
Yeah.
So I was like, okay, I guess, yeah, fine.
And then she got back to me a little bit later,
and it was like, yeah, this, like,
Hungarian beer or whatever it was,
is vegetarian or vegan.
So I thought, okay, finally, I'll have that then.
I'll have a beer.
And then if I got lied to or not, I don't know,
but at least from the ethical point of view,
I try to do it properly.
I thought I will have beer actually,
but I want to be sure that it's okay.
And it's those little things that most people
don't even know about or even think about
because especially if it's not vegetarian.
But if you're doing it properly,
you know, you start to know about,
find out about those little traps,
those little things that might go against your ethics.
Even with the COVID vaccine,
even with the COVID vaccine vaccines,
I rejected the AstraZeneca, the UK one originally,
because there's something about cloned feces of cells.
When I read this on the Oxford University website,
I even checked with a pharmacist on the phone.
There's something about how it's been made.
And I think it's something, yeah,
something that wasn't happy about stem cell research,
possibly, I don't know, I don't know quite,
but I thought like, I don't know quite,
I didn't not sure if I want this quite.
Came an issue with my family then,
because I was supposed to be getting robbed off
by someone and getting vaccinated.
And they got the wrong,
they thought I was totally anti-maxing.
And I was like, no, I just don't want this particular vaccine
and no one understood what I was coming from.
And then I gave, and then I got a fuzz
at one done day to any way.
And I've had three of those now,
although that's not perfect
from an ethical point of view either,
because it's still tested on animals, I believe,
and I'm a donor and all of them,
I think, by law, I believe, as well.
So somebody died who was vegan
because he didn't take the vaccine,
I was about a nautical.
He was an animal lover, he was in his 50s somewhere.
So it's kind of hard with ethics as well.
Sometimes you have to sort of draw the lines,
and sometimes I think you're like,
how far do I want to go with this or not?
Yeah, I try not to sweat more stuff.
You try not to, well?
I don't sweat more stuff.
I figure I eat so many fewer steaks than most people.
I'm pretty much clear.
If I have a little hilly halon once in a while,
I don't really feel bad about that.
All of these little things like sugar,
you can get sugar that is generally bleached and bone me.
I get the vegan sugar you should buy kosher, for example.
And there's all of these little things.
And I'm aware of some of them.
And I mean, if the choice is easy like,
I can take this product of that.
Of course, I'll take the ethically better one,
but I don't dive into deeply.
I've so many things I'm obsessed with.
What else are you obsessed about?
Well, you know, I'm making my life difficult
by trying to just use free software.
That's the other thing.
And, you know, it is a bunch of stuff like this.
And it all adds up.
And it's difficult enough to make life work and ends meet that I...
Hang on, yeah, but hang on a minute.
You talked about banking apps early.
Mental overload in my daily life.
Talked about banking apps earlier,
but the thing is, they're not going to be free software, are they?
Yeah, yeah, for example.
So if there were free software alternative, I would use it.
But if I feel like I need banking app,
I'm going to tolerate that.
So you're not quite, not quite the FSF guys work that.
Some of them really are, you know, they really are like,
right, I'm going to...
Well, I wish it's down,
but I mean, there was the whole thing about...
He wouldn't go on websites normally.
We talked about that last night, actually.
Yeah.
Were you there when I said about that?
Come on, bro.
That's what that was around, yeah.
Yeah, and obviously they didn't leave a planet
a few years back.
They're there, conference apparently.
You feel like gasps and they applauded it, yeah.
And because you're going on websites normally,
but some of the people,
I mean, like you get a fuzz there more somewhere
and a cool boot stand is there, for example, cool boot.
Do you like free software BIOS, you know?
And it's like, I've got some stickers
and things from there before.
But, you know, it's like, great, yeah,
this is just great, great project in a way
because you've got a free software BIOS.
But then it's like, hang on a minute,
who actually uses this?
What glad to support it, because, you know,
if you get, if the BIOS goes wrong enough,
you're gonna, well, it's not quite refreshing your phone,
is it, with some alternative operating system.
We're talking about BIOS of a computer.
And if that goes wrong enough,
then the whole thing isn't going to work, I guess.
It really isn't, and it's going to be harder
to probably reflash a BIOS anyway,
but if you can do it on a machine,
but, you know, some of them insist on that they go,
no, no, BIOS is not,
it's still proprietary software in my machine.
And so I must have something like cool boot instead,
or I got proprietary software and I'm not happy.
And there was a lap that the style labs thing,
I was looking at, I think,
oh, yeah, the option is cool boot
or the other one, I think, as well, or normal BIOS.
Yeah, yeah, if I buy that laptop,
I probably will pick cool boot, actually,
because, yeah, because I have a free software BIOS then.
And why not?
And if it's pre-installed and works, I guess,
even though that's okay then,
but, or there's another option as well.
But yes, like, you know,
like where do you,
and you can try your own computer
and put a free software BIOS on,
but I think on certain computers,
but that's probably going a bit far.
Where do you, you know, if it goes wrong,
the whole computer is not going to work, is it?
Yeah, that's a pretty sensitive point of failure.
It's probably the sort of thing,
leave it alone for the most part.
I mean, maybe the BIOS update
by the official software,
but really a section of that,
it pretty much is leave it alone for them.
And you can change the settings,
but I'm talking about upgrading it
or changing it, something else, it's a bit,
you know, it's a bit far, maybe.
Yeah, again, I think it comes onto
all things in moderation.
You got to choose, like you want to push
the envelope forward,
but you also need to consider how much margin
you have in your life or for digging down into it.
Yeah, and it's,
but yes, like that,
but right through the line, same with veganism.
I went to a meal about,
I've been to a few of those in the past,
Brady, but there was one about,
well, I don't know, six, seven years ago, maybe.
One of the first ones I went to, I think,
in the city, like a group of vegans
and veggies, and a piece of an online group thing,
on meet-up thing,
but meet-up group, if you don't want meet-up, here's this.
But I found, went to one of those meals,
and I mean, we were sitting there
in some cafe or restaurant where a few of them,
and women, they're guys, you know,
and there was one guy talking to him and so on,
and eventually slipped out
that he was not really vegetarian or vegan.
He was what we call pesiotarian in this country,
where you still eat fish at times, basically,
and he was then talking about wage or the line a bit as well,
like, for example, if you're doing farming,
a worm might die or something,
or you, you know, like, is that bad then?
And things like that, you know,
and it's true, you have to sort of,
like I was saying, you have to draw the line,
with those effects, and also,
probably any other effects, really.
Oh, it's a bit like Richard Stelman,
where I think he would use a microwave,
where it's running for Piratory Software,
and he would probably go on a plane
that's running for Piratory Software,
so you've been flying around the world
through speeches, but I think somebody said,
so I think it says somewhere like,
you can't control that at all, so it's okay,
or there was an article, something that said it before,
but, you know, it's like, where do you draw the line?
If, will anything like this, isn't it?
There's a Richard Stelman has a pretty clear line
when it comes to firmware for if the driver,
if the manufacturer can provide a driver
that upgrades the firmware,
or if the firmware is in flash or in RAM
that is initialized every boot,
then he thinks that it's not ethical
if you don't have the source,
but if the firmware is in ROM,
and there's no way you can upgrade it
in normal circumstances,
you would have to go in and actually rip out the chip
and put it in a new one.
In that case, he thinks it's okay that the ROM is a fixed thing,
I can't modify anyway, so then it's okay.
Well, if you can't edit the,
oh, if it's on the ROM,
when you really can't do anything with it, is that what you mean?
Yeah.
Or a bit like a microwave,
it's got something in the background,
you probably can't really get access to the microwave enough
to then change the software on the microwave.
Yeah, exactly.
And when we're interconnected and things are neat,
we'll probably, well, I don't know what actually,
I got a new washing machine recently
and that's got some smart features
like I can get down on my own wash cycle if I want.
And yeah, and my friend tech friend I'd want to,
yeah, some devices are getting connected
that wouldn't have been before,
just getting some smart features.
Yeah, so in that case,
if you can connect it to the internet
and you can download new wash cycles,
then according to Rich's storeman,
it's unethical if you don't have the ability
to provide your own wash cycle,
modify whatever wash cycles are there for you.
Well, it's probably going to be unethical in that sense
because I have, because to do it,
I have to also use their app to manufacture that,
which I believe is going to be proprietary software,
surely, so for a start.
So there you go.
Yeah, yeah, and then it's even worse.
And the whole idea that your washing machine
should be connected to the internet is kind of iffy.
Oh, it can be like, why file Bluetooth?
I think it's always a Bluetooth for something,
but yeah, yeah, it can be connected, so.
I don't know, for the last 30 years,
I'm going to feel like,
oh, I wish I had a different wash cycle.
So I don't see that this is a very important feature
that would require a device to have internet access.
Well, they're just piling on things.
Like, how can we get an excuse to connect
for the cloud for the cloud?
Well, the default sound,
bang on perfect on that washing machine.
We don't know too bad.
I do actually think that maybe it,
maybe I should have a look actually
and see if there is something a little bit more suitable
for my needs, but on the other hand,
I can get by with what's come by default.
So it's a bit of a, yeah.
Yeah, choose the temperature
and should it tumble or not?
That's that's pretty much.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I was thinking about short bull,
somebody who's turned up in the channel,
or possibly, and here, but we're just good,
but what I was going to say as well is,
we had this word list we were going through,
or you were, and then I said,
when we went on to plant based,
and then we got into a big chat here,
chat here, but what other words were on that list?
So just a round of plant based thing,
I think that, so yeah,
I've been a vegetarian for the last 16 years,
and for the last,
the first time I moved to Hong Kong was 10 years ago,
and at that point it was very difficult
to find good vegetarian.
And these days, it's much easier,
and I think that plant based showing up
in the official word list is a sign
that vegetarianism is more accepted and more mainstream,
and I think that all of these new experiments
with beyond meat and only pork,
and what meat substitutes there are, I think.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And it's people who are not kind of willing
to invest in learning a specific vegetarian diet.
I think it's good that these sort of plug-in substitutes
for meat exist so that people can get the recipe
and just continue,
but doing things a little bit better for them.
I remember with ump, actually, the Swedish thing,
because we were going back, you know, 2015, was it?
Got stopped at a garage near the airport,
and went to the vegetarian section,
and I was like an ump sandwich.
I never had ump before, so I got this sandwich,
and my mum was with my mum anyway.
Well, she ate it, no problem.
She eats meat anyway, but I got it,
and it just seemed to me eat to me, it really did.
It was like, is this meat, is this not meat?
Is this, oh, oh, oh, and I started to Google,
and I couldn't quite get my answers,
and then I just didn't eat it properly,
and it popped me off it, and then it was a bit annoying
because I wish it was, yeah.
And then I found out afterwards,
and there was a guy in fit who moved to Finland
from, used to be in my,
well, he's on the mailing list still, I suppose.
My Linux user group, I'd met him before,
he lives in Finland now, he's an English guy,
but I remember him telling me on Facebook
or somewhere the only, about a year or two ago,
or whatever that was, or maybe what,
that actually, yeah, ump is supposed to be,
the text just supposed to be very meat-like.
However, it is vegetarian or vegan, yeah.
But the whole point is it's supposed to be very meat-like.
So the sound waves just seemed to me at the time,
and I had to have been the other day
from the Indian takeaway locally as well.
And on the menu there, it just said chicken, curry,
or chicken something, and then it's like,
okay, it's polytofu, but I just,
even though I knew it was polytofu in there really,
I just got, I just got a bit put off that time,
like, oh, I can't eat this now,
which is a bit, a little bit annoying
when things like that happen.
I went to a vegan sausage roll years ago
from a bakery that was there,
and I actually had to come back that time.
It was about, I was nearby.
I went back in there and said,
I just want to just double check this is like vegetarian
because it's so meat-like.
And sometimes you want meat-like and that's fine.
And especially if you know that it's not meat,
but other times you can sort of start to question it
because it's too meat-like.
And that's kind of what happened here, I think.
But yeah, cool corn is good.
Some people are allergic and stuff,
but more people are fine.
Beyond meat is the American thing
that's come up come to UK as well.
Matt Donald's has got a Beyond Meat Burger recently.
He had a vegetarian burger and a veggie wrap anyway before
and the Dipper things,
but they've got an actual vegan burger
with Beyond Meat now very recently,
which tastes like a beef burger I suppose.
And there's, yeah, yeah, I don't know.
I don't know, some of the,
some of the demand is,
so I just said that again in a minute, but couldn't hear you.
But some of the stuff is very meat-like
and it's supposed to be and that's fine, that's good
and that's catering for that kind of,
we want something that's like meat, but it's not meat,
but you might question it and some people go,
why do we want all this fake meat stuff
because you can say, real bad, vegetarian food.
But what are we gonna say?
You're gonna say something.
Yeah, there's Beyond Meat and as I mentioned,
Omnipork, I think that's a Hong Kong thing.
It's kind of, it's not very nice actually,
it's kind of like spam, but that's a thing
or like lunch and meat.
And then there's also impossible meat,
which is very similar to meat.
Yeah, and then there's, yeah, the veganist,
I think there's the modern vegan, well,
some people think that a lot of the modern vegans
just want meat-like,
that's something that really looks and tastes like meat,
otherwise, and that's not completely true,
but yeah, it's good to have, I think these meat alternatives
and it's good to have actual proper,
just standard classic, old-fashioned,
vegetarian food or vegan food as well,
which is the other thing actually,
I said vegan or vegetarian because that's,
I'm gonna say something else now actually,
because what can happen as well now is this kind of thing,
it's like vegans, you mentioned the word hipster earlier.
So if you're vegan, you're like cool in the hipster basically,
but if you are vegetarian,
you're not quite cool enough in this context
or pescatarian or any of that,
and if you're non-nobo in this context,
then you're definitely not cool,
because yeah, if you're just gonna eat meat,
spit like, be like and compare it to software,
what I'm trying to say kind of,
and you'll probably get my gest,
it's a bit like, if you run a Mac,
you're gonna be hipster.
If you run the looks, you're kind of gonna be in between,
and if you run windows, you're not cool at all.
Yeah, see what I'm saying?
It's like a craze, it's like the big thing,
a lot of things says vegan, vegan, vegan,
and it's like, what about vegetarian?
Why not saying vegetarian anymore?
It's like, vegan is like the craze now.
It's like some extent the cool thing to do.
Yeah, so I think that's good and bad,
and yeah, there's definitely these people who ask you,
so are you vegetarian for dietary reasons
or for ethical reasons, and I will say,
but I guess these days you might as well say
that someone is vegetarian for fashionable reasons.
Yeah, some are doing it,
because it's cool to be vegan as a,
I've done vegetarian for FX,
but haven't gone all the way,
or well, vegan's a bit can be difficult anyway,
because, well, well, if you're vegan,
you have to either, if you're vegan,
you have to either do a lot of your own cooking
to save money and to eat the right stuff, really,
or unfortunately, you have to pay that bit extra
for a lot of vegan products still,
and better you tell it, yeah, vegan.
The same with like, it shouldn't really be like this,
the same with like gluten issues.
People may have to pay that little bit more
because they got gluten issues,
and all my mum's boyfriend, he's got diabetes,
and he was saying the other day how he has to,
he's done this for lots of years,
he has to pay that little bit extra
for some of the stuff because he's diabetic,
and it's like, it's a bit like,
that's not really how it should be,
although it's probably based on the man as well,
and obviously, meat is still the big seller,
because a lot of these discount shops,
there were two guys earlier who mentioned Little,
who on earlier, my husband, I don't know.
Little is a German company, and there's Aldi,
German as well, and they're around in Europe,
and you've got Aldi in the America, I think,
because well, I've seen that somewhere,
but they had discount shops,
and when I go into a little on Aldi,
well, yeah, it's a place with cheap meat,
like somebody else said to me,
it's probably white, really,
and you can get some good,
some of the vegetarian vegan products as well that are okay,
but it's sort of a meat shop,
but more so, probably really,
and then you get your basic vegetables and things,
and you get a meat corner in these shops as well,
like a lot of shops, really,
like, ooh, we've reached the meat section,
let's go past here,
and then there's got shops like Iceland as well in the UK,
which is a wealth company,
I think it's only a UK company,
but they also sell mostly frozen food,
and it's meat, of course,
and it's called farm food,
which is a bit small, Scottish,
and a bit similar to that,
but I think meat is the big seller for sale for,
and chicken can be really cheap as well.
People here are chicken can be really, really cheap now,
and it's, in a way, it shouldn't be like that,
I think meat should be more expensive,
because for various reasons,
because the way the animals were treated,
that's one thing,
but also just generally animals have to be brought up
with food and take this up space,
and all that kind of stuff as well.
So yeah, meat probably should be more expensive,
but only a centuries ago it was like a luxury in the UK,
in England and stuff,
if you can afford meat or enough meat constantly,
you've got money, you're rich basically,
and if you're poor,
you can only have it on occasion possibly.
Yeah, that's why there's so much meat for Christmas,
because it was like the time of the year
where one would give themselves the pleasure.
Yeah, I got on to a Googling about vegan ethics
or vegetarian ethics, or whatever the other,
that was passed me into Google the other day of the night,
or the other last week or something,
and there's an article about this basically,
how people then justify,
oh well, I don't know if anyone else
isn't gonna actually hear this ever,
but they might do,
and if you are meat-eater then yeah, listen to this,
right?
So they justify eating meat.
What more why I was talking about,
I think I didn't eat meat really,
but it was just talking about how people kind of justify it.
So for example, Christmas,
or in America, Thanksgiving,
and it's like, well, we have turkeys at Thanksgiving,
and we have turkeys at Christmas,
and pretty much everybody eats turkey,
or nearly everybody at that time,
because that's what people do,
and so it's okay,
and so they eat meat,
because everybody else is doing it pretty much,
and it's seen as part of society and part of what people do,
and that's one way to do it,
and then people don't feel bad or guilty,
because they have,
because everyone else has done it pretty much,
and also the way they can package and label stuff
and do food packaging to make it sound good,
and it doesn't say like dead animal,
for example, on a product's packaging,
it will say you're eating ham or something,
which should part a bit as well,
and then there's people who love animals otherwise,
and they've got pets,
so they're doing animal courses or whatever they're doing,
but they come through time to go and eat meat,
which is a bit of a, hmm, really?
Yeah, English is particular in that way,
that when an animal is alive, it's a Germanic word,
but when you eat it, it's a Latin word,
so it sounds fancier.
Well, yeah, from its wording,
if it said like, oh, this is the guts of a cow or something,
basically, and it's had that on the packaging,
I mean, minced looks pretty disgusting anywhere,
I find personally.
There'd be, you know, minced beef,
minced or whatever, I really, as I've always found that,
even before I was vegetarian or whatever,
I always thought, ooh, but, you know,
if it said like, you're eating the inside of cows here
or something on the packaging,
you know, it'd probably be put off even more potentially,
even though you know it's true, you know what I mean?
People are more likely to eat a beef
than they would be to eat a mangled cow.
Yeah, some of this, and, oh, what they also do is that,
well, I mean, actually, I think in some of the Asian countries,
I think maybe Hong Kong as well, or Japan as well,
I believe you can go into a restaurant and say,
like, look, I want a fish, well, I want a lobster,
and you see it there in the tank alive,
and then...
Oh, yeah, for sure.
We can't do that in the UK now.
I think they've stopped doing that,
or maybe they could at one stage, I'm not sure quite,
but I know, I think some of the Asian countries
can still do it.
You can go into a restaurant,
you're a nice aquarium or something,
and you go, look, I want a lobster,
I want to eat a lobster, I want to eat a fish,
I want to eat whatever, and they go, okay.
And then they take it out of the aquarium,
and then they kill it, basically.
And then you have that, but that's the other thing.
Here it's like, you just go into a shop,
you buy meat, you have no attachment to that animal,
because you've never seen it live,
you just see it as a food product,
and that's part of the debate.
And if people had to kill those animals themselves as well,
I think I have a feeling they'd be more vegetarian,
be honest, be honest, because they're the Asian.
Great in Hong Kong.
So in Western countries,
you would say that all the kids don't even know,
they think that meat comes from it.
If you go to Hong Kong to traditional restaurants,
there's no way you're eating meat,
and you don't know that someone,
because when you enter the restaurant,
there will be pigs heads,
there will be birds hanging upside down,
just at the entrance.
And like you said, if you go to seafood restaurant,
the seafood is alive and you point at it,
and you get that individual served.
So I think that's good.
I think that's upfront and honest.
When you're eating meat,
you really know what you're doing.
As you say, I hope that helps people, to some extent.
Well, it's what you're doing.
I don't know.
Well, it's exactly what it means.
Maybe it means like you're more aware of what you're doing,
so you're not shocked when you find out.
Well, it's kind of, it's not very nice
when they're going to do it that way,
but on your land, the algorithm,
the algorithm is actually that could be a good thing,
because it really shows people that you want to eat meat.
Okay, you can.
However, it's going to be this.
This is what you're eating,
which is what you were saying as well.
The only thing is how they killed the animals as well,
because I know you didn't like Muslim traditions
or wherever they got, how, how meat were it's called, yeah.
But I know that that's not very nice,
really, how they do that from what I know
about that.
And yeah, not very nice at all, really.
Ooh, horrible.
Yeah, you can't give them an aesthetics
or knock them out,
they're blood, while they're awake.
Yes, it's just, I don't know.
We've seen that as horrible a lot of us here
in these kind of countries,
but there are people who think the opposite, of course,
but we say the way that we do it
is more humane or better,
but, yeah, I don't know,
you can probably debate both ways of doing it,
but I just don't sound very nice to me, though.
My bad saying.
Actually, the original argument for halal meat
is quite similar to what we just said,
that when you kill the animal,
you need to look it in the eyes
and you need to read it a prayer
and sort of apologize for killing it.
And the idea is this is supposed to keep you
from getting desensitized
and to minimize the suffering you're causing,
but I think history shows
that this didn't quite pan out
that we're still,
even in halal slaughter,
it's still done on scale.
Yeah, but if it's bleeding,
if it's live bleeding in pain and stuff,
that's the problem I think that we're kind of saying
why was that that's just horrible, basically.
Yeah, it's gonna die,
but that's not the point.
It's there in pain until it dies.
And that's just horrible.
I think that's what a lot of people do think,
except for like the people who,
like where I said Muslims or whatever,
but I don't know, but I do think it,
I do think the idea of,
yeah, you want meat, we, we,
well, okay, you can have meat,
but you're gonna really see this alive first.
It could help stop people eating so much meat,
because that's people eat for taste and stuff and it,
and people are not attached,
but they won't eat their pets.
Yeah, you know, they have dogs and cats,
they're not gonna end stuff and they,
you know, and they got the attachment there,
but then come to farm animals, it's like,
oh, it's all right, oh, we can do that, is it?
Then you got debates around, you know, protein
and if we need to have animal flesh or not,
and if it's a good idea and if it, and all that,
but that's, that's another argument,
but why is she like,
why is she just an argument right there?
Do we have enough protein as vegetarians?
Do we get enough this and that?
Or are we lacking something?
Are we gonna get Alzheimer's and dementia
when we get old, possibly, because we've been eating
vegetarian food for so long?
Are we, was it because of fish that people got clever
and the brain's got bigger?
Because in the past, there was a lot of fish eating,
and I don't know, there's all that kind of side to things too,
all these food debates, but I,
but I guess, but what we try and do is vegetarians,
we get, although you did say they meet on occasion,
so, well, they said you weren't completely,
well, you found a way to justify that, I think,
because you said only on occasion,
but, but I think we do, we're trying to do generally
what's the least hurtful thing
by being vegetarian or vegan or pretty much in this example,
but we're not perfect.
And we might do other things, plastic waste,
insects might die or something, and I don't know,
but I think generally the idea of vegan,
many tone of vegan is to do,
try and do the thing that is less hurtful to animals
or the planet, possibly, for when it goes beyond just food.
Yeah, I think if you assume that eating meat is bad,
and then you go out and you don't eat meat
365 days of the,
I think you're still doing a better job
than most people, so I don't think there's any.
Oh, no, I don't eat meat all now, I really don't.
I had to fish at the beginning.
I mean, the impersonal view, not view.
Well, I'll just people, general,
and there's faxitarians as well,
where they are trying, they're called,
that's a good word actually,
that's to be an addiction arena somewhere,
where they are basically vegetarian,
or they could be vegetarian maybe all five days of the week,
Monday to Friday, for example,
but down the weekend, they eat meat a little bit,
because they've gone out or something,
or something like that,
so they're trying to cut back on their meat eating,
and then Burger King did like a vegetarian burger,
where basically all vegan ingredients,
but it'll still cook with the meat,
so it's like, er,
but then more recently they got an actual vegan burger
that seems to be okay, I had that last month,
but first time for Burger King for a long time,
but I think, I think, yeah, I think afex,
and then you said software, trying to be free,
have you gone to the other afex as well?
All sort of thing.
I probably do, but not after.
No.
Those are the two big ones.
Yeah, plastic waste, trying midway,
for a lot out, but trying magio,
I don't know, how about a company's producing that,
we had that chat earlier or whatever,
but I'm gonna get back to that word list,
because we're trying just,
yeah, I was quite curious about word list,
so what else is on there?
Yeah, so if we go from the beginning,
the first one is Ivar, so AJVAR,
do you know that one?
It's what's it again?
Ivar, AJVAR, it's actually, it's a spice.
Oh, not virtual reality,
AJVAR, virtual reality for old people maybe,
I don't know, a spice.
Yeah, so that's been around forever,
and apparently it's just recent to become prominent enough
that it's earned a place in the list.
I feel good as a prefix,
like people will say, feel good movie.
So in Swedish, that would be a, and feel good film.
Feel, feel good, like in a movie context,
like this is a nice movie,
I feel good watching this.
Yeah, something that is just like,
yeah, this just makes you happy and upbeat,
and I guess people are like,
and Swedish feel good as well.
So maybe if you make a dinner where you make it
to indulge yourself, maybe you could say,
oh, it's Kvelliskehrheim, feel good midda.
Oh yeah, feel good, feel good.
Oh, feel good meat meal, feel good.
I feel good after having this food.
Yeah, it's something, something you indulge in,
something that just makes you happy.
I'm not sure if that's really a proper word,
but I can sort of see what it's saying.
I feel good, I watch this movie.
I feel good, I have this bear.
I feel good, I hate that dessert sort of thing.
I feel good after mell, I'm all,
that's good, but like I said earlier.
Yeah, so it's something that a prefix
that people use in a composite word
to categorize something as this is the type of thing
within this is purely for treating yourself.
Yeah, no, that's, yeah, that's okay,
I understand, well, this is on the list.
Endometriosis, and that's also been around forever,
but it's been very marginalized.
So endometriosis, if you don't know,
or if someone listening, endometriosis
is something that women may suffer from
where stuff that is supposed to be inside your ears
ends up outside the ears.
The main point is this is causing some women a lot of pain.
And for a long time, the male doctors
they've been going to have been saying like,
yeah, just take some pills and caracid probably pass
and not being taken seriously.
And actually I have a friend who is a science communicator
and also suffers from, and so she's been suffering
and in pain for a decade.
And she's campaigning a lot for this and raising awareness.
And endometriosis being on the list
of newly recognized words shows that apparently awareness
is rising, this, and people are starting to take it serious,
actually treating the patients instead of just telling them
to take painkillers and bear with it.
Right, okay, medical terms, or a newer one,
or they've added it in, oh, medical terms.
Also, I was thinking I'd got a list of like phobias
that I was given as a public speaking group thing,
tabletopics, but there are some of the words on there
as well, like, whoa, these real words.
It's like, yeah, these are real phobias.
But yeah, yeah, I mean, medical terms and things like that
when you think about it.
Oh, geez, yeah, there's so many different things.
And it's like, wow.
And where does somebody's words come from?
How did they come up with that?
And there's, oh, there's loads of things
where you would know, everyone won't know,
we're like, yeah, you might hear it somewhere.
Oh, you've got this condition, you've got that condition,
you've got this, you've got that.
Because people want a name for everything, basically,
as well, that's the other thing.
The next word on the list is fentanyl for some reason.
That's an opioid painkiller.
I guess people are using it more
or maybe people are more aware of the problems
of using opioids.
I don't really know.
The painkiller, okay.
Yeah.
Funcunzvaliahun, functional variation.
So I guess this is considered
and compassionate language for people
with otherwise called a disability.
And this shows that a lot.
So you like it?
Taking more.
So you like it?
Funcunal variation.
Funcunzvaliahun.
So I guess this is what I would say, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Variation and functionality, what you can do in things.
God does say, I think this means getting a tattoo,
but it's a hip term, like getting a sting.
So apparently people are getting more tattoos these days.
Tatus, I mean, I don't really like tattoos.
I mean, well, some people have,
some people have some quite interesting tattoos in a way,
but I'm not really into tattoos.
Although as a kid, you could get those fake,
maybe you could probably still can somewhere,
those little fake, little family tattoos
that you could put in your arm for a bit
would wash off eventually,
but those were a bit of fun at times, actually.
Those little tattoos.
Yeah, we had the adventure Halloween party.
Yeah.
And they would offer you these water sticker tattoos
and would like you kind of ghost on you or something.
Yeah, yeah, it's actually ghost or, yeah,
that's been, that's been years.
I've been in many years.
Milliorit.
So that's environmental law.
I guess people have had a lot of discussions.
I think there was something happening on Otland
where there was a controversy,
some company that got the right to mine
and types of rock there where they shouldn't have,
but apparently people have been discussing legally humans.
Greta Fumberg was there, maybe I don't know.
But yeah, she's Swedish.
She's also got altars in Westburg, as it said somewhere,
but yeah, yeah, she's doing is quite impressive, really.
In some ways, I guess.
Yeah, she's an SV and she's open about it
and she considers it her super,
that this is what has allowed her
to have the intensity has.
Richest Salmon has a bit as well,
I've read in the book or something.
Yeah, which probably isn't surprising to be fair
because well, yeah, he's done speech years
and all the rest of it,
but yeah, no, it's good what he's done as well.
So then we have probiotic,
which has also been around forever,
but the probiotic product,
fashionable these days.
So that's on the list now.
Yeah, it's like yogurt, some things, isn't it?
Skull, this is, we talked about this in the 80s,
in the Boy Scouts.
So layered clothing,
instead of having a down jacket,
you proper sweat absorbing thin shirt,
and then you have a thick sweater for isolation, insulation,
and then you have a windproof jacket to seal it all in.
And then you can easily scale up and scale down,
depending on the circumstances,
rather than having this big warm thing
that is supposed to do all of this at once.
What was that called?
Skull, something,
Skull, plug, so layered clothing.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't know what people would be talking about that in 2021.
I thought people were staying indoors.
No, in Sweden, you didn't get a lockdown
while you've been in Hong Kong,
but Sweden didn't get a lockdown.
They'd been out and about
and they'd been going to summer cottages
and they'd been, I mean, three fans, Sweden,
you know, you pretty much can be social distance
that you'll summer cottage anyway.
Yeah, no, but I mean,
the next neighbor is about mile away.
You can have the hard lockdowns, but.
The next neighbor is about mile away
and some of these cottages.
A lot more people have been from home.
Like the IT people, I know them in a percent of years.
So people have definitely been out less.
So I'm still surprised that discussion
so how to dress properly for cold weather.
Yeah.
Stombslagge, that means,
oh, what do you call like,
staff situation is the direct translation,
but stop means like high, high level staff
like the highest generals into something like.
And Stombslagge is used for a high alert situation.
All men on deck kind of situation.
I guess there have been several political crises
through our last year,
but this is also where that's,
it's been around forever.
It's become prominent enough this year to end.
Say like a management word, was that, wasn't it?
Yeah.
So it's semi bureaucratic,
Swedish, Stombslagge,
all hands on deck situation.
I see, yeah, that's one way of words, I guess.
Vistibulit, I don't know medical term, I guess.
Sergen?
Vistibulit, Vistibulite.
I guess this is some growth in some part of your body
that you want to have there.
Vistibulit, was not,
well Vistibulit, Vistibulit, Vistibulit,
that's clothing, but yeah.
No vestibule.
That means some kind of, like a lobby or an entrance.
And I think it's used as a medical term
for as part of your body.
Oh, then I will skip this one.
I guess next one.
Yeah, I don't really know.
Voxenli Eksok, adult toy?
I will read the interpretation of to you.
No, I'll read the interpretation up to you.
Next one.
I'm guessing this is either sex toys or maybe it's just about, you know, people consuming
too many gadgets.
My association, it is adult.
Mr. Gadget.
Yeah.
Mr. Oh, there was a cartoon of it.
Was it Mr. Gadget?
The tech?
No, small cartoon.
But yeah, Gadget, yeah.
We like tech, Linux Gadgets.
Who else would do it?
Well, some people like cars a lot.
Actually, I know one guy, but he has an accent, one of his fancy cars that he got from
South Korea as well, working on it.
He's got the clutch wasn't on, and he breathed in, and they're breaking his arm, yeah.
Like, he had operations, but yeah, cars or tech gadgets or, yeah, we like our gadgets.
We like our gadgets.
There's an article about shiny gadgets, like the Linux users want shiny gadgets.
There's like three years ago, because we're about bungee touch and things, I think.
Like, like it says, just because we use Linux, it's not that Apple get their fancy shiny
gadgets, but Apple users, but we want some fancy Linux gadgets too, really, that devices
and stuff.
All the time we do, and then Ubuntu Tablet, a sale for sure, and I didn't get that,
some sort of phone or something else, a mini PC, or something, you know, we want our
fancy Linux gadgets too, at times, really.
Oh, yeah.
So if I'm to guess why books and Lyeksock ended up on the word list, I would speculate
that maybe if people are working more from home, maybe they have, that's the end of
the word list.
What is it?
Oh.
Hmm.
Shall I get a list, I think it's over there?
It's the phobias of course, gymnasts, and, and, um, that's my, that might be fun, because
I'm going to translate it wrong.
And you're going to guess what the phobia means, maybe that will work, because I've got
the actual meaning on the other side of what these things actually are, and you seem
to be good at this, so you seem to be waiting all those words.
So let's try, maybe we should try this just because I've got the list right over there.
I believe, I think it's right there, isn't it?
Yeah, that must be it.
And then speaking of what we did is we, we'd give people a tabletopic, and they would
get to basically make this up and speak about for two minutes at most about what that
thing thing is, but I don't know, it's triceping and what you might be fun, and, and I
want to tell anybody else to actually turn up on this again, they might do, um, at some
stage, but, um, I don't know, go ahead, they've got like,
20, six hours already of plus us so far.
Oh, well, hang on, oh, cook some me connected there, are they going into the, I don't know
the route?
And we've got the system that turned up, yeah, I'm going to, yeah, I'm going to get this
word list, because right there, let's see what we can do with that, might be better fun.
Uh, it just means I have to stand up briefly, that's all right.
We can do a few of these.
It sounds like, uh, I don't know if it's lunch or dinner, it's getting ready, so,
no, I mean, that's fine if you guys wrap up in a bit as well, but, um, let's see if
this is going to work.
Yeah, I mean, by the way, ostrac on a phobia, what you think that might be, don't Google
any of this, but either way, because you could cheat.
I'm not cheating.
Ostracanophobia, what do you think that might be?
Ostracanobia, I was thinking ostracism's thing with that.
Yes, that's it, there's a sea there, but so maybe it's the, is it the fear of being
singled out?
So it is a fear you've got that correct?
Well, the fear is actually, yeah, this list, um, fear of selfish that one, apparently.
Oh, I didn't, I didn't explore a lot.
Yeah, stuff like this, it's like weird phobias that like, really people have got this
have they?
Um, uh, uh, phobia, uh, a, a, you, L, O phobia.
A, A, you, L, yeah.
Fear of lufus sponges.
I've got a rebel back here.
Um, hello, same, dem, dem, she, rebel either, but that was wrong by the way.
A-U-L-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O
H-Y-H-Y-L-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O-F-O
It's either fear of your dad or it's fear of the poop, it's either fear of your own dad or it's fear of the poop.
Bingo, you've got it, you've got it, so it's not fear of your dad, but I was thinking as a sweet, you might think that, because papaya is a dad, yeah.
Papam in papaya, my dad, but yeah, fear of the poop, you've got that one, you've got it.
Let's see, I've got a lot on this list, 46.
Let's see what else I can go for.
Shiro Fobia, CH-I-R-O-Fobia.
Fear of chiropractice.
No, but that sounds like it.
Good guess.
I like the sound, I mean it was wrong, but that sounds like a good guess.
Not sure if anyone will get this to be fair, fear of hands apparently.
Oh.
And then here's this one you might be able to guess.
This is a high-rality of a molecule if it's left.
You might guess this one though, someone might do here.
It's true of you now, that's good.
Globofobia.
G-L-O-B-O-Fobia.
Globo.
Fear of fear.
Globo, globo, globo.
Fear of hemoglobin.
No, well I'll give a hint, it is quite basic what you would be saying as a guess, and that would be correct.
If that makes any sense.
Fear of spherical things.
Fear of fear.
Nope.
Although globofobia could be a spirit, but no, I guess it'll kind of...
So this is fear of the world.
Globo, no, it's too easy.
No, it's fear of balloons, it says there.
And this one, I don't know, let's try this.
Chirofobia.
And I'll give a hint, it might be too difficult otherwise, so...
This is the hint, when I'm talking food now, it is a fear of a particular type of food, right?
But which food are we talking about?
And there's quite a common food actually, that's two hints.
T-E-N-O-T-U-R-O-Fobia, that's the one I'm just giving two hints for as well.
Because I don't think anyone's going to guess it otherwise.
Chirofobia, how it's called T-U-R-O-Fobia.
So it's a common food, it's a fear of that.
And it is...
Yeah, well yes, that.
Fear of fried foods.
Not as quite as complicated, I don't need detail, just a specific food, the name of that food.
Should I make it even easier?
It's a dairy product, but that could be, make it too easy.
Fear of cheese.
Bingo, yeah, fear of cheese.
Chirofobia, fear of cheese, it says it.
And then I've got one here.
It might be saying some of this wrong of course, but that's part of the thing.
So I'm spilling them now anyway.
Pen to Afobia.
P-E-N-T-H-E-R-A-Fobia.
What's that?
Fear of paint.
No, but I like it.
I like some type as a guess.
Could you spell it again?
Pen Therero.
Yep.
P-E-N-T-H-E-R-A-P-E-N-T-H-E-R-A-P-E-N-T-H-E-R-A-Fobia.
Fear of five-sided objects.
I don't know where he's come from this side here, but I like the sound of that.
How it is wrong.
Who snakes?
I'll give, wait a minute.
I'll try and give some of your hint.
Clarke, have you got a wife?
I do.
Right, that's your hint, okay?
That's a bit vague as a hint, but it might help you.
That's rebel's hint now as well, because he heard me.
I'm sure.
Fear of makeup.
No, no, no.
A hint is, I said, wife is a hint.
Very vague hint, but it might help to guess this one.
So, something to do with having a wife.
You have to have a wife.
That's there.
For this to be of any use, because I can't have this.
I don't have a wife.
And so...
Fear of separation?
Nope.
And I'll give you another hint.
There's lots of jokes about this particular thing.
It's sort of a fairy tale.
Fear of the mother-in-law.
Bingo.
Yeah.
Fear of mother-in-laws.
Oh, D-I.
ophobia.
D-E-I-P-N-O.
Fobia.
Fear of gods.
No.
I'll give a hint, I suppose.
It's doing food this one as well.
Or in a general sort of context.
It's not actual food you're eating, but otherwise.
D-E-I-P-N-O-Fobia.
Fear of chelkyl.
No, but that sounds like a good guess.
D-E-I-P-N-O.
No, I'm not thinking like this.
That's fear of hibernation.
No, I said so.
It's food.
Not the food you're eating, but food in a general sort of context.
I'll give another hint, and it's all nice way where you prefer to this, as you're doing
this, but it looks right.
And then maybe it's too difficult.
Fear of dining.
I believe this one.
Although this next one, I think somebody should be able to guess, hopefully.
Decide, though, Fobia.
Fear of trees.
Fear of making decisions, exactly.
And then I've got, I don't know if this is too difficult.
Well, actually, this is one next one to do with spices, or food spices, yeah.
Alium Fobia.
A-I-U-M.
Fobia.
Anyone with any ideas?
Take a guess.
Fear that you're going to be.
A-L-L-I-A-L-I-U-M.
Fear that you're going to be poisoned by aluminium.
Fear of...
Fear of...
Poisoned by what?
Normal.
Wait, can I, can I, can you still hear me?
Can I hear you?
Oh, there's not.
Oh, I think, I think I've got the button down low, and it's, say, a bit stuck now, but don't mind.
As long as I can be heard, still, that's perfect.
What would a verb will say?
Fear that you're going to be poisoned by aluminium.
Ah, I see what you get in that, like, science, like...
Alium aluminium mould.
Yeah, that makes sense, so that's wrong.
However, however, if you were...
I'm going to try and give another hint, but try and not give this a...
If you were a creature of the night.
Or a creature of the night.
Then, yeah, you would probably have this Fobia, actually.
That makes any sense.
And I said it's sort of through its spices, although it's not really a...
Well, I suppose it is a spice, because it's...
Fear of garlic.
Yeah, exactly.
If you're a vampire, this is not going to be much good, is it?
Fear of...
Yeah.
And then there's Fobofobia.
P-H-O-B-O-Fobia.
Fear of light.
Which I would hope somebody could guess.
Fear of fears.
Fear of the moon fobles.
No, if P-H-O-B-O.
And then Fobia.
It should be quite easy to guess, though.
Yeah, with a four-in-a-web, but...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Fear of having a...
Yeah, yeah.
Fear of having a Fobia, that's correct.
And then there's...
Oh, geez, I can't even say this.
Well, there's plenty of two different...
Cisces, something...
Oh, and I was going to guess that.
Fear of long words, whatever that was.
S-E-S-U-U-I-P-E-D-A-L-O.
Yeah.
I've heard this before, but I have to remember it.
Appofobia.
Sorry, what's that?
Which one?
The latest word?
No one just now.
What?
S-S-E-S-Q-U-I-D-A-L-O.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Fobia.
Fear of long words.
And then the next one was...
Yeah.
And then I've got A-B-L-U-T-O.
Fobia.
What's that?
A Bluetooth.
So, if you can, I guess that's correct.
The ablation is when things fall off.
Fear of dropping limbs.
Fear of getting shit.
The ablation.
Happily.
Loth.
Hmm.
I guess...
I guess in a way, something...
With this, or...
So, there's a hint.
Oh, yeah.
Fear of your skin peeling off.
Fear.
Um...
Fear of getting mose removed.
Mose removed.
Mose removed.
Fear of...
I'm gonna say it's due with water as well.
Oh, yeah.
A blue shirt.
Do you want a daily mistress?
Do you want a daily basis, actually, with water?
Fear of bathing.
So, it's...
A Bluetooth phobia.
Is that fear of drowning?
Fear of taking a shower.
Hello?
Hello?
He dropped off.
Fear of drawing HDR.
Fear of dropping off HDR.
Fear of dropping off HDR.
I...
I think my laptop might be more...
Was playing up slightly, or internet connection.
Um...
Eat.
I like...
Wait, am I still on a minute?
I'm gonna come back or try to come back.
I've got a little laptop issue.
I want to try and solve.
So, just stay there, verbal.
You hear me?
Yes.
I'm gonna try and see if I can sort this out,
because there's a problem.
Um...
Poor my stuck.
Ha!
Oh, pal.
It's annoying.
Well, I'm still here.
I'm still here, aren't I?
Yes, you are.
Oh.
Playing up again.
Can you hear me mostly normally?
Yes.
Right.
Now, I've got some weird issues with this laptop.
Um...
And...
I think it's...
I think it's got sort of stuck again.
But if I'm still on the stream,
I guess it doesn't matter too much.
I can't record it now, though.
Um...
Now, I get like...
Oh, I don't know.
I get...
These and...
Things...
Don't click that.
Even...
Right, you can still hear me, yeah?
Yes, I can.
Loud and clear.
Hmm.
Now, I can't record the thing, either.
I was recording.
But, I guess the main thing is to still be on it,
because otherwise...
It would be, um...
It would be cause...
And also, my volume thing is stuck as well.
Like, I was on push-push-still.
That's been happening for a little while now, anyway.
Because I had the button down a lot.
Um...
Shenaway means I should let this laptop battery die again.
I think...
Or something.
And it's not repeating the menus.
Yeah, I got this...
I got this like...
Linux laptop.
That was...
Um...
It's been nice.
And, of course, it...
There's been a few little hardware problems with it and stuff,
since I bought it.
You still can hear me, yeah?
Yes, I can.
Hey, according to the IT crowd, you should turn it off and on again.
Yeah, yeah, but well...
I know, but I don't know if it's going to let me do that properly or not for a minute.
Because...
Because...
Sometimes it goes...
Sometimes it doesn't even power off properly when it has problems.
Or should I...
It looks like you're pushed to talk, but you're stuck down.
If I drop off, I'll be back in about...
I don't come back there.
If I don't come back soon now, I'll come back in about...
Maybe.
Wow, it's maybe.
I'm going to try and turn off,
but I have a chance I can't come back straight away if I do that.
Um...
Well, I guess I should try...
If it...
Let's me...
No, I think it's stuck.
I think it's actually stuck.
Oh, well, I'll just...
Yeah, no, it's having problems again, but you can hear me, yeah?
Yeah.
But if you're stuck, you can never leave the HPR channel.
I can.
Well, no, that's all right.
I don't want to be...
I wanted to stay anyway for now.
I just got some weird laptop problems.
Um...
I got...
At the moment, I'm pushing down my power button.
I just tried...
And it won't turn off at all.
Again, I've had this before.
A few times now.
And so...
I've just unplugged my charger.
I'm on a hundred percent.
Last night was annoying,
because I was on...
I was on 34 percent.
And I...
I was having a good chat with...
Um...
Whoever else was on it, you know...
Ken's...
Boy in the American woman
and whoever else was on it.
And...
And I...
And I couldn't...
It all just sort of...
And then it all just sort of froze up on me.
And it was like, oh no.
And then it was echoing with the sound as well.
And I couldn't...
And I was like, oh no.
Pat...
Let it...
Pat and I powered off on the button.
But then it still on partly
would eliminate keyboard and things.
So, I had to leave it for an hour or two.
It got a bit...
Basically, young charge boss had a break away from the computer.
And that's going to be even longer,
because I'm on a hundred percent battery.
But...
It...
But it will...
And then I can do things normally.
So...
I think...
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So my push talk is going to be stuck for now.
And if I can still be heard,
I guess I can continue.
So...
Okay, now you push the talk.
Just went off.
Ah.
Ha!
Right.
I'm here, yeah.
Yes, you are.
Crickets.
Is anyone still on?
I'm still on.
Hello, verbal.
Hey, what's going on?
Your mic was pretty low.
Is it still low?
Much better.
So I wonder how long the recording is going to go for.
I think as long as the steam has ran in and people are talking.
I think they wanted to try to break their 19 hour record.
I think it's amazing that audacity can do the trunking.
Trunk cake, trunk cake silence.
And so you don't have to do that automatically.
Yeah, the cake silence is a pretty cool feat, I think.
Yeah, that's what computers are for.
Do all the boring stuff for you.
No, I'm not.
Yes, they're sick.
They sleep on the test.
Downstairs.
This upstairs.
This is the master bedroom.
No, it's the master bedroom.
I sleep in that one over there.
And then my office is the one over there.
I have what?
No, this used to be my bedroom.
Then I moved into that bedroom over there.
Sorry.
I'm turning it.
You have been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
