Episode: 3779
Title: HPR3779: Just Because You Can Do a Thing... 
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3779/hpr3779.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 05:15:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,779 for Thursday the 26th of January 2023.
Today's show is entitled, just because you can do a thing.
It is hosted by train and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, just because you can do a thing does that mean you should.
Hello Hacker Public Radio fans, this is Trey and I'm throwing this recording together
for several reasons.
One, the queue of shows is abysmally sparse.
There are far more openings for shows in the next few weeks than there are shows posted.
And two, this show is a pitiful excuse for why I haven't posted any shows recently.
If you like what you hear on Hacker Public Radio, please express your gratitude by recording
your own show.
If it doesn't need to be long or sound professional or anything, introduce yourself and share
something you find interesting.
If you do not like any or all of what you hear on Hacker Public Radio, then it is the
perfect opportunity for you to take a few moments and record a short or long podcast of
your own which fills the gap of what you feel is needed on HPR.
Alright, enough preliminaries.
A long time ago at an undisclosed university far, far away, I took my first class about
ethics.
One of the things I remember most was the question of, just because you can do a thing, does
that mean you should do the thing?
This was applied to many different scenarios.
Some nation states building weapons of mass destruction to offering computer viruses
and even to saying what you're thinking at any given moment.
It should quickly become obvious that you should not always do a thing simply because
you can do it.
And today, I would like to relate that to DIY home improvement projects, especially
as we work our way up in years.
For regular listeners, you may recall my series, everything you always wanted to know
about PEX recorded and shared in May through July of 2022.
These are episodes 3604, 3614, 3624, and 3634.
In this series, I recounted the process of re-plumbing my home using PEX with helpful advice
for anyone else who wants to try it.
What I did not realize at the time I was doing the project was the toll that doing so much
overhead by myself was taking on my old shoulder joints.
It was only one straw, but a rather significant one, which eventually broke the camel's back,
or in my case, resulted in several severe tears in my rotator cuff and bicep tendon.
Therapy was marginally effective and surgery was eventually required to put things back
together the way they belonged.
My effort to save money and do the project myself, because I could, helps lead to significantly
more expenses and more than a year of recovery.
I'm not sharing this for sympathy, but rather because I learned something important.
Now that I'm getting older, as I decide which projects I should do myself and which
I should pay professionals to do.
It is important to factor in the potential impact on my body, my mind, and those around
me, even if all goes well.
Just because you can do a thing does not necessarily mean you should do that thing.
Unless the thing is recording a podcast for HPR, that is something you can and should
do.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find
out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
