Episode: 3649
Title: HPR3649: Linux Inlaws S01E61: 20 years in review
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3649/hpr3649.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 02:52:59

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,649 for Thursday the 28th of July 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Linux and Laws Sayy, 20 years in review.
It is hosted by Monochromic and is about 72 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the last 20 years in review.
This is Linux and Laws.
A podcast on topics around free and open source software, any associated contraband,
communism, the revolution in general, and whatever else, fanciful.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language, offensive humor,
and other certainly not politically correct language.
You have been warned.
Our parents insisted on this disclaimer.
Happy mum?
That's the content is not suitable for consumption in the workplace,
especially when played back on a speaker in an open plan office or similar environments.
Any miners under the age of 35, or any pets including fluffy little killer bunnies,
your trusted guide dog, unless on speed, and qt-rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
Please note that the events, persona and tolerance discussed in the following episode are
purely fictitious as they may have occurred in a parallel universe.
This especially applies to conclusion strong from these, including any investment decisions
you have been warned.
This is like the laws of season one episode 61, our six Martin.
Well, since it's May, June, May, and it's going to be my, oh kind of remember that,
I don't know if they've left it for a few days, like the wheelchair or today.
Yes, things have moved all a bit, so
but first of all, we will thank the Queen for what, yes, for what 30 bank holidays,
maybe the more.
Just, well, I mean, there's one every year, of course, but some, well, in fact, there's two bank
holidays every year for, and actually, there are only a lot of those Queens, but yeah,
this year we have two, so thank you so much, the Queen, it's very thoughtful.
And we shall celebrate your 70 year, and it will show you.
So, the Queen.
Okay, to the Queen, yes.
And you finally have converted, yeah, sorry.
So Martin, you're finally converted to a full royalist, in that case.
Because I have no idea what a full royalist is, you know.
Well, people that cherish the Queen because of that extra day off.
Well, I think everybody cherishes the Queen, actually.
I don't, well, I wouldn't go that far in my case.
But you don't have a Queen, you just have some.
Well, trust me.
Trust me.
Trust me.
By the way, from Qtn, is there.
I got them between, don't worry about it, plus the fact that I'm half Irish anyway, so
being in the concert of a Queen, it's not exactly, well, yes, I mean, I'm half Irish almost.
What do you mean you're half Irish?
I don't know how far Irish.
I don't know how far Irish, simple as that.
49.5 yes the last time I look okay no it's just it's just I mean if you live in this country for long enough it gets to you in terms of it you notice that addiction
so it needs to say I'll be being a half Irish almost and being a royalist it's not compatible
but against which part of Ireland well there's only one real Ireland
well you say that if 1922 another history is anything to go by
it's yeah okay how do you do the episode of hands yes we should probably explain what this
is all about before our listeners get even more curious
oh now the following episode yes anything you want to add before I do the explanation
well what are you celebrating I'm celebrating I'm celebrating I'm not celebrating anything
oh well you're not thanking your chancellor for it
for the happy for the happy web for the heavy weapons
then it's about to ship into Ukraine Olaf Scholz if you're listening this is for you
well done after about two years of procrastination I'm joking only about two months
indeed and full marks for this swap deal or whatever it's called as a distrangle of
we're going to give some Baltic states weapons and in turn they're going to give their
old weapons to the Ukraine or something smart move yes very good are you
are you ending a smart that we have such a brave chancellor
I don't think that word has been associated with it in any complication I've seen
I wonder why that is Martin
and let's worry about this Martin before we go into the episode that has been brought
back from the future probably now it's the time to shut some light actually on
where we are in 2022 with regards to funny enough download figures
okay I thought and any idea how many people listen to us
I was been told that it would be a very true yes but you see HDR has this wonderful
you but wonderful trade them to to add that they mirror the MP3s on something
called archive.org details maybe the show notes
archive.org actually does keep stats and funny enough on archive.org and they
they only keep stats for the published episode so if you take a look at the
calendar the episodes that have been released but do not feature on the RSS feed
probably you will not see on archive.org but if I if I take a look at archive
or if we take a look at an archive.org for the last one year and one and
or almost almost one year and a half we clock in on average between 1500 and
2500 listeners given the fact that we have launched this podcast
shot of two and a half years ago that's quite amazing
that's my impression anyway or that's my opinion rather.
Oh thank you it's nice for sticking with us.
I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
Yes what was the details will be explained in a minute.
Okay what started out as a hobby project apparently now has attracted a significant
audience because if you just use your favorite search engine
hpr and does archive.org is only a fraction of our listenership
there's a chap out there on YouTube that scrapes the episodes and puts us
up there so whoever you are thank you because if you go to YouTube and
tap and linux in loss you get to that feed which is the audio of course plus
some logo I think.
Sorry not quite.
And for it.
Yes but the fact alone tells you something never mind the number of
sources that simply syndicate us and give us credit.
So I reckon it's fair to say something this up and this is just a projection
on average we are listened to but anything between 5,000 and 10,000
business per episode given the fact that as I said quite a few people
syndicate us.
We're just pointing the right place now.
Are you sure you got the decimal point in the right place though?
Maybe I'm off by magnitude so maybe just 50,000 to 100,000 people.
No jokes aside people a big thank you from the two of us because without you
this would not be possible.
People wouldn't syndicate us if the listenership wouldn't be out there and
needless to say if you think there's anything worth improving the email
addresses sponsors at linux in loss that you know I'm joking it's of course
feedback at linux in loss study you.
And there is also a sponsor.
Yes.
So as a Microsoft the cool software.
Never mind the test as all the rest of them if you want to send us money please
get in touch while a sponsor at linux in loss study you.
And we may have in the future we may have a pattern feed but there's
purely optional that remains to be seen but the content will always be
created comments attribution share would like because that's exactly the
license that we choose to publish the podcast under.
And with that on to the episode.
Yeah but before we gonna go into the future maybe explain why we are publishing
a set of what I'm looking for while we're releasing a future episode.
Because funny enough the following about four hours maybe I'm going to cut this
down to two.
Maybe in HBR we'll cut it down back to one hour again.
I'm joking Ken if you're listening now jokes aside at the following
episode has been recorded in 2042.
And through time travel has made it back to the year 2022.
So this is the reason why we're calling this 20 years review.
We precise of course it should be twenty four years review because we
started the podcast about twenty about two years ago but anyway it doesn't
matter.
But before but before basically we go into that future episode we should
probably explain how time travel is possible.
Martin you want to give it a go.
Well you just get yourself a DeLorean.
Yes.
Speaker.
Link's swimming in the show notes.
Travel bunch of bits to the outside.
Very much so.
That happens.
Doc Martin if you're listening this episode is open it's also for you.
Yes.
I just like more serious note.
I was more referring to the theoretical to the theoretical concept.
The rather than just using a car.
Oh we mean Einstein and stuff.
Okay.
Almost yes.
Okay.
Well I mean time travel into the future is easy.
Anyway you don't need anything fancy for the platform.
They go big freezer.
No you just wait exactly.
But if you want to be in a similar sort of status you are.
I don't need anything fancy.
I'm waiting.
Can it take a very long time span.
So.
Yes.
Sometimes you want to be more precise in terms of way you want to go in the future.
And also maybe you want to go back to the history or into into a point of time.
Of time in history anyway.
So it's I mean it's not that difficult.
When you think about it.
I'm going to spare them off because the math actually is a little bit tricky.
But if you imagine.
But with me it's not that complicated.
You have your normal.
No I mean seriously.
You have your normal 3D universe.
Right.
As in.
Hey.
Well.
With camera.
X.
Yeah.
The universe that you're living it.
Okay.
Okay.
That means three dimensions.
Now if you.
Well.
It's the better way of.
If you compress these three dimensions on a single dimension plane.
You have something that you can fold.
Yeah.
Now if you fold it in the right way.
And as I said, I'm going to spare the math because the last is a little tricky.
If you fold this.
What happens when you unfold it.
You're going to get to that in a minute.
If you then fold it, you can travel.
Between the points that touch each other on the plane.
In zero distance.
It just takes a bit of energy and a little bit of complicated.
Yeah.
There's a few practicalities in this.
The word.
Exactly.
And essentially, I mean,
warp, warp travel.
No, no, it's not a theory because the enterprise did it in what?
20,000 years ago.
You said, no, something.
No, seriously, I mean, hence the warp, hence the term warp drive.
Because essentially that's just what you do.
You warp that plane until these points touch.
And then you're able to travel within almost zero distance.
But at the, but at the same time quantity, but we're going to get to,
but we're going to get to that in a minute in kind of light speed
as an instantaneous.
And that's exactly how a warp drive works.
Now, if you throw a little bit more of more energy and a little bit of more complicated
math and the equation, that means you add a fourth dimension.
That means you have your typical time space.
You have three dimensions and you have a fourth dimension called time.
Now, again, if you compress that on one plane, you can bend that plane.
If then two points touch each other.
You can not just only travel distance, but you can also travel time.
People, you already first.
It's not that complicated.
You just need a few.
Yeah.
What's the point?
We'll talk about the practicalities.
Terror and electron volt to make it happen.
So kids don't, don't try this at home because you can't do that when you go dark.
No, you don't make sense.
This is why.
Yes, Mark.
That's the reason I'm explaining this.
No, no, no, no.
You don't make sense.
This is why, you know, I'm so successful in the electricity market, right?
It seems almost able to talk this out.
Who's successful in the electricity market?
You don't be on.
No, you don't.
Elon Musk.
Yes.
How does Mr. Musk feature in that equation?
I wonder.
Well, let's see.
Yes.
Unless he has time traveled.
I don't know.
Yes, of course.
It's from the future.
Well, I don't.
That's it.
People do.
Who does?
I don't know.
People.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I don't know them personally.
Let's put it that way.
Well, I mean, if he's ready for the future, why does, why do the, why do his cars have so many flaws in terms of kill people with on with the autonomous driving?
Get the software wrong all the rest of it.
Well, it's because they built a people's name.
Yeah, but I mean, if he's from the future, he must have such these problems out.
Yeah, we can't tell.
He doesn't buy all bits of code himself from this.
This is the problem.
And Elon, if you're listening, please get, please do the internet for us.
The email address is feedback.
There's a lot of you.
We can't help you.
No worries.
Yes.
But without further ado, now this episode, as I said, is about 20 years of the future.
Let's see.
Let's see.
Basically what happens in 20 years time.
And without further ado, this is the episode.
Welcome.
How are things?
Yeah.
What happened to you?
I mean, given the fact that you, after the IPO, something got links in us that you put the.
That you put the.
That you put the.
This, this, this.
What was I'm looking for?
This concept called art, an altered carbon.
The details within the show notes into production, actually.
You should, you should sound like myself.
Like time didn't affect you.
Apparently that's different.
Of course, of course.
Yes.
Ah, that sounds much better.
So you find you to suffer excellence.
Sure.
Yeah.
No, I mean, it's the.
I can't believe it.
In most IPO happened because we're still waiting for it.
We just want.
Okay.
We're going to shed on the light.
The light on the IPO in a few minutes.
But before this.
We should probably explain.
We're recording this in the June of the year 24 to 20 of 42.
Say yes.
Of course.
Lots of things has happened.
Has happened since we came up with a podcast in the year 2020.
Hmm.
Probably now is the time because I reckon not that many of the original
listenership will be with us in this point of time.
We should probably explain how the podcast came into existence.
For those people who are new to the podcast as in half joined with the last 20 years.
I cannot remember the first couple of things though.
We explained how the podcast came into existence.
Actually, the whole idea dates back to a.
An evening in craft beer bar in the lovely city of Prague.
And when was it Martin in November of 2019?
Okay.
Yes.
Can you remember?
I remember the craft beer bar.
That's the cause.
I had a chicken wings on skill of 0 to 10 in hotness.
Yes.
It was a hotness.
Yes.
And Martin chickened out at two.
I don't think so.
No, I think I went for a moderate fine.
I think I went.
I went for eight or something and I deeply regret it.
You were sweating.
You were out of an office.
Well, it's eating time.
Chicken wings aside.
That's that was the point in time.
And we were actually at an at an outing of a company long gone by now called then red is lapse.
After afterwards red is the rest of history.
What we wait for from this over in the next kind of two hours or something.
Maybe not.
Anyway, there's a matter.
I think your recollection of the history of red is not very different.
Anyway.
It doesn't matter.
Okay.
As I said, I think it's the 90s of November 2019.
Covid hadn't hit then yet anyway.
Only maybe an isolated part of China.
I do not know.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Martin myself on this craft beer bar.
And I'm talking about free and open source software.
And over a couple of beers.
We came up with the idea of why not do a podcast from birth.
Yeah.
And I think it was inspired by the outlaws, right?
Yes.
We should probably explain where the name comes from.
Well, it's that's why we can go into the podcast topic.
Yes.
There was, of course, a podcast called Linux Outlaws.
David Lynch and Fabian.
Pat.
Charles.
I probably belong that by now.
Maybe not.
I know.
Yeah.
No, Dan is older than it's older or was older than me.
So but that may be listening.
I don't know.
Fabian, if you're listening to this for you.
Did a podcast called Linux Outlaws in between 20 or 9, 20, 10 software this and 20, 14,
2013?
And then podcast stopped.
The farm, but I'm tempted to say were somewhat inspired by these two guys and links will be in the show notes.
Yep.
So the idea was to do a podcast almost similar to Linux Outlaws, but with a spin with a twist.
And that's exactly how Linux is lost was born.
He's the name, hence the logo, hence the IPO, hence world domination.
But we're going to get into that in a minute.
Yes.
I get to.
Okay.
It was born as a hobby project.
But over the years, it developed into something like my series.
We did an initial stats.
I mean, okay, first of all, we should probably explain where we hosted the stuff initially.
Which was hecka public radio.
For a reason.
Because hecka public radio.
I don't know when it fell by the way, so it.
But it must have been in the mid 30s.
Maybe I'm wrong.
I couldn't cope with the traffic.
But then Martin, we should probably.
We should probably.
Had.
We decide some of the of the mullah from the IPO for proper content delivered network for them.
Yes.
But you have to be objective to that.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Okay.
We chose hecka public radio for a reason.
Because at the time.
2020.
2021.
That was the platform of choice.
For.
I was tempted to say.
Anything goes.
Episodes.
You can talk about your experience at a mental hospital.
You could.
You could talk about.
COVID stuff or not.
You could.
Publicly.
The rail.
Rich and strong and all the rest of it.
Essentially, it was a free platform.
Anything.
Not just free.
An open source offer related.
So it's not enough.
As Martin oriented at.
Due to the.
Rowing success of a somewhat unbeknownst podcast.
Yes.
That platform.
It folded in the mid 30s.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
So for the first 10 years anyway.
We successfully hosted the episodes.
On hecka public radio.
Much of the initial automation was written.
With HP on mind.
That initially drove the podcast.
Going back to my original remark.
What.
Came into existence.
I was just getting them on.
But came into existence as a hobby project.
Developed into much more serious stuff.
About after about two years.
The downloads and happy on hecka public radio alone reached.
A comfortable for figure level.
People were scraping us.
And putting the audio files up in YouTube.
And a lot of people who shall go on name syndicated us.
And simply spread the stuff.
And hosted the MP3s on their site.
Probably just to gain traffic, which is okay.
Because the episodes were licensed on the creative comment.
Attribution and share like.
That was the original intent behind the podcast.
But give the fact that I'm still have a co-host.
Yes.
Every now and then talks to.
At the end of the time.
To talk about more of the Lauren oriented stuff.
Yeah, I mean, the original.
The Lauren is obviously not kind of.
Want.
I'm mentioning the Irish connection.
There was a 20 hours.
Came up with the idea.
That's a lot of money in this, right?
Right.
It wasn't his own money.
No, you lost a lot of money.
No.
I thought you'd have bought these to Lauren chairs.
Because that car could travel time.
Ah, okay.
I think that that's only the one in the movie.
And that was the original.
The Lauren.
Some of some more.
Yeah.
You have to make the right modifications to this for business.
Ah, okay.
Fair enough.
Now, I mean, I went to Belfast in the 90s.
And that museum in Hollywood was just off Belfast.
And that was actually the Lauren in that museum.
Which was quite fascinating because I think the.
The movie was done in the 80s.
It's a completely even taken off the last century.
Correct.
Wow.
That's what six years ago or something.
But we're good.
Well, as we were talking about it, it happens all the time.
It's getting older business.
So we should probably talk.
No, no, Martin.
And we should probably now talk about what happened after.
After this pivot point in time around 2022.
When we surprising love.
Had a relationship of more than 10 people.
There is.
Well, what happened up there was that some.
I mean, you spoke to satire.
No, you wanted to retire or something.
No.
I mean, if I record correctly, you reached out to satire himself.
Yeah, but I was.
With the straight.
With the straight.
As I mentioned.
With the strange idea that Mr.
that Mr.
is a Microsoft should buy the podcast.
Ah.
Oh, no.
No, no, no.
Okay.
We don't want anybody to buy the podcast.
We have people wait for people.
Okay.
Yes.
Don't you remember we had that.
That.
Discussion about the future of the podcast in.
I think that is it.
The.
The 10th of June.
2022 something like that.
It would.
I didn't.
I didn't.
I didn't.
I didn't keep records apparently because I can't recall this.
Okay.
So maybe you can.
You're working very well.
It sounds like.
I'm.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So Martin, maybe, maybe now it's time to.
Chat more light on this because apparently your memory is much better than mine.
So what happened at the end of June in 2022?
I've paid a small fortune for some extra bits to be added to my brain.
Anyway.
Please go ahead.
Did it work out?
I wonder.
What is it?
Having the bits to your brain.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's one of the sweet memories.
So here's if alcohol abuse are wiped out in no time.
It was spent.
Well, actually, here's here's here's a handy tip for you.
If you want to improve your brain, drink more alcohol.
I've been doing this for the last six to plus years.
Okay.
Good.
Well, this is at least a tip, right?
It's.
I wonder if it if it checks out though.
No, it is.
It's.
It's.
It's.
Yes.
Well, that that too.
But it's the alcohol goes off the, you know, the poorly brain cells.
So your brain just gets more efficient and smarter.
That's the fact that alcohol conserves cells.
No.
I thought it did.
Maybe I'm wrong.
Well, if you put them in a jar.
Exactly.
The whole different matter.
You probably wouldn't want to do that to yourself.
Okay.
It's quite a living experience.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Okay.
Yes.
So going back to the 10th of June 20th.
Yes.
By all means, Martin, go back to your records, please.
Yes.
So after you did some digging in the stats of our business ship.
You mentioned some numbers of more than 10, which prompted us to discuss the.
We had a lot of support costs.
And I think you mentioned dollars on a number of occasions.
Some reason I don't know why.
At that stage for the last two years, because I was desperate looking for sponsors.
Yes.
Yes.
The party that all changed.
It all changed.
It's all changed.
They, um, after that.
We had that live, uh, live listenership published.
It, uh, the sponsors came looking on the door.
I think you had to upgrade your emails.
So as well.
Oh, yeah.
The wave was kind of not off the back.
I took place in 2022 in September.
If I were to go for a call correctly.
The wave was kind enough to donate a couple of D wave three wise.
That's it.
The success of something called a D wave to X.
That gave us quantum mail out of the box.
Pretty neat machine.
But, of course, now ancient technology.
Funny enough, Martin, whatever happened.
To this Broadcom acquisition of something called Microsoft.
VMware and Nvidia.
Thank you.
No, I think it.
I mean, Broadcom started with this with this idea of buying VMware, right?
It didn't stop at Microsoft.
And, of course, also in video.
Nevermind the market cap of being twice the Broadcom market capitalization.
Okay.
I mean, I mean, something failing there.
So whatever happened to the web acquisition.
Do you remember?
No, no, it's something that's kind of been erased from the past.
Let me take a look here.
Maybe I have some records.
Okay.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Broadcom apparently reached out to somebody in Moscow.
But for some reason, Moscow was not personally anyway.
No, but Moscow was shot.
It was shot on cash too, which nice, of course, brings us to the conflict.
You were sure of on cash?
Welcome.
Yes, stop, stop buying gas.
No, no, no, no, no.
No, Russia had to fund this conflict back into.
I think there's some sort of war on in the 20th century.
It was big news at the time.
It was.
But yes, but it's been a while.
But if I recall correctly, Martin, I correct me from wrong.
The whole thing was to stop NATO in its tracks.
As an opponent and not move any further into into the Eastern hemisphere.
Yes, I'll stop it at Poland, you mean?
Yes, exactly.
Poland became a member of NATO in what, 20 years, quite a long ago.
11, 20, maybe seven or not.
Yeah.
Maybe the show notes.
So, yes.
But however, so you were talking about the funding of this activity, no?
Of the war, yes.
Germany played a significant role.
Yes, yes, yes.
Forksnib, Britain had left the European Union at that stage already.
In hindsight, a smart move too bad that the United Kingdom was gone very short afterwards,
because countries like Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales decided to do fact and join the EU in the 30s smart move.
So the United Kingdom was reduced to something called England once again and failed by the wayside and now served as a tourist attraction.
For some US tourists, as it has been the case for the last couple of centuries prior to that.
No, no, no, no, no, we can't watch any people.
Sorry, international tourists.
Yes.
Yes, we will want to know.
Kids at home, it's like Disneyland or it's slightly bigger.
And they used to have the Queen, but apparently she parried long ago.
Well, you say that.
But it is now 2042 and she died in what?
I can't remember.
Last year, I know.
Past year.
Oh, okay.
So finally, Google really did this prototype in terms of picking Elizabeth the second as the...
Martin, you can't be serious.
I thought that was classified.
Hang on.
You having access to Google Internet records?
That's amazing.
Okay, no.
Alphabet.
It should have been more successful than it was in 2022, right?
Well, we should probably check with the laws first, but okay, we might cut this out.
Alphabet in the year 2020, seven decided to...
Well, time travel actually.
And at that stage, they wanted to...
And this sounds like a wild goose chase, but it doesn't matter.
They had already, at that stage, technology developed with regards to genetic enhancements.
They had been actually doing research on how to delay.
If not stop, human aging for the last 10 years in the year 2020, 19 or something like this.
So finally, in 2029, they decided to put the technology to test travel back in time
and chose apparently, if Martin's record, I need to go back with Elizabeth II as the first prototype.
But apparently, it wasn't that successful because if she died in 2041...
Yes.
Well, this is temporary, right?
So...
Are she suspended?
No, no, no, no.
So instead of the Google approach to delay aging, there was another more successful company.
We shall remain nameless.
Why?
For the time being.
Do we have stock in the market?
No.
SEC, you didn't hear this, and then we're going to cut this out anyway.
We'll publish this at the appropriate time.
Maybe in 2097 or something.
Indeed.
Indeed.
Okay.
Yes.
The company that remains is that child remain nameless.
So what's the crime Martin?
So, I mean, you know about rebuilding, let's say, tissue from DNA, right?
So they compete at this process successfully.
There was a documentary in 2087 called The Fly with an actor called Jeff Goldblum.
No, they were coming in through some portal and that's the same...
The basic logic was pretty much the same.
But I guess, yeah, you have to rebuild the DNA.
That's exactly it, yes.
And most of the people actually mistook this movie for us high-fi movie.
Of course, it was the documentary at the time.
But as Martin alluded to, the company should remain nameless.
Yes, yes.
It will be, oh, it will reveal that in the appropriate time, yes.
But it has something to do with nearly a month, of course.
Okay.
So what are the details then?
If Queen Elizabeth isn't really dead, but just suspended?
Well, no, she is actually dead, but they...
She is dead, okay.
She will be rebuilt at the appropriate time for resurrecting the UK to its former glory and taking over the world, apparently.
That sounds scary, Bob.
You're talking about a zombie queen.
No.
I mean, if you revive a dead, that would be probably called a zombie, you know?
I think, probably you watched it.
When a royal zombie fern opens to the zombie.
Royal zombie.
No, I mean, seriously, isn't that the term?
Maybe I'm wrong, I don't know.
But then there are also people that die temporarily, right?
And they are being revived.
Would you call those a zombie?
Probably not.
People have a heart attack.
I never have a heart attack.
It stops and the brain stops.
You know what I mean?
That second is...
I don't know.
But if it's a day...
I don't know.
Is there a time limit for a zombie...
The zombie is definitely dead.
Ask the...
Ask the director of the walkie-data world, whatever it was called.
I can...
Pack it in the teens or something.
I can't remember.
I don't know.
No.
So yes.
But before...
Big thing, big thing.
Sorry.
But before we read it, we should probably go back to the history of limits and laws.
So Martin, do you want to do it?
Yes.
Yes, we could.
Okay, pushed for time anyway.
So Martin, you want to shed some light on the history that led us to the IPO.
To the initial public offering of something called limits and laws.
In the year when it was a 28 or something?
Well, it all came about with the final successful construction of the...
Let's say the non-DUA version of the time travel, right?
So which meant that we could influence the future of many things.
Which, of course, we didn't because that would violate time travel.
I'm not talking about physical things, so it's more simple.
Martin, please regard the classified information here.
Given the fact that this episode might be shipped back to the year 2022,
we should be a little bit scarce on the details.
So about the big picture that led us to the IPO, we do nicely.
Yes.
Well, the big picture is that we successfully marketed our...
The podcast, really, which being of such great content,
as a pearl or thousands of reviewers for every episode is testament to.
This is the 20 million views.
Indeed, indeed.
As in the one sentence explanation white, why the IPO actually happened.
Okay, we can probably review the details now.
Unfortunately, we cannot go into a low level of detail
because the SEC might shut us down.
And that probably...
Oh, it's already happened.
Well...
No, I mean, going on in terms of...
Some things should remain nameless in terms of not revealed
because otherwise, some people will be able to...
Well, let's put it this way.
Make the...
Yes.
Yes.
And that's what drives competing podcasts with...
Because...
Yes.
Because...
Yeah, because...
But Martin, you see, if that happens,
some of all institutional investors will not be pleased.
And Martin, you don't want to have the Mexicans and the Russians
after the rebuilding of the empire, we're going to go into the details
in a minute on your doorstep.
No, you don't.
So together to give the kind of brief outline.
Also a bit.
And...
Microsoft got the building war over the rights.
Martin got a phone call from Gai Kocatella and Nadella
and a guy called Sundar Pichai rang me in 2025, I think,
with this hilarious proposition of they might buy the podcast,
then it there.
Indeed.
After about five years of hinting at the fact that there is an email address,
but the sponsor at Linux will not study you,
and that never received any maids from the Microsoft logo.
Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on.
No, this...
No.
No.
It's not possible that...
What's the name of this Microsoft guy rang me?
Because you're a lady and the Microsoft user,
I don't know if it's wrong, is that so?
No.
I used Gmail most of the time, so it's...
It's possible we made that, so that Microsoft has my details
to contact me.
You wife uses a Windows computer for a completely mistaken.
Yeah, but that doesn't have my phone number on it.
This is what you think.
I thought anyway.
Anyway, took a long time short.
Both offers were declined.
Yes.
But if we thought at the time that if these two chaps were anything to go on...
You forgot about the third chap anyway.
Did I not mention...
You're not talking about this car guy, are you?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Did I not mention the third day?
No, you didn't.
I can't remember.
So take a look here for a card.
Did I not mention MT?
No.
No, you haven't.
Oh, okay.
Well, there was another guy you rang with an author.
You rang you, but you didn't ring me.
No, no, we got that.
But you never, you never, you never told me.
No, Martin.
No, Martin, now's the time.
Well, you can't leave.
The other twice as much as what's the name?
Satown, yeah, or something like that.
Satown, that used to be the CEO of something called Microsoft, yes.
Indeed, indeed.
Yeah.
So anyway, this guy, I think his name was Jeff from somewhere.
Hey, all right.
Jeff?
Jeff Goldboom, the actor.
No, no, no.
He was living in 20...
Okay, 20 is amazing.
I thought he was dead by 2027.
Yes.
What's the name?
Basil?
Basil?
Yes.
Yeah.
The Jeff from the bookshop.
From the bookshop.
Yes, bookshop guy.
Yes.
He wrote up as well.
Yes.
I thought he had told the bookshop at that search because he had to...
Well, he still have a son.
He's expensive.
He divorced something.
Yes.
No, he's...
Hey, hang on.
Martin, hang on.
He got divorced in about 2020 or something, though.
Oh, I don't know.
I don't read, hello, magazine, my cubes.
Can you see what you have?
Yes.
You're obviously future ones.
Get married.
Yes, here he is.
Thank you.
I keep renewing it for me, but I don't need...
Martin, there is a reason for this.
Okay.
There's an important information in there.
Yes.
So that you do not fall out of...
That you do not fall out with reality once and for all.
Okay.
Let's see.
And your wife apparently likes it, too.
Because every now and then she...
She sends me...
Thank you.
Thank you, notes.
Okay.
Maybe they're fake.
I don't know.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Okay.
Back to...
No, I mean, for the story, Jeff Bezos, if you really talk about him, had to finance.
Let's put it this way.
A very expensive divorce.
I think it was in 2020.
He tells me in the show notes.
Because after 20 plus something years of success emerged,
where I actually built a little empire from an online bookshop
into something much, much bigger.
He started to ditch the wife or the other way around.
I can't even remember.
And there was some serious money involved.
And he also had to sell the Washington Post afterwards,
which he bought before prior to the divorce.
Yes.
So the email, I think, said, now look, I had to sell this bookshop
and fund my wife's divorce and stuff like that.
And the Washington Post said, I have a few shillings left.
I have a few shillings left.
And I really need...
Okay.
We need this podcast, so please sell it to me.
That's kind of how I went to it.
So what did you say?
What did you tell him then?
Well, I'll tell them.
No, because we already had two,
a little office.
And we don't like the bookshop anyway.
So that's kind of...
Do we know that?
Okay.
No.
So to kind of long story short,
after these 3D offers that were kindly declined,
we put the whole format in front of...
Let's put it this way.
A couple of different institutional investors.
I'm sorry, I may rename it.
We can't go into the details.
Thank you.
For legal reasons.
Yes.
Exactly.
Thanks to the security and exchange commission.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
These...
Exactly.
These institutional investors may...
Shall remain nameless.
No.
And money laundering doesn't have anything to do with it before.
Anybody gets some strange ideas.
Totally legit.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
So we IPOed the whole thing in 2021.
Was it July 27th of 27th?
As in 2027.
Hmm.
Which brings us rather to somewhat...
Sad, interlude.
Because a guy called...
What's his name again?
Leo Leprono, something of twit fame.
Tried.
A...
An unfriendly takeover.
Just after the upper...
Leo, if you're listening,
I don't know if he's still alive.
Probably not.
Oh yeah, successor.
I will be listening then.
Maybe you might need to know what he has.
Well, it's a lot.
So twit, if you're listening,
let's put it this way.
That wasn't nice.
You could have sent us an email
and we could have...
Park before.
You tried to take us over an unfriendly way.
And in that case,
we wouldn't have to send parts
of our institutional investors your way to sort it out.
To back twit didn't make it.
Afterwards.
There was some sort of ruckus,
I can't remember.
I still have to take a look at the police records,
but apparently it wasn't pleasant.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
Which...
I don't remember in 2032,
we took on twits and we named it.
Something else.
Yeah, what was left of it?
Exactly.
Because it came at a bargain price.
Yes.
Of course.
Yes.
Yes.
Podcast history all the way.
Excellent.
Yes.
So, of course, and in 2037,
Martin by some strange accent
came across a TV show called Arthur Coburn.
Some producers took the idea
and rebranded it, I think, in 2022
and called it upload.
Same thing only a little bit funnier.
But anyway,
the concept should remain the same,
but Martin at the time,
or they had made his few billions from the IPO.
So, for those of you who do not know Arthur Coburn,
maybe Martin, you want to go into the details?
I think you mean trillion surely,
because...
Sorry, trillion.
Yes.
A thousand times or something.
So Martin, what exactly did you do with this,
with this Arthur Coburn thing?
Well, the...
As you...
Almost, most of my listeners are aware of the...
Maybe, maybe not.
Well, I'm sure everybody is familiar with Moore's Law,
right?
The duplication of processing power every two years,
which is after a certain point,
became no longer the case,
because of the size of the actual physical transistors.
So, the...
The thing is,
silicon was the basis of all micro-processes,
which had a...
Has its physical limits since one was one?
Well, it's got it.
Yes.
So, at a certain point,
we moved on to transistors based on something else altogether,
which is only one carbon apathetic.
And so, this exploded the...
I'm confusing growth again.
Answering.
Yes, also carbon,
because...
Oh, almost.
Martin, maybe you get a little bit old,
so let me film up a little of the details.
Well, this is the carbon I was talking about.
Arthur's carbon was a TV series in the teens,
I think, of a remote correctly empty.
And exactly,
the idea was...
2015, 2016, something...
I can't remember.
Oh, the idea was...
Yes, the idea was sent you to upload your consciousness
into something called a cloud.
Now, what Martin actually did...
Hit of the concept?
And Martin is not too far over the cloud here.
And merged.
Something called D-Wave.
C.
D-Wave is a team.
Yes.
So, essentially, Martin took the concept of this...
Of this cloud.
It's not real to copy people's.
Martin, it was in 2016.
Oh, okay.
But it wasn't in 20...
In 2035.
Exactly.
Because, remember,
you bright the Senate
to get some legislation in.
And it just cost you half a billion or something.
It wasn't too expensive.
Yeah.
I mean, Kenny's...
Don't try this at home.
Martin had the funds.
And they disposed at that stage.
And it was somewhat...
A little bit on the dodgy side.
Let's put it this way.
Oh, before I forget.
Creative.
Not dodgy.
Yes, creative.
That would be...
Yeah, that would come...
That would be the right...
Yeah, that would be the right expression.
Okay.
Anyway, took it long story short.
Martin actually merged the technology of...
Something called a D-Wave.
14 which was the...
Succession Succession Succession Succession Succession!
An end successure of the 2x
That D-Wave re leased in 2016
or something like that.
D-Wave at that stage
wasn't just a quantumodiline company anymore.
Pitchers...
Picture IBM quantum technology
merged with what Microsoft didn't revealed
until 2040.
And...
And you don't even come close to something that the way it was it was up to.
Essentially, you're talking about temporal quantum technology.
So, in a just quantum annealing, but rather, technology that will allow you to
send quantum back and forth in time.
Meaning, you can do some of your computations in the past and some of your computations
in the future and some of your computations in the present.
Which gives you, which just doesn't just gives you exponential speed up,
but rather something much more faster.
Let's put it this way. And that's exactly what Martin used
to put this author carbon thing into play, into reality.
And that's exactly how we have survived so far.
And chances are, we might survive even longer.
Oh, so we might do this podcast again in 21 42.
Well, maybe not every 100 years. That makes it.
Exactly.
Yes, so before we close off the show,
because we have been ramming on now for at least an hour, if not more.
Should we share some?
Should we share some not only part one?
No, exactly. There's only part one of,
exactly of a 27-part mini series of the history of something called little zealous,
exactly. Before we close off this part one, should we share some more light on Russia,
the conflict and what happened afterwards?
Yes, we could do this, we could do this.
Give us Chuck Martin.
Well, as I recall, the special operation
was very unsuccessful to start with.
But only for the first 17 years, right?
No, no, there was a certain turning point where
someone in the Russian military actually decided to use some tactics rather than just
shovel a lot of people in a certain place.
And then...
So it actually got somewhere.
But then, yeah, and so the next thing that happened after that,
there was kind of a temporary pause because they captured it and so on.
That's where do we shall we stop now?
Actually, and now I already had John Vignato
because they were able to bribe Turkey into this vote, right?
Yes, yes, but some serious mula.
Yeah, well, not more.
No, just them, they were partly funded by various other countries, the Turkey brand, but
but then, yeah, sadly our friend in Russia died off a disease.
And...
I thought it was unnatural cause.
Well, the official story is, we'll study, you know, the cancer version.
Anyway.
This is what you call a headshot, okay?
Some people call it murder, but that's the interpretation of the letter.
Yeah, it's indeed, indeed.
So, yeah, unfortunately after that there was a guy who took over, what was his name?
Igor Schultz or something, and he thought, now hang on a minute, this was my friend.
So he joined forces with...
Oh, yes, yes, him, yes.
You sure are?
The chancellor, yes.
Yes, yes, so he was, he was a great friend with our Russian friend.
So he thought, well, why don't I take over this country as well?
And then I'll make one great big sort of central European supination.
We didn't go down well with NATO either, to be fair.
So that didn't last long.
And yeah, so...
I think two months or something, right?
Something like that, something like that.
So, yeah, sadly part of this country was, well, that country was somewhat destroyed in the process,
but there'd be a production state, state constant, so that was pretty good.
I mean, the long and short of it is actually the U.N.P.
You didn't put a lot of money into rebuilding the Ukraine, and then with the interest of that money,
Ukraine was actually able to buy the western part of something called Russia,
and the Chinese, because of the, again, rising economy, born the rest.
So, so, so, about almost 2,000 years of Russian history was put to rest in about the time span of about the fortnight.
Of course, rising shares in the U.S. had a lot, but that's a different story.
The rest is in the history books.
It is, is it?
Yes.
So, children, on to part number two.
On to part number two, where we shall actually discuss, discuss more of the technology advancement
that we had over the last 20 years.
Part two is penciled currently in for the second of July in the year 20,
21, 42.
So, statute.
Indeed, yes, statute, there will be more.
Yes, and of course, if you have any, if you have any feedback on this episode,
you can, of course, send mail to our quantum mail in the system.
The email address hasn't changed in the last 22 years.
It's still feedback and little's in or the U.
So, feel free.
But it's now the case that any spam and efficient emails that you send to that mail address
will be filled out in the past, the present, and the future concurrently.
Because that's exactly what quantum mail technology is all about at the end of today.
Anyway, so bottom line is,
don't bother spending, sending spam to that mail address.
But of course, serious feedback, and that includes Laura,
Beku, and our long-term listeners is always appreciated. Never mind money.
Everything just counts.
No, no, not money, the sponsorship.
Okay, we don't need money anymore for enough,
but it's, you see, it's a gesture of account smartness.
So, if people want to send us a kind of a small amount of money like a trillion dollars or something,
just as a gesture that we do the trick nicely,
PayPal donations are accepted, of course, too.
Hey, I mean, you missed the word.
Are you, you still have dollars in your country?
That's really not.
No, they're called euros, but it hasn't changed.
Oh, the rest of the world has moved on to this new cryptocurrency, haven't they?
When was that?
Did you not remember in the 20s, 29?
Yeah, I'm old Martin.
Well, yes.
So are you?
Indeed, we were fine.
You mean after Bitcoin tank finally?
Yes, yes, so this is okay.
Well, we may as well reveal the one part of the success.
Please, the development of it in North Point.
Exactly.
Now we go again about Martin's Ethereum successes.
No, Martin actually did his own cryptocurrency,
because Elon's coins, yes, two bad and tanked about two months after the initial.
That was just a small recap.
That was exactly.
Yes, yes, yes.
You remember it's really bad, is it?
Martin of course learned from his mistakes and Elon and in North
coin, coin 2.0 was much more successful.
it lasted for about three weeks, this is up to...
We know a version version 10.5.
No Martin is working on exactly version 27,447.
It's not a completely mistake.
We're not Martin, we're not Martin.
To just good enough that we had the IPO in place, but then already.
So we didn't have to rely on Martin's don't touchy coins.
No, no, no, not called dodgy coins, they called me a dodgy coin.
I don't know if I got the wrong coin there.
Anyway, of course this is by no means an invested advice.
Kids, don't try this at home.
Do not invest in bitcoins.
If, well, if even after revival, never mind dodgy coins or in those coins.
No, the cryptocurrency is a high levolatile.
You only know what you're doing.
5.5.
No, no, no, no, well, we actually, we had an episode on cryptocurrency.
That was in September, October, 2022, yes.
Was that in 2022?
Yes, it was.
Yes, yes, yes.
You already knew what happened in 2022, didn't you?
It always did, yes.
The money is crystal clear.
You laid out the flawed concept of something called illos coins, yes.
Then and there.
If I didn't call it correct, then it was probably the first iteration, yeah.
Yes, the prototype.
As in the P-projects have that thankfully enough never made it all of the dungeons.
Yes, yes, but then I also highlighted the successful production version.
About 10 years after that, yes, maybe 15.
Before we, before we leave this episode, as in kind of, before we close this off.
Oh, yes, yes.
This review thing and are too important,
subjects that we should just tackle, namely, was it really worth the whole thing,
the whole time, the last 22 years?
Well, that's us big for itself, then.
I don't know what you're going to be doing.
We're going to be doing it for so long.
I mean, there are some downs.
I mean, there was this incident where, as I said,
as we discussed, a couple of unfriendly takeover attempts.
Oh, yes, yes, yes.
But then we managed to salvage the wall at the end of the day,
so I reckon that's good news.
Yeah, no, it's good news.
It's been fun.
Any other troughs that come to mind?
Roths.
As in things we could have done better.
Things could have done better.
I mean, your coin thing, your coin disaster was probably not the greatest idea.
No, yeah, for the uninitiated Martin tried a few ICOs and that fed miserably.
We discussed the details early on.
Detailed for the details, maybe on your favorite news archives or not.
Yeah, let's see what else.
I think the biggest drawback is that we left the sponsorship really late, right?
Which meant that we were fighting infrastructure for a long time.
Yeah, but you always had this crazy idea of going for an IPO right away.
I mean, I could just keep you in check for the first couple of years.
Well, it's a bit difficult doing an IPO without being listed.
But Martin, I mean, the really great things that comes to mind was actually your excellent
expertise on bot programming, because that really finally drove up the numbers.
Definitely.
Yeah, the trouble, of course, is that actually, that actually,
Cyberdyne sent a terminator back in time to rectify this because of some shorting of our stock.
Needless to say, Martin, Martin, Martin, clever AI instances,
kind of detected this early on and the attempt was futile.
Needless to say, again, the rest, maybe on your favorite news archive side.
So Martin, the very final question, X, that back would, would you do it again?
Oh, you didn't do it.
We've already done it.
Why not?
Just because you're many because of old.
But I mean, this alternate carbon thing really worked well.
So why not, why not give it another go?
No, but we don't need to do 22 years again, because we were on 22.
So we just do that.
That's correct.
Yeah, that's, that's, that's, that makes more sense.
I mean, given my picture, this, for some strange odd reason, never mind coincidence,
whatever you want to call it, maybe manifest folding in the wrong way.
You're back in 2019.
It's November.
You're back in Prague.
You're this, this IPO in the people, yes, in the craft bar.
And there's this nutter talking to you about this kind of strange fucked up idea
of doing the podcast and open source.
You would still be game.
Well, a good thing you stepped in at the time, because
we got rid of the nutter.
Smart thinking, Mr. Richard, just the time.
Now that all the questions have been answered, that's reconvening another kind of 22 years.
Chris, we have some feedback.
Oh, we do indeed.
Yes, why don't you read it?
And then I'm going to tear this apart.
No, I'm joking.
So episode 56, that was the slack one, right?
That's right, yeah, yeah.
So Brian in Ohio has kindly commented and he says,
what, this guy doesn't use Slackware.
How can he have a user perspective?
Well, if you are a user, if you use it, then obviously he has used it.
So he has a user perspective.
And you should interview Klatju or Zen Flotr to get a user perspective on Slackware.
Listen to the previous HBR by the aforementioned Zen Flotr only alive and well,
Slackware 15.
Well, last thing, dependency management is available if you use Slack builds to add third
part of Slackware.
You must add that dependencies yourself, listen to the new world order for a better explanation.
These guys need to listen to the HBR, not just use it as a no-cost place to host their
media content.
And nice one, Brian.
Thank you, Brian.
Brian, that was very insightful.
Let's put it this way.
Needless to say, we have to edit this because we do not necessarily plug other podcasts
that I mentioned in comments.
No jokes aside, of course.
People with free free free to check out, new world order and other podcasts touching on the
subject, but needless to say, the reason why we brought last on the podcast was a simple one.
Yes, but he had been using it at the time.
It means you're using Slackware for at least 10 to 15 years.
And that was actually the reason why we brought him on because of his comprehensive
Slackware experience.
And Klaatu assigned floater, if you're listening, he needs to say, get in touch and we are
more than happy to do a second episode on Slackware with you being around.
The email address is feedback at Lino Zillow.
So you simply send a mail and we'll take it from there.
And Brian, of course, you're more than happy to also come with the podcast
for more insightful.
This is the Linux in-laws.
You come for the knowledge.
But stay for the madness.
Thank you for listening.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the creative comments license,
type attribution share like credits for the intro music go to Blue Syroosters,
for the songs on the market, to twin flames for their peace called the flow used for the
second intros, and finally to celestial ground for the songs we just use by the dark side.
You find these and other details licensed under CC HMando.
A website dedicated to liberate the music industry from choking copyright legislation
and other crap concepts.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
