Episode: 3079
Title: HPR3079: Linux Inlaws S01E06 Porn and Trump
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3079/hpr3079.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:22:55

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,079 for Thursday, 21 May 2020.
Today's show is entitled Linux in-laws Season 1, Episode 6, Pawn & Trump
and is part of the series, Linux in-laws. It is hosted by Monochromec
and is about 80 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
The Lads Discuss Audacity, KD in Live, Blender, PWC, The Current War, Better Things,
and Pamela Lone.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
This is Linux in-laws.
A podcast on topics around free and open-source software, any associated contraband,
communism, the revolution in general, and whatever else, fanciful.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language,
offensive humor, and other, certainly not politically correct language.
You have been warned. Our parents insisted on this disclaimer.
Happy mum? That's the content is not suitable for consumption in the workplace,
especially when played back on a speaker in an open-plan office or similar environments.
Any miners under the age of 35, or any pets including fluffy little killer bunnies,
you trusted guide dog unless on speed, and Q to T-Rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
This is Linux in-laws.
Season 1, episode 6, porn and Trump.
Due to a technical mess-up, a major part of the show was recorded with an always-ampling rate,
resulting in somewhat reduced audio quality.
We would like to assure the audience that A, we will try to take the necessary precautions
to minimise simpler incidents in the future and B, and video or any of its subsidiaries,
including Scrinet, had anything to do with this.
Button, how are you?
Good morning. Good morning Chris. How are you?
I can't complain. It's bright and early. Almost 8 o'clock where I live.
That's early for some people.
You were saying early on the holy hour?
Yes. I got up at around 6 o'clock to have a little bit of coffee.
I've also been quite a bit of coffee between 6 and 8.
Some people tend to take a shower when they get up and stuff, so I don't know about you.
I guess it depends what you're up to at night, but that's not good at all.
Since our last episode.
Yes, it's been a while.
Thank you for arranging the last episode, obviously, in my absence.
My pleasure. I hope you liked the interview.
Yes. There was a small matter of the content of it.
Please share your content right now.
Well, you mentioned the number of what do we call these people again?
Companies?
Yes. No, the robot guys.
Terminators.
Thank you.
You forgot.
It is early. Sorry, listeners.
All our first coffees.
Anyway, you missed the main Terminator to mention in your episode.
Sorry, we only could get one to do the interview.
Unfortunately, Cyberdyne didn't send us a whole lot, but it's just one of Skyard, rather.
I didn't have an awful lot of choice in the matter.
But from what I hear, the feedback is quite good.
So, I'm just wondering what you are.
What you view on the matter is?
On the recording or on the content?
No, it was a very clever construct.
Well done. Apart from the content.
Yes, you see.
This is why you can't leave your colleagues alone, really.
Fun fact, listeners, Martin wrote the storybook for the interview, but now he's trying to pull back.
If I wrote it, Elon Musk would have been mentioned in the Terminators' second.
So, what?
You mentioned a few of them, but not him.
So, what are your other concerns, Mr. Visor?
Yes. Well, the concerns.
That was a great episode.
Well, the other concern was, do you send me the wrong version in the first place?
Yeah, I don't know what happened.
Giving me another half hour of information, which was well appreciated, but not well.
Because I double-checked that you think that what that is on HPR, as well as the soundfiles that I sent to you,
and they are the same apart from the music that HPR adds.
So, the outtakes are there, and all the rest of them.
On the match-off outtakes, yes, most of the episodes would have outtakes after about a 30-second break at the end of the episode.
This is just before the outro added by Hacker Public Radio.
Meaning, if you think our special outro music is the end of the show,
you are mistaken. Most of the time, there is their outtakes after this silence break, whatever you want to call it.
And if you're missing out on the outtakes, you're missing out on some interesting facts fun stuff, that sort of thing?
Yep. As Mr. Visor just found out himself the other day.
So, suggestions for you there, perhaps, reduced the amount of silence?
We could do this, but on the other side...
The dark side?
Exactly.
Where would be the fun in that?
Well, you may lose some listeners that don't have 30 seconds of patience.
I see. But I've taken so, yeah, you left kind of down to 29 or 28 seconds.
Go forward.
Perhaps the editing should be taken over by more sensible people, anyway.
Martin, your mother welcome to edit in episode and the future yourself.
That's... You know the revenge was mentioned, right?
What is that?
You tell me more.
Perhaps, yeah, you'll find out.
For those listeners who haven't listened to the last episode, some companies were indeed made fun of during the interview.
And what Martin is referring to is actually his beloved company called NVIDIA, who was slightly slacked off.
You'll be...
I love it. It's a strong one.
That's what I wanted to do.
Who was slightly slacked off due to the interview with the Terminator.
Apparently some people, and Martin would be the prime example here, do take a hint.
Well, I think you found NVIDIA take events as well as sabotaging or recording this morning.
I'm there to blame. I see.
Entirely possible.
It would surprise you, let's split this way, unless you have done something really funky to your GPU card.
Because as observant listeners will, of course, know Mr. Vista is now the proud owner of what's the called Artisix 2070 someplace, right?
RTX.
Whatever the extent for.
Perhaps extension.
And Martin is neatly to say similar to cars or other items in his possession, pretty proud of this gadget.
So neatly to say he was a bit worried.
That as a matter of fact.
That as a matter of fact NVIDIA was the target of some ridiculous split this way during the recent episodes, where we had the interview with the Terminator.
I don't think it would be sponsoring us any time. Let's put it that way.
Too bad.
We had SkyNet as the sponsor of the last episode. I don't know if you noticed that.
But I think that was okay.
What did they sponsor us the podcast?
You didn't listen to me to the commercial break at the end? No.
Yes, I did, but what did they sponsor in actual?
Just by being there and.
Yes, helping us ensuring that we never run out of challenges all you are not.
The importance.
That's going to happen somehow.
Okay, what have you been up to since we last spoke?
Wow.
Spoke on the podcast or.
We spoke earlier this morning.
Wait, we tried to anyway.
I'll contact Ember for you to your podcast.
A little bit of this morning, very little from setting up the recording.
Yes, about to have been up to.
Wow.
Man, how long has it been?
Four weeks, five weeks.
Something like that, yeah.
So, how have we been up to?
Well, we have dealt with certain viruses and a personal disease.
Okay.
We have lost one of the.
Well, origins of the show in a way with with our indoor passing away.
So, yes, maybe we should delegate it to him.
How is that?
Yes, yes, we're going to.
Yes, we're going to dedicate the show to Martin's father who.
Father in law, sorry, who just passed away.
Yeah, that's a good plan.
We might consider a future episode on the subject of TTSs.
Yes.
In convenience.
He was, in fact, a voice researcher himself.
So, that fits in quite well.
Anyway, that's not subject of today's podcast.
So, Chris, what have you been up to in the last four or five weeks?
Editing a podcast episode among other things.
What else have I ever been up to?
Well, the usual genetic and spicy working.
Okay.
Trying to set up a big blue button instance because due to current circumstances,
now all the all the meetings have shifted to virtual.
So, the lack of support, the Linux user group, the local Frankfurt Linux user group,
the Fralag.
Used to do some.
What's what I'm looking for?
I'm in person events, a regular meeting called in German called the Stumptish
because we are German association.
So, yes, Stumptish is very important as in local regular gathering.
And of course, we used to run a presentation on the fourth week of Tuesday,
on the fourth Tuesday of every month.
But because the location where we used to do this has basically shut down for the time being,
all these events would have been moved to a virtual environment.
And that's exactly where software like big blue button,
Jitsy open and open meetings come in.
Because that sort of software allows you to like zoom or any other conference software,
allows you to gather virtually to present, to share video, to share audio, that sort of thing.
And after quite a long research period, let's put it this way,
I came to the conclusion that the big blue button as a software is probably the most easyest,
the easiest as a matter of fact.
So, if I just set up in contrast to Jitsy or open meetings,
I've tried these two software packages before,
but couldn't get far with it because the setup was so convoluted and so bloody complicated.
Big blue button on the other hand, no big blue button is not sponsoring this show, not yet anyway.
It's straightforward.
It's pretty picky when it comes down to the environment that it would like to run in.
It has to be open to 1604.
No debutant, no ratat, no center, as it has to be 1604.
That's pretty picky.
That's pretty important.
By the way, listeners, if you have experience with big blue button running on other Ubuntu spins
or even debutant, please get in touch.
Because quite a few people are just looking for an opportunity to do something else.
And I'm not talking about the Docker deployment here.
I'm talking about running it natively on a VM or even bare metal.
Anyway, to kind of long story short, big blue button comes with a pretty sophisticated setup script
that you just give it the fully qualified domain of the server that it's running on.
And after that, you also give it an email address for the lesson script certificate and the rest,
including downloading all the packages, configuring all the packages.
It's pretty much automatic.
It takes the existing Ubuntu instance, it downloads the software,
it downloads all the dependent packages, including Java.
It's quite an elective.
It's elective?
Is that what I'm going to look for?
Elective.
Elective?
It's early.
Electic.
Electic.
Yes, thank you very much.
Electic.
Mixture of a software stack.
Consisting of Java, Python, Java script for the front end,
which is, thank God, HTML5 based.
And yeah, downloading all these dependencies is quite an artist task.
But the installer script takes pretty much care of this.
So at the end of this, and it also installs, for example,
it also installs a lesson script certificate.
So at the end of the day, you just have a working, big blue button installation
out of the box, which you just start.
And even for that, there's a command, which you can nicely put in the system D unit.
And then you have a working conference system.
It's using HTML5 and React on the client side,
meaning in contrast to other conference solutions,
it works out of the box with the majority of the browsers.
I also looked at Jitsi and apparently Jitsi is only happy
when it uses Chrome or Chromium for that matter.
If you go near it with Firefox apparently, it doesn't like it.
At least that's my feedback after a good long weekend of trying,
of trying out Jitsi.
Okay, good stuff.
So this is a server-based setup.
Yes.
As I said, it requires a 604 instance.
If you have people behind NATs at home, as in kind of,
as all firewalls, or even if the server is behind a NAT,
you need something called a turn server,
which essentially is a relay for certain UDP connections.
That's an additional component that you have to install,
the big blue button website contains detailed instructions
on how to set this up, but also the install script can help you there.
For those of you, as I said, who don't know,
a turn server is essentially a relay that picks up information
from you if you're behind a firewall and then takes care
of the proper routing and setting up of mostly UDP ports,
because firewalls and general netting equipment
can be quite fickle here.
Excellent.
So this is mainly used for your user group.
We just set it up basically for the time being,
because if we can't meet in person,
needless to say, we don't want to kind of postpone this whole
get together, virtual or not.
So that is the reason why we decided,
or why I decided, eventually to set up a server instance
for both the presentation as well as the regular gathering
called the stunters, the local meeting, the regular meeting.
That gives people who normally then would then meet in person
a chance to gather in front of their computers.
Some people did it in the garden when we did the first trial run,
but it worked out quite nicely.
People were dialing it with 3G connections,
even that was quite okay from a bit of a quality perspective.
Sounds good.
It's just a bit heavy on the client side,
because if you have 10 concurrent video streams
that will take a good chunk of your CPU power.
The codex apparently are deptive, as I said,
they are HTML file space.
So whatever tweaking you can do on the client side,
in terms of GPU acceleration, for example,
from a browser perspective, you should probably take a look at this,
because as I said, otherwise it's going to be dead in software,
and that will take a way quite a bit of CPU bandwidth.
Yeah, I guess on the running of the mobile,
you're not going to see 10 sweetens very easily.
Well, as a matter of fact, some people actually use mobile phones.
Most of them were using Firefox on Android.
It checked out the video quality was, of course, wasn't great,
but the adaptive codex did a good job there.
So, yeah, I'm giving the bandwidth restrictions
plus the limited CPU power.
I think, yeah, for that, it was okay with regards to overall quality and perception.
Well, it's just not quite a professional recording required for something like this.
It's more like, you know, just talking to each other.
That's exactly it.
I mean, we didn't record any of the sessions.
We may do this going forward for the presentation,
but my hope, at least, is that the current restrictions will be lifted at some stage,
and we would be back to the pub,
where we normally have the regular gathering,
as well as the city of Frankfurt is sponsoring us with regards to the location
of the presentation we're doing once a month.
And this particular company that runs these locations,
especially just got an attention set.
Now, look, we don't expect anything to take place in May,
but we're going to reassess the situation before the month is over.
So, maybe we can open up in June back again,
so that would allow us to have at least one regular gathering before the summer break.
Yeah, so I think you guys have quite advanced in terms of opening back up at the sound of it.
So, that sounds quite like the hood remains to be seen.
It's the Mayhem.
We're recording this on the, what is it?
Eight of May?
Yeah.
So, about 75 years after the end of World War II, I think, in Europe,
or something?
I don't know.
I was just today.
Yes.
It's awesome.
Martin, Martin, you probably wore a round.
I wasn't so.
Well, we have, of course, a bank holiday today.
Is that the same for you, sir?
No, no, no.
Only in Berlin, as a matter of fact.
So, the other Martin, and for all those of our listeners who don't work, I dread it sometimes.
The other Martin is just a German colleague in Berlin, and he won't be working today.
Good stuff.
So, onto today's episode.
Yes.
Now, this is the point in time, basically, where Martin is being assessed on if he is done his homework.
Homework being listening to your recording.
What's that?
What's the more?
Yes, there was more.
Martin, that's the matter of fact.
Okay.
And short recap.
Last episode.
And this is the second part of a two-part episode.
Well, two-part episodes.
That's what I'm going to go for.
It's early.
Two-part show, anyway.
Absolutely.
Exactly.
How to set up your own porn website, or other animals, or other content oriented with regards
to streaming video and recording video.
And, of course, audio associated audio information.
And part one, for those of you who want to go back, listen to the previous episode.
Part one covered the basics with regards to the theory of what compressed audio and video streams are.
And we said, or rather, I said, that the second part would contain a selection of tools you would use for that sort of thing.
Okay.
So selection of tools.
Are we speaking here from personal experience tool wise?
Well, what tools are there?
The main categories that come to mind would consist of...
I guess.
Yeah.
You got to first decide whether you could do live or edit it.
Yes.
And notice some extent.
Because regardless of whether you want to do clips or whether you want to do live streaming, something has to capture, for example, the video data stream.
And then basically you have to decide on if you want to do just a recording, which you then can edit, and play back on your website.
Or whether this is stream live using, for example, WebRTC.
Like, for example, the big pool button, does it?
But from the software side, there are options there to use these things for you, right?
Like, OBS, you can just hook in straight into YouTube or whatever it is you want to broadcast on.
Yes, smart.
Why don't you tell us a little bit more about OBS while we are on the subject?
OBS.
What is this time for Chris?
Open broadcast system, I think.
Excellent.
Yeah.
Oh, what do we have?
This testing.
So, one thing I observed with investigating this stuff, most of it seems to be built with Qt or Qt or however you pronounce it.
As a front end, there are obviously a mixture of tools that have a command line or other interfaces.
But OBS is one of those quite fancy GUI based software.
It runs on many different distributions, even on Windows and Mac.
But it is obviously free and OSS.
And it allows you to, as I mentioned, pick up your recording streams and directly broadcast them to a target of choice.
The beauty with OBS is of course that it can integrate many in inputs and outputs.
For example, there is something called video for Linux, which essentially is the basic interface on a Linux system where video is basically captured.
Most of the time, this would be a sort of user library that goes out to a video capturing device like a webcam, like an ordinary camera.
And that's the wrong thing.
And just maybe even a satellite adapter that basically takes a satellite feed, which is a multiplex data stream in itself.
And simply basically captures this and then forwards that to OBS.
So OBS has a number of plugins allowing it to integrate with pretty much anything under the sun.
This is the beauty about OBS.
And this is also the reason why it's widely used, not only in the broadcasting, not only in the broadcasting world.
Yep, and now it is the Tuesday standard libraries, isn't it really so.
Which gives you, yeah, all those options, that LibAvy, codec and etc. I give you.
A lot of you, you can pretty much use it with anything, right?
This is the beauty about it exactly because it also supports web RTC, which as I explained in the last episode is the new kit on the block when it comes down to streaming video.
In case you listen to the episode, what's the other one?
The other one of the older brother of WebRTC.
Good question.
I think I put Martin on the web RTC.
No, it's called Retime, it's called Retime messaging protocol, RTMP.
Yes, of course, that was before WebRTC.
Exactly, and the beauty about WebRTC is it's in your,
and it's also, it features things like encryption and so forth.
The backside is actually that it only works with TCP, so for real.
Why would you want to encrypt this?
Because it's quite straightforward.
In case you have a, you have a listenership that has paid money to in order to watch your content.
Needless to say, if you don't encrypt this, people, anybody will be able to get this, to get this, to get this data stream, which is not encrypted.
Sure, sure.
I was thinking most people would plug into YouTube or Twitch or any of those modern, youngster, hipster.
People are raising about Twitch. What exactly is Twitch?
It's mainly used by gamers, right, to broadcast their, whatever games they play and broadcast at the same time so that they can entertain their listener viewers.
So like, pretty much like, what's the other one called Discord?
Discord is voice.
I thought it was aimed at gamers too.
Yes, but it's many voices.
And Twitch is also video.
Yes, yes, yes.
I've never used it, but a colleague of ours named Loris Crowe, Loris, if you're listening.
Uh-huh.
I didn't know he was into porn production.
No, no, no, he's not.
I don't know where Martin picks this up from, but I didn't tell him that he was into porn production.
I didn't tell Martin that Loris is into porn, no.
That doesn't come from me.
Okay, and Loris uses this basically to do live programming, I think, because he mentioned Twitch a number of times.
So people must use it for live coding sessions too.
As we've seen with OBS, you can plug in any data sources, many data sources, video audio,
streamed us to, you know, the other YouTube's, the Twitch's, the Instagram's, whatever your platform of choice is.
Yeah, this is the beauty of a comprehensive plugin system.
What other tools come to mind, especially if we're talking about cutting video, right?
There's something called a KD and live around, which is one of the older video editors.
Of course, it's used mostly in the area of recorded video data streaming, but it's also pretty good at multiplexing.
Okay.
And of course, there's still the old reliables around.
Okay.
Which ones do you use?
Me, myself, mostly FMPAC.
Being the income online.
Of course.
But it needs to say, FMPAC, these Swiss army knives.
But then you're looking at, yeah, converting one to the other words with a KD and live, you'd be, well, doing video editing, right?
And cutting frames.
Correct, yeah.
Same as you do with Audacity with audio.
Our beloved Audacity, Martin, why don't you spend some sentences on our favorite audio too?
Yeah, it's great when it works.
But that we, if some of Audacity in one sentence, that's it.
The beauty is that it does run on multiple platforms, giving you the option to swap when this.
If we just want on this morning, yes.
Maybe we should do some tests in the evening before not have to do this at 6am.
But as usual, we have backup plans, so we're fine.
Audacity, yeah, I think it's one of the oldest and graphical audio editors around.
As Martin pointed out, it runs on Windows, Linux, as well as macOS.
We're just recording this on Macs.
It's so full-blown audio studio as such.
It's rather an editor.
Yes, you can mix multi-protection or the rest of it.
It supports a host of features.
It can be scripted.
It has lots of effects.
As a matter of fact, all the editing for Linux and laws is done with Audacity, especially the post-production.
But it's not comparable to kind of real, multi-track studio software, the likes of Steinberg and so forth,
or even the other, because these tools would be more professional, like a full-blown audio workstation.
But in the open source space.
Yes, this is what Audacity is not.
But it's quite handy. It's quite successful, but it's quite easy to operate.
And it's been around for ages, so we are used to, I think we use, at the moment, we use 2.3.3.
That came with the latest focal fossa update for those of you who run Ubuntu.
But it's also available in that version for, of course, OSX as well as Windows.
Fun fact here on OSX1050, which is Catalina.
There's a workaround because Audacity doesn't work with core audio out of the box.
First of all, you have to enable audio recording in the OSX settings as usual.
Thanks to Apple's security obsession, let's put it this way.
And then, apparently, there's a buck with the interfacing between core audio,
which is the audio subsystem on OSX as well as Audacity, meaning you have to start from a terminal.
Otherwise, you won't be able to record audio, so I'm told anyway.
So, the approach is open terminal windows, say open, and then the full path to Audacity,
which is normally, I think, library slash Audacity, something like that.
I'm going to put a link into the show notes for this workaround, so you can check it out.
But doing this from Spotlight, or any other GUI-based approach to start the program on OSX won't,
you won't be able to do to record audio, so I'm told anyway.
Oh, Catalina, right.
On Catalina, and I think the previous version, which was El Capitan or something?
No.
Oh, sorry, Mojave, not El Capitan.
El Capitan came before that, I think.
I'm not the greatest person for as X releases, I just used the software
and struggled with the issues that Apple throws at me.
Something people use our fruit company for its usability, first and foremost.
Fooled.
Well, I mean, you have to start somewhere, and you can always switch over to a full-done open-source system
like Linux or something, or BSD.
Well, in fact, as a matter of fact, not that many people know this, but at the very core,
OSX is a free BSD.
Because the white works.
Okay, this goes back in history.
Steve Jobs had just left Apple.
I think that was mid-80s, and decided to set up next, was looking for an operating system.
Yes.
And came across something called Open Step.
No, Open Step basically consists of a very fancy GUI, plus a BSD underneath.
And at the time, he basically convinced us to put it this way.
Many Mark, people Mark was a Marko-Colonel around that time to join next step.
And so next to us was born.
Of course, when Apple acquired next step, what's called next step, but next.
Next to us?
No, the company basically.
When Apple acquired that Steve Jobs outfit, and one of the assets, of course, was next to us.
So at the very core, next to us consists of a Marko-Colonel internship of Mark III,
and then on top of that, a free BSD personality.
Pretty much from an architecture perspective, pretty much comparable to something called Windows New Technology.
Invented by a company called Microsoft, I think, about 30 years ago, something like this.
I mean, they all work the same.
You have a Marko-Colonel that abstracts away the hardware, the hardware layers.
On top of that, Marko-Colonel, you have something called a personality.
In Windows New Technology, for example, that's a post-expersonality that implements
much of the functionality of a given Windows system.
And on top of these personalities, you have proprietary GUIs.
And when Apple bought next computing, next whatever, they, of course, also bought the asset,
and they decided to make next OS their basis for anything Marko-S-related going forward.
So next OS became Marko-S, and this is basically that was the basis for something called OSX,
a Mac OS version 10, which all of which subsequent Mac OS releases have been based.
So if you open up your Mac, essentially you're using a BSD system underneath,
you can still see it if you take a look at two very popular package managers called MacPorts or HomeBrew.
Because essentially these, these package managers are based on something called Ports,
which is a native packaging system for BSD spends, and there you have it.
So essentially, at the very core, Apple is still open-source software.
Nice, nice.
And that kind of nicely leads into the news.
As in, as soon as you heard the news that, the news that Windows has been dropping,
it's, you mean the usage has dropped with an increase in Ubuntu in the last couple months?
I know, I didn't know that.
But, shouldn't we conclude the two section first?
We can do it. Sorry, Clan.
I thought you was thinking to say,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I guess, okay.
What else is there? What else is there to cover?
to cover and we already covered the open broadcasting system. We also covered video editors,
we kind of order all your editors. Why don't you tell us a little bit about Blender Martin?
Blender. Blender, yeah. Nice, nice bit of software, but not for the faint hearted,
I suggest. If you have much spare time and like to produce your own animated movies,
then Blender is for you. I mean, it don't get me wrong, it's a great piece of software and
a lot of commercial companies are switching over to it. In fact, I saw it being used in one of our
customers, but yeah, so. Nice. Yes, yeah, I mean, you would, if you were to use this properly,
you need a proper graphical tablet right to the drawing and stuff like that, because you're not
going to draw wireframes with a mouse, unless you have much, many hours of patience. Yeah, if
if you do want to go into releasing your own movies animated, you can get some very, very
impressive results with that, but it has a very steep learning curve to get started,
is in many hours of practice. It's probably one of the most powerful tools I know out there to produce
animated video sequences. If you go to the Blender website, they have a couple of beautifully done
movies, like to make money and so forth, or tears of steel. And if you take a clue, of course,
you can get them also on YouTube, don't get wrong, just Google for them, or sorry, use your
search engine off-choice, just put it this way, because Google is not sponsoring us yet, so why
should we even mention them? Anyway, Google, why did you mention it? What's going on here?
Google, Google over to the dark side, man. Google, if you are listening, if you want to sponsor us,
please do get in touch. And the value of that is, oh, uh, big available, the train model for
Takatron, too. Yes, but that is a far future episode, yes, please Google, you get in touch.
Okay, I'll go back to Blender. Okay, yes, the beauty about Blender is essentially, it's a full
set of tools at your disposal to do full length movies, so Martin has just pointed out the wireframe
so essentially you give the wireframe and Blender then, based on the modeling aspects of that wireframe,
does all of the animation for you? Well, it does teach you to do the older 3D mapping,
you know, movie cameras around, to get your shading right, your lighting, it does,
does kind of things for you right, so you don't have to take care of those aspects.
That's, and that's exactly it. These movies on the website have one watch for a reason,
but that of course requires a pretty powerful machine, so do a core, ancient piece of hot,
we probably won't do the trick, plus you want to have a decent GPU at your disposal as well.
Don't mention GPUs again. Right.
That also have a, um, some kind of cloud subscription where you can
learn, uh, and get tips on a regular basis as well as, you know, do some of the movies that
Chris mentioned, you can get the components of these movies to play around with yourself,
so that's absolutely way to get started. Because as you can imagine, I mean, doing all the
calculations to, for example, to construct a full-blown figure from a wireframe that takes a lot
of, that takes a lot of computing power, and normally what you would do, yes, you would,
so you would use server farms for rendering your movies. Pretty much like the big studios do it
because this is basically how it's done. Uh, where were we? So the news? The news. Yes,
Mark was talking about the ancient operating system called Windows. A light mouse, Mr. Viser.
I was nothing wrong with all things, is there? I mean, surely, uh, Linux has some very old origins
as well, as we just discussed. But, um, that is a reason that announcement,
oh, is someone that sums a research that, um, was a drop-in Windows usage, and
we've been to you had quite a significant take-up in the last couple of months, so
details will be in the show now, I hope. Well, in short, it was like an increase of 600 percent
or something online, you've been to, but having it's very small market share means that, um,
under that drop? Indeed. Okay.
There, you know, going from a, like, uh, half a percent to 1 percent is quite,
it doesn't make up much market share, but it's a big increase, right? So
probably partly fueled by myself installing you've been two percent.
So, so Mr. Viser is now the cause for something called the year of the Linux desktop?
Oh, what did I push it into?
Yeah, it's probably pushing it a little bit. Okay, uh, you could also be, because people
have more time, right? So they digging at that old hardware and thinking, oh, what the hell
shall we put on that? Let's give this you've been to nonsense. It's been,
um, of course, probably finding that Windows will run on it anymore.
Well, it's a little known fact, but Ubuntu was the first district from a completely mistake
and that was running on something called WSL 1.0 and all of the other users, yes, it's 2.0
these days, but there was a Windows subsystem for Linux version 1.0 and the user land of choice
that came with it was actually Ubuntu. Okay, so I did listen to this episode, but
but if did you explain why people would run Linux on Windows? Why wouldn't they?
Because in that case, why wouldn't they just run Linux by itself?
Maybe they they have to use Windows for other reasons. Maybe they're maybe they're,
maybe their tech software hasn't been ported to Linux yet or something, I don't know.
So, yes, there are still relying on Windows softwares out there.
So, yes, you can use that bootloader to run ancient proprietary software as well,
but the main purpose, of course, for the for Windows powering WSL is of course to act as a
bootloader to boot you into Linux, but if you don't use Windows anymore, you simply can do away
with WSL and simply install Linux natively on your machine. So, anyone who's you have
Yes, what have I got to do? What's the name of the company? I can't remember, it's not
Ernst, it's not Ernst and Young, or is it? What news are we talking about?
There was something in the news yesterday. Accenture? No, sorry, yes, PWC,
private water house. Yes, have you read about this?
No, what happens? Some subdomain was used to promote smart website.
As an adult content. So, the security needs some advice.
And fun fact, actually, PWC, if I'm not completely mistaken, do have their own IT security
line of business, including forensics, I might add. Chaps, well done.
Yes, good job, well done. You see, if you need some tips, go into it.
Exactly. If you're even if you're looking for even more professional advice, yes, people get
no, what happens? I took a long story short, you can read it in your favorite media outlet.
Some people manage to register a subdomain on the overall PWC top level domain, in terms of,
I think it's called pwc.com or something like this. And manage then to register the subdomain
and then put, let's put it this way, material promoting dubious content on that subdomain.
Unfortunately, this subdomain was linked from PWC and other websites quite a lot.
So, it featured actually on something called a search engine. So, using your search engine,
you were able to get to these adult content promoting websites, including, of course, the content
that a search engine was able to capture using, what's, what are they called? That's scrabblers, but
what's what I'm looking for Martin? Suffer that goes out and scrapes websites, yes.
Okay, sorry. Crawlers, that's what I'm looking for. Yes, yes. So, what crawlers do, yes, crawlers
basically go out to websites, capture the essence of a website and then start this as part of
a search engine algorithm. And so, basically typing in your keywords, you would be able to see
the content of these websites as part of your search engine result page. Needless to say,
this is blatant amateur stuff because done properly, you would be in possession of not only
emails from customers, but much more because what prevents you from putting up, say, a login page
for a particular amount of business as part of PWC? Okay, the way to do it, you capture that
top domain, you put up a website that looks exactly like some sort of line of business related
or basically being a subsidiary of PWC. And then you start with emails, maybe compromising PWC
or you don't have to do that better. You just do a web search of companies using PWC. You
capture some of the email addresses, you send phishing emails to these addresses and say, no, look,
we need to verify your account data. Here's the URL to do this. And then you have the logins
of these PWC customers right at your disposal. And then the rest is essentially compromising
or further taking a look at what PWC has to offer internally. Just promoting other websites,
this is the last opportunity guys. Next time do it properly. PWC are not really in the direct
consumer business, but yeah, it's a nice theory. So on this subject, how come the subdomain was
available? Because PWC was really, really, really in deep sleep. So that's what we're
going for as in really sleeping, as in not paying attention at all. Because the subdomain's
expired, somebody noticed this and simply registered the subdomains for them. So they were able
to capture traffic related to that subdomain. And of course, some blame has to go to the register
in that case because they weren't paying attention either. Or maybe just somebody elegantly
faked a PWC association. But as I said, an opportunity lost because you couldn't have done
so much more with the subdomains. Apart from promoting other content and stuff.
As you challenge, find the next one. Kids, this is highly illegal. This attempt wasn't done
by trying professionals apparently. Don't do this at home. If people catch you, you can't
not argue that it's illegal, right? Because you're registering a domain that's available.
So how is that illegal? No, because I think there's legislation in place for this.
Because if you own an overall top level domain, people cannot simply register sublevel domains.
Because essentially, you own the top level domain. So at least you have the first bias,
right? If not more. So at least what the register could have done, double check back with PWC,
if this is legit or not. At that stage, alarm bells should have been ringing at PWC that there
was something shady going on. All everybody apparently was in that week long nap, not paying attention.
Got to open their email here. As a set kid, don't try this at home. This is legal.
Can go to jail for this. Unless you do it properly, to do it as a security research.
Or you do it properly, yes.
Do we want to do a sketch mod? We may want to do a sketch.
What's the other subject that we normally have?
section section. Yes, listen to feedback when we can do this after the sketch, right?
So let's take a look at our picks of the week.
Yeah, we can do that after the feedback. No? Yes, maybe?
A feedback. Okay. Feedback. Go for the feedback.
Let's do the sketch first. Take a short break while the sketch is being written.
Short break. You can plan more coffee requirements.
Yes, and then reconvene later.
The Donald and the Chinese virus.
This is the dog side tick support. How may I help you?
This is Donald, the chosen one, president of the free world.
Somebody has to do it, but my IQ is the highest.
And you all know it. Please don't feel stupid or insecure.
It's not your fault. I'll try my hardest not to.
How can I possibly help you? And what is this it you have to do?
Why are we having all these viruses from shithole countries coming here?
Any particular virus you have in mind here?
O leader of the free world. Zeus, clop, cyborg, Melissa, I love you.
Of course you love me. My fingers are long and beautiful
as it has always been well documented and various other parts of my body.
So join the queue of people loving me.
And it's not Melissa, it's Melania. She loves me too, of course.
Everybody loves me.
Oh no, no. Melissa and I love you.
Are the names of viruses, man.
What? There's more than one of these viruses coming from that infected country?
The Chinese did this, but it's fine.
I declare war on it and medical war. We have to win this war.
It's very important and I'm the greatest wartime president ever lived.
I see. You're referring to COVID-19, not a computer virus.
I hope you've washed your hands before calling in.
Yes, the Chinese virus. I tell you it comes from China.
I might build a wall.
Walls are great for keeping things out.
The world needs more walls built by people like me.
My hands are fine. They are great hands.
I tell you if people didn't shake hands so much, this wouldn't have happened.
I tell you all, don't shake hands.
The concept of shaking hands is absolutely horrible.
And statistically, I have been proven right.
We have an expert in medicine.
So what's the treatment for COVID-19 then?
We have an anti-malarial drug, chloroquine, which is a possible treatment.
It may work. It may not work.
I feel good about it. It's just a feeling.
I'm a smart guy. We have nothing to lose.
You know the expression, what the hell do I have to lose?
You're not in any way making money of this drug.
I say not in a braggadocious way.
I've made millions and billions of dollars
screwing people all around the world, but not from drugs.
You know a lot about drugs, it seems.
Is there any limits to your knowledge on this subject?
Limit?
The House of Representatives tried to limit my war with Iran.
I'll come back on that later.
Let me tell you some more about drugs.
Viagra is a drug. I think Viagra is wonderful.
If you need it, if you have medical issues, if you had a surgery,
I've just never needed it.
Frankly, I wouldn't mind if there were any anti-viagra,
something with the opposite effect.
I'm not bragging. I'm just lucky.
I don't need it.
I see.
So what would you say to the American people?
We're all worried right now and who are scared of COVID-19.
I say you're a terrible guy.
That's what I say.
I think it's a very nasty question and I think it's a very bad signal
that to be putting out to the American people.
The American people are not scared.
We have guns, many guns, and we are not afraid to use them
as prescribed by our constitution.
OK, let's change the subject quickly.
This is actually tech support.
So going back to the question at hand,
you did not call about a computer virus?
Why would I call you about computers?
I know tech better than anyone.
Not reasonable well, not even very well or extremely well,
but better than any person.
Excellent.
So this is all you are building.
Would that be a firewall?
Fire, wind, rain, Chinese,
Mexicans, viruses?
Waltz are great for keeping things out.
The fact is there is nothing else that will work
and that has been true for thousands of years.
It's like the wheel.
There's nothing better.
Probably designed and built,
Waltz work.
And the Democrats are lying when they say they don't.
It looks like I can learn something from you, a great one.
So let me ask you something.
If you were to secure your computer,
would you use
UFW,
IPCOP,
or IPTables?
You know what I say about tables.
Don't you need to meet me please.
Ain't no you is having a table without some chairs.
Very true indeed, and might I add hilarious.
So while I'm here,
do you need any help with the ports on your firewall?
People ask me this all the time.
You build a wall.
What about the C and the ports?
Let me tell you this.
American ports are the greatest.
We love America.
We love American ports.
Why would I need help with my ports?
You might want to open them for certain services
or close them to prevent attacks.
Open ports may pose a security risk
as each open port can be used by attackers
to exploit vulnerability
or perform any other type of attack.
You're telling me our ports are under attack?
I'm glad I called you.
We defend everybody and I mean everybody.
We defend everybody.
No matter who it is, we defend everybody.
We're defending the world.
You are a tech support guy, right?
So tell me this.
We have a five billion dollar healthcare.gov website.
I have so many websites.
I have them all over the place.
I hire people.
It costs me three dollars.
Why does it cost five billion dollars?
Five billion?
Have you considered the possibility
that you are exploiting people
and not paying them enough?
And five billion is the true amount
to be paying market rate stuff?
Anything else I can do for you?
Perhaps some help to reduce your ego?
Show me someone with no ego
and I'll show you a big loser.
I see.
In that case, thank you and goodbye.
15 minutes later.
This is Dr. Tech Support.
How may I help you?
This is Donald again.
Would that be Donald Duck?
Hi, I'm the Disney cartoon.
Donald engine number nine from Thomas the Tank Engine
or Donald Silt, the famous Estonian gentleman and thrower.
My name is Trump.
Donald Trump, 45th president of the United States of America
and mega successful businessman.
We spoke earlier.
You were impressed then.
Yes, I vaguely recall some nutter earlier.
What can I do for you this time?
I am many things, billionaire, leader of the free world.
The best wartime president ever.
God's gift to women.
But as I said, an expert.
But only a nutter by the simple mind it.
Anyhow, I need some more advice on Corona.
They said it comes from China.
I already started a trade war with China.
But you know I travel the world.
I rule the world.
And it reminded me about something from the...
Nice.
And what would that be?
Michael Jackson,
Pacted Future,
Rompreia,
Chernobyl or Tetris?
None of those.
No, I remembered a computer company called Corona Data Systems from California.
The Koreans bought them.
I went to Korea.
It's rough.
North Korea has great beaches.
You see that whenever they're exploding cannons into the ocean,
wouldn't that make a great condo?
I could have the best hotels in the world right there.
Think of it from a real estate perspective.
You have South Korea, you have China.
And they own the land in the middle.
How bad is that?
Right?
It's great.
So you have a tech support question here?
Or are you just here to self-satisfy?
I say that you're a terrible guy.
That's what I say.
I think it's a very nasty question.
And I think it's a very bad signal.
Women come to me to satisfy all the time.
But you know what?
I will tell you.
Because you are people.
And sometimes people are terrible.
You are terrible.
But you're here and I will allow another verification of my greatness.
This Corona data company, the Koreans bought them.
Did I tell you?
Korea bought Corona data back in the 80s.
And you know what?
No, I don't.
What is this terrible voidement knowledge?
This virus really came from Korea.
The Koreans, they hate China.
Everybody hates China.
But Korea hates China more.
Something to do with history.
I don't know.
Korea bought Corona data.
And since the 80s, they have been waiting.
Waiting to release the virus to China and the rest of the world.
They tried to fool us with nukes and shit.
But really, all this time, they were working on the virus.
One thing they didn't count on.
A big mistake they made.
What would that be?
They didn't spend enough time on a sunbed to do an orange?
Or was it that they didn't come over their hair to hide their boldness?
Or did they not count on your astute opinion about free speech in the digital age?
You'll wait one, you know.
Did I tell you?
You are weird.
Anyway, it's none of those.
I'm a fighter, you know.
You will have seen a picture of me in boxing trunks.
I look like a rockababoa.
I'm a fighter.
Fighting the Russians.
The Chinese, the Koreans.
I will fight that Korean dude.
What's the funny hair any time?
He's short anyway.
Anyway, you're right, of course.
Let me give you my expert device.
We need to contain this virus. Stop us in this tracks.
Yes, yes, we must.
What do we do?
Well, all these little virus guys, they travel through wires.
How do you think they made it all the way from China to the US?
I see, I see.
Clearly.
Great.
And since you're the expert, what needs to happen next?
Hmm, hmm, hmm.
I know this don't tell me.
Oh, I know.
We cut all the wires.
Oh, okay.
Okay, back from the break.
I hope the listeners have loved the sketch.
And now what remains to be done is actually the feedback and then we do the box and then we're out of here.
For.
But if there's no breakfast, anyway, indeed.
Indeed, let's get some breakfast afterwards.
Okay, there was a comment that I didn't cover on the last episode.
Somebody named Ahuka posted a comment on Hacker Public Radio.
Thank you very much, Ahuka, whoever you are.
And the comment reads, reads great sketch.
I love the sketch at the end.
It was very funny, very and very creative.
Thank you very much, Ahuka.
Ahuka, you'd be pleased to know and also the other listeners that there is more to come.
We're just in the process of scripting further sketches.
So stay tuned.
We have another two records as well.
Yes, exactly.
Similar to the one, to the two ones you just listened to now and in the previous episode.
So that there's going to be more to come.
And no, of course, the interview with two thirds wasn't a sketch that, as a matter of fact,
was a real interview with a real terminator.
Very important.
This wasn't a sketch that wasn't meant to be funny and
come the year 2038, you will know that actually SkyNet comes from Nvidia.
Very important.
Anyway, I have a suggestion for you there.
I don't go into sales.
I'm afraid it's too late for that now.
Okay, why not, why not?
It's not the least.
Hello, I'm very convincing.
I'm sure all listeners.
Why shouldn't I go into sales?
Well, it's a certain amount of convincing to be done.
I thought it was very convincing.
I'm a prover.
Yes, and then, yeah, that's the go-to.
Okay, box of the week, maybe I have to explain the trend for you,
because you weren't around during the last episode.
The box of the week is actually a short
money curl, let's put it this way, for the pick of the weeks or the picks of the week.
So it's name, box, and of course, whether that, when there's a box,
there has to also be, there has to also be to be an anti-box as the opposite of the pick of the
week. So whatever, whatever upsets you, whatever disgusts you over the week.
So this is your anti-apox.
Okay.
So Martin, what's your box of the week?
Let's start with this.
All right, box of the week for me was a movie called The Current War?
Ah, yeah.
Okay, why don't you explain it to us a little bit about it?
Why don't you shed some more light onto this beloved movie of yours?
Okay, well, light is a good intro to that.
It features two major, let's say electric power companies of its 19th century,
and one of them being run by Edison, the other one being run by Westinghouse.
So Edison being the, well, many known for his light bulb inventions,
his phonographs.
Oh yeah, so it kind of describes that era where these two companies were
effectively rolling out electricity around the U.S., right?
And doing this in different ways, Edison was a
supporter, a fan of direct current.
And Westinghouse was more of a business man than an inventor or a supposed to Edison.
And he just took various other ideas of other people and made it more efficient,
more cheaply to roll out than DC.
So he went with AC, right?
Which can travel a lot of distances and requires less copper, less stations to power.
Which is why we ended up with AC as the national grid in every country.
I think so, yeah.
And there was also this car guy around, right?
By the name of Nikolai Tesla.
Yes, so Tesla originally worked for Edison,
wasn't treated very well, started his own company, wasn't treated very
well, and then ended up working for Westinghouse.
Because the main focus initially was around light, right?
So just the police run, just the people's houses to give them light and some gas.
But then also the next step after that was running into industrial purposes,
so requiring electric motors, etc, etc.
So that was the next step, which Tesla was very instrumental in.
But as I had known, well, unknown fact to me before this movie was that Edison actually invented
the electric chair by trying to prove that Westinghouse method of AC electricity was very dangerous.
Demonstrating this on a horse and in front of the press to show how dangerous it was,
blah, blah, blah, people will die and then someone, some governor had the idea,
oh yeah, this normal hanging of people is actually quite cruel, so why not fry them instead?
Nice one.
So Edison was a bit of a, yeah, trying to save people or trying to keep them safe, but he also
indirectly directed the chair, so yeah, it's a very good insight into that era.
But also it's, you know, in current day we can't imagine life directly, not being able to run
our beloved computers and open source software, but even back then that was not even available.
Just a light and light bulb, so yeah, okay.
Nice one, okay.
And Tesla and the invention of the, of the Tesla car came later, I reckon, also with the side effect
of killing people, right? No, let's not go there. Okay, another sponsor at the wind.
Tesla, if you still want to sponsor the show, please get touched.
Okay, my box of the week is actually a TV show called Rick and Morty, I don't know if you
have heard about it. I've heard about it, yes. Yes.
So it's about a suburban American family and, this is said a while ago, no?
Yeah, what do you couple of years back? Just came across it recently and checked out a couple of
episodes. The family has two kids and one of them is a son called Morty, and he has a grandfather
called Rick, as a matter of fact, the father of the mother of Morty, and Rick is a
weird scientist. Let's put it this way. They travel through time,
master certain adventures and all the rest of it. Very funny, especially the take on modern
American society and what is wrong with this. Imagine being with some butt heads in a sci-fi setting
on speed and then you're pretty close. Nice one. Okay. Martin, your anti-pox, which is the exact
opposite of a pox. Okay, anti-pox, well, there's there's only one really, isn't it?
Let me guess on your on your on your on the looks and max.
Yeah, I think that's that sums it up. Okay. We do need to revisit this yet again to make sure
it's a little bit more streamlined. That's just okay. If you're doing any more 6 a.m. episodes
specifically. Well, it was 730 for me. I don't know. Maybe you live in it or maybe you live in
another dimension, but anyway, it doesn't matter. My anti-pox off the week would be probably better
things. It's a TV series too, and it didn't do wonders for Pamela's career. For Pamela's career.
No jokes aside, but I think it's it's quite funny. Not to sure if if it was the best choice for Pamela,
of course, Pamela being the one of the main characters in something called California Cation,
if it drinks a bell, and no Martin, I'm not talking about the about the song, but rather about the
TV series. Are you referring to Pamela Anderson? No, I can't remember a second name. Look it up on
Wikipedia. I'm going to put a link into the show. I don't know if it's really with better things.
Okay, I hope you don't. It's a TV series that has just been the fourth season has
been concluded, I think. Okay. It's about A. It's about A. It's about A. Yeah. But I think it's
about a struggling mother of four surviving in modern Hollywood. She's an actress of sorts,
and the kids are just playing up and wrecking have walk on her life. And she just turned 50,
and the TV series is about the exploits of her in that setting. Very funny. But as I said,
California Cation, she was just darker. Not to show if better things was the right choice for her
going forward in her career. But it's very funny. Check it out. Cool. Okay, and I think we're
pretty much done. No? Yes. So as usual, if you have feedback, where should they send the feedback
to? Feedback at Linux in lost EU. That's the one. Yes. We also have a website of course. It's called
www.linuxinlars.eu. We are of course on on Hacker Public Radio. And this is what we will be for
the time being. So this is your go-to source. We do have our own ours as feedback now. Thank you
very much, Kevin, for looking into this. As usual, we try to record fortnightly, although
recently that has been a bit of a challenge, all right. And as I said, you will find the episodes
on Hacker Public Radio and look more forward to having you around for the next episodes.
This episode is currently sponsored by the White House. For almost four years, we have been
proud to avail of a Supreme's problem solver, leader and diplomat, or wrapped into one.
For a number of reasons, we are looking for a new owner of this asset before November 3rd of this
year. So whether you are a country with a significant budget surplus, which you just want to dispose
of because too much money can be such a burden, a state with two nice neighbors, and you think
that now is just the time to change this, or simply a splinter group and overly democratic
country for your taste, with a number of nagging media outlets which are just spoiling the fun.
We've got you covered. Simply reach out to the Democrats at the White House.gov, and in no time
you will be in possession of a crown jewel of a president, Philandra and lover of the opposite
sex, not shy of controversy, making and leaving his mark in holder rooms, and the art grabbing of
female genitalia at least in his wishful thinking. Any reasonable offer will be considered.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the creative comments license,
type attribution share like. Credits for the intro music go to blue zero stirs,
for the songs of the market, to twin flames for their peace called the flow used for the
segment intros, and finally to celestial ground for the songs we just use by the dark side.
You find these and other details licensed under cc achamando, a website dedicated to liberate
the music industry from choking copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
The
I see not in the bre nmadocious way.
It weren't invented by Martin.
No, no, this is a word I won't invent it by him himself.
Do you know that?
I hope Martin has the trademark on this.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
People ask me this all the time.
If you build a wall, what about the sea and the ports?
Let me tell you this.
American ports are the greatest.
We love America.
We love American ports.
We love American ports.
Why would I need help with ports?
Sorry.
Sorry, okay.
Something like that.
Okay, okay.
Okay, okay.
You're telling me our ports are under the attack?
Again, you're telling me our ports are under attack?
Okay, once again.
You're telling me out.
You're telling me our ports are under attack?
I'm glad I called you.
We defend everybody.
And I mean everybody.
We defend everybody.
We defend everybody.
We defend everybody.
We defend everybody.
We defend everybody.
We defend everybody.
It's not them.
Shit, I got this wrong.
Okay, okay.
Okay, okay.
15 minutes later.
15 minutes later.
15 minutes later.
Okay, we did this later.
I'm going to edit this.
Okay.
This is Darkseid, Dex Support.
How am I going to help you?
It's rough in a lot of places.
By the way, not just there.
It's rough.
But North Korea has great bitches.
Paris has great bitches.
Three square meters.
It's blocked.
It's blocked.
It's blocked with assistant.
This is screwed with me.
No worries.
Okay, blaming script Barbie.
Okay, none of those snow.
I remembered a computer company called...
None of those snow.
I remembered a computer company.
Coronavirus data systems from California.
This episode is currently sponsored by the White House.
For almost four years we have been proud to avail of a supreme problem-solver, leader
and diplomat all wrapped into one. For a number of reasons, way too many to name
them all, we are looking for a new owner of this asset before November 3rd of this
year. Oh God, I hope this works. This is pretty much our last chance to get rid of
this joke of a president. So whether you are a country with a significant
budget surplus, which you just want to dispose of because too much money can be
such a burden, a state with way too nice neighbors and you think that now is just
the time to change this or simply a splinter group in overly democratic country
for your days with a number of negative media outlets which are just spoiling
the fun we've got you covered. Yeah, two weeks in office on all of these
problems will be solved once and for all. Simply reach out to the Democrats at
the White House.gov and in no time you will be in possession of crown jewel of
a president, Philundra and lover of the opposite sex, not shy of controversy,
making and leaving his mark in hotel rooms has anybody ever thought of getting
a specimen from that bad sheet for genetic analysis so we can finally prove that
he is really an alien or at least have the evidence that he's indeed unfit
for office and can invoke the 25th amendment finally and the art grabbing of
female genitalia at least in his wishful thinking and your reasonable offer
will be considered. Jesus, we just may pay handsomely as long as there's good
riddance. Yes, and he's house-trained. Well, most of the time anyway.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a
community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like
yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our
contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is
part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's
show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record
a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
