Episode: 3352
Title: HPR3352: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 4
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3352/hpr3352.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:30:38

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3352 for Tuesday, 8th of June 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HPR 2020-2021 New Year's Eve Show Episode 4.
It is hosted by Hunkie Magoo and is about 67 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
I'm so waiting for America to follow the lead of Britain abandon the Imperial system and go to the metric.
Yeah, eventually I think we'll probably just fade. I don't think it'll be a drastic change,
but we'll fade into using a much of system here in America.
Yeah, we already worked a weird hop pod here because you buy gas and gallons, but you buy soda and two
liter bottles. Yeah, in one liter, two, we have those. They have one liter of siltzer here.
I just drank it and it's flat, so that's signed.
How do you edit text, BIM, Nano, or Emacs?
Nano. BIM. Can never get the hang of them. I really should twist to his name or which.
You left out the option of said. You're right. Actually, I prefer G at it for most of my text editing.
Some of the plugins and coding extensions on there actually becomes quite useful.
I don't mind Nano when I'm first to start installing an operating system on a pie,
but then I usually go to them. It makes it easier to edit the config files for me,
but then I'm getting them used to it. And for a lot of the machines that I deal with,
BIM is the only thing that's available to me going into it remotely.
Yeah, it's one of the reasons I should really learn it.
Or not to hide out of it first. I do not know that much. I had to learn that one.
Yeah, CullenQ. CullenQ Exclamation Mark became a very, very popular command.
Yeah, I think the first thing when you type in BIM on Google is just BIM,
how to exit or something like that. How to exit BIM.
CullenQ question, Mark. Deletes all the changes though.
Don't keep you. If you don't know how to exit BIM, I think you probably need to just
unsafe the changes. Yeah, I tried to stick with built-in tools and not
go to any, well, not built-in, but default install tools.
Because I can't go to, I jumped to so many different machines. I can't install applications all the time.
Yeah, I use the same operating system for this time. Although I've been wanting to switch to Manjaro.
I don't switch machines either. Well, I'm dealing with machines literally all over the place.
And normally my only connection to them is an SSX session.
Yeah, and that's probably why learning BIM is a good idea because if you ever have to do that sort
of thing, you don't really have many other chances. Yeah, well, that's what I like to
said is said makes it really easy, especially if you're going to have to do the same thing at
multiple places. Once you've learned the commands on there, it becomes easy. And it works great in
scripting. Yeah, that's you. There's a lot of things I need to win. I'm still fairly uneducated,
I should say. Not uneducated. You just haven't experienced enough problems yet.
There you go. That's what I was looking for. I was looking for something not to rob this
or not. Yeah, trying not to make fun of myself. Just about every commander,
language or something I've learned is because I was having to solve a problem.
Yeah, that is probably the best way to learn because I have definitely learned a lot from trying
to solve issues. Yeah, my first time having to deal with administering a Solaris system was when
I inherited a data center from another from a company that we had acquired and the two admins
who were running it left the company. No. Got told I was getting about a dozen machines from them,
ended up flying on site and inventorying and turned out it was like 190 something machines.
How do you mess up the Empress like that? Why do you think they are there anymore?
Yeah, that's really like 16 times more. I just had to do the math on that to see how ridiculous it was.
Yeah, it was over 190 machines. They had a production, a dev, a test environment and a QA
environment. None of them were documented. Nobody knew who was what and I couldn't break production
while trying to fix things. Make it more interesting. I got on site. I was checking things out
and the UPS had a key to keep you from accidentally turning it off for anything.
The UPS had a lock keeping you from turning it off and I asked him where the keys were. Nobody
knew where any of the keys were. I'm looking at making my own Firefox start page but I don't
really know how to make it work because I can make the web page the start page but I don't know
how to make it automatically launch on the tab. Under Firefox, you just set your default home page.
Oh, I didn't know that worked for you just hitting the new tab button.
There's an option for what to display when you switch to a new tab.
Well, move it silly. It makes no sense.
A quick way to get to it is about colon preferences and there's a search box right there.
Yeah, if you go to about preferences on the left side, the second one down is home and it says
new tab and new windows. Yeah, thank you. Perfect. It just says blank page actually.
There's no option to set it as my for the new tabs. Dude, just a mirror out.
I mean for new tabs, so the only work for home page and new windows. A little further down,
there's a drop-down box. Put tabs in the search. It highlights yellow where you can change your tab
options. Oh, thank you. So what is Solaris? Solaris is a one of the Unix family members.
Anywhere closely related to BSD? Cousins, I'd say. I fortunately haven't had to work with it in
several years. All right, that's good. They really don't know any BSD. Claudio does.
Moscow happened. Why does that sound like a calamity?
I guess it's either Firefox Home or nothing for a new tab.
Yeah, it's haven't had to mess with that in a while. I'm surprised about that.
Yeah, and looking at something from their support help page, whatever.
I use a plugin called VimVixen and now let's do a start typing T and then the D for a duck.
And then I get my new page.
Yeah, I've been using AutoKey a lot on Linux, but the problem is it doesn't currently support
Wayland. I was looking for some sort of equivalent AutoKey that works under Wayland.
Has anybody seen something like that?
What OS uses Wayland? I'm running Fedora and you can either go with Xorg or Wayland for your
display manager. All right, I'm on Fedora too and I just never tried out Wayland.
By default, if you do a clean install on Fedora, now it goes to Wayland unless you've
configured it otherwise. I don't know where would I find that information.
Let me check there was a command line option for doing that.
Of course, top search is a stack exchange link.
It's not that great. That's what I got.
So you're running Wayland?
Not sure, I have to look check still.
I must be missing how to find out.
All I know is I'm using i3 as a desktop manager.
I just posted the command line for it.
If you run that, it should either say X11 or Wayland.
It says X11.
Okay.
Is there an advantage to Wayland?
Just they're trying to change performance in all with Wayland.
Unless you have a reason for it, I'd stick with whatever you currently are running.
The big thing is they're trying to build up increase the performance of the display drivers.
Right, and I don't use anything display intensive.
I don't really game.
I've been using that auto key because you can set up all sorts of
macros in there.
When I connect it to these different machines since I can't install tools,
I need to run a bunch of predefined scripts and I can just quickly run them from there.
Okay. Added the notes on the X11 check into the right place into the notepad.
Yeah, I had to be finding the right place to add stuff too.
And you know, I think I still put it in the wrong place.
I think it's past 21 now.
Yeah, I must let it get again.
What do I do wrong?
The next time it's on.
Oh, we're already down the grease?
Two times a charm.
No, I think it's I-I-Mac.
Thought it was Russia.
Russia?
No, that's-that's 20.
Can't you see the UTC is 2111?
So I get in the right spot then.
I'm not going to say yes because honestly, I can be wrong.
Where are Americans? We're never wrong.
The world just needs to adjust.
That's true.
You know, I think if aliens invaded half of America would just say no they're not.
If aliens ever invaded America, we would just say you got to fill out all this paperwork.
They would look at us like we were crazy and head back home.
Fair enough. I mean, it's one way to get rid of them.
But don't they want to vote?
They would have to wait about 15 years.
No, we'll descend them to Georgia.
Pretty sure Georgians would probably kill them all.
Are you saying rednecks could take out aliens?
They wouldn't want to.
That was my favorite line in the movie zombie land when the guy goes thank god for rednecks.
That's pretty good.
I found the new tab override extension.
It's in the show now. It's in the chat.
Thank you, thank you.
I was looking at something you do without extension.
I think I might finally found it.
You have to like edit the gun fake or something weird.
I really just add the extension and put the URL you want to open to.
Yeah, I'm going to go with that. That's a lot simpler.
You can't make things simple.
Would get confused.
Just use arch and make everything complicated.
Step on arch user toes.
I used to use arch one time.
I mean, it's awesome. I just think it's kind of complicated.
Oh, it is.
The install actually is not too bad.
You want complicated. We're going to make you use Linux from scratch.
Never an extra pie for that.
That's not my thing.
If I did do that, I'd buy another Raspberry Pi.
So I can at least now that's tapped my machine.
I know the Firefox extension I need.
I need something that'll track it.
Tabs that have been open.
And if it's been sitting there for more than a half hour without having been touched, close it down.
I just went through and I had over 20 different tabs that were open.
I have let me count.
Ah, like 27.
I have at least 10 pin tabs.
Yeah, I'm not the best with tabs, but my computer can handle it.
I'm still looking for the distributed search engine, but I can't find much.
Except for an article on Wikipedia.
It's a good idea though.
Yeah.
There's one I had saw.
YACY that looked like you could do that.
YACY.net.
Just added the link to the show note.
It looks like it applies to your local area network.
Well, when I was looking at it before, I haven't messed with it in a while.
When I was looking at it before, you can give it sites that you want to index.
And then you can do some sort of peer,
peering between it, but I was just trying it on one machine,
so I didn't mess with the peering or anything on it.
You ever try start page?
It uses Google servers, but it doesn't track you.
That's my default search engine.
All right.
I use a search, I quite like it.
Yeah, I've convinced a couple other people to start using that one.
After I showed them direct evidence of the Google bubble,
and I was trying to explain that to my wife one time,
and she didn't quite understand it.
We had a trip we were getting ready to go on,
where we were going to be working at a place in Florida,
and she kept searching for it and couldn't find it in Google.
Well, I went ahead and searched for it and looked it up and found the stuff,
and I sent her a link to it.
She pulled up the page.
Well, then afterwards, she went to show me how she couldn't find it in Google,
and she put in the same search that she did earlier,
and it's now on top of her results.
Just by having visited once, somehow,
Google made the association with her,
and now change her results to show that it's a top priority.
I'm going to use a tractor IP.
Yeah.
But it's sort of defeats the whole purpose of a search engine.
If it's only going to show you the stuff that you already know,
or lean to the stuff that you already know.
So you get tunnel vision.
Dang it.
I didn't have the push-to-talk press when I said that.
With the talk about getting rid of Google services,
with the next cloud, you can actually set it up
so you've got document editing straight in there.
And so I'm not even using Google Docs or any of that.
Archer 72, are you around?
I am.
How are you?
Good.
You know there's a question coming, don't you?
Which so?
Very much.
That is a fantastic size that you pointed out for the Master Dombot.
I just, they approved the account for HDR.
It's perfect.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Great.
Now, one final thing, mind your trivia.
I have an XML feed that I'd like to pump into it.
Any ideas?
I don't know, XML.
What are you trying to accomplish?
Right, we've got a brand new Master Dombot.
And I have an XML feed, the post, the post to social media.
So I want to take that feed and post it out.
So back in the day, you could use if this, then that.
But not anymore, I don't think.
Don't think it has a Master Domb plugin in here.
What, what server is it's running on a Linux server?
Or what kind of server that you've, you've got your feed on?
The feeds on a Linux server.
I wonder if you could do that with a Perl module.
Oh, I'm sure you could.
Say that three times and do more of this will appear.
Oh, Dave does a lot of Perl?
Did we see the Zandal?
Perl Lloyd.
I've had to get into a lot more Perl lately.
Dave's your man.
And there is a Macedon client for Perl under CPAN.
Yep.
How often is the XML updated?
Every weekday.
So just the daily feed.
Yep.
Fixed time?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just one second.
Let me have an option here.
So you're only going to post the latest update from the XML?
Yeah, I think I figured out how to do it.
Cool.
All right.
There's a next one to Cairo.
It's actually a pretty big place.
And certainly it's like tiny little Russian cities that we keep getting.
Have there any like utilities that you all use that are like pretty not well known?
Do you know what I'm just kind of curious about that?
Auto key is the primary one I've been used.
Is that auto key?
Is that like some sort of way to...
Auto key.
Auto key.
Yeah.
Basically.
And for, um,
Fedore, it's in the repos.
I'm not sure about on Ubuntu.
Let me see here.
Where it comes in handy is saving a lot of different phrases and commands because,
like I said, I go to machines where it's often the first time that I'm visiting them.
I can't have install...
I can't install a lot of utilities and I need to run a whole bunch of standard commands.
Yeah, that sounds pretty useful, actually.
I was like finding like, you know, obscure utilities that are really helpful.
And not so, you know, useless or, you know, stuff that you find.
Next stuff that you can really use.
Now, another one I use a lot.
And it's...
It's somewhat well known.
I use some key pass XC along with next cloud for syncing.
And there's key pass for next cloud that you can integrate in there.
And then I've got a couple apps on the phone.
So I've got the...
My password vault sync between multiple devices.
But they're under...
Devices under my control.
Yeah, I do need...
That's another reason I mean, it's that I'm Xcloud.
So I can sync my password database between different devices.
Now, I didn't use next cloud's password vault.
I used, um,
key pass XC.
Yeah, that's what I would be using.
But there is an add-in for next cloud that allows you to open key pass databases inside your browser.
So if I am at a place where I don't even want to sync my database,
I can still go to my next cloud server and pull up my password database.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah, but now I have to look...
I really have to look into setting up next cloud.
And if I do do it, that will be a show.
If you're setting it up, need help.
God, pick me and I'll be glad to help you out.
Where would I do that?
I don't really know much about the community or your own interact.
If you search for, um, guest on, or host on next, on Hacker Public Radio,
I'm Toujet on there and my address is in that.
Ah, perfect.
Thank you.
What about on mastodon?
I have not set up a mastodon server yet and I was looking,
hoping to find somebody that might be able to help me integrate that into, um,
the next cloud server because I saw it was in there.
I just have no idea how to do it.
I don't have a server.
I just, um, I have somebody else's server.
Let me check to see if I had set up a mastodon a while ago.
Um, one of the other servers.
I have mastodon.stf.org.
There's always a mastodon on that social.
Yeah, I don't have one set up there.
Where am I looking for this?
I can't find out exactly where, because then he said, like,
hosts or something, but I can't find Toujet.
Because I'm going to lose it and never be able to find you again.
Yeah, if you do the search on there and search Toujet one word, um,
I've got a couple of different ones that are looking.
You did one on the USB security.
Yeah, episode three, two, three, one, the USB key.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
What's the number three two three one?
Thank you.
Thank you.
Actually, I think I listened to that one.
I did.
Yeah, that's what happened when I got bored for a few minutes.
I thought I had my, um, there, um, sorry.
Well, I thought I had my email address in there.
Uh, it has an email for me.
It's a hacker public radio.
Is there like a, um,
like an IRC or something?
Or anything like that that is actually used, I guess,
not like something that's just there.
Pound out, podcast planet.
Mailing list is most common way.
I see things coming out.
Parked, sorry.
I heard the mailing list.
It was the other one podcast planet.
It was really echoey.
Oggcast planet.
Thank you.
Man, I'm looking at my episode history.
I don't want to do what I did this last time.
It was almost a two year gap.
And before that, it was over three year, almost three year gap.
So where were you suggesting setting up a mastodon account?
Mastodon.sdf.
That's my handle there.
Helps if I can tie it.
I put that in the show notes too.
So you're going to do a show on auto key, right?
Uh, I'll consider it.
I'm going through the, uh, mastodon signup right now.
Oh, cool.
Hope to see you soon.
I should do that too, yes.
If I can do one on modding a dog coat,
you, anybody can do one.
That's not even tech related.
That's some more, uh, I got it from a thrift store.
And she needed a coat for the winter.
You didn't tell me I was going to have to be reviewed and judged by people to join.
Oh, just plan around.
And which NSA watch list did this put me on?
I don't know if you use Linux at all.
You're on their watch list, I believe.
At least that's what they said last year.
I've been on their watch list probably for years with several of the things I've done.
Yeah.
You know, when you sit down and watch the six o'clock news,
and find that you're involved in a few of the top, uh, articles, uh, it's not a good day.
Uh, that's a story.
You peaked my interests, they must say.
Those are not for a public forum.
Oh, no.
Hi, guys.
Thought I'd poke my nose in here, um, put it in the usual plugs for Mintcast and
District Hopper's Digest.
Familiar with Mintcast, but not District Hopper's Digest.
No, we're neither.
Well, we're there.
It's, uh, our website's DistrictHopper's Digest.blogspot.com.
And you should be able to find us on your pod catchers.
We've been doing this since April of a year ago.
And we just released our 18th episode or monthly on this one.
Or supposedly monthly, you only got 10 shows out in 2020, but then that was 2020.
We expanded our team from two to three.
So we're probably going to be doing at least three distros per episode.
And everybody is being so quiet.
Yeah, it seems to be a bit of a common thing because it's hard to keep up conversations
for, you know, 25 hours, but I'm sure we'll go on through quite a while.
Well, I promised Tony Hughes I'd get in here, but apparently not soon enough.
Well, he was in here for a little bit.
Yeah, I'm going to chew on some stuff for a while and listen and maybe poke my nose
if one had done chewing.
Do you assume?
What are your favorite fireworks extensions?
My top one is Dark Reader.
Well, I think you block has to have that title.
Or what?
I think you block origin has to have that title.
That block is essential for everyone.
Yeah, probably my favorite one is open with.
It allows you to detect all the other browsers on your system and open your current page
in one of the other browsers.
It was open with on mobile.
Well, considering I don't use any other browsers, that wouldn't help me any.
Yeah, same thing.
I've got certain ones at my company that will not work in Firefox.
One of them be in the payroll system, and I definitely want access to that.
True, and at least you still have a job.
A lot of us don't.
Yeah, I've been fortunate.
I've been working from home since everything's been going on.
Switch to a new job right before the lockdown started,
and my new job was working from home four days a week,
and so then with the lockdown started, it was working from home all days a week.
Yeah, I've got two jobs, but one of them is working for a school district which is closed.
And the other one is a company that's just barely getting started and doesn't have any money yet.
They decided to work the way in from the ground up instead of coming with funding first.
But if it takes off, I should be doing her rather well, but I won't know when.
Good luck.
Thank you. I appreciate that.
I got enough help from my family and community to actually set up a audio studio for myself.
Sorry if I'm listening a bit.
I had all my teeth pulled a couple months ago, and it's easier to not even have the
temperies in. So there's no teeth here.
Old man, you know.
Thank you for posting my website, Archer.
You're welcome.
You don't have to be old.
They have your teeth removed.
My wife has dentures from 35 on.
I just turned 68 and I got my teeth pulled just before I turned 68,
but the temporary dentures don't fit that well.
I actually bought a Dremel tool so I could whittle them into shape,
but I'm taking it a little bit at a time because I don't want to overdo it.
But it'll probably be another seven or eight months before I get the permanent ones.
I love the idea of just using the Dremel on your teeth.
Not using the Dremel on my teeth, using the Dremel on my temporary dentures.
Yeah, I know it just sounds funny to say.
Just whittling down the rough edges, so it doesn't hurt your gums.
Well, not so much that, but the lowers especially they had sort of a flat spot in the back
inside and my tongue would catch them and flip teeth off and I'm trying to whittle that down
to where it doesn't do that because it makes it hard to swallow when when your tongue
is being impeded by your dentures and you now know more about it than you ever wanted to.
Yeah, I'm one of those filthy multi-booters. My laptop has 10 distros on it.
My desktop only has three because I just had to whittle it down.
I had a difficulty and had to start over on it and no windows.
I have not done windows since 2015 and I was also off windows from about 2008 to 2012
and it's the time I was only using Ubuntu and in 12.04 they forced unity on us and it wouldn't
run on my system. I think I quit windows in 2004.
I was playing with Linux one way or another since about 2002.
That's about when it started.
I had all of this for Slackware and Red Hat but I didn't have all the information I needed
to install them so I was too chicken to do that. I finally got Mandrake installed.
Mandrake was one of my first. I never was brave enough for Slackware until a couple,
three years ago maybe.
Well, I will point out very happily that OpenMandriva has finally achieved the level of perfection
that Mandrake had in the old days. 4.1 is really nice. 4.0 is really nice. 3.5 was promising.
They're in beta on 4.2 right now but I still use Mint when I have to get everything done.
I used Fedora on my laptop and Debian's on my a couple of pies I have.
Well, if Fedora was my preferred distribution I would load that on my system and then load
everything else. But Fedora installer is not friendly to current multi-boot systems.
I can't get through the installer without fearing that you're going to wipe out the whole system
doing it. So I have yet to actually run Fedora. Well, Ryan's made windows. It wiped out the
dual boot at my work. I'm using a Ubuntu and then the next update wiped it out.
There were a few versions of Ubuntu that didn't pay attention to the fact that you told it to
only use a part of the disc and use the whole damn thing. Or you told it to stop the installation
because you weren't comfortable with it and when I hadn't did it anyhow. They have gotten over that.
I've tried a little bit of everything except Fedora. The closest I've gotten to Red Hat is
Mandrava. Yeah, I've never missed with Fedora. I was sad to see Sade on shutdown. That was a really fun
project. It is getting reborn as Mochicino OS. And Mochicino will have two versions, one of which
is based on Jentu and one of which is LFS. And that's still an alpha or beta or something like that.
All right, I have to head out. My head turns to hurting because of my glasses. So see you later.
See you. Be good. Hope you can fix the glasses. See you. Yeah, my healthcare provider just
gave me a credit card with a hundred bucks on it and said, go spend something on healthcare. And
so I got new glasses. I finally got to the point where I needed Bifocal's last year.
Yeah, this is fun. They gave me $100 and said, knew it. And stand an optical would give me two pair
transitional Bifocal's. You know, the no line ones for that for 99 bucks with no tax. So I came out
like a bandit there. Oh, we don't have anything like that here. Where are you? Midway is an hour
north of Chicago. Hmm, I thought standing optical was nationwide. Oh, they do have a two pair,
but I can't remember American something. Yeah, America's best I wear or something like that.
We got that here too. That's right. But they're 10 or 20 bucks more expensive than Stanton.
You can get two pair of single vision lenses for 59 and two pair of progressive Bifocal's for 99
at Stanton. It's the lenses that get you though. Oh, that's included. Yes, I have two new
pair of glasses. Well, of course, you have to get a certain level of frames or less. If you want to
get more premium frames, you have to pay extra for that. If you want the photo gray or sun sensor
or whatever they call them transitional lenses, you have to pay extra for that. I never got transition.
I think that might drive me crazy. It's bad enough walking in and to the building with
a mask and clogging up my glasses there. They had just very quickly. I've had them and been
happy with them. But it's got on the point that if I'm sitting back in my car, the sun is not
actually on the lenses. So I have to wear sunglasses anyhow. So I didn't get that this time.
BHPI universe, how's it going? This is case here. Checking in from the great white noise.
Great white north. How's everyone doing tonight? How white and how north is it? I'm fine.
And north, north Toronto by several hundred kilometers.
That's good. And you were right. There is no standard optical in Chicago. But there are someone
with constant in Indiana. Why is that that far away from me then? There's Madison and Milwaukee
and Brookfield Wisconsin and Pleasant Prairie Wisconsin and Oak Creek Wisconsin and
Michelle Walker and Indiana. Milwaukee is almost two hours for me. And Peoria, Illinois. That's
weird. You think if they had that much covered, they go to Chicago. You would think so. Oh,
isn't it? Yeah, they include the eye exam with that. So that's 59.95 for single with 99.95
for progressive bike vocals. That includes the eye exam. So that's really a pretty good price.
Sometimes I get the glasses wrong. The last time I went there, I had to try three or four times
to get some of my glasses right. But nonetheless, then you have to spend the gas if it's only if it's
two hour trip to get there. Well, this time they got it right. So maybe they're getting better.
It's been like six years since first time. Fortunately, our place is only 15 minutes from us.
So anyhow, I usually use mint for work. I use bodie for fun. And I've got everything else just
to keep my finger in the pool. I think I'm reviewing Blue Bundy this time and I was surprised at
how far Alex QT has come. It actually looks like a good desktop now. It always looked like it was
unfinished. I still like XFCE. Well, right now I use I3. Well, my favorite is Mocha,
which is a fork of enlightenment. And I use Matei whenever I can. Isn't Matei closer to what
windows would look like for somebody coming from there? Well, it can be thought of that,
but you could say the same thing for cinnamon. Basically, Matei was a fork of GNOME 2 and has been
upgraded to GGK 3 Plus. And cinnamon was a fork of GNOME 3. Both of them to achieve the look of
the old GNOME 2 or a more or less Windows 7 look. I think Matei is the more stable of the two.
And Martin Wimpress did a whole lot of work on that to make it that. For that matter,
Ike Dority worked on the brisk menu for it, which makes it faster. The menu doesn't use as much
memory as it used to. Hey, Mocha. Hey, sounds like Joe. Yep, looking a little lap. How's your
day been? I'm pretty quiet. I wanted to thank you about talking about X to go. Yeah,
it really is quite, and he's a software. Yeah, well, in case anybody doesn't know X to go is a
remote desktop software. But like this last year, you know, when I was looking into expanding
it to usage myself, I found out that it's also a really good screen mirroring software.
Sorry about that. I thought I muted my mic to call. Anyhow, I'll be right back.
Or a screen sharing software. I'm not about that function. I'll check into it. Let me see if I can
find what it's called on X to go. When you pick your desktop type connection to local desktop.
Yeah, I still use X to go all the time. I pair that with M, make MkV. I didn't have a laptop I
slated to do by ripping my DVDs and my Blu-rays. Cool. Basically making a thing quiet.
Right. It just stays that way. I just keep it under my, under my couch. Just keep it plugged in.
Actually, I don't, I don't need X to go so often, but once, so while I get a stubborn disc and I
have to do the graphical interface to get it to work right.
Sala, what are you watching? Right now. No, Tala. Dream team,
Animaniacs, Animatics. Oh, it sounds chirile. Name it for me one more time. Dream team,
Animatic. Okay. Thank you. My daughter is weird. What genre is that? What genre is that?
That's a movie. Basically, they're making, they're coming here and explaining it again because
it seems a little silly. We're going to talk into the microphone. Streamers, minecraft streamers who
do stupid stuff on their stream and animated by people online who found what they were streaming about
funny. Okay, you're dismissed. Thank you, little girl. Okay, thank you.
Kind of like how they do with the Roblox, too. My daughter likes to watch stuff like that.
You're doing nothing. What? Well, I'm talking to my daughter again. Now, my daughter is 16.
And yours is a protein? 13. Going on 20, she thinks. Yeah. She thinks she wants to go to art school.
I think Tala still wants to do law school. No, it's changed. What is it? I owe. Okay.
Get a headset and log in to mumble. You don't want to join us? Okay. There's no camera. How can
you be camera shy if there's no camera? You talk to people all the time. Who says they're my friends?
Hey, wisher, are you my friend? Moss, my account is my friend. Okay. I'm your friend, Joe. Moss is my friend.
Yes. Okay. I didn't know what about me. Well, what about you? Honky, you're usually there,
but not there. So yeah, you're my friend, too. So yeah, it is friends at this point.
Well, my wife has some crazy old-fashioned idea and supposed to be spending New Year's Eve with her.
So I probably won't be here that much longer. No, well, I went to a New Year's party yesterday,
virtually, of course, with the wife. So that had to be natural. It was fun. It was also drunken.
Yeah, I hope to get some cons so I can play some music this new year. I usually go to a convention
the first or second weekend of January in Atlanta. That's not happening this year,
but they may have it online. I am not a horrible musician, but the style I play is not that
popular these days. Is it bluegrass? No, I am not, I am not from the Appalachians. I live in the
Appalachians. I grew up in Southern California and my dad was a union man, so I'm an old
folky and you better spell that with a K. Okay, so it's folk music. Yeah, it's actually more recently
silk music. The music of the science fiction fantasy community. As opposed to metal, you should play
metal all the time. I can't play metal. Why not? I am not capable of playing metal. I do not think in
metal. I do not feel in metal. Okay. What you're going to do is just take that song that you're
playing and then just make it a little bit faster. Well, it's not just sassy. You got to bang harder
and I don't want to do that to my instruments. I bang them hard enough now and I can't play
lead. You're tired of saving my soul and don't know anyone that does. Fortunately, my salvation is
not predicated on my playing lead or but we miss Greece. The country or the musical? The country
and the New Year. Because I should own this genre. No. I've been watching this sitcom on Netflix called
Mr. Iglesias, which is Gabrielle Fluffy Iglesias, being a school teacher in Long Beach, California.
It's basically welcome back cutter only put in Long Beach with minority kids and Iglesias as the
teacher is. Funny you're in hell, but I've seen as Sitka or his stand-ups. It's pretty funny.
Well, the sitcom is just as funny and the kids are all really brilliant. They've got good comic timing.
The script is pretty well written. I've just been rewatching all the Marvel TV shows.
Well, Netflix shows. I think we watched all those. This year we did finish doing our re-hazitation
of Babylon 5, although we couldn't get feeds for Legend of the Rangers. I've been watching
Resident Files to show. Yeah, that was horrible. It was horrible. We watched it this year thanks to Joe.
Yeah, there was only one one show actually took some things from the from the books other than
the character's names and basic type. There's only one episode that really was based on one of the
books and it wasn't that good. I told you you were going to be disappointed with the Dresden
Files before you started it. Yes, you did. I was happy they did it and I like the actors they picked
and the tone was good, but it just wasn't resident. Yeah, they did, but Storm watch they did most
of that episode, which was somewhat close to the actual book. They did the one with the werewolves,
but they did it kind of like only part of the whole story with the werewolves. Yeah, they just
rewrote the whole story like they can write better than Jim Butcher apparently.
All right, thanks. Well, we've got this award-winning author that is sold all these millions of
books and we want to take his books and totally butcher them and turn them into a series that
kind of looks maybe like it was influenced by the book. Yeah, we can write better than him anyhow.
Yeah, I took the show as because there's they kind of referenced there being lots of you know,
he does takes lots of fires lots of cases and does lots of things in between the big times that
he does in the books, you know, all the big stories in the books. I've watched it so far. I've been I
was extremely disappointed at first. The more I've watched it, the more I've kind of liked it
a little bit more, but you know, it's still I just kind of take it as, you know, it's the kind of
thing where I think I'd like the TV show better if I had never read the books. Yeah, right. Well,
I'm the kind of guy that likes to read aloud to people when I've been reading them slowly to my
wife. I think we're in white night now. I think we're like chapter five or six of white night,
so we're getting through it. I tried to read her that the Garrett books and she didn't like them
and I don't know why. Maybe she will now. It's been a few years. Yeah, well the Garrett PI
of the early books are good. And then later on, well, pretty much wraps up with book 11 and there's
one or two stinkers in before that. But still, yeah, the first six or eight books are more than
worth reading. I read them to several other people in the past. Let's see. I started reading some
more Darcy to her. There's not enough of that damage because Randall Garrett came down with a
brain virus that turned him into a vegetable. Michael Curlin wrote some in the
world with permission and then wrote a tourist read or Darcy books later that didn't sell.
Well, Terry Goodkind died this last year, right? He's a guy that was writing the sort of truth
novels, but that series should have been done a long time ago. Well, you know, when you're making
money, it's like, I love Roger Salasney's early work. But when he started writing Amber,
it was so far downhill. It's like, I have three Hugo's and two Nebula's and I don't have a
penny to my name. I'm going to write something that will sell. Let's see, I got up to, I think,
book 9 or 10 of the Vlad Talto series. I don't know if you know that one. Don't know that one, Joe.
Okay. See, this is the thing we should sometimes Joe and I turn Mintcast into a book review show.
Yeah, well, I'm usually reviewing the audio book though. Yeah, I am reading it aloud to somebody
currently my wife. Yeah, and I'm redoing Wheel of Time right now. Taking a bit more time with it.
You know, I'm not playing the book slower. I'm just taking more time between playthroughs.
I'm sorry to hear from you that Dresden lost some continuity in the last two books.
Yeah, especially just little things in battle. Well, you'll start noticing little things in
ghost story. And then after what, what is it?
Skin game, skin game comes right heart. No, cold days, cold days is after ghost story.
I want to ask about one spoiler, Joe. Go ahead. At the current state in the books,
has he kicked Lashiel to the curb yet? He doesn't kick Lashiel to the curb, but Lashiel does leave.
Oh, okay. That's good. That's an influence that was really hard to
resist for a long period of time. And it does it for years.
Well, as a wizard, he has a lot of years. Yeah.
I can't imagine her leaving, but I'm glad to hear it. I'm sure most of the people listening
have no clue what we're talking about. But they're busy looking up Dresden files right now.
I'm okay with that. Yeah, I'd probably like to hear the audio books because you said that
Marsden did a great job on them. Yeah, James Marsters. Marsters, yeah.
He does a really good job. Although people did complain about
Marsters in battlegrounds because he changed some of the accents a little bit.
Or forgot that certain people had specific accents. That's a problem of being a live reader
over a period of time because if a character doesn't show up for three or four books,
you forget what they sounded like to you. You know, it was a fairly common character,
but the problem was is that there wasn't an audio book for like seven years.
Have you read any Joel Rosenberg?
A name of the books. I can't remember the names of the books right now. It was basically
some of the best written D&D campaign in publishing effort. And let me, let me open it. I got
a browser open. Good. I'll move to that window. Are you sure you're not talking about Margaret
Weiss and Tracy Higman? They basically wrote their campaigns down and turned them into
what the Dragon Lance was on. Joel Rosenberg, the Canadian American science fiction and fantasy author
best known for his long-running Guardians of the Flame series. There you go.
Nope. Never wrote it. You should read that one. You'll love it.
He didn't want to write it because at the time he started writing Guardians of the Flame,
the big thing was the Carl West's name, the Gore books.
And he did not want to be lumped into the same category as the Gore books.
Oh, it says, as a younger sister, it works for the Miami Herald.
Stormlight Archive recently had a new book come out for it, or the fourth book. And it was
really good. Okay, the first novel is Sleeping Dragon. A series placed a group of college students
into a fantasy setting similar to a role-playing world through the series of 10 novels Rosenberg
trace these characters, their descendants, and the changes they made to society. He showed no
compunction about killing off popular characters. He also has a trilogy Keepers of the Hidden Ways,
which is similar, but makes have a use of Norse mythology. And he has a third series consisting
of the novels Dishai and Hour of the Octopus, both lightly humorous mysteries, set in an Asian
influenced fantasy world with very strict cultural standards and etiquette. Joel Rosenberg.
Okay. Yes. There's another author named Joel Rosenberg. I was looking through and trying to
see where you were getting the dead information. And Joel C Rosenberg evidently wrote some
Bible prophecy. Well, this is Wikipedia. Joel, Underline Rosenberg, Underline Perin, Science,
Underline Fiction, Underline Ops, they're both great. Yeah, I just got that.
Died in 2011. Guardians of the Flame series. Yeah, I have read most of the books in that as
I feel right. Honky Magoo got a cook dinner. I should hopefully be back on later. I'll talk to you
guys later. Yeah. See, yeah, I probably won't be here much longer. My wife is advocating for my
returning to her. Oh, honky. Yep. Are we doing a show tomorrow? Yeah. Okay. It is the first. Yep.
All right. Send me a message on discord if nothing else. All right, guys. Well, it's been a horrible
year. May 2021 be better. It's a low bar to me that, you know, right?
Yeah. I actually, financially, this has been probably my best year ever, but that's because of
all the COVID money I got after getting laid off for my job after getting in a car wreck.
So the car wreck didn't feel good, but the money did. It was a real NASCAR moment for me,
and I still am not fully recovered from it, but we survived the year, and I don't know how.
Well, the $600 stimulus checks are out. They're talking about another 1,400 beyond
that. And I think part of the stimulus package was for $300 by weekly. Only if you're on
employment. Okay. And I'm not unemployed. I have two jobs, none of them, which are giving me
hours or money. That they're not giving you hours or money that still counts as no, because
to get the COVID money, I have to say I'm unemployed and be applying for jobs on a regular basis.
You can collect while under employed, right? Nope. And since I ran through my first 26 weeks
after the accident, which I should have been on workers' comp, although if I were on workers'
comp, I wouldn't have got the COVID money. Right. So it says it's a big catch 22 for me.
But we got through the year. If one of my new jobs comes through, I could be making Bukku
bucks by the end of the next year, but getting there is going to be painful, and I worked with
this guy before and I didn't get there before. Right. What's the two jobs? Well, one of the
substitute teachers. Oh, yeah. And they did raise our money from 55 a day to 65 a day.
Oh, and so your little office space that you built is specifically for substitute teaching?
No, the little office space that I built is specifically for MintCast and Distrooper Digest.
Okay. It also helps me do my other job, which is they have now changed my title to Founder
of AWH216. There is a .com on that if you want to see it. I'm not getting paid for being founder,
just yet that if the products take off, I will. AWH216.com. It's an extension of the fact that I actually
started and held for six years a nonprofit organization dealing directly with homeless people as a
membership organization instead of throwing money at them or throwing services at them,
we actually were them. And so because of that, I am a good front facing person for the media,
so he named me Founder. I started out just being a regional coordinator. I think on whatever
the heck that is, LinkedIn, I'm still listed as, well, I'll open my LinkedIn, VP of Business
Development, but apparently he changed my title to Founder now. It's not a raise and pay.
I'm still getting zero. Actually, I put in four hours work this week at 20 bucks an hour,
so I'll get something. Yeah, when I have work to do, he's paying me 20 bucks an hour, which is nice.
It'd be nice to be working 20 or 30 hours a week at 20 bucks an hour. Yeah.
Okay, well, Happy New Year, everybody. I'm going to take off for now. Happy New Year, Moose.
I'll see you in a, well, Saturday. Well, yeah, on Saturday. Yeah.
The rest of you don't know. I got a pissed off K-wisher about 10 months ago or so.
I do have a question about your substitute teaching. Yes. Now, are all your classes virtual?
I do not teach virtually. We have to have school in session and a teacher not showing up for me to
have work. You won't do virtual at all. They haven't trained me for virtual. They have to train you
for virtual before you can do it. Yeah. Is that their requirement or your requirement?
Well, actually, I'm lucky they let me in. Most of the school districts make me go through a training
course and testing, and I have to pay for myself. The county I'm in, however, just said, well,
we need warm bodies. I was a substitute teacher for a while. I hated it, but no, all I had to do
was have X amount of college under my belt. Well, I have just barely X amount of college. I do not,
if I had teaching credentials, I'd be getting paid 115 a day, but I don't. I didn't even finish
college. I should probably go back and do that, but you should apply. You should apply with another
district that allows you to do the whole remote learning substitute, substituting, and then, you
know, basically, basically, when you're a substitute teacher, all they tell you to do is, you know,
keep an eye on the kids, make sure they don't kill each other. Well, most of my subbing job has
actually been for an educational assistant. If I sub for a teacher, I'm basically just a babysitter
recent there, and they're working on their Chromebooks, and I just take my laptop in and play
online. But when I get filled in as an educational assistant, I so far only worked in kindergarten
classes, and we have two great kindergarten teachers at the washroom school, and I love working
with both of them, and I basically do the stuff that they're too damn busy to do, and that's fine,
because I understand what it is. They get me a task to do. I do the task. I'm not required to
actually work with the kids. The kids seem to have attached to me rather quickly. In fact,
the one kindergarten teacher I've worked with the most, her daughter is in the other kindergarten
class, and every day I have gone into work at that school, her daughter has come up and given me a
big hug, not knowing me from Adam. Just, you know, when you get that much fresh from a little kid,
you feel good, you know? That's what I want to do. I want to be filling in for those educational
assistants, so I'm not really responsible for the class when I'm helping out. Anyhow, I'm going to
take off, like I said. Everyone have a good year. I hope nothing happens that changes the election
results. I hope we do not turn into a third-world burden of our public, because if you get the course
or Congress or somebody to go along with making them a dictator, but there shouldn't be anything
more you can do. Well, there's still stuff going on. They are going to object to the
Electoral College. Theoretically, all they can do is object and have a recount, but there is
already a court document where they're trying to give Pence more power to actually overturn the result.
Well, even if you ignored the Electoral College, he's still lost. Yeah, I know. Seven million votes
isn't up. Yeah. Anyhow, he still, he doesn't want to go down as a loser, and I think he just
needs to get over that shit because he already lost. I figured with the whole bumping the stimulus
package from $600 to $2000, that was his bid to come back in four years and try again. Yeah, well,
I really, really, really hope that doesn't happen, but it probably won't be running against Biden if he
does. Okay, people. I'm sure there are some people that don't agree with my politics that are
listening in right now. I'm sure there's plenty of people that don't agree with my politics, but
I'm still trying to get Owen to take that one bit of my what I said on the last show out before it
goes out. Almost half of America would disagree with us. Almost. About seven million short of half
of America. Seven million short of half of the voting populists of America. That's true.
But, you know, that's more than double the normal turnout for a presidential election. Yeah, I know.
It's a bitch that Trump got that many votes, but it's great. You don't come in here. No, I'm sorry.
I have a cat this not violating my boundaries. Yeah. Okay. Anyhow, I better go. Yeah.
I'll quit dragging you back into the conversation.
I did I did further flesh out my ideas in the in our discord group, but only for the team.
Okay. Okay. I did read some of that. Yeah. All right, guys. Have fun. Thank you. Bye.
Later. Hey, how's it going to be doing? All right. Hey, got an HFR question. How the heck do you
edit your correspondent page? That beats me. I found the page, but I can't find any way to edit it.
I think I was bumped out there for a minute. The correspondent page looks generated. Yeah, remember
many, many years ago putting information in for, but it's like, hmm, is there any way to update it?
Am I on offers? Everybody got in quiet. Everybody's gotten quiet. Okay. Hey, Joe, I wanted to say
hello. I've spoken to just about everybody else on the tilts team there. You're the only one I
haven't actually met in person, I believe. Oh, I'm sorry. I was getting a weird echo. It's because
I had a different webpage open. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. So did you want to ask me something? Oh, no,
I was just going to say, you know, I've met everybody else on the tilts team. You're the only one I
haven't actually met in person either at a conference or at the long, lamented Lehigh Valley Linux
users group year ago. Okay. No, I mean, the only thing I did was not this year's, of course, but
last year's Texas Linux Fest. Gotcha. Yeah, I've been to that one. I've gotten to, you know,
I go to Ohio and I usually go to Lieber Planet. I've actually been to scale once and Kansas
Linux Fest, but never been down to Texas yet. So yeah, why a mordancy came out there and I got
to hang out with him for a while. Oh, I've talked to him plenty of times at Ohio. So yeah, um,
and 51 15. Yes, I actually passed away right before he passed away. Yeah, I had, you know,
met him at some of the other ones either Southeast Linux Fest or Ohio. And I actually, you know,
we hung out a bit at Kansas Linux Fest because I was more in his neighborhood. And yeah, I was
sad to hear that he passed. He was a who's a nice guy. Oh, yeah, super nice. Yeah. So I don't think
I'm going to stay on long. Actually, my I couldn't get the mumble client on Linux to work. I'm
actually on my phone, which is less convenient. Yeah, I wanted to, uh, certificate issue. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, wouldn't use the certificates on their desktop client. Um, I wanted to blow my own
horn a little bit. I actually, uh, took the R H C E test this afternoon and squeaked out a pass. So
R H T C Red Hat Enterprise R H C E Red Hat Certified Engineer. Oh, awesome. Of course, that's
abuse of the engineer term, but I'll take it for this one. So cool. Congratulations on that.
That's tough. I've been studying for a while. And it's brutally hard. And I thought for sure,
I failed it because I ran out of time to do stuff. So, but apparently I did just enough.
Right. Well, it was good to say hi, Joe. And, uh, I think I'm going to get off because this phone
client seems a little suboptimal here. And I have, uh, oh, um, if you want the desktop version of
working, uh, the easy way to install the flat pack. Oh, really? Okay. Um, I may play with that in
the future. I don't know if I'm going to do that tonight. I've been studying for weeks and my,
fiance would like to see me for some of this time. So I think I'm going to get off of this and, uh,
take a break for the rest of the year. Yeah, take, yes, for the rest of the year, I'm taking off.
That's what I'm planning on doing. So, uh, but, uh, I'll be listening to you guys and, uh,
listening to the podcast at least at some degree. So, uh, and I'll just say to the whole audience,
happy new year. Thanks. Happy new year. Hi, Kai. You were on this show last year, too. You were on the
show. I think it was a year before and Kai was on last year. He, he's been on most of,
George was been on most of my shows and something like that. Then Kai, last year, you admitted how
short you were. I, I'm, I could play it back for the show. I have the equipment for it here.
Make a soundboard real quick. Here, Kai, I thought you wanted to come on again and deny being short.
Hi, come here, come here, come here. You got to come closer to the mic and say it again.
I am not short. I am so going to cut that into little pieces and make it say the right thing.
That's like, seriously, five minutes worth of audio work. They're not short. Both their feet reach
the ground. Yeah. But what species? Guys, if you are going to have that argument, you should really get
on the podcast. Why not? Yeah. But get your nose out of my ass and then get on the podcast and say that.
So did anybody see the announcement that solar wood hackers viewed Microsoft's source code
just posted the link in the chat. Link in the chat for, oh yeah. I read about the solar
wind's hack. Just not the viewing Microsoft code. Yeah, apparently I just saw it and
several of my news feeds that came out in the last half hour or so. Somebody ought to add a note
they read Microsoft's source code and decided to give them computers. Right.
And a curiosity. Anybody know how long mess it on verification takes usually?
It's just about a minute to Berlin's new year. Five, four, three, two, one. Happy new year, Berlin.
Who was that? I didn't see who's light went on. So England is next, huh?
I think so. I have to step off. I would need to find somebody who's open to for dinner.
We don't have anything for dinner. God, laughter was in the fridge, but by the time you get here,
it'd be too late. Right. And half the places are closed due to COVID because they don't even
do our dining. For Christmas Eve, we wanted to pick up dinner for the family, went out to an
RV's nearby. Now, what is an RV's known for? But meats. And I went to RV's and they had no meat.
It's like, why are they even open if they have no meat? Curly fries.
Yeah, you got to have curly fries, mokashake, and a rubes thief together. Now I want to mokashake.
Back in a bit. What is on it still open? Joe, quick question. Do you want to do it over here then?
They can hear you. Yes.
Oh, we got to put it on the stream all up. Testing, testing, 1, 2, 3. So, happy new year!
Happy new year. It's like half an hour too late for us.
It's 2021. It's fucking awesome.
The echo is terrible. Happy new year, everybody.
Yeah, listen to my Halloween special. It's not Halloween, but it wasn't Halloween when it went out.
So listen to it. It's interesting. Bob Pyrr is versus Lich.
If you listen to the episode, there is only one conclusion you control, and that is Lich's or better.
Some people disagree. Some people say that. Some people are morons.
But some people... What sort of beasts do you have that ask to ask permission in order to kill you?
So how can they could rebound this? I don't know if it's just if you stay inside.
I had an argument with him about this before he did the show.
She did not have a clue. I was not informed on all the information.
I did inform everyone. Everyone who listened to the show would be informed about the information.
Because that's the entire premise of it.
That's why I definitely lost that argument.
Yeah, but it makes sense. Vampires make no sense.
They have to ask permission. Vampires are even less powerful if you look at the challenge rating.
It's like 15 in the best case, 13 in the worst case.
When you contest with 21 and 22, that's higher than any mortal human can be at its pinnacle.
Okay, so wish everybody a happy new year.
Happy new year. Happy half an hour, the late new year for the people in the rooms.
We had to go out and look at all the fireworks that were awesome because it was banned.
It was banned, but there's still fireworks.
Yes, and some of the fireworks are even bigger than normal because they have to buy them illegally for all of them.
There's less fireworks, but there's more, it's more concentrated.
It's the same amount.
No, there was definitely the day's leading up to new year.
There was definitely less.
There wasn't anything.
Which was actually good.
Which was fine by me.
I still got the sensation of being able to die any moment when you're stepping outside of your own.
So you liked that?
I liked that.
I'm weird in that way.
You have really different things.
Well, the apparently, you know, the delivery bike guys.
Yeah.
They're the delivery bike guys working on new years because,
apparently, the fire works at them as they go past.
I know that would make sense.
That does not surprise me.
No, it would make sense.
Anyway, like they're shooting cannonballs instead of fireworks.
People have tried.
They have failed, but they have tried.
So 2021 so far, nobody's got COVID, nobody's sick, nobody's died.
We're all doing awesome.
So come join us.
It's brilliant.
Yeah, mm-hmm.
I've got the bed of dropping letters.
That's no, it's not a 2020.
Do you want to say hello?
That's a good one.
Oh, god, don't apologize to it.
Hello!
There's nobody on anyway.
It's completely silent.
Like a podcast.
You'll be listening to your songs.
Put them on the headphones.
Yeah.
And I didn't hear anything.
And then suddenly one got just when it took up the evidence.
I heard someone.
And then I didn't hear anyone for like a minute.
So no one else heard him.
I didn't hear what he asked.
So, okay.
I'm going to restart the streams
and then stream recordings even.
I'll go to bed and come back tomorrow.
I'm sleeping.
I'm not sleeping.
Well, you can come out here
and play music after listening.
Yeah, I can talk to you.
I can chat this.
Can chat about D&D and D&D.
The whole night.
Hi, hi.
Case.
Happy Happy New Year, everyone.
Across the pond from Canada over here.
This case.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
And Happy New Year from 2021.
Happy New Year.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the infonomican computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the create of comments,
attribution, share a light, free.or license.
