Episode: 3786
Title: HPR3786: HPR Community News for January 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3786/hpr3786.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-11-22 14:55:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3786 from Monday the 6th of February 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for January 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 48 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in January
2023.
Hello everybody, this is Dave Morris and I'm recording a show for Hacker Public Radio
which is the Community News for January 2023.
Now, I'm on my own this time because Ken's in Brussels at FOSDEM and nobody else was
available.
Or he said I'd ask enough people to see if they were available to be honest to help
me out with this.
So, this is going to be a solo effort.
This universe is conspiring against this a little bit.
I just connected to the mumble server to try and record there, but Ken's connected
his phone to it and it's broadcasting all the chat at the free culture podcast booth
that we're running this year.
So, I can't get word in English and he's so busy, he's not able to hear me or spot
that I'm sending the messages.
So, standalone is the way today.
So guess you don't know what this is all about.
This is the Community News show which we have every month.
It comes out on the first Monday of each month and we record it on the Saturday before
that usually.
And what we do here is we have a sort of recipe, a fairly strict format where we go through
all the shows that have been submitted and broadcast in the past month and we do a quick
review of those, look at the comments, read the comments and then we do a few other things
like introducing new hosts and we look at anything on the mailing list and any other
business.
So that's what I'm going to do.
So we'll start with looking at any new hosts we have and we indeed have a new host this
month and it's any stellar who show us we'll be commenting on shortly.
So going on from there to the first show of the month, the first show of the month was
the Community News for December and this was, we don't usually get comments on these.
It's nice we say something really daft or controversial and we didn't do either of those
things so nothing to say about that one particular.
3-7-6-2 is the next show which is entitled Existence is Pain and it's from Operator and
he's talking about various problems from repetitive strain injuries from bad ergonomics and so
forth being a keyboard a lot of the time and all that sort of thing.
And yeah I'm sure we've all probably experienced something of this but it was a good show.
It was interesting to hear but it does sound awful that he's suffering quite badly but
he had some possible solutions and advice so it's an excellent show I thought.
And there were two comments on this one.
First one was from Trey and he says, thanks for sharing.
It's been a while since I posted a show and this is mostly due to physical limitations
which started with mouse shoulder in quotes and now 12 weeks post rotator cuff repair surgery.
That's what gets damaged when you have a so called mouse shoulder just as me interjecting.
He says, I've been considering doing a show or small series of shows about similar topics
as they relate to the things we choose to do and the potential physical impacts on this old folk.
I did hear a rumor that HBR could use a show or ten and he says, well he's quite right.
We did get quite a surge of shows early on in the month but they're going to run out I think in a week or so.
We got ten days so we're constantly desperate for shows in fact.
It's rare that we can just sit back and relax about the number of shows coming in.
Second comment was from one of Spoon's who says, character entry devices.
Have you heard of Caracorda?
They're a brand name for coding devices.
These devices help you reach typing speeds of up to 250 words a minute without moving your fingers very much.
Each finger switches like a mini joystick.
The devices are not cheap but I think they sell the logic boards or a USB pass through device
so you could compare 3D printing costs or wait for underpriced copies.
They have a .com website.
I haven't followed that one up myself but that sounds really interesting.
I'm not sure I have the coordination to do that so it's stuff myself but there you go.
Next show was from Mike Gray and it's entitled The Bad and Mine Hoff Phenomenon.
This is basically the issue of when you've heard a name or a subject coming up at some point.
Something you've maybe not heard of before, haven't heard for a very long time.
Then you tend to keep hearing it over and over again.
You notice that same thing after encountering it a few times.
I've never heard of the Bad and Mine Hoff issues in Germany long ago which Mike spoke about.
The Red Army Faction.
I remember that but I didn't know there was a phenomenon named after it but quite interesting and good to learn.
There were two comments to this one.
We had one from Viv, Meta Bad and Mine Hoff was the title.
Less than two hours after listening to this I was watching the new young ones 40th anniversary Blu-ray.
Near the end of the episode the gang are outside the bank, they're about to rob and Rick says,
yeah come on Robin Hood, Bad and Mine Hoff, those bank clerks didn't have to become bank clerks.
They knew the risk when they took the job, let's just get in there and let them have it.
So yeah, Bad and Mine Hoff is probably a term or name that floats around but once you've heard it once it triggers you to spot it again I guess.
Mike Ray says, I rest my case, this has happened to me many many times and to most adults too I suspect.
Psychology interests me cognitive biases of all kinds in particular.
The way human brains are so attuned to pattern recognition, the survival imperative, very deep in our most native brain parts,
the lizard brain, a lot of people call it.
I think the argument is that you see a thing and unusual thing, it's a pattern, it's a word pattern in this case and you tend then to notice it more.
So it's an interesting thing, it's well worth digging into more if it interests you I think.
Next we have Ennistello's first show, which is entitled My Text Focused Journey Into Tech.
And there's quite a number of topics being talked about.
I thought the show was excellent, Ennistello is a professional writer who interestingly uses EMAX to a large extent.
He's talking about all the manner of things relating to writing and the things you can use to simplify the process which is an interesting subject.
That's a bit of a bad idea, isn't it? We just talked about RSI.
Anyway, yeah, I enjoyed this show very much, this was a great first show and we had one comment on it which is from Brian in Ohio.
He says EMAX rocks, great show, keep them coming, EMAX rocks, three exclamation marks.
So the next one was from, this is show 3765 from Celeste, which is in type of fixing clock events in GBA Pokemon cartridges.
There are no comments on this one, but it was most interesting.
It was quite a strange story that this cartridge, the device loses track of time when the battery fails and can't then reset to the right time easily.
And so much in the game is dependent on time, so that's something of a problem.
So yeah, that's a lot of gamer, so I've not really encountered this sort of stuff, but it makes sense, but it also seems like a dreadful design.
It's fascinating to listen to, good show I thought.
Now I'm looking at the page for this show, I forgot to mention, it's coming up later, but there's a tool called Whisper which will listen to audio
and will produce various qualities of transcriptions.
And Ken has been running Whisper on shows as they come in.
And then adding a list of the files with the different transcripts, textual transcripts.
So there's a TXT version and other ones that I don't really understand.
But yeah, it's actually, and I should also say he's also been working very hard to go back to the first show at HPR001 and process that and all the ones following up to the present day.
So we actually have transcripts of everything now, I think I'm right in saying, might be one or two gaps, but we'll sort them out.
But they're really interesting, the thing does a good job of making transcripts.
This is another AI tool.
What should it come from?
There's a link later on in the notes, but I can't remember.
So yeah, this is quite a significant milestone in the HPR world, I would say.
I might mention that a bit later on at the end of this episode.
Next show is from Bookworm and it's called Acer Nitro 5 Laptop Review.
And he's talking about, it's a show from a wild bag which he hadn't got around to sending in.
And it's about a new laptop that he got.
And then he added a recent update to say it's been fine for the past two or three years, but had a few issues.
So that's quite a useful bit of information, if you were thinking of buying one of these for yourself.
Two comments, this one Claudio M says, good review, but still avoiding gaming laptops.
Really enjoyed the view of the review of the laptop, especially the follow-up.
Still have been turned off at all gaming laptops in spite of the temptation they provide.
I once tried to buy electronics gaming laptop after reading good reviews from them,
but after a botched purchase attempt I decided to skip it and go with the used HP Pro book for 540S,
which had Radeon and Intel graphics, unbeknownst to the seller.
However, what really turned me off on gaming laptops is when I attempted to repair my son's MSI gaming laptops keyboard.
What a nightmare I had to remove everything to get to the keyboard.
And even then I wasn't able to replace the keyboard because the board with the ribbon was glued on.
From that point forward, I'd decided I'd go with the gaming desktop of the future and stick with laptops that are more serviceable,
something like the framework, buyer-beware.
Bookworm replies replied to Claudio, in a past life I was a certified HP repair tech.
It was very easy to work on.
To be honest, the primary feature I was looking for was the additional drive bays and graphics card.
I don't actually do much gaming on the laptop.
With two organ slots for SSD, HDD, I was able to add 128 gig shared drive and one terabyte OS drive for my Linux install,
which is where I spend most of my time.
So very enough, it's a decision that you need to weigh carefully obviously.
Next we have a show from Archer 72, which is entitled LP article from Wikipedia.
And in this case, it's an article, and a Wikipedia article as you would have gathered about the LP record.
And it was 42 minutes long, but I tend to look at that sort of show coming up and go,
I wonder if I'll be bored, but I wasn't. It was great. I really enjoyed this.
The reading was really nice and clear.
And the content, something I don't, I mean, I've lived through the LP record era, bought them when I was a teenager and whatever.
But yeah, I don't know much about the whole subject, so it was really good to hear it.
I enjoyed this one a lot. There was one comment, and it was from Celeste.
And the title is RIAA Curve and Italian YouTuber Video.
Reading about RIAA equalization and vinyl discs made me remember about this video I watched some time ago.
I hope the automatic subtitles are good enough.
He made an LP disc out of chocolate engraving on his own and applying the RIAA equalization first.
Being able to hear something out of the noise is quite cool, and there's a link to the YouTube video.
The chocolate LP, that's amazing.
There's also a more recent one using a laser engraver on wood instead of chocolate.
That's your LP melt slowly.
You didn't play it in a fridge in a freezer or something.
Interesting show though.
Next we had STASH AF sending in a show entitled Jeep Ignition Repair.
This one's got a lot of pictures, which always cause me a little bit of anxiety,
because my picture management of incoming shows is still not quite right, but it's getting better.
And the pictures are great though. They really help a lot to understand what's going on.
So he's doing repairs on his Jeep and explains it well with the pictures and the audio, of course.
There was a comment from one of Spoons, who says earpieces.
Funny how you apologise for the gentle background noise of a distant airplane,
then sent many, many lamb leaps into my well sealed earpiece.
I didn't realise that was up.
I need to tie a piece of string to the phone or one next time.
I've got my gloves in the goop.
My mistake. Thanks for the show.
It's loud noises and things can be a bit disturbing.
I didn't really notice myself.
Next show was 3769 Cratching Laptop Hidden Server Part 0 from some guy on the internet.
And this is the notes of this one, just enormous and amazing.
Really good.
Being a show note, a fish and idol, I tend to look at these things.
There was a discussion with Archer72 about Proxmox, a lot of information,
and it's for running virtual machines in a sort of server context is what I understood.
But I didn't fully get the nuances of this.
It sounds a really good idea if that's what you need.
But you do need a fairly hefty machine to get much out of it.
I think it's the other message I've got.
There's loads and loads of links in here.
If this is something you want to dig into more deeply, then it's a great resource.
If I ever want to get into Proxmox, I know where to go.
Same with you.
There's no comments on this particular one.
But certainly say it was a great show.
Next show was from a hooker.
And it's about his RV life as he puts it.
And he's in Arizona and he's in the town of Tucson.
So he says we moved to Benson, a town just side the east of Tucson,
where we will stay for a month.
And he's, yeah, I love the format of,
I like to be along with him on his holiday.
That's great.
And it's great to follow along in this way.
And his notes and stuff are presumably from his whatever journal he's been keeping.
He's been traveling.
Next was a show from Paul Quirk, who we haven't heard from for a while.
How I limited pain naturally.
And he says somewhere I describe how I managed to eliminate pain from carpal tunnel syndrome
and osteoarthritis.
And he talks about using regular exercise to help reduce joint pains and stuff.
And he seems to be very enthusiastic about using an elliptical trainer.
They tend to be called cross trainers in this country.
Not really sure why.
But yeah, the thing about exercising to help with joint pains and stuff
is something I'm particularly interested in at the moment,
because I'm signed up to a course with a sort of adjunct to the NHS
called Nuffield Health, their charity.
And they offer joint pain relief exercise classes
or workshops or whatever.
So I'm going to those.
Great show.
Most interesting.
And Brian and Ohio comments.
Music.
Great show.
Good encouragement.
Nice tunes.
Because Paul Quirk puts some of his own music in and says,
if you're interested, then let me know.
Interested in more.
So next we have Andrew Conway.
I'm actually at Bosden with Ken and others.
And he is talking about solar panels.
He's got the type of adventures with a small solar panel.
And he's looking at a cheap solar panel and learning a bit about how it works
and doesn't work.
So he's looking into this in the fair amount of detail.
And it's some good information there.
You never really considered what a solar panel could do for you and how you how you can
use it, but this covers the subject rather well I think.
There's a comment from Brian and Ohio who says, good info, the show is great, lots of
good information, can't wait to hear more stuff like it, yeah good, it's a good show,
nice to hear Andrew on HPR and there's another one coming up, oh yeah this month too, yeah
so we'll be doing that one shortly, then we had another show from Mike Ray which is wonderful,
it's good to hear from Mike always, he's talking about my public speaking rules, some tips on
public speaking for technical talks or lectures and he's basically listing his rules for speaking
in public, if you're nervous about it good to have some ideas of how you're going to structure
the thing ahead of time and yeah I think the rules are very valuable, he's item always,
itemize them all rather nicely, there are number of comments, this one is five, mpado says,
I must listen to all who aspire to speak to an audience, a couple of thoughts prompted
by this episode, I've given talks to hostile audiences or at least audiences with some hostile
attendees, I've given talks with their attendees that are only there, I'm going to have them
told that they must be there, typically by their boss, body language usually gives these people
away, once they recognize this hostile they can mostly be ignored, allowing the speaker to focus
on the people who indeed have chosen to be there, however the hostile attendee is very rare,
I've found when including humour it's best to avoid a pause up, the humour is delivered,
there is a tendency to pause to allow the audience to respond with laughter, however if the humour does
not succeed the pause will be very awkward, it's much better to go straight to the next statement
after the humour, if the humour works and there's laughter, a pause mid sentence, supposed humour is fine,
start the interrupted sentence over when the laughter diminishes and all is good, if the
humour didn't work the lack of a pause allows the audience to continue listening and often not
even notice that there was an unsuccessful attempt at humour and the speaker does not suffer,
the embarrassment of appearing to try to be funny, pause is a good but tricky when they follow
humour, just some thoughts from listening to this very good episode, that's a really useful
comment I think, Tray says thanks for sharing, very well presented Mike, I personally enjoy public
speaking and teaching but I was still able to gain some nuggets of wisdom from your podcast,
even after years of speaking I still struggle with the meeting um etc, these usually happen if I
lose my place I'm trying to work away from my original outline or answer a question, I like your idea
of pausing at these times when I gather my thoughts, I will try I will try to apply this soon,
one of Spoon's says professional demeanor, thanks for preparing the context for me to shout from
the audience hooray moon bouncing, very good, Mike Ray comments back, thanks very much to everybody
I listened back to this when I was when it was published, I hope the Christmas and his
title, his message got trungated, he was shall we say a wee bit merry from from celebrating Christmas
so he I think he's probably commenting on that, oh yeah he says in the next comment,
let me read the contents of this one, a couple of verbal ticks but not too many,
humour is best left out of tech talks unless you can poke gentle fun at yourself,
I was told several times by a writing coach to make my mind up but I was writing something
serious or something funny because the injection of a joke can pull the audience out of deep thought
about what you're saying or writing which might be totally inappropriate, particularly like the
three-part rule thanks to the late and great Peter Hotwood, one of the one's of the LSE for that,
some 40 years ago, think he mentions this in the in the talk itself in the show itself,
then he comments again say that he messed up the last comment because of the the title truncation,
he says I messed that up, it was meant to say I hope the Christmas beard didn't make me break my own rules,
I don't think it did, it's yeah, it was a great show, yeah Mike is a very knowledgeable person
and he was led to hear his show is good to hear back on HBO, then we went into an emergency show
which was originally posted in 2014, it's called Chomp Car Report, it's from David Whitman
who we haven't heard from for a very long time and it's about racing series for $500 cars,
so he's talking about this sort of amateur cheap car racing thing, it doesn't seem to be as
popular now as it was because I couldn't find any links to Chomp Car stuff and the links in
the original show don't go anywhere, I'd managed to resurrect them all I think by going to the
way back machine, so that was good, but yeah it's an interesting thing, it's a shame that these
things are really popular and then vanish but that's the nature of the world and of the internet I guess,
so no comments on that one and the next one was another emergency show from 2014 and it's how to
make a punched card computer and it's from stuff, make it from stuff in the kitchen and it's from
Mike Ray, remember him sending this one in back then and I've never listened to it before, I found
it fascinating, my kids would have loved this when they were younger, they're a bit old for that type
thing now but the idea of making a serial box into a cardboard computer effectively where you
can control which cards come out by pulling skewers out of it and stuff, it's good, good, the next
we have another show from Bookworm and it's called a Linux distro review and he's talking about
zero Linux, spelled with an X and it's a Linux version distribution which you can run on
an older Intel based Mac and it certainly really really quite nice, I didn't realise it's
possible it had ever been possible to do that, he sent in quite a lot of information and some
pictures which is always good to see great believer in having pictures with shows if you can
and yeah great show, very interesting, I don't think I'll ever use personally but hopefully
somebody will get some benefit from it and Brian and Ohio sends in a comment how to do it, this
is how you do a distro review, a great episode, that's a really nice comment, next we have a show
from Claudio Miranda which is running Haiku on, no I didn't know how to say this until I listened
to him, pronounced it many times, B-H-Y-V-E which is pronounced B-I-V, the B-S-D hypervisor, which is
quite neat actually, I quite like that, Claudio talks about installing and running Haiku R1
slash B-4 on B-Hive, so this is as you say the B-S-D hypervisor for virtual machines and he's
testing out Haiku which is the BIOS, I've looked at this, I've never tried, never run it, but it was
quite, it seemed as quite a desirable thing a number of years ago, remember it being in all the
magazines, BIOS was something that looked really really nice and judging by what Claudio was talking
about, it still is, so yeah, I'm too busy doing other things to go looking at these things,
it's great to have somebody else too for me, so thank you Claudio, no comments on that one,
then we have Zen Flota 2, the show entitled A Squirrel Being on Google Products and Google Security,
I made a quote-to-being podcast about Google Products Interoperability in their Lausy Security,
so he's some talking about Google Chromebooks and Android and some of the less desirable aspects
of the way that these things are being organised and secured and whatever, there are two comments,
one from Brian and Ohio who says 2FA, I was forced to set up two FA, that's two factor of
authentication, in order to use MUT with my Gmail account, funny thing is when you log into Gmail
on a web browser on your phone, you use the Gmail app, Google politely asked if you want to remember
this device so you won't have to 2FA anymore, not only that, the checkbox comes up pre-populated
with the check, what good is 2FA if you can bypass it with the checkmark, why make me do it
in the first place and why populate the checkbox, I'm moving to fast mail, so yeah, I think that's
pretty supportive of Zenplota 2's view, the next comment is from Johnny Lawrence,
he says, woefully misinformed, I'm a huge fan of HBOR and everything it stands for, that includes
freedom of speech, I also understand the episode should be viewed in an editorial context, however,
I can't help but feel episodes like this dragged down the quality of the podcast as a whole,
the squirrel is just called man yelling at cloud, and he sits what he's talking about,
no you're mean, the old man yells at cloud, I'm not a Google apologist and I consider them pretty
evil as a whole, but so many of the things mentioned were just flattened correct, Google doesn't control
any cell phone networks, they don't have any of their own towers, claiming that the Google is
throttling your connection because YouTube is fast and transfers from your whole server as slow,
it's pretty big leap, YouTube content is served from a massive CDN which has peering agreements
with ISPs all over the world, that content is going to be served blazing fast, almost anyway,
transfers over an SSH connection from a little desktop on a residential connection to a Chromebook
tethered to a cell phone will never be comparable, 3.3, 2FA has little to do with vendor lock-in
and everything to do with security, I don't own any Android devices, my iPhone and iPad can both
be used as the second factor for Google to a FA without issue, 4, Google has nothing to do with QR
codes at all, I could go on but I think you get the point, I don't want to see fact check banners
on episodes and I don't want to see posters censored, that in mind we have to do better as a community,
better episodes and higher quality content will draw more listeners and thus more contributors,
let's up the bar and keep HBO alive and there's a link to the old manuals at cloud meme.
Next is from Trey and it's entitled just because you can do a thing,
just because you can do a thing, does that mean you should? He summarises,
hello hacker public radio fans, this is Trey and I'm throwing this recording together for several
reasons and he's very kindly giving us a show when we were running very low and he's also saying
why he hasn't been posting as much but the essence of it is that he did shows on installing pecs
piping around his house but he's suffering from it with shoulder pains and that type of thing,
so he got to rotate the cuff issues, I think, yeah, yeah, so that's that's great, that's pretty good,
but nice to hear from him, I hope it soon gets better, there are no comments on this one, so
where are we? 3780, this is a hooker with Fediverse update May 2022, this episode reports on some
updates to the Fediverse that I run across in May 2022, so hooker makes and posts sends in and we
post shows quite a long time in advance and so we know that we've got shows out into the future
which is great but tend to be sort of getting a teeny teeny bit out of date I guess, but I thought
this was a great overview of the state of Fediverse and an explanation of what and why it exists
and in general excellent, so the fact is talking about May is of no relevance really, so yeah, excellent,
everything that hooker does I really enjoy so it's always good to see one of his shows coming up.
Now the next one, next show is from Andrew Conway, the second show this month, it's entitled
The Jewel Thief, where Jewel is J-O-U-L-E which is the energy measurement, is that the right way
of saying it? Yeah, it's a pun, Jewel Thief as in stealer of diamonds or whatever, so we talked
about using the Jewel Thief to suck energy out of flat batteries and he's describing a sort of
circuit, I don't know whether the circuit's old or not actually, it seems very simple but quite
hard to understand, what it can do is it can use the residue of the capacity of what is tool-intensive
purposes of flat battery, so an AA or AAA or something and the reason it's flat is because
voltage that it's producing is now lower than the thing you're using it in needs, in most cases,
I think that's right, so yeah this thing uses a mechanism which involves rapid switching and it
can generate enough power, enough voltage to light an LED and actually keep string of LEDs running
for a while, and it comes from, the name comes from Big Clive, Clive Mitchell, who's a YouTuber,
very very prolific, I've mentioned him before and Andrew makes a connection to a link to his
video about this, but it's an idea that predates this video by quite some number of years,
definitely going to have a try building this myself, I don't understand it, but I don't understand
any electronics, I don't know, if there are people who do understand it better than the night here
and who are up for giving shows about how to understand it, a fascinating show and the links were
good as well and led me to finding it more about it, there is a comment which is from one of Spoon's
Candle Power, he says the title, I assume that these were more complicated boost modules,
I haven't realised they were so simple, I've definitely got a bunch of those components,
thanks, the components were a fairite core or Taurus with two sets of wiring's on,
an NPM transistor and a resistor, forget what the rating was, but you'll easily find it if you
go looking and you make a circuit which does some weird wonderful things and it's a couple of
being used using old batteries, great effect, which I think it's amazing, so last show for January
is 37582 Content Format article from Wikipedia, Wikipedia article on the various types of content
formats and this is submitted by Archer72 and it's some reading of a Wikipedia article,
which it certainly is a slightly old article because it's sort of a generic thing about content
formats, so it's everything from music to maps, there's more written down here and much more,
but it was again most interesting, I'm a great fan of Wikipedia, so I'm always up for
anybody to read, read me pages, it is nice and I read them a lot myself of course,
so yeah this is this is a great idea for a show I thought and yeah thank you very much,
so as we go through the shows we read the comments associated with them and then we
will to get comments which relate to shows from previous months, so we then read those for
that particular month, on that particular month I should say, so there are eight comments which
fit into that category on past shows relating to six previous shows, so the first one is from
Charles in NJ who sent in a show in 2013 called Doomsday Rule and he's commenting on his own
on show, Doomsday Python code he says, the code in the posted module still works in Python 3
until you come to the print statements in the main procedure, those have to be changed print
function calls, one more quibble, Isaac Newton was born before the adoption of the Gregorian
calendar, so that example is not correct, other than that the episode has stood up fairly well over time,
I can even stand to listen to it at 1.6 times speed, so there you go that's that's quality stuff,
you come back years later and comment on your own show and suggest yes, updates whatever,
next show and the next comment I should say is the on the show Using Noise Torch by Delta Ray
and it's from Ken Fallon who says wow this actually works, I saw this after noting noticing that
conference calls were picking everything even when I was in the next room, thanks Delta Ray for
posting this one plus one from me, so the noise Torch thing was to remove a lot of noise from
from from from from recordings on your phone, so pretty good pretty good, not try it
myself but I will do, next one was comment on one of my shows which was entitled Some Thoughts
on Numeranims, that's that thing where you write the long word down as the initial letter and the
final letter with the number of intermediate letters as a number, so A11Y was the one that came
to light meaning accessibility, the auntie's comment is pure obscure antism which is probably a
Numeranimian itself could be, great piece he says in my view Numeranims are pure obscure antism,
what is more atrocious is when people say it out loud, I've been a call at work where someone
kept saying I18N and L10N which is ludicrous, I commented back to that, thanks to auntie,
I haven't heard many people say these things spelled out the way you describe but I may have been
guilty of myself for I knew what they were, just hope they go away, I don't like Numeranims very much
as a self-component of English, great as a shorthand or something but next comment was on
Zenflo22's show back in December, God probably will use a Chromebook, what's called,
D&T says trippy as hell, good show, it reminds me of the day, I only took a THC gummy,
probably my main takeaways that one can only hope to inspire a rebuttal show by Zenflo22,
if you haven't yet, do read the short story, the machine stops by EM Foster,
Forster, I heard about it in Stuart Russell's 2021 wreath lectures on BBC Radio which I also
recommend, and I read that comment actually, this is me breaking in to say I've never read that book
the machine stops, you can get it off parkive.org and e-pub and I put it on my phone and read it,
it's a strange but fascinating story, especially considering its age, so yeah, I would recommend
reading it too, so the next comment was on the show first admin job by Norrist war story,
I should say first admin job war story by Norrist, and it's from Windigo, who says what
are who done it, I really enjoyed this episode, although it was a dev currently dealing with some
creative PHP code, it hit a little too close to home, thanks for the mysterious tale,
another comment on the same show from Brian in Ohio, says love the show, I never worked in IT but
I love stories like this, great work, then the last one in this category is show
entitled Chatting with DNT by some guy on the internet, and one of Spoon's is commenting
saying risk 5 emulators, mostly I wanted to mention risk 5 emulators, QEMU can emulate both 32
bit and 64 bit risk 5 CPUs, we have QEMU system risk V64, it's even available to simulate 64 bit
risk 5 machine, or QEMU system risk V32, executable to simulate 32 bit one, Sy5 are still
are planning to release a development hardware board this summer according to some page on the internet,
the high 5 pro p550, we now tend to go to the mailing list and read out messages there,
there's not a lot, there's one from Ken, where he mentions, I'll just read it quickly, turns out
we're going to be at the community advocacy section in prime position in the main exhibition
area of the K building level 1 at Phosden, it's by far the most popular area as it is
entrance to the organisation team office and the club room, and also one of the big lecture
theatres I should interject, I know from experience it gets absolutely nuts busy there during the event
and it's non-stop for the entire weekend, so if you are an HBR contributor or a free culture
podcaster going to Phosden then please help us out at the stand, and you also reach out to
other podcasts to see if they could clarify their license to release it under creative commons,
as the exposure in the flost tech community is massive from this event, if anyone has stickers
that they want us to hand out please send them to me this week, the other message on the list is
merely to announce this recording which nobody can join because mumble is not being very friendly,
I tried to mute Ken's channel but you can't do that unless you have more privileges than I have,
anyway it doesn't matter, yeah I hope it's going well at the FCP table, Ken and I've been putting
together a list or a refreshing list of free culture podcasts which I've been keeping in a database
in generating various reports that being turned into handouts and into a website
of the past month really, and so hopefully it will be comprehensive list but it will be pretty
pretty good, and it's surprising number of people who it's very hard to determine whether their
podcast is a creative commons or not, many of them put in the copyright field of the feed
that it's copyright, whoever the name is or the name of the podcast, if you look on the website
it will sometimes say everything we produce is creative commons but it would be great if it was in
feed, any other business, there are two things in the list and the first one is the showed transcript
which I've really covered to a large extent, we're using Whisper, there's a link to Whisper if you
want to go and look at it yourself, Ken's been doing this project, he's got a powerful machine
which is able to do the transcription generation which I don't have and he's done all of the old
shows and we've added this to the workflow, it's not quite finished and he needs a little bit more
work to get the transcripts up onto archive.org automatically but it's doing good, so that's that's
great, go ahead and have a look, see what you think, the other thing was I'd been talking about
the re-uploads of shows for the past year probably, I don't know how long it's been going on for,
I've not been doing too many at a time because they've really a heavy load on
the HBO machine, the machine I'm running the uploads from and also on archive.org, so I've just been
doing like five or ten at a per day, so it took longer as a consequence but it's now finished, I think
I've intimated in the last show it was very close to the end and it is now finished, so it's
we now should have all files on archive.org, that is all audio files where every show any assets
like pictures and stuff would be there, so if HBR was not available for a while you could get all
the bits of a kick in the show on archive.org, that was the point of the exercise, so yeah that's
all done, so I've got to go back on mumble, I'm not going to record anything but
see how safe Ken's available and he sounded amazingly busy from listening in earlier on,
hope they they're doing good, that's it for me and see you next month, bye
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.org, today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording podcasts,
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is, hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net, on the saltoise
status, today's show is released on their creative commons, attribution, 4.0 international license.
