Episode: 3391
Title: HPR3391: HPR Community News for July 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3391/hpr3391.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 22:36:29

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3391 for Mundi, the 2nd of August 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, HPR Community News, for July 2021 and is part of the series HPR Community
News It is the 180th show of HPR Volunteers and is about 77 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released in comments posted in July 2021.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio
Today Community News for July 2021. Joining me this time of day is
Hi there, it's Dave Morris. We're doing this on Sunday morning because of the scheduling issue
yesterday. Anyway, HPR is the longest running podcast in the world that doesn't have a Wikipedia page.
And we release shows every week Dave wanted to do Friday on any topics that's of interest
hackers and to make sure that those hackers get some sort of feedback, we come on every month and
do a review of the previous month's shows. What could be simpler Dave? Absolutely,
absolutely, brilliant idea, very simple. And as we do every month with our three we ask ourselves
which of those 35,000 listeners that have been listening all month has stood up to the place
and contributed to this project. Drumroll, please Dave. Oh dear, they were busy. We're off
doing other things because we have had no new hosts this month, I'm afraid.
Very, very disappointing, very disappointing Dave. However, hopefully next month
we'll be joining us in droves, we'll have to bathe them off with a stick.
Anywho. Yeah, yeah, I'm getting this big radio to you as we speak. Excellent.
So this is turning into like one of those morning radio shows with David Ken, the wackiest two
radio shows in the world. Good morning Dave. Oh no, needs to make it stop. Okay, speaking of two
comedians, the first show from last month was season one, episode 33 or HPR3369, the return of
the rust, yet another attempt by the Linux in-laws to push rust as viable programming language.
One we know will never succeed. No, no, it didn't sound like it told it. No, no, no, no,
I guess they had on sounded really, really good. He was fantastic. He knew lots of stuff, but I was
sure it was just it was Chris pushing, pushing rust all the time. No, but it does sound really,
really good. I was reading a book, reading a rust manual as they were talking and it does,
I may I'm too old to speak languages, I don't know, but it does sound like a great thing
to go and mess around with. Why Dave? Why would a bother? Well, it depends what you need,
really, isn't it? We could do with a low world program from them, you know, just this is rust,
this is how you do a simple hello world thing. Should actually be a minimum requirement
for introducing us to the big good series for HPR, introduce us to a few basic programs,
like your basic hello world and then maybe your basic open-of-file, close-of-file,
edit a file, that sort of thing. If somebody could come up with a list of
a list of things that should be covered in a topic to introduce a new language to HPR,
so that we would, everybody at least will be able to write, you know, the basics in a particular,
in any given programming language. So, for example, in Pearl, this is how you would print a low
world, this is how you would open a file, edit it and close it again. I don't know, some basic
stuff might be a good one. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that sounds good. So, if you listen to this show,
could just make a note of that and send that in, that would be great excellent. Kevin O'Brien said,
I loved this show, I found this discussion fascinating. I also noted that Linus had mentioned
the possibility of using Rust for the Linux kernel. That is not something you hear every day.
If some talented programmer out in HPR land wanted to do a series in programming in Rust,
I think this would be a big hit. There you go. Yeah, thank you Kevin.
Not sad, not sad. And speaking of Kevin, we had more free images from the very good man himself,
part of the series of GIMP, but this one was more like generic. This was about getting
just general free images for using it in general. Very good, very good resources.
Yes, absolutely. Absolutely. I have had occasion to use this type of thing, not recently,
but next time I do, I will go looking through the list. I did actually have a little look at some
of them. There were some slightly different ways in which they were made available,
which Kevin warned about, so they're not entirely as free as you might expect in some cases,
but still some excellent stuff there. Well worth listening to the show, if you're thinking about
rather than, if you're thinking about looking for images that are well licensed,
have a quick listen to the show. It's not too long, and Kevin has done all the
dirty work with the licenses for you, so you can make your own informed choice.
Speaking of informed choices.
It's very convenient to use. Last month. I don't know what does it got to do with informed
choices, but at least there were some comments. Right, first, should I do my turn?
Frank posted the first comment, and it was entitled a comment on your comment about my comment.
Greetings. In my comment on the terminal journey, one, I wrote that I had to split my comment,
because I got an error when I tried to send it in one piece. You'll reply in this here,
instalment, was that postings are limited in length, but that is not the problem I had.
Yes, I did reach the limit, and I could type no father.
So I fixed my sentences to shorten the post by a little bit, and then clicked on send,
but I got an actual error page. So I cut my text in half, and then it's been just fine.
I suspect a bug in the form checker or even the back end. I do realise that there's enough stuff
in my head for several shows. I'm working on that concept.
Excellent. Right, I'll do the next two, because I replied to that. Actually, I'll do the
reply to that first. So I replied saying errors in the comment. There is a limit on the amount of
text that you can put in the box in the comment box, and that is put in with a value max
length equals 2000 in HTML. There's also a trigger that there's also a limit that triggers the
rcd57ab. When the server sees that, the string length is greater than 2000. So your HTML checking
that the form is 2000, and you've got the PHP that checks. That's 2000. You would think that
it would be the same, but they are not due to the amount of data required to encode characters.
Max length counts the number of characters while string length is the actual
the data passed. So if you include smart quotes, for example, it takes double the space of normal
quotes. So if you echo a normal double quote into a double quote dot text and echo a smart
quote into double double curly quote dot text, and you do an LS of both of them. You'll see one is
two bytes, and the other is four bytes. And for a good overview of how this is, see character
symbols, and the unicode miracle by Q and PewDiePie, by Tom Scott, and I give the link there,
which is actually well worth watching if you want to watch it.
Sure, I would agree on what this is. If anyone's hitting either errors, you should be doing
your soul. We shouldn't be discussing this. If you're hitting the limits, you should be doing
your soul. Thank you very much. Oh, isn't that wonderful? Yes, yes. So should I do trays?
Please, please, yes. So trays says congrats on congrats on joining the ham community.
Thank you for your positive feedback and welcome to the ham community. Looking forward to your
podcasts about it, and now I may need to do some myself. Oh, Tray getting in there. I owe you a
show and you owe me a show. Well, I'll see what you did there. That's nice. That's pretty good.
So it was a chance. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Be easy says Ranger was previously on HPR, and it was indeed.
Yes, I think I'll record a follow-up episode as well. There is somebody else doing a hashtag
all you were sure. Very good. Incidentally, we did not tag that show very well because I thought,
oh, I wonder if it's in the list of tags, and there was nothing for Ranger. So I fixed that
particular issue, but yeah, if you're doing tags and you talked about several bits of software,
then I think it would be quite cool to add tags pointing to them so people can find them.
Yeah, and if people can send us feedback most missing tags, for example, I was looking for a show on
IVF, but the IVF tag is not there. It's just in the summary. I'm not in the tags itself, so I need to
make a note to fix that. Yes, yes, yes. Although the tag stuff is coming along nicely,
it's not, that's not the end of the story, there's quite a lot of curation of the tags and stuff
that's going to be needed because we've got things like one tag, it's got the plural of the word,
and the other one's got the singular of the word, and we should be more consistent about that,
and that probably needs an editor to go through and clean it up, which is why I've done a few
occasions. Yeah, if somebody's bored amongst the helpouts, that's something you can do.
So the following day we had the community news show, no, not the rebooting myself.
The following day we had the New Year's Eve show, Episode 8, and Honki says,
thanking, I would like to thank everyone who joined the podcast without people coming on
and taking part, there would be no podcast. Thank you, and I look forward to talking to everyone
again next year. Yes, it was nice. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was an excellent year this year,
who had some really, really good stuff and some interesting people and some interesting
interactions as well, it's pretty cool. Yeah, and I've enjoyed very much listening to the thing.
And then we had the HPR book, I don't know, the HPR RPG Club Reviewing Starfinder.
Dave, I think I need to get another coffee. Starfinder is a science fiction RPG
using Dungeons and Dragons 3.5 rules. This was very interesting as it was the only D&D game
I ever got involved just in my life. Yes, yes, I'm surprised to hear he talking to, yes,
on that particular show, but yeah, good, good, excellent. I think it actually, I was quite negative
about playing, but in hindsight now, I think it's more to do with the stress of having to move
house and rebuilding while doing this and there was all this stuff going on at the time.
So maybe my head just wasn't in the correct space for playing this. Perhaps,
perhaps I'll, when things are quieter, with straight fist, when things are calmer in the house,
we might suggest Ask Latu can I join another game? Yeah, absolutely, it would be good.
You might find you enjoy it more than you think, so it's always worth just pushing
the boundaries a little bit. So there was no comments on that. The following day we had Swift 110
with YL of the MacBook mid 2010 and he did some upgrades to the hardware and then upgraded the
software to the Catalina version of Mac. Yes, it was, he has lots to say about his various
machines and this is obviously the one he's truly enjoying at the moment, so good to him.
Now, I actually got a MacBook from work and I want to run Linuxos and in fact,
eventually got Linux installed on it. I have an open bug and the bug is related to the fact
that I can't pass, so I need to encrypt the hard disk, obviously. So I need to be able to add
a module in grub so that the looks on locker will recognize the Mac keyboard. If I can do that,
then I can use that hardware for basically all the stuff that I need to do because it's actually
quite a good Linux machine. But there's lots of stuff to be ironed out like no, have no
function keys and all the rest, but if I can't even log in to the computer because I don't have a
keyboard module. So long short of it is does anybody know how to add a module to grub and the module
I need to add is called a keyboard and I don't know how to do that. So if somebody could either leave
a comment to this show or ideally record a show themselves about it, that will be absolutely awesome
because this is actually a nice solid physical piece of hardware and yeah, I see no reason why I can't
use Linux on it. My son is very much a MacBook fanatic being having been a
music student and he thought one lately, I can't remember now, he was fed up with, although he
looked quite like the think pad that he bought to run Linux because his computer science courses
all about writing stuff on Linux. He actually found e-book but having a Mac again.
It's good and bad. Well, I think this actually is a little bit of an issue that I see here.
This has been gone off in the political route now, nothing to do with HDR. Just I think a lot of
companies give MacBooks out to people and people find that they're close enough to the Linux
environment that I'm not going to bother working running Linux and so therefore there's zero support
and that to me means you know we're failing as a community because here we have all these
actual developers who are running hardware that's capable of running Linux and yet nobody seems
to be running Linux on them because asher it's just too much hassle. Yeah, but otherwise if we don't
run the stuff then we don't fix the problems and then we don't have a LXDE that is small enough
to run a Windows or a windowing environment when a Raspberry Pi comes out or we don't have a
kernel small enough or modular enough to be able to run on a mobile phone when Android comes out.
Yeah, so I don't buy this argument of yeah, oh well, just run the proprietary software and that's
exactly what Microsoft has seen this and that's exactly why they're putting in Linux support in
so that people will never feel the need to leave the Windows environment because it's close enough
it does everything that you want to do and then you're nice and comfy in that environment
and you never break out and we lose the whole innovation that comes from people having a miserable
time running their operating system essentially which is what you do yourself to if you are running
a Linux desktop environment but you don't with that you get the freedom. Yeah, freedom is never free
Dave freedom is never free Dave never thanks from work yeah there's always a cost anyway
that particle risk broadcast was brought to you on behalf of the EFF Europe.
Anywho card yes 3375 car all DB2 fun and fail this is something that I I really like the idea
of the DB2 thing that you have all these sensors in your car that's completely unprotected
but on the other hand don't want to be hacking my own car as I don't have a car in the first place
yes yes it's not a thing I'm going to do although the fact that it's possible to do and you can
do it in your in your garage or in your driveway or whatever is it is pretty cool I think
yep yeah not for me yeah but it's again it's the right the right to repair if the thing fails to
run because you know you replace an oil filter and then you have to tell onboard computer that
you replace the oil filter or it won't you know start or whatever then yes absolutely we need to
be able to do this yeah yeah yeah well the right to repair thing it's very important I have a friend
who is a retired aircraft engineer who would not consider having a car that he couldn't fix
which is why it's got an old valve at the moment last time I saw it excellent so yeah yeah so
that that philosophy is very much there and people have huge expertise in working on this sort
of stuff so well for I'm all for that and if you're not repairing stuff then you're not you know
you're not seeing how things work and you're not seeing that you can repair stuff
it's it's a and and your kids and your family are not seeing that society is not aware then that
you can repair stuff that you're throwing something away that 50 cents components is gone in it
and you could repair that yourself kind of funny I was thinking the other day Dave as the door
handle was falling off the the toilet to be brutally honest that and I was looking at the
solid thing that's when you were a lad you were telling me that you had you had to do
brazing and stuff mechanical stuff would work and yeah yeah metal work out of high school
life yeah only the boys though not not the girls they weren't like nothing and going
so many things and cook stuff but yeah but I think that may have been dictated by policies
related to the end of the war and that we had to be self-sufficient and make everything last
etc etc etc or am I wrong I think so too because the mindset in the 40s 50s 60s
was that you you have to you can't always call on somebody you have to be able to deal with
with basic stuff yourself no so yeah it was so where my my dad used to work he built
cabinetry in the in the kitchen when we moved into a new house and he laid concrete paths all the
down the the garden and all those things and it just seemed like the natural normal thing to do
because everybody was doing it you wouldn't you wouldn't be out there with a with a shovel and
bag of cement these days doing that most like me no so see not deliberately not doing that
himself but then yes I've met the choice I know how to do it I have done it I don't want to do
I know yeah fortunate enough not to be not to have to do it and some of the stuff that's
happening I know that I don't want to be doing that I don't want to be replacing a structural beam
that's holding up the back of my house thank you very much I'm a gentleman that's really
unsure just to be doing this and it's maybe going a little far yeah yeah the the RSJ that you
did yourself might be the one that falls on your head yeah but stuff like fixing a washing machine
and that's what I think all all not met very easy for somebody to do is also what I'm saying
okay this is getting very political what we should in the evenings I'm just ready to go to bed so
we rush this thing through now this early in the morning I have loads of of gripes
making books with Linux what's possibly could be coming to a virtual about that div
haha oh nothing nothing at all no no no this was your solution to this well yes sort of yeah yeah
ended up just me prattling about things that I do in regard to notes and books and and
documentation and stuff it lost I thought I'd lost focus a little bit do you want to add a bit
to the notes that said by the way going back to what we were supposed to be talking about
but yeah it was it was some I blame Andrew keep asking me questions exactly good to fall
but yeah it's an interesting subject and it's actually quite large I don't think we'll be doing
any more particularly unless something comes up that sounds very very interesting and worth sharing
on HBO but the subject is a fascinating one a lot of people trying to do this very thing I see
things on on social media people saying how would you make a such and such type of document
and mark down to not quite up to the sort of quality that I want and you know long
yes questions about how you do that ask your doc and ask your doc to come up very often as well
and John Culp inspired by this series has done the show himself on the topic which is coming up
shortly indeed hmm Chromebook supporting more when hamsters meet humans send floater too
this was an interesting show yeah yes yes it's yeah it was a good show take no no hamster and stuff
aside squirrel I think that yes squirrel yes not hamster hamsters of the world you know
turn into squirrels yeah oh absolutely he sees he's certainly on the the bleeding edge for
his sort of stuff and yeah and while running a bath I thought that was the most impressive bit
and yeah it's right summarizes the whole thing saying subject well that was something
yes yes it was certainly an unusual approach to to a show but you know absolutely
HBR core HBR material right there absolutely yes yes yes yes technical madness that's what was
not necessarily in the same thing but very good very good aside from keeping dangerous electrical
components away from big pools of water might be a good plan that's all I'd say but yes squirrels
are known further daring and danger indeed the following day jezra with a brilliant show because
it's brilliant because I'm a interested in satellites and be I'm really interested in the star
link internet service what they're planning on doing interesting does not necessarily mean approval
or disapprove of disapprove of Dave which is a proof disapprove yeah yeah want to prove how about that
but it was a good breakdown on the tech and on the results brilliant if you're out in the sticks
or actually I think this has been developed more for high-speed financial transactions faster
right okay okay yeah and that aspect of it passed me by I have to say this is the whole business
case of the thing is that fiber optic cables run run from this point to that point to that point
and what they hope to do is in low earth orbit that they'll be able to get the satellites themselves
to communicate between each other so that the actual distance is more direct than it would be
with a underwater cable okay okay yeah shaving off milliseconds and trades meaning the trades can
occur faster yes for as long as capitalism continues indeed indeed and unfortunately Dave
chose no sign of despairing anytime soon depends you list to it but comrades yes yeah I find
this fascinating I knew a star link and I because I listened to quite a lot of astronomy
podcasts and some of them have been very very angry about all of this this stuff whizzing through
the night sky and messing up you know long exposure astronomical photography etc etc and the stuff
about musk saying he's going to make the satellites less reflective which is you just a PR stunt
on anything else but yeah but but I had not appreciated exactly what the user of it would get
and what the what the factors are so there's a guy on YouTube Jeff Gilling who does quite a lot
of Raspberry Pi stuff that I follow and he has installed one of these as well and he has a
I think it's on the roof of this house and it's but he has a maple a big maple tree not too far away
from it so the there's points in where satellites going over where the tree blocks access
to the signal and then it's all nice and clear so he did a graph of where things get a bit
yucky and then it all comes back together again really nicely I think Jezero was experiencing
similar things yeah am I right yeah exactly and the thing with this is because the satellites are moving
it's you with geostationary satellites you only have that problem well yeah you still have that
problem but the problem remains you know if you're able to find the place between the two trees
that you can spot you know get direct line of sight with the satellite you're sorted but with this
because they're moving in a preset pattern and the in the sky you need to be able to track them
and then needs to be clear for the whole duration of their orbit these dishes actually do the
tracking through some very clever electronics which I don't understand but still pretty cool
means that there will be that they're following a sort of hemisphere of the of the satellite
and there and if there's anything anywhere in that hemisphere all the align through that
and see then you potentially have a problem and also it's prone to weather I think Jezero said that
but it's still better than normal service oh absolutely if you're out somewhere where nobody wants
to lay a cable or a fiber or whatever then yeah yeah absolutely we we heard about that in rural
Lancashore back many years ago with the B4RN band project we did indeed speaking of people
taking action matters into their own hands and coming up with a solution yes
3 3 7 9 monochromic HP or Linux in-laws season one episode 34 the one with the intelligence
part four of a three-part mini series on AI
generated pre-trained transforms GPTs in this one yes yes
and I just see a spelling mistake in the notes I didn't spot at the time oops never mind
yes um it's um it's a fascinating area but I can't claim to understand more than
teeny fraction of stuff at the moment but it's it's some good links that you could follow up if
you had the time to go and uh look look further yeah good start uh good good
good synopsis actually that whole series well worth uh well worth to listen and very good links
involved and the following day we had a hooker with building a better good reads with activity
pop and I don't know if you know good reads at all Dave kind of book recommendation site I
I've heard of it and a hooker did uh describe it to some extent um so yeah it's it's a sort of social
networking reading network type of thing isn't it it's a sort of social reading I've
whatever however you'd like to put those words together sounds like a great idea
except that it's owned by the the most hated company on the planet and possibly
possibly but certainly quite quite disliked by many people um which is Amazon you needed to say the word
you needed you couldn't leave for the people's imagination to figure out the company of us
aye aye yeah because they've probably got a huge list of eight companies you're now on a list Dave
you are sold on a list when they come when they come to get you um yeah
actually this was a good idea uh for a good example of where activity pub yeah would would make
sense actually it's it's not a strange concept at all by all means no no no it's um it's something
that uh it's well worth looking into it I need to learn a lot more about what would be entailed
to give a proper comment about it I guess but uh still it's um it seemed to have the the
making of something quite useful there yeah so the next day we heard Tlatu goes for a walk
and talks about learning to skateboard gosh this was inspirational and I'm not saying that uh
not saying that in any way derogatory this was actually quite inspirational absolutely yeah yeah
all powered to Tlatu for making this move and also of uh talking about it in in this way
absolutely yeah John Cobb sellers uh consultative available consult available I love this
episode props to you for learning this as an adult that's really cool I it was wonderful hearing
about the sense of you you for you you thought when you first did various maneuvers it's easy
for me to forget what this feels like because it happened so long ago for me I was a competitive
skateboarder on half pipes in the 80s and have a ton of experience so if you ever need a human being
to talk uh through any of this with you hit me up and record the show for hvr obviously he meant
to put that in but forgot uh will be fun for me glad to hear you will be getting some safety
equipment but you did not mention one of the most important safety items a pair of risk guards
most of the time when people fall they put their hands out to catch themselves and it's very
easy to break a wrist this way oh uh getting yourself some good risk guards because you're going
to need your hands have fun and be safe cool so uh John Cobb follows up that up with
comic entitled skate shoes forgot to mention you should not have to pay that much for a decent
pair of shoes a much more affordable option is converse chuck tailor high tops those are the shoes
I wore until I got my first pair of bands high tops the chuck tailers have an excellent grip on the
board but they don't have any ankle padding if you lace them up nice and tight you get good support
against turning your ankle but they won't protect you if your board bangs into your ankle the
bands high tops are excellent in every respect I think I got a pair for about $50 several years ago
maybe they cost more now now I would not have put down John Colp as a what did he call himself
competitive skateboarder he hasn't mentioned this before I was aware of this um I think he yeah
yeah I think he pointed he's got some youtube videos of him as an older person doing a bit of
skateboarding in a skate park and he's uh I think he still has he still has a he's still pretty
he's kept himself fit and his balance is fantastic which you need to be there's why I don't do
these such things because my coordination and balance are dreadful but but he yeah yeah he's
quite a guy amazing amazing amazing amazing I just learned some two pieces of information about
that too this week that I was not aware of as well both of which I'll tell you after the show
if you're interested but the rest of you are just gonna have to figure out what does Ken know about
that too do do do do one thing I know is he just never hit your sticker on his laptop
very strange uh yes indeed um following day we had three three eight two how I fixed a fault
in my car for free thanks to youtube by the way that that sounds really freaky uh I learned some
things about that too that I didn't know I was talking to just in a conversation and he mentioned
uh he mentioned stuff that's all it's not that weird okay that's good I'm not like hiring
teams of detectors to figure out stuff about that too just so you know oh yeah yeah my
A I think you've been writing it into into into history yeah yeah he chillin in the car
why would you have a heat shield what's a heat shield don't ask me I have no idea is it
something it's related to do with the exhaust exhaust yep don't know I I do not get into
car stuff anymore I have done in the past I mean cars are easier to uh to repair and stuff
I used to work from uncle who had a garage but only trivial stuff but um yeah yeah
but no idea I should have checked because I forgot to do it and I didn't look at the youtube
video either so yeah yeah I think it's a cover over a muffler or a silencer
all right okay I wasn't aware that they they did that type of thing no I had a lot of uh
experience with my I was stuck up in a place that there was zero chance of getting out of and I
could only afford a really crappy car so I ended up having going to the scrapyard
getting uh taken bits off old recours and then put them onto it can be a franking car
yeah yeah there's a lot of money in that type of thing there is there is and uh when you don't
have to do it anymore that's great too because we invented public transport I don't have to think
yes yes when you're in the right country for avoiding all that stuff you'd think but over here where
we are there is no public transport there is a bus that goes every half hour and once an hour on
Sundays so I'm ended up having to drive my wife's car which is a rental or a private lease and um
everything everything anything with the kids you have to drive them into the thing back and then
um my back is absolutely wrecked as a result but so I'm looking forward to being back to civilization
oh boy yeah where are we my geeky experiment and is this ee pc 901 one of the originals
uh running bsdms very very cool yes it never occurred to me to do this I have I have a
triply pc the later version what was it one thousand and five or something
or something something wouldn't start with a one thousand um and it's had crunch bang for a while
but uh still does because I might use it but uh yeah that would be I'll quite
tempted to have a go at this it's really interesting yeah no bluetooth though
yeah I don't use a dollar bluetooth I wouldn't use it I do use bluetooth for my uh from my phone to
my headphones and things but um but not much otherwise bluetooth uh think socks and page three of
the specification it says bluetooth should always suck because it's the only explanation for a protocol
that's been around so long just still suck as much as it does yes there was something else I would
use it yeah same photo 2 says why I love open bsd I love open bsd because they produce a secure os they
also produce a whole os you will never see the lead kernel developer at an open bsd insert a patch
into the code which was developed by the NSA into the kernel then only withdraw the patch after
the entire community forces them to do so integrity security code correctness what I remember hearing
about that but which what is the which developer was that from hot os was it was it open bsd or was
another kernel I have no idea I don't don't keep up with this stuff anymore I tried to have a look
and see what it was but I can't uh zen floater 2 which actually means this is zen floater 1 out there
somewhere probably probably electrocuted himself with his laptop in the bath and you um where are we
yeah zen send us a link to that because I tried to find it but I couldn't
ah yes page numbers in e-pub files 3384 by John culp in response to 3367 I love
response shows I really do and it's how you should do it probably Dave yeah yeah it's fascinating
it really it's fascinating um I just realized I'm actually coming on this at all and I plan to
um it's been a bad bad month um yeah really really interesting I'm not quite sure how you
paginate a sort of uh probably a bit of text like a like an e-pub um do you I think John says
something or he's maybe commented that there are mechanisms that count number of words and say
after 250 or something that's the end of a page um but uh I've got e-pubs that have been
that are sams sams books that have indexes in them and they have links to chapters where in the
index rather than pages they just say you know chapters and sections and stuff you know if you
want to find the word banana then you look in the uh chapter the banana chapter in the subsection
yellow stuff I don't know but um yeah but so I haven't quite managed to read this hasn't
completely resolved the issues for as long as I'm concerned but I've not given any attention
because I've been doing other things but yeah excellent an excellent thing and thank you very
much John that is uh very very helpful so we have fixed a problem of how to do this but uh where
what's the syntax for putting in a page break page identifiers and then an index but not how you
would determine that determine where the pages are and I'm also not clear how you would make an e-pub
three from from nothing from uh using panda or something but maybe it's a simple way of doing
that anyone who knows send in the show DIY cat feeders uh you talked about a 3d printed cat
feeder I was going to make reference to your cast but alas she has passed indeed this was this
was most interesting actually it's uh I looked at the thingy verse the project and uh it's it's it's
quite clever and the the way it runs where it's using a plastic auger that you've printed um feed stuff
out of a container and then it reverses for a little bit to stop there being any blockages because
this is dry food pellets yeah looks looks really good um but yeah it's it's not a thing
nothing I would have ever used to be honest uh my late cat was possibly a strange one
she you just gave her a bowl of food the wet food she eat straight away and clean the bowl out
but there was another bowl of dry food which you've just gone nibble at every every little while
and um you know she she was she self-regulated her feeding which having been a
biologist and looking after you know cage animals and stuff for a while a lot of animals do that
they don't if you give them food they don't just go and go to themselves they just go and have a
little nibble they're not beginning on mice and rats and those sorts of things quite happily do that
so yeah I don't know maybe cats I don't know that much about cats maybe there are there are there
a big e-type of cats that just eat it all but yeah interesting real
was interesting that you lose the bond with the what the cat using an automatic feeder which kind of
makes sense yeah you're no longer the provider the provider is this magic box in the wall
mm-hmm that's an important thing yeah we had a we taught our cat to to know the time that she she
be got she'd be fed and also she had a treat time as well she'd know she'd know she'd know you
know she'd say oh it's time she'd be there saying oh come on you're supposed to be giving me
stuff now how does she know the time I've no idea perhaps if she had a database
she had a
pearl script and that's what it was she nice did this a bit like what you did in episodes three three
eight six the following day yes this this is perfectly logical and this is perfectly normal div
don't ever change yeah yeah yeah well you know it's the way my mind works so
there you go and sometimes I share these bizarre things and yeah and sometimes I just keep quiet
because done enough damage to my reputation already last at all you should not keep quiet you
keep 30 in shows this I listen to why my wife was in getting her second vaccination so
that was that was let me chuckle well it's it's it's working it's working fine and it's
it does the job and it eases me to say how many times we had Haggis neeps and tatties and how
frequently did you and they and they go wow yes we had a lot haven't we we really like that very much
oh that's good then it's but there are bound I mean here there are bound to be occasions when
people need this sort of thing not necessarily for doing recipes and whatever but there are always
going to be things where you want to you know whenever we get to go back into the theater or
you know when you have a group of people that want to do different things going out for
night for example not that I do or not that I can but technically you know we we've been to
the cinema four times we've been to the theater four times you know I want to go to
cliff walking or something you know you could adapt that same concept to doing other things like
events or even books that you read or whatever it doesn't necessarily need to be for menus
mm-hmm yeah yeah yeah the principle is there anyway you could play around with the ideas I think
it was you who suggested I put it up on a gift repository so that was that was the tail-in
the project super yep yeah following the infosec podcast part five grab bag and this is a
train I think rolling up his series not he still has one left to go um yeah good
I like this it's a it's another one I was listening to at the vaccination center
yes it's and now he's got some great great podcasts recommendations here he's a really good
and yeah I found I heard of a few of them I haven't had many many coincidences with the things
that I listen to but command line heroes have been listening to that that's really that's
pretty good so yeah anyway lots of lots of good stuff there the great resource to go back and
look at if you if you need exactly information and if you're short of podcasts the podcast
recommendation series is actually quite a good enough good resource so we must be hissing the end
nearly Dave on the 28th the third episode this week this month free software foundation Europe by
the Linux in laws guys very good interview I think I interviewed him before at the free software
booth in foster okay okay yeah yeah interesting guy and some interesting discussions about
the the organization and so forth yeah absolutely I do enjoy the interview shows by the way
I think I've said this before the interviews come out really really well and some very interesting
people to talk to yeah I'm trying to trying to find that episode one second yes it was
17 13 but you know again a foster and you're only going to get you're only going to get a
short snippet it was back in 2015 and this really did did justice to the to the movement and the
man so there was one comment on that just my turn yeah yeah Brian in Ohio says free speech
so free speech is okay unless the FSFE FSFE yeah decides it's not okay except for RMS
is quirky behaviour he was never accused of doing anything illegal he was merely exercising his
right and doubt by our creator of free speech his only fail was not realizing that the thought police
had invaded the FSFE down with big brother okay fair enough not necessarily agreeing with that but
fair enough no it's a it's a free speech comment against not agreeing in any sense at all actually
but that's for another day tails of a tiger ventures and mishaps tagging past shows this is archer 72
who has posted lots of summaries as well and basically walk through how to do it for anybody who
wants to join in the fun yeah it's very useful that he did this actually I know we've talked about
this in in the past but it's been quite a while and so it's it's it's moderately complex when
you hear of him if his his problems with it and so forth it's a you see how how you could easily
trip up some of these these oddities some of the limits on the sizes of things are a little bit
arbitrary so it's easy to get caught up with those yeah but but yeah no excellent excellent show
thank you very much for the conversation actually from yeah somebody else's point of view
somebody using the system and the final one of this month was the intro to DOS series
that ahuka is going to be doing and Brian and Ohio says great show really enjoyed this
episode the mixing of computer and personal history was great pathways for the next podcast
Kevin reply is saying you're most welcome I'm glad you enjoyed this trip down memory lane
I'm basically releasing the DOS series shows but every four weeks or so alternating with my
gimp shows yeah great good stuff yeah it's a good series I'm looking forward to this one one
I've seen so far and that brings us up to today's show which we're not allowed to comment about
and there are some feedback on comments on previous shows my terminal journey by some guy
on the internet and there was a comment saying a perfect time for pseudo apt mark hold audacity
pseudo apt mark showdown show how old show how old that showed up show hold sorry people
yes so it is related to the current as you're listening or current as we're recording not as you're
listening necessarily where the licensing for audacity may or may not be changing yes it's
all a little bit confusing as far as I'm going to anyway do you want to do one for this one yes
indeed yes the next comment is on Andrew's show Andrew Conway show making books in the next part
one John Colp says page numbers I've been away from HPR for ages but checked back in this morning
and found this show about e-books loved it and thanks for the mentions but discussion about page
numbers prompted me to look into the issue because it's something that's bugged me for a long time
I was pretty sure there was support for specifying page numbers in the e-pub three standard
but I've never gotten into the weeds and figured it out for fiction it doesn't really matter but
as you discuss page numbers from the physical books are still pretty important in academia where
we are expected to cite our sources I took a couple of hours this evening and learned how to
embed page numbers and tomorrow on recorder response episode to share how it works
there's good news and bad news involved and danger seeker comments on the same show fonts and
latex fonts were a problem for latex in the early days because mystery couldn't invented
his own high quality system of describing fonts later with pdf latex I guess it became possible
to use post script fonts directly but post scripts fonts are expensive among windows post script
fonts were never really widely used and then Microsoft invented true type fonts with ubiquitously
cheap and not always high quality t tf true type fonts these there was a growing need to use
true type font in latex it seemed like pdf latex can use the fonts in tdf format but I've never
tried it myself today lure text and lure latex can not only use tdf but also they even
newer otf fonts with very little problem it works bars the goal of latex was to produce high quality
documents that's that's why the default is extremely high quality and changing things as hard
with Microsoft products the rule is to produce very low quality documents and it is easy to change
to comics and so forth well with lure text you can take part of the low quality document revolution
well with latex I can now take part in the low quality document revolution winky face
that's really useful actually yeah I've lost I've lost touch with this stuff I've said many times
before we used to use lure text and lure we are supposed to say as the standard we're producing
documents on the vax cluster though it is in charge of way back in the latex and so on and
we bought we bought exciting wonderfully amazing laser printers go with this oh such a breakthrough
but anyway yeah so every all the students produced their reports and dissertations and
everything using that but since the time came when you didn't need to use that anymore and things
like word and star office and things came along then it all sort of fell by the way so apart from
all the people who are writing scientific papers using it and you know people in search groups
and stuff and they still are of course it's it's particularly strong in math so I'm very much out
of the loop these days have been for the past 20 years or more so again one of the regrets that
was not learning latex I think I just came to it a little bit too late in my academic career
because called latex documents look good they really do they just the power that you have
to produce stuff that you can generate indexes just at the drop of a hat for example and
you know all of the other fancy things and all of the sort of templating stuff where you can
get standardized documents um by by just simply declaring that that's what you want to use
yes it is it's excellent it's brilliant stuff um did we just skip over the fact that
Danger Seeker seems to know an awful lot about this and perhaps should do at least an introductory
episode to introduce in her themselves to the letter and uh definitely option one would be
history of latex followed by the hello world of latex how to produce a document you know I
how to put an image into a latex document you know I could see a series there and there could
you absolutely absolutely same and fortune await nowhere near where you're going to be but they wait
that's what I find yeah that's pretty much the yeah my life in general it's just go over there
over that hill just to me never get there very much very much leprechaun uh
solution yeah yeah yeah any who trace us thanks for the feedback poor chop this is on uh poor chops
feedback to he show um which we covered last month about the layer 8 podcast
which is actually quite good uh as a name for a podcast layer 8 see what you did there but which
high pork chop I will be adding layer 8 podcast to my list thanks for the feedback from tray
excellent then we had the mailing list discussions and mostly about the mumble server closing down
which I'll read as discussed last December the mumble server ch1.teamspeak.cc is going to close down
I've tried to contact this has come from me by the way all the other projects on there and
hgura seems to be the only project still using us aside from the cost the server itself has not
been maintained and my request to update has been closed without comment or action fortunately
we have been provided with a room on delwins server this has been maintained and has an audio
test room where you can go in and do an echo test uh the details are get a pen and paper
chatter dot sky with an e haven dot net the fault port so that's chatter charlie hotel alpha tango
echo Romeo does Sierra kilo Yankee echo hotel alpha victor echo november does november echo
tango and the default port of six four seven three eight please update your plans and that's what
we're recording on today Dave absolutely yep all seems good which is why there's no show today
so josh josh nap our hpr provider japi um says was there discussion about using something like
discord and i replied this is strictly about moving the mumble server we're using for
room tables etc i had a discussion on the new year's show about a discord server in my personal
non-genitorial opinion this is not something i care about either way if somebody wants
wants that then it's up to them to maintain it i will say that we've been active on public
networks for years and got absolutely zero engagement uh this is links to twitter.com for
such hpr facebook.com and then search for hacker public radio linked in has got hacker public
while on open platforms we have a weekly if not daily feedback and we are on a hashtag hpr
and matrix hpr at bots in space and then there's a link to a chat group on jabber and xmpp which is
not easy to remember and that yeah good excellent and that brings me to actually should we be doing
um as we were recording this mara archer 72 says as linked in to hashtag hacker public radio
hashtag throwback uh two episode three three nine reason to love siblings and that was a show by our
Kirk or Kirk so anymore over there actually let's have a look
and hpr on mastodon is uh hit at hpr at bots in space dot sorry at hpr at bot beauty s
i in dot space bots in dot space so we regularly have uh ahuka and myself boosting the shows
let's see um two cutorato uh and i were having a discussion about uh yes about hpr and
how useful it is etc etc and i've not looked at mastodon much today i usually go and visit it daily
and um archer 72 is doing lots of work on tagging all the shows and he's been flagging up things
that he has just how it's the one you just mentioned the reasons to love sim links which is
quite cool i can't think about ever ever ever listen to that one probably have but it's a long time ago
so yeah it's it's a good thing to to to go back and look at some of them some excellent stuff in there
and you also get to a bit of history of some of the people so he also tagged is there anything
is there such a thing is that little ethical hacking episode three two five
you sent in a thread and how to get particular episodes with uh don't you get
hacker public radio dot org hpr zero and then open bracket and then two five two comma two five nine
and then close bracket dot org we'll get we'll pull down multiple ones you come in some today show
the DIY cat feeder episode three one one firewall distros uh night wisest first episode on hpr
about uh ssh tunneling episode three one zero uh there's the comment from me about the move
about the move of the mobile servers is google email around table two eight four wanted to go
back and listen to that one about tiddly wings tiddly wiki two seven four two six eight like
with browsing two six seven copyright volume free beetles oh yeah and episode two four eight they
recording skipped as five five five minutes 56 so I asked I actually emails more gallon uh but
he never got back to me okay this is shame and that's all for this month but if you want
you can use hashtag hacker public radio and we'll read it out here for sending in stuff tags
or whatever so I'm on there on a daily basis and if it becomes a thing we'll no doubt script
as in some way that we get the feedback pulled in from there somehow somebody has a show
on how to do that that would be excellence as well okay back to the plot just go and master
on and find yourself being drawn into a lot of people up there that's amazing yes uh any other
business the older hbo shows on archive.org div all of this is yours comment did you not want to
comment about the the Wii chat room well that was today wasn't it that's the wrong the wrong month
get what I said okay watch out free no there was email about free no today yeah today is the
first of all good so it is but actually we can as it's as it's come on let's discuss it uh free
node so uh the IRC channel all cast planets hbo are kind of tagged along there although we were
never really an all cast uh only show we do hbo we do mp3 as well we're actually doing all the formats
now so because of this issue with free node people have moved to somewhere else
there's not the moved to liberal at sea other one liberal 120 psi yeah I don't know what that
I personally don't do IRC uh I haven't done the IRC administration don't know how somebody wants
to tell me, I don't mind doing it, but I don't know, somebody who has been admitting
their hashtag on cast planners on FreeNode, feel free to go over and do it on Libre, is that
all we have to say about that?
I think it is actually, yeah, yeah, I'm really just revered in this or absorbing it, I've
read it already, but yeah.
Is it Libre chat or something, I'm not sure, yeah, something like that?
I've seen references many times, it's not stuck in my head, and it's not in these emails,
but yeah, we should maybe put something out about where the IRC is now, and that was
the point, wasn't we need to update the website to say if you want to go find all cast
planet, it's over there now.
Yeah, and if we're doing that, then I should be sitting in there with listening at least,
which I did on FreeNode, but then I got dumped out of FreeNode recently, and I thought,
well, I'm not going to bother, so I will, I'm happy to bother, I don't mind learning,
well, I don't know if I want to take on board IRC administering, if somebody's already
doing that, that will be great, but if nobody else is going to do it, I don't mind doing
it.
So long as somebody tells me how, which can't be, here's the manual on how to do that.
Okay, Dave, any other business, knock yourself out?
Too many tabs open, yeah, AOB, we've got, we've uploaded 35 additional shows in the previous
one, not unloaded, un-unloaded, one to eight, 70 range, and I had to pull a halt because
I'd hit up against shows which didn't have tags if I'm doing them supposedly, which seems
like logic, so I tagged 10 that needed to be done and uploaded them, but yeah, we need
now to be doing tags and then doing the upload, so we're not going to be able to go quite
as fast as we were previously, but so, we're getting them.
So on the subject of the tags, we had three contributors to updates this month, IRC is 72,
who's done lots, I don't keep a record of who's done what, how many, but, and we had
Rowan, who also contributed, which is very nice to join in, and some guy called Dave
Morris, who did a few as well, so 71 shows in total have been updated and we currently
have 222, which still need work, so we have a sort of an unofficial target, again, the
whole thing sorted by the end of the year, but whether we managed to do that, that's
another thing, that's the overall plan.
How do you do, say I wanted to do a few shows, how do I prevent doing the same ones?
It isn't, there isn't really a mechanism for preventing clashes, I do have a mechanism
whereby I can generate you a list of a pre-formatted list of show information, so if you ask
for the shows in the range, you know, 100 to 110 or something, I can send you a list
of all of the shows there that don't have tags or summaries.
If there is a summary, but no tags, it will put the summary in with a comment mark at the
beginning of it, and similarly, if there is no summary, but there are tags, then it will
do the same with that, so it's just useful to be able to look at that when you come to
do the list, so if we do that, then it doesn't reserve that block, but there's not that
many of the moment people who need to be made aware, so it's rather easy to say today
I am mostly editing this range.
Can you send me five shows to do, please, and if somebody else was to ask for five
shows, could you do that for them as well?
Absolutely, yeah, yeah, it's some, it's pretty straightforward thing to do, and Dave, what's
your master done or email thing?
How could the contact you did?
I don't know what my master done, why you were to continue to talk, Dave, I will find
out what your master done thing is.
Can you use it, but you never have to type it because the client knows what it is, so
I don't remember things like that.
And I have a Gmail account for email, so that would be Dave, dot Maurice, M O double R I
double S, at gmail.com, and your master done email, or your master done contact is as
pearl or ID, P E R L O ID, as master done dot SDF dot org.
And if you want to contact me, it's at 10 underscore fallen, as master done dot SDF dot
org.
Cool.
I think, I think I've put these sorts of contacts in my HPR profile, I think you should
do that too.
And it's very easy to change a profile at any time, Dave.
Yeah, you just need to send in a new show, a box of chocolates.
No, that's cool.
You just record a show, and you send it in, and we connect it to your profile, that's
cheaper, much cheaper.
Yeah, that's how you get your profile changed in HPR.
Right, that's it, I think, that seems to be it.
I think we've covered putting ourselves
on an Amazon watch list, we covered ourselves, I want to talk about capitalism, okay, anything
else, for to make sure that we have some feedback next month, no, thanks, I don't think we're
done.
Okay, tune in tomorrow, actually, for another super exciting episode of Hacker, public,
radio.
You've been listening to Hacker, public, radio at Hacker, public, radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is.
Hacker, public, radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise stated, today's show
is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a live, 3.0 license.
