Episode: 3024
Title: HPR3024: A funny thing happened the other day
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3024/hpr3024.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:20:32

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,024 for Thursday 5 March 2020.
Today's show is entitled, A Funny Thing Happened The Other Day.
It is hosted by MRX and is about four minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is
describing a funny thing that happened the other day.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Music
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio Dins.
My name is MrX and welcome to this podcast.
As usual I'd like to start by thanking the people at HPR
for making this service available to us all.
It's truly an invaluable service on these here into troops.
HPR is a community led podcast provided by the community for the community.
That means you can contribute to,
why don't you pick up a microphone or your phone,
some sort of audio recording device, I'm sure you've got something about
and record something. I'm sure you would all like to hear it.
If we all contributed something, there'd be plenty to go around
and we wouldn't be sure to show us.
Go on, give it a go. You know you'd like it.
If I can do it, so can you.
So me and MrsX were sitting in the living room on the sofa
and I thought I heard something and I said,
do you hear that?
MrsX said, what?
I said, listen.
I don't hear anything she said.
Just listen again.
And I heard this noise.
And my first thought was, well,
maybe it's a small bird or something that's been hot
because we have windows that are at the front and the back of the house
and from a bird passing through it looks like it could look like it's
that they could just fly straight through.
We've had a number of bird strikes on our windows over the years.
So I got up
and I walked to the front of the house.
I had a listen.
Couldn't hear anything.
And I walked back to the sofa again.
Sat back down.
And it must have flown away or something like that.
Then I heard it again.
And I said, did you hear that?
MrsX said yes.
What was it?
I said, I don't know.
It seems like a bird.
So maybe it's at the back of the house.
So I got up.
I walked the windows at the back of the house.
It's a pretty small living room really.
And I had a listen.
I couldn't hear anything.
And I saw a strange.
So I walked back to the sofa sat down.
For some evening viewing.
Then I heard it again.
Where's that coming from?
It might be coming from the kitchen and MrsX said so.
Maybe it is.
So I got up.
I walked to the kitchen.
I had a listen.
Nothing.
Or actually, no.
I heard it very faintly.
Strange.
I didn't see anything.
I look outside and see the windows.
Nothing at all.
I got back.
I got back to the sofa sat down.
Then it was again.
What is that noise?
And I got up.
And I walked halfway between the sofa and the kitchen.
There's a kind of retable next to the door.
And I stopped.
There was a noise again.
But this thing was loud up.
How can that be?
So I looked down at my feet.
And there was a dog's basket.
There was a dog with this left nostril crushed against his bed.
Problem solved.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at Heka Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday to Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
the revolution, share a light, digital license.
