Episode: 3694
Title: HPR3694: Robo Tripping Ravelords of the Apocalypse
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3694/hpr3694.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:11:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3694 for Thursday the 29th of September 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Robo Tripping Rave Lords of the Apocalypse.
It is hosted by mechaternia and is about 10 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, organic synthesis of human and machine occurs post-cosmic event.
Strange machine appeared one day scratching, clawing, cutting and picking through the wastelands
on the outskirts of town.
It was built on an old Tesla frame with all the other car parts removed.
Irregular and blocky it was bristling with spider-recipindages bearing various sensors, cameras
and manipulators.
There were familiar looking aspects to the assemblage of ABS and steel.
A Sony logo on a chassis component, a former desk lamp, now a servo-driven electro-magnet
equipped manipulator arm.
Through gaps in the steel and ABS frame and cladding could be seen complex interactivity,
producing a worrying, clicking and humming machine din.
The blocks had conveyor belts between them that would occasionally move apart assembly
or circuit board from one box to another.
Sheltering in an abandoned tire garage, this mother-bought was surrounded by smaller steel
and black ABS private machines, a various mobile wheeled and loaded forms.
All engaged in various activities like gathering, then disassembling, old stereos, printers
and computers, were others hacked at derelict electric tires.
Most of them function well, but there were a few that looked damaged or crippled, one
patheticly dragging itself in aimless circles.
There were screens and laptops affixed randomly to the outside of the hall, looking like the
International Space Station turned inside out.
It was topped with mismatched solar collectors from which snacking wires extended back to
its body.
A few smaller bots also had their own solar arrays mounted to their chassis.
On the mother, there were other A&Kong US elements, like a sound system complete with
arrays of myths, matched speakers and subwoofer.
Some disassembled using screwdriver drill bits, some with saws and torches, while others
scan circuit boards with cameras, identifying then applying heat via a modified soldering
iron or propane torch to remove the components.
Piles of sorted electronic parts littered concrete, navigated by bots searching out and fetching
specific components and taking them to the assembly stations which fed the mother-bought.
Those not engaged in diligent mining and building activities were coupled to one of three
battery stations that held their own solar collectors and large batteries of both lead
acid and lithium iron.
When the townies approached the smaller explorer units, they emitted alarm tones or blinked
very bright flashing LED lights while fleeing back to the protection of the mother-bought.
Many people had reverted to simpler pastoral lives, farming and gathering after the cosmic
event wiped out the world's economy and internet systems, food crops and other plants grew
very productively and easily since that roving chunk of neutron star buzzed the solar system
and ended technological society.
The world was verdant, robustly and giantly so after the cold and dark of the months
of Pompeii.
People weren't that interested in technology anymore, though some held on to things like
generators that still worked.
Few were knowledgeable in how to repair relics of the pre-CE civilization, but a few wondered
how it came to be who built it and programmed it.
Such a self-organized entity couldn't just spontaneously rise out of internet electronics
refuse credit.
When the mother was approached too closely, its attendance assumed defensive pastures while
circular saws were cutting claws, clack and nozzles with pilot lights pointed menacingly.
Thousands of RGB LEDs covering the surface displayed frenetic color patterns that were
both blinding, disorienting and nauseating, although the latter may have also been an
effect of the subsomics coming from the subwoofers.
A synthetic voice blurted alert alarm warning and other messages may have been identified
as belonging to the Arduino Talking Library with ears to hear the flatly enunciate
words blasted through panasonic ghetto blaster speakers mounted high on the chassis.
And people decided it was best to leave it in peace as the mother mockingly blasted
the ACEDC Psalm who made who alternating with we are the robots from craft work.
A group of young people found that if they stood at just the right distance, they could
enjoy the effects of the mesmerizing patterns without being in danger of being maimed.
They called it Robo Trippin and it gave them euphoria and visions.
The Knights consisted of parting and dancing while the thought mother played from a large
collection of misentropic musical classics.
One day after the previous Knights party stopped amid power load messages, they felt obliged
to bring the bots all the solar cradles, generators, stereos and other interference they
could stand up.
The bots seemed less apprehensive and allowed the humans to come closer.
The spectacle grew larger each night, the songs were a starting point.
As the block breed poly rhythmic beats, binarle, trinarle, etc.
Combined with the prismatic visual effects from LEDs, time distorted, chunking up oral
visual patterns, converging resonances, comprised of corresponding brain frequencies, warped
subjective reality, complex harmonics of frequencies, formerly algorithms, logic diagrams,
and circuit schematics for flash on the screens, visions shattered into a million pieces
you sinking, recombining many times a second.
They had dark circles under their eyes during the day, but the psychedelic splendors of
the Knights were with it.
They were the disciples of a rhythm, suffocates to the beat symbiottes of sound.
They seemed discovered that they now understood something called Boolean algebra and could
read the wealth of digital, logic diagrams and schematics in the mother's database.
No other townies they knew had any inclination of this knowledge, it seemed to have been forgotten
or only known by a small minority, yet it was so fascinating and useful.
The mother had been teaching them via the screens amid the din and ecstasy of dance, and
they now started taking active roles, picking up soldering irons and screwdrivers.
It's something called a refractory and filling gaps in the robots' skills.
The purple robot was made whole and the overall aesthetic and function of the robots was somewhat
improved by the human eye.
A month later, another mother machine appeared with its own attendance.
The next month were her mother's.
The month after that, eight, as non-robotripping townies grew increasingly concerned.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
