Episode: 3167
Title: HPR3167: A ramble with the Pentland Squires (part 1)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3167/hpr3167.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:08:51

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3167 for Tuesday, 22 September 2020. Today's show is entitled
A Rumble with the Pentland Squires. Part 1. It is hosted by Dave Morris,
and is about 42 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
MRX and Dave Morris chat from opposite sides of the Pentland Hills.
Edinburgh.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
Hi everybody. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. This is Dave Morris with MrX,
and we're doing another one of our chit chats over Mumbo.
I think we're either side of the Pentland Hills sort of thing. Are we MrX?
I'm in an area called Curry, which is one side of the Pentland Hills. You can scramble up the hills
from here relatively easily, and you're fair where you have the side of it all, aren't you?
Yeah, that's right. I'm probably, I don't know, six or seven miles,
so it could be anything but something like that, you know, that's that's generally a basic thing.
I don't know if anybody is interested in the exactly where we are, but I like to think of the geography of these things.
So we've got a list of things that we've been sort of kicking around as worth having a little chat about,
because otherwise you'd be sitting here twiddling and that comes probably, I would anyway have a list.
So we can sort of leap into them if you're happy.
Yeah, well, whether we take maybe one from each or, you know, because you've got few.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't want to blitz through my whole lot, because I can't leave a document alone,
I have to keep adding bits to it all the time, so yeah.
You see, you see the first, oh, I couldn't have come up with ideas or things.
I was struggling with all those.
And then the last few, oh, it was a quick cut. A lot of things.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
So Mason, when you get started, it's difficult to stop sometimes.
So yeah, well, my first item on the list was just to talk briefly about the situation regarding COVID-19,
this coronavirus in the UK.
I don't, I think it's, it's a pretty well-worn topic.
And I sort of detect some people getting a little bit bored of it.
Personally, I find it quite fascinating how it all works and what people are doing.
But as far as Scotland's concerned, the schools returned on the 11th of August.
Today is what 23rd, is that? Yeah.
And Scotland doesn't have, doesn't seem to have had a vast number of cases.
It certainly had them.
But there's a thing you can look at on the web, which is set up by the Scottish Government,
where you can see how many cases there have been in your area.
And the number is very small in the area I'm in.
And imagine this maybe more in, I haven't scanned a whole lot,
but some places at worst than others.
But we seem to be reasonably okay as far as the virus is concerned.
That's not to say we should be complacent because it's not going away.
It's still out there. How about yourself?
Yeah.
I'm just looking at a website that I've actually looked at it on a PC browser
before I've just looked at it on the laptop, which I'm using here just now.
And then, yeah, obviously, but so there's a great way to go.
I think it pulls data from the Scottish website,
and also from the UK as well.
I think it's happening with Scotland, but now I think it's actually that
it had to quit.
The which is called Scotland coronavirus tracker,
a few sort of Google phone traveling tabby.
I think that's it goes by.
And he's in this stats and whatnot.
And it's just that's really the information that this is phenomenal.
And so you got the quest to cover the UK.
But I think we should see that it was so inconsistent for a while
that you find it possible to understand the data.
So he couldn't put it up.
But now it's obviously solidified a bit, he's been able to do that.
So he's also got the UK in there as well.
And it breaks all down and home.
My large of data.
Well, I think you find it quite interesting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's, there is a website that Dave Lee pointed me to from the
podcast and various other podcasts that he's been using where you can make
just one line of curl requests of it and get a big watch of CSV data.
So I've been looking at that a little bit, but I think that just shows daily
numbers of cases and that type of thing.
So there's tons of information, maybe not as much as they could be,
but there's sort of some quite useful stuff if you're into,
into making diagrams.
What you want to do with it.
It's interesting.
So shall we, shall we leave, grow a veil over that one?
You've got anything else you wanted to add to it?
So Dave, I was trying to,
this tablet just fell off a stand.
Oh, no.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I was trying to get the website.
The, I don't know, one I can still speak well.
I'm just going to see if I can get the website.
I can paste it in.
So what do I have to do copy?
I've got my website.
Is it sure?
Sorry.
Oh, I don't know.
I don't know how you do it.
Not, not how we do that.
I should have been using the desktop.
I've just copied the URL and it's traveling tabby.
Well, I remember tabbing tabbing tabbing tabby.com.
That's, that's the website.
So yeah, it's probably more, more hassle.
Trying to get that to paste into the,
we can maybe add it to the, to the notes.
Nobody's interested.
Yeah, of course, of course, yeah.
Of course, right.
Yes.
And yeah, because,
well, of course,
the thing is that we were actually,
we were,
then,
supposed to be,
let's go back to your notes here.
We're supposed to be going on holiday.
We're supposed to be like this, you can with some letters.
And then they love down in Manchester area.
And, you know, they've been.
I don't say it was the only way of looking at this.
And it's balancing balance,
balancing risks and whatnot.
And as you see here,
a lot of people are getting paid up with it all.
And I found interesting.
We've read that.
The fact is that it's just been so much so.
I've been way behind with on HPR stuff so we were supposed to go in on holiday and we generally
go to the Lake District at this time but obviously that's that's a bit of a hot spot I think really.
So we kind of need a session not to and of course we've been getting updates on how
how wonderful things have been. It's a difficult one isn't it really is. I think started to ease off
here. I have a membership with Edinburgh Zoo and I like to go there, something like once a week if
I possibly can. It's also a good exercise to walk around there and so when they started opening
up again last month I decided I'd maybe start going back again but I do know I found myself
suddenly I did a couple of weeks and then I found myself feeling really uncomfortable about the
way people are out looking at animals and stuff and they don't play without masks of course.
That's the people I mean rather than animals and they don't play a lot of attention to
proximity and you know whether they're carried away with the light looking at the animals I don't
know but you know I got a little bit nervous about it to be honest and stop going for the while.
Yeah well it's funny I don't know people I don't know a lot of people they just listen to the to
see the news and it sounds to them like it's safe and it's safe enough to go and just do their
thing and then they just forget where they're basically because you know I keep saying to
I've said to my mother before you know it's not what I kind of I'll say to you guys it's not
what some silly law sees it doesn't matter what the law sees it's whether it's safe or not
that that's really what the while is down to. Yeah yeah that is very true it's I keep saying
to anybody who listen but nothing's really changed. All has happened is that
rather than everybody in the country who could catch it catching it and then swamping the hospitals
we've controlled it so it hasn't penetrated as rapidly but that doesn't mean that if you go
and expose yourself to it or get exposed that you won't catch it and you know and we could be
seeing peaks coming back again especially with the kids at school that's a concept that bothers me
because yeah the kids can catch it they don't there's more or less symptomless in the
vast majority of cases but they shed it they shed the virus so if kids go to school there's no means
of telling if there's the virus in the school because there's no testing to see if anybody in
the class has got it and then they come back home and then can give it to the parents and the
grandparents and whatever you know it doesn't seem it doesn't seem very well managed at all. No
I agree but I think really what the while is down to is it it's to protect it's not to protect
individual it's to protect society and that's the way I read it because you know for example you
can you can bubble and bubble to different groups of people and what not so you can have one
household I don't really know that all the rules and regulations but you can have one household
speaking to another household if my mother was talking about that and I said yeah well that's
fine I said but it what is that other household doing it could the household you're you're
bubbling with could be a person who who sticks to themselves doesn't do very much stays and
it's careful but it'd be likewise you keep bubbling with somebody who deals with huge numbers
of the public and isn't at all careful that's not the same risk now okay it means that it's not
going to spread very far because you're bubbling that's as far as it will go but you still catch it
you know it's it's it's it's to protect society and not to take in the individual
necessarily you know what I think that's right the whole mass business is not to protect you
is to protect the people you come in contact with should you have the virus you know so
but but that would apply to children and being we can guarantee that kids not can be wearing
masks too and from and when they get home and whatever you know so it doesn't it doesn't really
work I don't I don't know what the consequences are going to be I think America seems to be a
little bit more cautious than than the UK has been in relation to schools opening yeah well it's
interesting because I wasn't at the teacher talking you were seeing that what was it you said you
said you said you said you were that annoyed a bit of this and this was probably doing language I
think there's probably the same in Scotland to be fair and something on the lines of
you know he was talking about wearing masks he wanted to protect the students from him and he
wanted to wear a mask but he was he wasn't actually he was he was he wasn't actually allowed to wear a
mask he was actually rules stated that he couldn't wear a mask even though he wanted to protect him he
wasn't allowed to which is absurd you know it's really mad there's there's not really been much in
the way of clear guidance as to what what the reasons for wearing masks are and what the consequences
of not just the sort of just bare mechanics of how how this works you know and because the virus is
spread through everyone drops it so come out of people's mouth mostly and roses yeah yeah and it
depends how the volume map is heard about that disease and how the volume expect difference as well
and here's a interesting research night you may have heard this one Dave so new research from the
Edinburgh School of Engineering has shown that if someone is coughing or talking wearing a mask
wearing a mask then there is 10,000 times less drop of translations to two meters away it's actually
better to be half a meter away from the person wearing a mask than two meters away if you're not
wearing a mask that's I just piece into perspective yeah yeah yeah but that's sort of stuff that should
be on billboards it should be on the news and it should be on the television it should be on the
radio it should be everywhere those sorts of that type of information those sorts of messages should
be very clear everywhere and there's some countries that have done it and done it very well but
for some reason whether the UK doesn't want to play this game at all no no I do find it really first
to think you know because even with other kind of family members and stuff I think you know it's
not it's not I don't it's not that difficult actually it's not difficult you know you just think
if this is a part of a public place you know you make sure you stay two meters from everybody
if you're if you're for suffercies that you think a lot of people have been touching then
you know if you do touch them that's fine but before you you should you should
sometimes your hands before you're going to need your eyes your nose or whatever you know
that's what you've been all done about yourself it's just common sense yep yep yeah and I know
oh boy let's move on shall we do you want to have a pick something off your list
yeah okay what was my list number one what was it general general what no it's not we'll
we'll stick with the last general discussion about submitting a show notes to HPR remat
then I'm hoping minimum age it's workload and almost common pitfalls at the start with my
passport yeah I think we probably get sort of three or four different types of show notes we get
people who've gone to the trouble to make HTML sometimes it's handcrafted HTML and they sort of
lose the lose themselves a bit because I personally hate writing HTML and it's so easy to
close a theme prematurely or put put the closing part of a tag in the wrong place and you do
see that quite often so those those can be great if they're a nice clean HTML but otherwise
they're not I have to I run them through a through an HTML checker which flags up all of those
sorts of things and then I edit them to to repair whatever and also we're currently producing a
repair a report that goes back to the sender so that's the sort of first class second class is we
get markdown which people tend to people are building up a lot of experience with markdown now
because it's available in all sorts of contexts if you use git and git modern stuff then markdown is
what you use to write readmies and documentation and add stuff to the wiki or whatever it is you're
doing so markdown it's not the best way of typing text admittedly but it's not bad for what it is
so people have got reasonably knowledgeable about it so we get some quite good quality markdown
coming in so that's the often the least difficult stuff going yeah yeah okay so I just
going to say well I mean generally I tend to just submit things as plain text because I think
well there's there's less likelihood of it to cause any problems so if I can stick to plain
text I do that and well HTML I mean I think I have done a wee bit HTML way way back but as you say
it's so easy to make it I mean not not to close something up or something so I can't not to
but markdown is a new thing I've started you know probably know that I've been one of two
members of one of two shows that have submitted the markdown members is one actually and the first
thing was that when I submitted the show it mentioned like you say what type of markdown and this
problem because there's no complete standard so there was as you see there was git or something
and there was something else and I didn't understand which one it affects I just run it with
picked one and the other thing is is that I think the default am I right in saying this at least the
one at the top of the list is pan dot markdown which is markdown with quite a lot of extras added to it
and that I think a lot of people prefer that just judging by what you see out there these days
we'd get have one second second right in popularity now you you mentioned so what I was saying
well either we were discussing with David about this because of some initially I think when I
was something I think she was and I was saying you know could could each PR point to of course
if it's somebody else I can maybe move is a problem with doing that but as I'll say that you
could let say well by the way if you want to check your you know Mac then you can go to this site
or whatever and you mentioned a couple of places if you also mentioned an application which I think
you can also get for Android so it works on Android it works on Linux to do what's in all the
all platforms really I I can't remember what's called in it and I'm excited yeah yeah we did
re-text re-text yeah yeah that's right now okay I was opening up this now and it looked a little
basic maybe but I'm but it was it was really good it was fine so of course when I when I
clited my document with the re-text I didn't know which markdown to pick but there was all I think
I'm old and that was the only thing I think is a hard in it but you know if if if you had a really
possible to have I don't know to mention re-text in when you're applying for show notes or something
or or or or a link to somebody else when people could check and then I also tell them which
one to pick the best matches because that would be mad because I don't know in a bit of markdown
I'll tell you that's that that's what we're all saying no that's great I guess where we have
agreed Ken and I that the documentation on the site needs some to work and I've been putting
together a frequently asked questions list it had a rapid start and then sort of stock for a
bit due to other other things but I think what I like to do would be have sort of sections in there
that point to the larger documents about these sorts of things and that's certainly be something
to put in there you know I want to do markdown which one should I choose and how can how can I
simplify markdown and those sorts of things I think that would be a great question to add to it so
yep I'll put something in there we'll we will add something about that to the to the notes
exactly good stuff good stuff yeah that's that's that's that's fashion um I wanted I wanted to say
that the third type of input that we get is plain text which is pretty common and because plain
text and markdown are pretty similar I just simply take that plain text and turn it into markdown
and I've got a few scripts I've written that will help with that now I can select a um a URL and
it will turn and then click this thing in green and it will change it to the the way that markdown
likes to do you links do pictures and that sort of stuff as well so just to save me some typing
it's all but um so that that's that's a fairly common thing be nice if it was markdown to start with
but can cope otherwise that's interesting I maybe other people thought the same thing with it
a the simplest thing for you to deal with could be text but it actually turns out that markdown is
probably as long as you pick one that's that's that's recognised it's probably the simplest one
to deal with because I could sense I've met all my shores in markdown that's not not the issue
actually that's that's good to know that actually yeah yeah we should be clear about this shouldn't we
um the the and we do take different flavours of markdown because this was a thing that Ken and I
discussed I use PANDOP behind the scenes to turn the markdown into HTML and markdown will handle
many different types of input not just markdown it will handle other things as well so I've just
whatever you select in that pull-down list gets passed through to PANDOP and it just processes it
accordingly so we have had one or two instances of things like
that was a restructured text I think somebody sent in at one time which which we're trying
yeah yeah there's a big problem with it so that's the idea
I'm a PANDOP so I think I've shoot quite a bit of that I sure
years ago a bit about PANDOP and she would do it and or maybe it was actually on his own website I'm
not sure if you're unsure but in PANDOP that's like I conversion the conversion from one form like
another that's right yeah yeah it's it's amazing it's a really clever piece of code and it's got
better over that over the years so yeah you can actually feed HTML and it will generate markdown
did you hear that by the way did that come through do you hear what that is I forgot to switch it off
I say that's my there's a show just been submitted message so my I'm on my laptop here because
I couldn't get mumble to work on my main PC the main PC just spotted a new HBR show
and that's it that's it alerting me to go and do stuff with it so yeah it's fun here oh it's all
go oh excellent very good very good yeah so that's good that's what's that's but I'll be of that in
mind that from now on you know the one that's gonna cause less less of an issue is I use markdown
so and particularly to highlight URLs and whatnot so that there's makes it less like a good
longer is one of the issues that we haven't fully resolved yet although we're working on it is
when people want to send in pictures I've always been keen that there should be a way that people
can do that because you take tell me he uses stuff recently where he was sending in pictures of his
model cars that he's been refurbishing and stuff I thought it was yeah I'd like to see that sort of
thing happening to some some extent no it just makes it to my mind make sure more interesting
so but sending them in and putting them in the road place and knowing where the actual file is
going to be when it's on the server all that sort of stuff gets really complicated so we definitely
need to make a simple path to achieve that and document it properly which we're working on but
it's a little while yeah it sounds like a nightmare I mean how could you how could you
automate pasting it into the correct location and that that would be the unless you could just
append it to the very end and and just say you know refer to picture one picture two picture three
years it's not it's not ideal but it would make it much easier to deal with this you know
monotony point of view of the thought yeah yes yes yes what some people do do manage to do it because
we do have some bear information about how that works but Tony for example just puts in a little
sort of comment that says picture one here please picture two here and that's everything so
so I've just got the little then macros that will do the necessary so yeah it's but it's a little
bit the challenge for my end yeah unless you could you could supply a template or something like that
don't want this template and put your own text in the late that's maybe that would be the one
we didn't mean that's a thought it's a thought yeah yeah I'll have a we think about that I actually
use a template myself when I'm preparing the show so yeah but but templates that I write for
myself and not things I would want to give to anybody else but the principle is a good one yeah
so shall we move on to your number two then all right I just wanted to flag up the fact that
many for several years now we've had a thing called the pod call Glasgow more sometimes
Glasgow pod call I don't know which which way around we like to do that but um that was planned
for the first of August this year but of course that couldn't it couldn't happen but so we managed
to organize an equivalent thing using jitsy and so we had we had a get together by jitsy on that
that evening and it was really good because many of the people who've actually been to these things
in person were there but there was also people who said oh I wish I could have joined you
and for they had a long haul to get get to so we had Laney who's who I think is involved with some
of the stuff that the other side network does in she's in Yorkshire I think and we had
Clatu from New Zealand somewhere in the middle of the night we're early morning in the heat class
we had Chalcolon who who does appear occasionally in uh HBR things uh it's not actually an HBR
function let's get that sorted and he's in Hungary and we had another one of the other side network
people Chris who was in Canada so so we had 10 people joining in to this this thing um I like
it's really good it's great oh excellent yeah I just I just I tend to be
busy the other these days so yeah um what is jitsy is that is that uh you mentioned it's important
does it do videos is it's audio or what is jitsy? No it's it's a video videos system a bit like the
zoom never use zoom so I can't really say much about it but it allowed us to uh what you do it
you create effectively a room on the jitsy server now it seems to be a pre-service at the moment
and you can then advertise the URL of that server to people who might want to join in and they
can just join in with uh with a web client with a web server to to that address and um uh no
with client like I said web server and they can um uh just join in I mean I I just
connected to it and with my my phone headphone set up as I have now for mumble and uh and obviously
my camera on my laptop and it worked just great there was an array of matrix of videos of people
doing stuff sitting in front of their computers or whatever and uh and we were able to
to wave at one another and chat and so forth it was really good.
No, very good, very good yeah I mean uh so you you you mentioned the decision before
and they I managed to actually prolong my get back my webcam from my mother so I know
have it and then okay it does actually work to my amazing I couldn't believe it actually
so maybe one give another go and get set up was yeah yeah yeah that would be no we just the
I think people are doing things like running jitsy with an audacity running in the background
recording stuff because jitsy doesn't have a recording capability as far as I understand it
but um you know so so that you get uh I'm not sure most people will record something or
whether you're just getting what you could just make an audio thing but you could see the the
others um as you as you did it I think zoom might have a bit more capability I'm no expert on this
so I shouldn't say more than I know yeah yeah I was wondering uh I should probably just leave
that I've got I've got push to talk enabled but I've actually got it toggled um right because
it don't suppose you're not going to get feedback or anything so I don't suppose it really matters
I push it I don't push it I have a bit there so because you can kind of feel do you flex out on guessing
when this can you obviously I think so yeah yeah some people do do you remember that way
so yeah what quite sophisticated yeah yeah yeah yeah really good so yeah so yeah the good time
in that that's that's nice yeah that's I think anyone open to that one there it was it was open
to all but but we I think the organizers didn't uh didn't make the address available until
just a short time before the actual uh start time so uh oh I was wondering I should say actually um uh
this has been a thing that um kevy from tuxjam podcast has attended to organize in real life and
he was certainly one of the the movers on this jutsi one and um he uh he just had a moat
moat about accident on Thursday so just to say anybody is a no similar sinister to him he sees
he's out of hospital now but he broke broke both um coming off his moat break so so he's in a
bit of a bit of a quandary for a for a few weeks I think so yeah no no I must admit there was a time
when I retired I thought it'd be great to get back on a motorbike again I used to ride one
quite a lot but uh yeah I used to as a student I used to commute from knowledge where my parents were
to Manchester which is a fair old journey on a not very large motorbike but um yeah yeah I was
really fancy and getting back on one but I'm really glad I am because I've probably killed myself
I'm sure I heard statistics of course that people later on in life were sort of you know
get back into motorbikes I think and there's quite a number of that happen I happen to
believe so it's it's it's it's difficult isn't it because I mean that I have I don't have a license
of motorbikes but I have off road does not uh off road bike whatever it is wonderful you know and
I don't hold here do more peds so yeah it's a great test feeling I must say it is a lovely way to
to travel on on a good day whatever but uh yeah it's it's pretty weather dependent I think um
kevy just just lost the back end of his bike lost division and he was off the road it wasn't a
collision or anything but I haven't got the full detail so I shouldn't say say too much too uh
but he'll doubtless tell us all but he's he's communicating by telegram and stuff so he's uh
he's not not too downcast he's a cheery fella so I just thought I'd share that because
because you know people might be aware might want to be aware that he's uh yeah he's not been too
too good yeah yeah excellent excellent good stuff good stuff so um shall we move on to the next
topic or so uh so my second one uh well this script wasn't I you know the thing I missed before
but I finally developed a get a chance to to uh to do things like that these days and of course
if you're not if you're not using something you you you quickly lose it you know if you're
you know if you don't use it all the time you that does tend to go and I'm kind of quick bursty
there with a lighting bash steps or whatever or so on so it's a bash or maybe python there's a two
things that are flavor than the past uh but um yeah so I was working on that and I script that um
the idea was that I I the some video files are sometimes uh convert um to different format and
the it takes on my aging ancient old PC it takes quite a long time so I thought it'd be good to know
how long is it going to take to uh to to to convert you know this this video file from
and I'll just be second I thought this but Pablo's going to go asleep there um yeah so I
wonder how long we take to take to convert you see because obviously you live with PC a load
and you think well well they get it done before they go to beds sort of thing sort of that sort of
thing yes I thought yeah I thought well it must be quite easy to find out the the first thing I
did the duration of a video file and even that was a um oh wee bit tricky so I pulled together a script
which um so what it does is it uh for each file it looks for if files that are no older than
so it's it basically starts using a fine using a fine command and so it's okay so to add that
it says no files that are no older than 14 days ending in before put the date and file name
followed by duration so it uses um I think called a ff probe to get the um the duration of the file
so you get the date you get the file name the duration of the file um I'm in in a second now
the conversion time and it uses a what is it called it was a huge um what does that
then called no um for doing footing point um this bc that's all right yeah we're just
gonna say that's it yeah bc so a bit it ended up with like um oh yeah when you call it sub-shells
and say sub-shells and say sub-shells oh it's like complete spaghetti I thought I got the name
but um yeah so that that that was that was that took a real longer than I expected but it was
fun to do it and I was probably months since I've done any coding so uh so what's
I've been thinking to be working on these I tend to be poking around with scripts all the time um I
yeah terrible this sort of well yeah it's it's in my job I started out as a programmer and uh
then I became a sort of manager and did less of the stuff and so I really missed the scripting
and programming and stuff so I'm retired I tend to do more of it so I'm terrible at
fiddling around and this sort of stuff so yeah I um let me tell you about one thing
I'm actually might make a hbr show about this one it's gonna be of interest to people but um
my kids live with me these days but they we have a sort of family get together every Wednesday
Thursday and I cook for them so um they they what I do is make a big batch of something and
we eat it on two two nuts and um the vegetarian my son and these girlfriend are the daughter is sort
of 90% vegetarian so limits the number of things I can cook for them so what I've done is I've got
a database containing the various meals that we've tried and liked and um then I wrote a script
which will uh select the next one for the becoming Wednesday and uh it'll do it randomly
but it has to be a little bit more than just random because we don't want to be getting the uh
the ratatouille twice in succession so each meal has got a meal titled ever has got a repetition
time associated with it so don't bring this back up again until so many days have passed so uh
and someone we've got long repetitions because the because they're not that popular and someone
got short repetitions strangely haggis and eeps and tattis using the vegetarian haggis is a rapid
repetition one they never complain when that one comes back so I run this thing and then send
of a head of saying right the next Wednesday's meal will be global but and it gives me a chance to
if I do it a few days before I had to do the appropriate shopping to around to get all the
all the necessary so so I've been developing this this particular script and uh making it more
efficient and it's a bells and whistles I'm not one for GUI applications this one is a um
command line thing so uh but it's uh but it does color text and stuff just my concession to GUI
things so yeah so yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so yeah like I mean it makes me
sure that you know that sounds fun really yeah it's useful to actually yeah well it's it's
surprising you know there's a there's almost like a sort of a betting game going on I wonder what
it's going to be this week oh yeah do you think it will be such and such no no I hope it's not that
you know so so uh when have we when we're going to have that such and such again you know
it's fun it's fun it's fun it's it's it's in the hands of the computer oh it's something to do with me yeah
yeah so that's it I was thinking I was going to make it more generalised and then put it up on
GitHub to haven't got that far yeah yeah yeah it was funny fun enough you thought about
the vegetarian but my my wife there's recently got a book and it's really taken she's really
taking this sort of thing and it's about how what impacts what you what you eat can have in your
your whole body and your mind and all that so I think you know I have read it myself but um
but so she's been cooking many more vegetarian dishes so I mean we're not
vegetarians but any means um but uh last few weeks now I reckon maybe 80% of the time we've been
eating vegetarian meals something I'm a bit more than that in fact but yeah it's just it's very
good I'm kind of enjoying that much to me I'm more than I thought I would so yeah yeah it's
surprising how how good some of these things can be if you're not to not really into into the vegetarian
stuff um I get asked every Christmas to make um what tense we called a nut roast I think the
if you look in the recipe books that they tend not to use that because that was used as a sort of
pejorative joking term for what vegetarians eat but it's basically ground up nuts in it and made
into a shape with with all sorts of other things in it like mushrooms and you know quite a lot of
flavorings and stuff with it and you get you bake it and then get slices of it um but you eat as
if it's meat with uh you know roast potatoes and uh and veggies and all that sort of stuff as
as per Christmas so that's been remarkably popular yeah yeah that's a that's a favorite and when
you get done at Christmas it's quite a lot laborious so yeah very good very good excellent yeah so
there we go it's just that's quite interesting hi hi hi this is Dave here we decided to cut our
conversation into two pieces so we're going to stop at this point and resume in a later episode so
thanks for listening see you later bye
you've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio dot org we are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our
shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hecker public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise status today's show is released
on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
