Episode: 3561
Title: HPR3561: Employment security
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3561/hpr3561.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:24:37

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,561 from Monday the 28th of March 2022.
Today's show is entitled Employment Security.
It is hosted by Archer and is about seven minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, phone system for the state of Illinois.
Hello, this is Archer 72.
In this episode, it's a pain of dealing with the unemployment in the state of Illinois and the United States.
The summary of this call is that it takes approximately five minutes to go through menus to find out that you have to get a call back to get an actual human.
So if you want to fast forward to the next five minutes, feel free.
Thank you for Illinois Department of Employment Security.
Welcome to the Illinois Department of Employment Security.
Your call may be monitored for quality and training purposes.
For English, press one.
We have implemented the callback only model as a temporary solution to effectively honor the order in which callers attempt to reach the callback.
What this means to you is that rather than wait on hold or call multiple times, you will receive a call when you're next in line without losing your place.
It is important you select the appropriate numeric option that best describes the reason for your call.
This ensures that you will be served in the order that we receive your call.
We will be called back during the hour of 7.30 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. Monday through Friday and including weekends.
You can only have a single pending callback schedule and use this from out of time.
If you are an employer, press one. If you are an individual, press two.
Beginning of December 27, 2021, cleaners will no longer receive payments for the key base debit cards.
Unless they switch to direct deposits, they will receive payment via pay-to-check.
You strongly encourage cleaners to switch to direct deposit as soon as possible.
Doing so will result in quicker access to benefit payments.
Cleaners can switch to direct deposits through their I-D-E-S account once they complete I-Login registration.
Please visit I-D-E-S that will know that goes flash payments for more information.
With text using almost here, we strongly suggest that cleaners choose to receive their 1089G text once electronically.
Visit I-D-E-S that Illinois.gov slash 1089G for more information.
I-Login is now required to access their online I-D-E-S account.
To enroll in direct deposit and receive their 1099G electronically, you must complete I-Login registration.
Please register as soon as possible.
Also, please make sure that your address is up to date in your account.
If you need assistance logging in to your unemployment insurance online account, including assistance with I-Login, press one.
If you do not receive your paper check or direct deposit payments, 7 days or more after certifying, press two.
Otherwise, press three to continue.
If you live outside the state of Illinois or have earned wages outside the state of Illinois in the last 18 months, press one.
All other college, press two.
To repeat this menu, press PAL to reach to the previous money for pin or pass or reset, press one.
To update information on your existing claims, press two.
To file an unemployment insurance claim, press three.
For questions about your certification, press four.
For questions about your 1099G, press five.
For Illinois drop link, press six.
For information of all college or to report identity theft, press seven.
For all other inquiries, press eight.
To repeat, for faster processing, you will need to provide account information.
This information will be passed on to the agent handling your call.
To enter your claim in I-D, please press one.
To enter your social security number, press two.
To repeat this menu, press PAL.
Please enter your claim in I-D number followed by the pound sign.
So it did get a call back as a result of this call.
The system works, it's just that you have to wait through a lot of menus.
And do have to give them credit.
At the time of this recording, it's been over 10 years, actually about 2010,
since the last had to deal extensively with the employment security.
And at that time, they had to use Internet Explorer and they weren't allowing the system to work on Firefox
when you first signed up for the service.
So if anybody else has stories about their dealings with a state agency or anything in the other countries
in their states, feel free to make a recording.
Talk to you later.
Thank you for listening.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
