Episode: 3372
Title: HPR3372: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 8
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3372/hpr3372.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 22:18:40

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3372-4 Tuesday, 6th July 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HPR 2020-2021 New Year's Eve Show Episode 8.
It is hosted by Honki Magoo and is about 99 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
What if a deer fell into my smoker?
What if a deer jumped out of its skin and jumped into my smoker?
That would be a neat trick and I'd never see it.
I've switched over to Moomla.
Moomla? I like Moomla.
It's now my go-to on Android devices.
It is or is not?
It is my go-to.
I do still have plumble installed,
but when I'm on Android anymore, I'm using Moomla.
That's when my push to talk switched over to
I need to set it back up again.
I understand, you know, poaching,
hunting out of season.
It's illegal for a reason,
but there was a time when I was a kid when, you know,
my family didn't have any money and sometimes
it was the only way to eat.
Probably the problem is going to be behind.
You mean those, I can't say the word on here.
People that bag a deer and all they take
is the head and leave the rest there.
That's a poster.
That's trophy hunting.
Now, that far north, do you guys,
do you get pheasant and quail?
There's a lot of pheasant and quail.
Okay, pheasant's good to eat in any way.
We get parchurch.
Parchurch?
I don't think I've done parchurch.
Like a fake pheasant.
Do you go fishing?
No, I filled out all the necessary legal paperwork.
Uh-huh.
You probably don't do your own hunting
then either you pick up the meat in trade.
Well, no, because we used, um,
sometimes we'd be able to get a hog or, you know,
um, or even with a deer a lot of times what we would do is we'd go to our local butcher
and be like, hey, clean this up for us and you're going to have half of it.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
Do that most get the where they need it.
Well, when I say clean it up, I also mean you'd make a sausage as well.
Usually we do our own smoking because we had a smoker.
Yeah, it's been a while since I had grits.
I'm not sure about red eye gravy, though.
What's it made from?
Salt?
Salted pork, uh, your shoulder.
Red eye gravy.
The gravy is made from the drippings of pan-fried country ham mixed with black coffee.
Okay, that does sound sound good.
Very good.
Very not healthy.
You just think baking some coffee.
You have me at coffee.
I make a lot of it.
Well, why are you just doing it in front of your salad?
So are you interested?
Sorry, I had to talk to my son for a minute.
What's up?
I said, are you in Texas?
How many Texas, yeah?
Do I?
I'm here to eat.
Uh, yeah, I guess it's kind of everywhere.
So you don't eat much of it?
Um, I've had to start cutting back on red meat.
My cholesterol started shooting up.
Then honestly, I've never been a fan of barbecue sauce.
Don't tell the rest of Texas that.
They'll ban me.
Oh, Barbie.
Oh no, there's plenty of barbecue sauce.
I don't do barbecue.
Yeah, I'm not a fan.
I do like barbecue sauce on this, about it.
Yes, I could do some barbecue chicken,
but I'd be careful with the salt, too.
Chicken is in the grill.
Rub it down with mayonnaise.
What did you say?
Manage.
That's disgusting.
Not what you grill it.
Oh no, you said mayonnaise, and that's disgusting.
No, no, mayonnaise.
Manage.
Manage that, you know, that egg and oil.
That absolutely disgusting thing.
Yes, don't eat it.
Plain.
I'm saying, you're all checked, grill it,
and salt, and pepper, garlic powder, whatever else you want in it.
Ah, okay.
Create a second skin, yummy.
Ah, mm.
Where's the habaneros and the jalapenos and the mango?
No citrus.
No citrus.
Why no citrus?
You don't want to eat citrus, don't you?
Ah, I love it.
My number's in here.
That's from a movie with Denzel Washington.
No.
Uh-uh-uh.
It actually is.
Jurassic Park.
Yeah, that's a Jurassic Park.
It's not Denzel Washington.
Mm.
It's not Denzel Washington that's set it.
It's also from a Denzel Washington movie, though.
Trying to remember.
Swooy.
Maybe Demolition Man.
Denzel Washington was not in Demolition Man.
There was Wesley Snipes.
Right, that was what.
That sounds like something.
Virtuosity.
And it was actually the antagonist that did the uh-uh-uh.
I thought of that, too.
Russell Crowe.
Russell Crowe, as said 6.7.
What year did that come in?
Um, 1995.
Ah, it's the park was first.
You're probably right.
Oh, you haven't slept yet?
Um, I've been having trouble sleeping lately.
It does not sound like it.
It's not.
Unless you really want me to talk about apnea.
Oh, one of the guys is like, hmm.
Yeah, the surgery doesn't work for everybody, so.
It depends on what's causing your apnea.
If it's a deviated septum, then yeah.
But it can also be completely mental.
And your head do.
Just in your head.
You quit breathing because, yeah.
But I think I've had three hours of sleep
in the last almost 36 hours.
I don't know.
There's something in time to do this.
Yeah.
And I don't know if it's just that, um,
I need my pressure adjusted or what?
Or if my machine is getting old and dying.
Well, it's the latter.
Maybe I might be able to go in and fix it.
But I would never know that if I could get the pressure settings
to what they're supposed to be.
So how do those, um, hold on one second.
Yes, that's how they work.
Um, they work in the same way as, um,
it's like they're blowing at your face the whole time.
But what they're doing is changing the pressure,
much like a hyperbaric chamber,
which is why full face masks work.
So I have to wear a full face mask at work anytime.
There's two athletes.
Morton C, um, do you also have apnea?
No, I have narcolepsy,
but they tried giving me a CPAP.
And it mess, it messed up my nighttime breathing.
Yeah, yeah.
If it's, if there's too much pressure
or too little pressure,
then it will cause more problems than it solves.
And if you have narcolepsy as opposed to apnea,
then it's just going to be a problem at four sleep studies.
And the doctor wouldn't even, uh,
she was just waiting until I, uh, uh,
hit close to the minimum for possible sleep apnea
to give me a machine.
Yeah, that's dumb.
The fourth, the fourth time I had the sleep study, um,
two of the texts told me, uh, they said,
you have sleep apnea.
That's what it is.
And that's why you had narcolepsy?
They told me that I had narcolepsy.
And I was like, no, I don't.
And I went home after the sleep study and looked it up.
And I was like, oh, my God, I have narcolepsy.
I told my friends at, and they were like, yeah, duh.
They brought up things like me falling asleep
between a voivod and death angel at a concert
when we were in high school,
standing in the pit.
Yeah.
Well, I'll be honest and apnea can cause things like that
because you don't get any sleep.
And then eventually you go to sleep
whether you like it or not.
Hang on.
I had them to the boy band and death angel.
Boy, Vod, Canadian thrash metal from up there in Quebec.
Ah, right.
That name.
I heard different.
My favorite and ever top bot.
But you don't like sabaton?
Who?
Tabaton?
Or region death metal?
I'm sure it's fine.
But probably, uh,
Voivod, Black Sabbath, um, anything
by John Zorm.
They might be giants, Richard cheese.
For some of my favorites.
I've been listening to some off-the-wall stuff lately.
So I gotta look it up.
Um, backstreet voice.
We're in.
Babic.
Eric, July.
Beaty Pablo.
Some kill switch engaged.
Definitely not all of their stuff.
But that cover that they did of Holy Diver.
That's awesome.
Megadeth.
Yeah, I have to like Megadeth.
Is that band with the whiny little, uh,
Yes, I do.
Some flow rider.
There's an all female,
I think Norwegian band.
Swedish band called Hell Songs.
Um, and they do folk covers of metal.
It's awesome.
My kids told me they hated rush.
I almost disowned them.
The guy that produced the rush albums
is the couple of the Voivod albums.
They're in the soul.
And they, they have a very rush yield to them.
Honestly with rush,
that's still hard to tell how it sounds
because they change their sounds so much.
All that remains is pretty good.
What about El Nino?
I don't know that one.
How about Nick Rogablicon?
Yes, they have a fantastic.
Yeah, or Guar.
I am probably the biggest Guar and you will ever meet.
I have no Dan Walker.
We'll give you a run for you.
No, he won't.
I've probably seen him over a hundred times.
In the mid 80s played in Columbus.
Almost weekly for a while.
How about Kru Shadow?
I think so.
The one of those bands that has gone
through so many changes,
you kind of have to be a bit more specific.
The first and second iterations of Kru Shadow
were really good.
But I'm a sucker for a girl with a violin,
playing metal.
What about Archen?
Don't know.
How about Diveinels?
Apocalypse.
Sounds familiar?
The early guys of the cellos, Metallica.
Ah, okay.
I have listened to some of their stuff.
Black violin, Lindsay Sterling.
I don't think I've heard.
You haven't heard Lindsay Sterling?
You should go look up Lindsay Sterling shadows,
like right now.
Yeah, I'm playing YouTube.
YouTube is exciting as that is.
I do use some,
I was using some YouTube DM.
I had some really interesting
automated scripts set up in Cron.
Grab some specific YouTube videos
when YouTube got rid of the built-in RSS features.
Yeah, there is.
I think it's very a little bit deeper
and you have to do a bit more to find it.
But it was easier for me just to set up the script.
Not to actually.
Mm-hmm.
Yes, Ed.
YouTube, DL, and you know,
automatically remembers what videos you've already downloaded.
So you have it checked every day to see
if there's anything new
and it automatically grabs it.
Lustra,
either buckchairing,
hot action cop.
No one.
But you don't like hot action cop?
You don't like buckchair?
You do not.
Why?
I don't know.
Six rubs.
How about lustra?
They're all right.
But nerd.
How about insane poetry?
Insane poetry?
I'm not sure on that one.
Let's just say let's change up the genre a bit
and go with Chris Cross.
Yeah, but I think music.
They haven't been able to make music in like 30 years.
So I've never made music.
I mean, one's dead now.
Didn't I know?
When did he die?
Skrillex?
My life with a thrill kill cult.
Don't know that one either.
They're amazing.
Do you remember the movie The Crow?
Bagley.
There was a band playing in the club.
That was a thrill kill cult.
What was the band that was playing in the lone rangers?
Not Ozzy.
The other band.
I'm going to watch in that movie again.
Now that I've mentioned it,
airheads.
It wasn't the lone rangers.
It was airheads.
Yeah, lone rangers were in the band in the airheads.
Yeah.
That was a good soundtrack.
Yeah.
How's he going, honky?
It's going.
The movie was 1994.
What airheads was?
Yeah.
Yep.
Gonna have to watch it again.
Motorhead and Primus.
Prom.
White zombies.
White zombie.
Yeah, white zombie.
Is anybody a Reagan youth fan?
Don't think I'm part of them.
Really?
They were the people that made the song degenerated.
Oh, okay.
How about Death?
Not the metal band.
The Proto-punk band.
From the seven?
Yes.
Yeah.
Not too bad.
What about Cannes?
What was it, Cannes?
Cannes.
C-A-N.
Nope.
Don't know him.
Okay, so what's everybody's favorite book?
Don't say data structures and algorithms.
What'd you say?
Sorry.
I thought I heard one of my kids crying.
What's everybody's favorite book?
Anything by Scott Siggler.
Siggler?
What's Siggler, right?
Scott Siggler.
You don't know?
Scott Siggler.
Actually, I think I do.
He wrote the space football book, right?
G-F-L.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But there's so many books he's written,
and they all intertwine the same universe.
I think I've read parts of two of his series.
But I read the G-F-L stuff, and I'm trying to remember.
Nope.
I think there's been four or five G-F-L books
and four novellas.
That story arc is still not done.
There's a...
Yeah, books will be coming out.
Will it still come out in 2020?
There's Mt. Fitzroy and Earth Corps,
or two nocturnal.
There's the one about the genetically modified animals
and the upper pendants of Michigan and sister.
The infected trilogy,
infected contagion and pandemic,
which is so good and poignant to what's going on now.
Daniel Suarez.
I have not written.
Dude, you really need to.
I mean, what is it?
Freedom and...
Or Damon and Freedom are really good.
But he also...
There's another book, Change Agent.
That's really awesome.
And Kill Decision,
which I think was more of a short story.
And then I'll always be a Salvatore fan.
What, last month was a good...
No, November was a good month for books.
I mean, the new Alex Veris book came out.
It's, um,
but, uh, Ready Player Two
and Brandon Sanderson's Rhythm of War.
A really good book.
A really good series.
Stormlight Archive.
I have to go and prepare things for guests.
Uh, it was good talking to you.
Happy New Year.
Oh, it's a good, uh...
Player, uh, we're on zoom.
Um, let me check.
Nope.
There's a jabic cast.
Yeah.
Let me see if it went to...
Expand.
Nope, nothing recent in spam.
Well, um...
That's jabic at mincast.org.
You could send it to...
Mincast at mincast.org and I should get that too.
It's not Gmail back.
I don't know.
No, it's Gmail back.
Uh, Mordancy, have you read John Scalsy?
Who?
John Scalsy.
No.
Give him a try.
Uh, which book was it Old Man's War?
I think there's four books in that series.
But really the first two are good and the other two.
Okay.
All right, I think I might try this whole sleep thing again.
Get an hour or two or something.
I'll talk to you guys later.
All right.
All right.
Yeah, it's good getting to talk to you again, Mordancy.
We should talk.
We should talk more.
Yeah.
Well, you know where to find me.
Twice a week.
Well, once a week.
I do.
I think I'll try and sleep.
You can try and get on, uh, the lug cast too.
Actually, that'll be tonight.
Eight o'clock.
Uh, what time zone are you in?
Eastern.
It's 10 o'clock right now.
I'd be logging in at eight o'clock,
so you'd be logging in at nine o'clock.
Jordan, I haven't slept.
Make me maths.
Honky, what time do you log in for, uh, the lug cast this evening?
I'll look it up when I wake up.
All right.
Later.
Happy new year.
Happy new year.
Goodbye, everyone.
So it looks like we've got a few new people this year,
so at one point, I looked like it was about 20 people in the chat.
Can you do that?
Not sure if my voice going through real either.
No, this, uh, can you hear me now?
Yes.
I can.
Yep.
I had taken disconnect my mic to record a HB show.
How'd you do?
It looks like we had about 20 people in here in the evening.
Yesterday?
That's right.
We are still today because I went to bed five o'clock
and then slept for six hours and
came back again.
You glad to ever come out last night?
Don't believe so now.
It's too bad.
I look forward to hearing them.
Yeah, exactly.
You had a little bit of life coming in, so let's just say like that.
Know that.
It's nice to hear nightways yesterday.
Indeed.
So shall one to be quiet for a while.
Maybe get busy with those own business, I think.
Yeah.
I need to just go and have a quick chat with my wife
once I can tell if I can.
Kevin, why have you left us?
So there's a stream working still.
So Kevin's just disconnected the stream.
It's now 1600 UTC.
Hello.
Is anybody still here?
I see faces in the room.
I do not hear voices.
This is Moss Bliss.
I haven't talked to any of you people all year except a few I lost.
Hello.
I'm just talking to myself.
Can you talk?
Just talking to hear someone say something.
They kind of have to wait a while.
Yeah, I just woke up and thought I'd give everyone my
nice deep morning voice.
You're listening to cool sounds brought to you by Moss.
Late night radio is the best.
I did radio.
Don't think too many annoying ads.
Yeah.
Crazy idea.
It is foggy.
On the morning rainy here in western eastern Tennessee.
It's dark and cold here, frosty in the Netherlands.
Holland to be specific.
Ah, the Holland part of the Netherlands.
It's all lowlands anyhow.
Exactly.
Oh man, haven't got to my morning cough.
I have I scare people around here with COVID and all because of
I have some granulomas in my upper lungs and they're totally benign
and they don't get disease but overnight they collect
book and I have to cough it out.
Yeah, like my body says that's that shouldn't be here.
And so it surrounds it with flim so that can get it out of the system.
It doesn't get out of the system.
I have to get flim out of the system.
Isn't that lovely to wake up the morning with?
Yes.
Better open in.
Yeah, well, it's all in.
I just have to.
I have been in my life a pipe and cigar smoker but not a cigarette smoker
and with pipe and cigar you don't inhale but some of it gets in anyhow.
Yeah, it doesn't get in deep but that's probably what causes the granulomas.
Yeah, and why they're just at the upper lobes with my lungs.
Not fortunately.
benign granulomas.
So do you have any plans for the new year?
Today there's nothing you can't do anything and it's rainy and foggy anyhow and
people keep telling you not to go out at all because of COVID and
so I'm just going to sit here and do nothing.
I just checked in to see if they've here was still on the air and they still are.
Yeah, well Kevin twist the stream but I'm leaving the recording going here.
I see I'm partnering about here and the old it all we can probably.
So cause my surprise we're in lockdown so I'm not going to be doing enough.
Really?
Yeah, I tried to get all my podcasts caught up by the end of the year.
I failed to get the most recent broadcast but I can forgive myself because I was on it.
I already know what was on that show.
And then I also woke up to find a brand new one from Big Aussie Prepper.
Our friend Hobstar.
Not for a minute.
Hobstar designed the new Mintcast logo.
He's a big Aussie Prepper.
He's a six foot five Aussie lives in the Victoria state of Australia and he just started.
Well this was episode 13 which is rather auspicious to start the new year with.
You twist Kineco phobia, I can freak out over that one.
And he basically has decided that he's going to start being a Prepper which in America we'd
call a survivalist.
You know, be ready for whatever happens how to make bug out bags, how to do enough canning
to stay alive for a year if you had to stuff like that.
And it's a very informative podcast and he's not fanatic about it anyway.
And it's very much.
That is dangerous obviously.
Yeah, it's very much.
I'm just learning how to do this and I just, I like to share the process with you.
And he's a cool guy.
And so I've been checking up on it.
They're rather short.
Do you still create some commons in anyway?
I would believe so.
I get it on my I use podcast adact and I just get it there.
I don't know if he's got a feed burner feed.
No, I mean, does he release it under a creative commons license?
Or does he not put any license on which means it's full copyright?
And it's actually illegal for you to download in the first place.
Oh, really?
It's really pedantic.
Yeah.
He didn't know that.
I will talk to Hob and let him know.
Well, let me go open up the website.
He also has a YouTube channel.
He's starting to do some videos on the stuff that's harder to talk about.
See, I don't know.
I usually just talk to him in the mid-cast telegram.
Big Aussie Preparon.
Yeah, Red Circle.
Can I link there into a notebook?
Yeah, let me get this open and that open.
And here is.
I'm sure if he knew the problem, he would address it.
And I will make sure he knows the problem.
And maybe he has it dressed up.
And here is the YouTube channel.
Cause it is.
And this is going to anybody else who's listening.
If you've got a creative commons show,
we will, on HPR, happily syndicate one episode of that.
So the people knows your show exists.
And you get to send an audience.
As you did wonderfully, or just our Hopper Digest,
and we have over 1900 downloads of our HPR episode.
And 8,000 of all 18 of our episodes through our normal channels.
Fantastic.
But we also have got the free culture podcast website.
Currently at the moment, some technical issues, but we're working on that.
And there we're going to use that as like an umbrella for people
together or free culture podcast on any topic.
So long as their release under a creative commons license.
And then we promote them at shows and stuff.
Whenever that's happy day arrives again.
Okay, apparently I do not currently have an open conversation with HOD on telegram.
So I'll just have to contact him on that cast.
No worries.
Matt Hobbs,
I'm a decent type of speed, but I pound this keyboard to death.
Yeah, I didn't notice that.
I was going to say anything because as soon as you do,
then you have a four-hour conversation about the type of keyboard there are.
Well, it's a fellow's microban.
No, this is not Jerry Blues.
Jerry Blues?
Fast forward to all those guys.
I am going to mute this thing and keep typing.
Oh, well, you said something about having a channel for I'm not awake enough to remember what
it was you said.
You said it's currently not working well.
Yeah, I'm hoping you had a sister website basically where we release creative commons podcast.
And then last year, for example, in the post-em and ad camp, we give out leaflets of various
different podcasts to people so that they could go there and then from there promote creative
commons podcast, regardless of the genre.
Maybe you're not into Linux, you're an event with your partner or whatever that you are,
into metal music or your R into science fiction comedy or D&D games or stuff,
then look down the list and find another creative commons podcast that you're into.
So it's been frustrating because some of the shows you want to promote, but if we promoted
all the shows, then we would just be a syndicated channel like Hacker Media was intended to be.
So this is a way to kind of promote the other type of shows within, well,
and we also make sure people tidy up their feed so creative commons is listed there.
Right, yeah.
It also gives people avenues for playing music or content that they don't need to license,
so you don't need to get a broadcast license if you go to shop or something.
Check that with your local jurisdiction.
Well, I would assume that Tony knows all this stuff and Dithroppers is definitely creative comments.
Cool.
After all, you did release our first show, so.
Yeah, while we checked the license to make sure everything was hunky-dory.
Yeah, Tony does dots the eyes and crosses the teeth on our site.
Let's see.
Indeed he does.
Yeah, we added a new member to our team with our last episode.
I don't know if you listened to our show.
I do, I do, but I have a list list of a backlog with all things going on at the moment.
Yeah, I can't, I cut off a bunch of shows that I'd noticed I wasn't that excited about listening to
just so that I could say I listened to everything on my list
at the New Year's, and I didn't quite make it the most recent episode of Midcast did not get
listened to yet, but that was released in the old year.
Anyhow, let's see.
Where would I look to see whether it's creative commons coming on here?
I'm on my own website and I don't know.
Copyright.
This work has licensed under a creative commons attribution.
I've been on commercial 4.0 international license.
Yay!
And we look in the RSS feed.
There's a special license tag in the title, and if that says creative commons then we're good to go.
Well, last time I did stats, we were at 8,000 total downloads through archive,
and it was over 1900 just towards one episode HPR.
So almost we're getting close to 10,000 total downloads.
Very good.
And three of our last four episodes of exceeding 600 downloads each.
Here we go, check archive.
I'm proud.
Oh, today is the day I usually do check archive.
Good.
See?
That gives me something to do today.
That updates the stats on both Midcast and Distroso,
and of course they want me to give the money and I would love to, but I don't have any.
Yeah, that isn't right.
Here we go.
The sample episode of DistroHopper's Digest is at 1,960 downloads.
Very good.
And our other best episode is at 637 downloads.
Oh well.
I'm still talking to people that have never heard, well, last night when I was on this podcast,
a lot of people said they've never heard of us.
Shame on them.
Eggs, such a thing.
At this point, we, oh, yeah, when we started this, we were expecting to maybe have 100 people
listening to us.
And our lowest episode is our first episode at 336.
But when you figure our first episode also has that 1970 downloads from you guys,
we can't say that.
Yeah.
We only got four episodes now that are under 400.
Out of we got 18 episodes out now, yeah, 18 episodes.
We got one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight more that are under 500.
But I think it's it's nice that it's growing.
Do you do you have it?
Do the older shows increase over time as well?
A little bit.
Just just a hair, you know, when someone discovers our show, they want to they usually go back and
pick up all the other shows because obviously our topic is not one that goes out of date that fast.
We find our on HPR, there's about 50%
within the first two weeks or so, first month, 50% of the hits come and then subsequently
any show can expect to double that listenership over time.
Well, let's see.
For a long tale.
Well, I think it's a midcast we've been, oh, Gali, our averages are coming up actually.
We were averaging about 3300 episodes, I think we're starting to average about 3600 episodes.
You can see in terms of most recently released stuff, 346 is at 3698, 346.5 is 3525, 347.3589.
But then 347.5 is 3245, 348 is 3145, 348.5 is 2837, 349 is 2593, 349.5 is 2345,
350 is 1889, 355 is 1456 and 351 has not registered a download yet, that archive is a little slow on that.
I know that there have been downloads because I've got it.
But it's really interesting, you can see over a just four episode period how the downloads are
coming in. And like I said, 345.5 and 346 are over 3646.5 and 347 are 3500 and then it drops a 32,
31, 28, 25, 23, 18, 14. So we do not get instant access to our show.
And you have done archive.org? Yes, a fantastic service people who are feeling generous at this
time of year to do worse than contribute to archive.org. I totally agree and I have mentioned it on
show a few times. But yeah, I can just go there and get my stats. I don't know how they collect
their stats and they all do seem to be a weaker two behind. But I get all the stats, yeah.
They are very conservative in their in the amount of numbers that they're producing. So they
what they do is they have a page on this, which I read, and they calculate the numbers the same
way that I did, which was for any given 24 hour period, they will look at the number of downloads
per IP address per show. So if you are behind a firewall and you know a school or something and
1500 people downloaded, that's still only counted as one episode as one download in that 24 hour
period. But if those 1500 people download different versions of the show, then you'll guess
the different versions of the show. So that is completely contrary to how other websites will do it.
I also do it based on the number of hits that exceed three seconds. So if it's viewed for more
than three seconds, then let's consider the unique hit. Also, if, for example, an IP address with
a session, polls as a restart that's considered a unique hit. So the numbers on internet archive
will be very conservative. You would need to multiply them by 10 if you're comparing them with
some other server, commercial services. I also came up with a website on who has hosted
Mintcast, how many episodes. Basically, I went back and looked at all the show notes to say,
okay, who's on this episode and marked them down. Very good.
The current staff is just about, well, Leo and Joe have been on every show since we took over.
And that's been 58 episodes. And one of the co-hosts that we replaced Isaac was only on 61 episodes.
We have already surpassed, I have not, but Leo and Joe have already surpassed the original
host, Charles Holstead. All right. He only had 51 episodes, but we got a long way to go to
beat Rob Hawkins out of, out of 351 episodes, Rob Hawkins was on 245 of. Wow. That's dedication.
Indeed. Very much. So it takes a lot of time. So I can see how he got tired of doing it. Yeah.
For sure. He stuck around to get us all trained in. So we get at least to a bad podcast and
he came back several episodes later. He got talked into hanging around doing nothing and
we shanghai didn't do an episode. So he's got, he's the gold standard in midcast 245.
And he's got such a good voice. All right. Now Leo and Joe have 58 episodes. I've got 49 and Tony
has 45. Something you'll want to do on HPR. Let's go back and support multiple holes on a particular show.
Quite a lot of shows have been contributed by several people. But we don't support that
yet, but we'll eventually. Well, all right. We managed to get through 2021. I 2020, I'm not sure how
it was. It was a very mixed up year for me. I'm sure it was for everybody.
Dale just said he wanted to get on. It's on. I'm here with
Dale Miracle said I wanted to get on the HPR. Mumble last night, but fell asleep.
I was saying something. I'm sure I don't remember. It's still early. I haven't had my copy yet.
Go have your coffee. I haven't put my coffee in a new coffee all day and I'll get a headache again.
Well, I drink gallons of coffee, so.
Chateau would be proud. Well, I am picky about my coffee. I don't like coffee that picks me up and
carries me across the room. I'd rather have one that I pick up and carry across the room.
The flavor is more important than the strength. I only drink MJB, which is not what it used to be,
but when I was a kid, they only sold MJB to the West Coast of the US. Their advertising slogan was
there's only enough for the West. Now it's being produced out of Virginia.
So that's clear. But I can get it on Amazon now, so I'm happy.
I'm going to go and pull some shows, I think. Can you do this for a moment?
All right. I will go copy. I'll be here listening.
All right, Ken. Nice talking to you.
Oh, happy new year and all the best wishes to you and yours.
Oh, yeah, I was about to give you a run down on my new year. You don't want to know.
Go do what you're doing.
I'll be back in the minutes and you can tell me all about this.
But there I took a little extra time to make some breakfast.
Excellent. Excellent.
Not what most people would call a good breakfast, but what the heck?
A microwave beat pot pie, you bet.
Well, I take it. The day old did not follow my prompting and come in here because I don't see him.
Anyhow, I'm sure everybody has a story about 2020.
In my case, I started the year with a decent job, although they'd fired my,
that they'd move my good manager to a different store.
And then April 15th, I crashed my car on the job.
And instead of putting me on workers' comp, they laid me off and blamed COVID,
which has pluses and minuses.
Workers' comp has been really bad at following through on my health care,
but I also should have been getting workers' comp payments instead of an employment.
I ran out of my unemployment, but during that time, I was getting that COVID money that the US
was doing for a brief period of time. And because of that COVID money, which was,
well, after taxes, I was getting something like $660 a week, that's probably more than double
the most I've ever made. So since we got it for as long as we did, I probably had my best year
financially. I was able to climb out of 95% of my debt. I got set up such that even though I
haven't really worked much since then, I also haven't gone broke yet. That's good.
I think we're starting to drift back into a little bit of debt that we left ourselves as a leeway.
But I got a job as a substitute teacher in the local school district, and then they started
clothing in schools due to COVID. So I have a job that I don't have work. That's not good.
No, not good at all. Obviously, they weren't going to train me to do remote teaching since
they didn't have time to train their regular teaching.
So it's been very much a up and down thing. I have not had the security of knowing where my next
money is coming from, but I did have the ability to get out of a lot of debt. I got a job with
Census Bureau, and I could have continued working it, but I never got paid. And we found out that
it was my fault that they wanted direct deposit done. I'd given them the routing number of one
of my credit unions and the account number of another one. So it was going nowhere. It took three
months for me to get paid. I only worked short three weeks, and still it was over a thousand dollars,
which was nice, but I was going week after week after week where's my money.
So that was not a fun period. At least she goes with a million.
I did get it in the end. I did not get what a lot of people that work for Trump get, which is
you should have just did it for the experience. Put it on your resume.
Yes, I did get paid. I just don't know what to say. We just yesterday
got our new $600 per person COVID check. So we took care of a few things that needed to be done,
and hopefully we will be able to survive through January and maybe in the February,
but I still do not have a paycheck, although I currently have two jobs. In the past, I had done some
work with the homeless in Asheville, and I had actually been moderately successful at it,
except for not paying myself for doing it. And I got sort of famous for that in a small way,
and I've got a friend that keeps trying to get businesses started that if the business is
successful, it will help some group of homeless people stop being homeless, start having a real
job, things like that. And the current episode of that appears that it has a chance of actually
working. So he's paying you a little bit now, and then to get going, he's got a website up,
AWA here, I'll put it here. And he has me listed as the founder, as if I'm making gobs of money,
and basically, when he has worked for me to do, he's paying me 20 bucks an hour to do it,
which is good pay. But I've done four hours work just last week, you know. It's $80 more than I
would have had, but if it takes off, I'm actually more people would have. I hope I will have some say
on how those people are treated as employees. We have committed to paying them a living wage,
as we can afford to hire someone, they will be getting paid also the 20 bucks an hour.
Most handicapped people, most homeless people get paid day labor rates, which were usually
like eight bucks an hour. And it's as horrible how they get used. And so we're trying to fix that.
I have no idea if it work. I have comments. I have comments. But I'm keeping them to myself.
Well, I work with this guy a few times over the last 10 years, and some people have gotten some
benefit out of working with him. Occasionally, that's been me, but not as much as other people.
This time I've gotten a fair benefit out of it. I've had to do some work. I've had to wait for him
to ask me to do some work, but I don't know. I don't know. I fail to see how it would hire all
the people he says it's going to hire, but I would love to be wrong. And I would love to get paid.
So what are the comments you're keeping yourself? Don't hold back. I want to hear it.
Yeah.
I'm not going to say that. Yeah, about treating people fairly and stuff, but I'm
going to benefit that sort of thing, relying on the state. But that brings up all sorts of
politics that I don't have the time or the ability or in fact, they I'm not naive enough to believe
that it is under the law, in which we live.
The benefits from that are firmly in Western Europe are a direct result of the fact that there
was a Soviet block on the other side, and people were going, well, they have free social housing.
Oh, we better get free social housing. They have workers like, oh, we have workers like to too,
as well. But now that that's collapsed, a lot of people have been looking towards they have more
Trump style. And I think that might not be desirable in my mind. I am not a Marxist per se.
I do appreciate how the views of Rosa Luxembourg, who was someone that kept getting in Marxist
face and correcting his math, but still remained along the same lines. He didn't think Marx was
wrong. He just thought he was incorrect. You see the difference, you know, your math is off, but
your concepts are good. I'm not familiar. Feel free to do a HGR episode on her. I'll be very
interesting, but I will say that there are there are grades. It's not just left to right. It's
not just communism, socialism, capitalism, it's a doughnut. I think what Sweden has is pretty much
what I think the US should have, but it has been pointed out that Sweden is not managing this much
land or this many people. While we are not China or India, there is nobody else as big as we are.
And you can see what China has to do to manage their people, and that's not good.
And India has turned into a racist monopoly now too, with Modi being anti-Islamic and anti-everything
that isn't a white Indian. You learn too much from the English.
Just give me one second. I need to check with my wife again. She's on call and
need to make sure she's doing okay. One second.
Yeah, I'm back. She's responsible for several care homes where they're handicapped or,
what's politically correct word, people who need a lot of care. And she's on call over the
new year, and it's notes because you've got all the new year stuff. And in addition to that,
there's lots of units shut down because of COVID, or one half of them was open, and the other
half shut down. So after four days, she's need to make sure she's eating okay.
Yeah, I had been working as a caregiver in the past, and I got railroaded out.
Basically, the client I was watching burned himself. I couldn't get hold of the nurse.
I couldn't take him to the hospital on my own authority. And they basically made it look like
I hadn't tried to contact the nurse, and the fact that I got him to the hospital.
The biggest problem was I am a fast typist. I took copious notes on what was going on,
and since they are not used to fast typists, they were sure all he was doing was sitting down
writing notes and not taking care of my client. And so they basically said I was not responsible for
his care and wrote me up as a class 1 neglect, where I was taking care of him the best of my ability.
So that's when I started driving Uber, and then I moved from there into driving for
O'Reilly Auto Parts, and then I crashed my car in April and lost that job.
So it has been in a whole lot of different things, including radio.
Curiosity is just put in Reve, call me telecom.eu 1900.
Put in the link on what is about.
Well, I wouldn't know anything about telecoming me, telecoming me.
This thing is flooding my network board. I've got nothing open. It almost looks like a
D-DOS, and literally the only things that I've got open is a couple of small websites,
and a mumble. That's it. But this thing is like thousands of packets a second almost.
Coming into you. Or leaving you.
Sorry about that. Which direction was it going?
Let me have a look now. It's coming in.
Never heard of it.
Could be a tour exit north. Are you running tour?
Yes, I am. That might actually be it. But yes, this is so much traffic.
This seems a bit distracted. I'm pulsating some shows.
Yeah, no worries. I think you're right. So I'm not distressed now anymore.
So where are you best?
I'm in South Africa.
Yeah, I'm part.
What part of South Africa?
Africa.
Oh, sorry.
20. Or Pretoria.
Okay. Cool.
That's in the how-toing problem.
Yeah, Metcast has a regular listener,
call-bondener, who I think is in Johannesburg. I'm not positive.
Yeah, I think the sort of security research thing is getting quite big around the IT crowd
at this time. So I've been busy with it for a couple of years, but I think it really is picking
up rice.
Well, it is now afternoon here in beautiful Eastern Tennessee, 1239.
It is foggy and raining.
How far is that from Boca Chica?
From where?
Boca Chica in the state of Texas.
Okay, I'm not familiar with the name of the town, but Texas is quite a distance from Tennessee.
This is a bigger country than anyone can think of.
Yeah, it is big.
Yeah, was it 350 million people?
Yeah, that's quite substantial.
Well, not only that, but it's the fourth largest country in the world by area.
Although it's just not a small backwater or other troop adult.
No, it isn't.
No, it isn't.
Yeah, we've got some decent spice.
It's a bit of a contentious topic at the moment because certain extremists want to
basically take away land from everybody and redistribute it and all those lovely things.
But yeah, so just out of interest, like Boca Chica is basically where Elon Musk is doing his
is in eighth and is in ninth the whole spaceship program.
Let's see here.
See, I can't really answer because Texas itself is about the same size as South Africa.
Jeez, like, okay.
Right, yeah, that creates a little bit of perspective.
Here we go.
Elon Musk confirms that he has moved to Texas,
looking at homes near Lake Austin.
So that's East Texas.
It's actually the sanest part of Texas.
The main University of Texas is where most of the Liberals will have been Texas.
That's Austin.
Okay.
I actually thought like the whole of the South of America is fairly sane.
No, the whole of the South America is fairly insane and believes everything that comes out
of the words of Donald Trump.
Yeah, see, that also doesn't work.
What we need to do is get rid of any form of extreme extremism.
So be that left or right and everybody just use common sense.
I think we can pull that off, man.
Well, see the fallacy of your argument as there is no commonality to sense.
You can't use common sense if there isn't a common sense.
Yes, okay.
Now understand that, but if we rely on logic and not ideologies,
then I think we already one step in the right direction.
Yeah, I believe that any ideology, any pure ideology is impractical.
And we'll leave some facets of society out.
We have to have some level of compromises to meet the needs of more of who most people.
I don't think there's any way to meet the needs of all people.
Yeah, I think, you know, specifically on this forum,
no, we should probably not pick sides, but things like 58 genders
doesn't quite sit well with me.
You know, things like that, that's the extreme sides and we need to get rid of that sort of thing.
Well, I'm more inclusive than most.
I am an old person who had never really felt comfortable in who and what I was,
that there wasn't a better alternative, so I just stayed to do and what I was.
But if people do find out what they are comfortable being, I'm happy for them.
For me, the problem is just when they force me to change my science.
Forcing anyone to change.
Well, I don't know.
Science has been employed badly on both sides.
Oh boy, I'm starting to sound like Trump.
Oh, it's a good people on those sides.
Guys, just give me 15 minutes.
My daughter just saved a little bird.
So I just need to find some space to try and rescue this thing.
Just give me 15 minutes. I'll be back now.
Okay, my mouse is just locked up. I wonder why they're at unlocked.
And you should open up a new room and see what's going on.
Here, a stacer here, boy.
That was strange.
I went to clear my cache in a stacer and instead closed stacer.
I would never have that happen before.
All right, now I'm working.
Hint of salt.
I don't think I'm ever going to use Bluetooth on this.
Grandma, and you know, I have boundaries.
You cannot come in here.
There are certain rooms I don't let my cats in.
Hmm, so I'm going to move to Geeks with guns.
Hi!
Oh, I have been crashing my CPU.
That's where I've got open as HPR and a few tabs of Firefox.
I'm on a force generation i3 with 16 gigs of RAM.
And apparently I'm taxing my CPU by viewing on HPR.
I haven't ever noticed that while doing Mintcast.
How many of you cozy using?
Apparently all of them.
Haha, they're taking...
The Core 4 has been getting overused the most followed by Core 1 and Core is 2 and 3 less so.
But there have been some 100% on Core 3.
I'm looking at my waves on stacer right now.
But I don't know why, average is aren't that bad, that boy.
I could take a look at mine, but it's a 32-mini.
Yeah.
I do have a more powerful machine I'm not using.
It's a second generation dual glean.
But it uses a lot more power.
This is a little bitty mini box.
I wonder what the calculations are then.
I don't know because like I say, I've got Firefox open and I'm not actually in it.
I've got four tabs open.
I haven't even signed into any of them.
I just opened it up to look something up.
So I now close that one.
Let me go back and look at the stacer.
I would wonder what else Firefox is running in the background.
Well, I'm still tasking my processors.
So it's got to be a mumble.
Because I have my file manager open and not doing anything with it.
I've got stacer open and that takes hardly any memory at all.
And I'm still overpeeking 100% on all processors at one time or another.
I'll have to look at that next time on Mintcast because they've been talking about some of my
audio dropping out and that might have been part of it.
Might have to open the fuzzy 400 again.
I've got room in here.
Well, I probably should find something better to do although it probably isn't anything better to do.
In terms of news, I don't even bother watching the US news reports anymore.
I've got one commentator I listened to as a next day podcast.
She's probably way off on the left.
But I watch Canadian news,
CBC, the National, which I get the next day via YouTube.
I figure they're more concerned with the US than anyone but the US.
And they're much less likely to take one side or another on the subject.
But just report what's going on.
It has managed to keep my panic levels down.
But it's also been fun because they panic over their COVID levels.
And their COVID levels are like one tenth of what the US's are.
It shows you how a government deals with a crisis when healthcare is part of your budget.
Where it is not in the US.
Oh, well, just let people get sick and die.
It doesn't matter.
They can go bankrupt.
They do it all the time.
It's easy.
People tend to take that for granted in the UK.
Just to healthcare, point of delivery or point of what do they say?
When you rock up, when you say I'm poorly, they just look after you.
Yeah.
Well, the US, we really don't have options.
You go to the emergency room, you're treated like a third-class citizen
and build several thousands of dollars, which you haven't made in the last three months.
So basically all you can do is file bankruptcy or just ignore the bill.
Yeah, I don't know.
When I was thinking of moving out of the country, I did check.
One of the first things I checked was I know I was surprised by how many countries do
give free healthcare at least at the point of access, you know.
Well, at this point, the US is the only first world nation that does not.
I'm not sure we're still a first world nation.
We seem to have economic policies more in line with India and Brazil than with UK and Sweden.
It does seem like it's not that far away.
I mean, any countries never too far away from collapsing really,
considering the state of economic fantasy.
But I think the American infrastructure was like roads and bridges as far as the impression
reaching here was they were kind of falling over.
Yes and no, it varies from the region to region.
Some of it is the federal government's fault.
Some of it is the individual state's fault.
Some of it's even more local than that.
But in general, our roads are not bad.
But you don't know what bridges about to fall down because they're managing to overperform
what their design specs are.
Okay, and that is less of an issue than what people will do when things get a bit hairy.
And you've had a look at that recently, haven't you?
I'd worry a little bit about the UK if people did become dissatisfied how soon they would start
ignoring other people.
Well, the UK is a pretty small country as countries go.
So they might pull together a little bit more.
But they've always considered themselves more than one country,
and they might pull in separate directions like Scotland.
Scotland really wants to succeed in rejoining the EU because they were happy in the EU.
I was thinking more on the person to person level,
like how people will retreat into their houses and not help people around them.
You know, and to what extent that might happen.
Well, as someone who at least has the title of running a corporation
to employ homeless people, I hope that we would do better than that.
I'm just wondering, like you said, they are pulling in different directions.
If you look at Brexit alone, wow.
But is it not maybe the time to offer these external countries that belong to them
in the payments like Scotland?
Well, why can't they not have independence and rejoin the EU and just be Scotland?
I wonder how Northern Ireland voted on Brexit because they are the ones
hurting the worst because they had opened borders with Ireland
and it got over the troubles and everything.
And now the EU is requiring them to close those borders again.
They're refining the North of Ireland and it's over now Brexit that bit's done.
Scotland wanted independence before that and they probably would have got it
if it hadn't been for the activities of Westminster.
They probably will become independent soon.
I want to say probably, I mean, I wouldn't be surprised.
I wouldn't be surprised if they stay together.
There's issue with nuclear submarines and things and the fact that we could see it
or it would appear that obviously the English government, Westminster,
they won't allow it to happen if they can stop it.
I mean, they look at what they've done in the rest of the world.
You think, you know, maybe a hundred years ago,
they're a machine gunning people in their own country, you know.
It's just power, you know, it'd be interesting.
I actually think the biggest problem is overpopulation.
Earth was not meant for seven, eight or nine billion people.
It's like when you stick a whole bunch of people into a small room,
tensions are going to rise.
There's just nothing we can do about it.
I've seen enough statistics to say otherwise that we definitely have the capacity to produce
for the people that we have.
We have the capacity to distribute, but we don't do it.
We have the capacity to coordinate and cooperate and we don't do it.
And that is why we have a problem.
I agree.
I think the problem is because when in doing that, there's no profit.
And the world is built on profit.
If there's no profit, why would I do it?
Well, it's human fraud.
We need to change the view point of capitalism.
The profit is the only thing to be working for.
There are places where, you know, where capitalism isn't so much the main
paradigm, mental paradigm.
So there is hope.
There were, I mean, there were gift economists before they were destroyed by capitalism,
right?
Like the potlatches and things.
Yeah.
And for sure, we've got twice as much food as the humans need.
It's just we feed half of it to animals, don't we?
And we throw a third of it out of her spoilage
because we don't know how to distribute it properly.
Or we don't distribute it properly.
We do know how.
There's just no profit in it, like you said.
Yeah. And the idea of what people regard as profit
and what they regard is a good time and what they, you know,
how they feel about work and reward and scarcity and all of that.
Well, I believe it was an Native American elder who said that one day,
white man will wake up and find out that you can't eat money.
Oh, that is so true.
Yeah.
And when so many people start walking, like displaced people,
I think there were already 60 million displaced people in Africa were there last year
or something.
Maybe that was.
And so, imagine when people are moving away, is it?
I think they're moving away from the coasts and away from the desertified areas
and then into this.
I think it wasn't as Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated
and close to the water.
And the other countries were building, it's any small,
building a wall around that already, weren't they?
Because so many people would clearly be moving soon.
Yeah, like Bangladesh.
Put up a barrier and just let it slide.
Oh, my.
What do all these fortals be?
This traffic that I noticed from this pony thing seems to be a SIP protocol attack.
I'm just going to kill everything door and see if I can move this station
into a different direction.
Well, I'm going to go do something else, even though I don't have it something else to do.
It has been a pleasure talking with you.
Ken, I don't know if we've talked before.
We probably did last year a little bit.
I'm sure you'll find something to do.
I mean, I'm not singing.
Well, I don't do enough of that.
I don't do that for myself.
I have to have an audience to sing.
I get you.
I should sing more.
I used to sing a card.
I should sing more.
You can sing to us.
I did last night.
I hope that was recorded.
It was almost there again.
No, it was not recorded.
I give freely.
No, I mean, I think it was all recorded.
I wonder if it's being clipped out and stuck somewhere.
Well, I didn't exactly play the song straight through either.
I played the first verse and then decided I'd forgotten to actually
say what the song was about.
And so I stopped and explained the song and then went down and finished the song.
They were great lyrics.
My oldest friend in the world wrote that one.
And I think it better than he does.
Even without teeth.
Enjoy your evening then.
Have a good, I need to get my legs stretched.
You know, I need to sit down and stretch my body because it's seizing up.
Okay, I think Hockey Magu was keeping recordings of all that.
All right, I will talk to you some day.
I think it was, what was it called?
Dallas on the moon.
First woman on the moon, yes.
I do have other recordings of it out there.
I think I've got a recording of it on my YouTube channel, which is Zypa, Z-A-I-V-A-L-A.
Excellent.
Excellent.
Can you maybe pass the link to that?
Oh, maybe so?
I did.
Turn it.
Thanks a million.
Let's see.
Let's see.
Do I have, I don't see that I have first woman on the moon here.
I've got some other songs.
No, anything, it's
entertain us.
I think at this point it's about only me and you, everybody else is an idol.
Well, here is my channel.
Let me see.
I might have it on my wife's channel or it might, for that matter, be on Lemmings channel.
Yes, okay.
Opening that point.
Yes, on Lemmings channel.
There we go.
And we do this.
Come on.
There we go.
There is first woman on the moon, performed by me
January 2017 in Atlanta.
I did mess up the last chorus, but
Violet was good enough to get the idea.
That's weird.
I feel everything tore to try and get rid of this SIP attack.
And now YouTube doesn't like me.
It wants me to do all the funny weird
verification stuff.
Lemmings, lemmings, lemmings, try and see what I can do.
Yeah, I haven't been on YouTube for a while because they kept asking me to verify.
And then because, you know, they didn't like where I was coming from, they just
made me, they said, oh, you have to change all your details and I just didn't go back.
Yeah, so at the moment I'm selecting fire items.
Okay, guys, I'm taking off. Enjoy.
Good night.
Just go well, have a good evening or day or whatever it is that time that it.
Well, I realize it's a low bar, but make 2021 be a better year than 2020.
I definitely will be.
I mean, we've learned a shitload in 2020 and be adapted and
proved what the humans put it can do.
So yeah, I think we're going to ace this one.
Okay.
Yeah.
Arthur, I thought you'd give it up.
Just lost my connection for a minute.
What have you got?
DSL, Kettle, Fiber, Telegraph, AT&T DSL.
Yeah, Telegraph, sure.
Switch virtual desktops and I think it cut out my connection.
You had all the audio book recommendations sometime back.
Yeah, it was for me, wasn't it?
Or I'm a mistaken.
Now that was Taj and somebody else.
They did the audio book club.
No, no, on Tills or on you random back in the day or Colonel Panic like years ago.
How I was around at that time.
No.
The battery ran out of my daughter's bluetooth headset so she took my
now I'm listening and earbuds with a big lung cable that's dangling over my monitor.
I'm just going to check the audio on some of the shows back in a second.
There.
That's three, three, ten bolstered.
So what's the sip attack?
Curiosity.
Sorry, what was the question?
Curiosity mentioned he was having some trouble with a sip attack and he went off to deal with it a while ago
and I just wondered if it was just him or a general.
Yeah, he had a...
He didn't know what it was.
Turned out to be a tour browser running on the background.
Okay.
He was dedocating himself.
Only Moss was struggling with his processor.
Oh, okay.
At about the same time and I can't tell because I'm running boink and stuff.
You running what?
Boink, number crunching for diseases.
That kind of stuff.
Like set you at home for diseases.
Yeah.
Okay, what am I doing?
Okay, call storage process.
And I'm back.
Eeks.
Eeks.
Simpsons fan, are you?
Yeah, I used to be back in the day but no, that I don't have time.
I used to watch up to about season 20 and then sort of fizzled out and lost interest.
Been a long time since I watched some Simpsons but I did get tempted to...
Someone told me about what's the drunken scientist guy and his side guy.
Rick and Morty.
Rick and Morty, it absolutely bring us all out because it's not too much to consume.
It's like seven episodes every two years so it's easy to consume.
I agree.
I agree.
But you have to be able to laugh at the whole concept of melism.
I got a smattering of nihilism here and there in myself.
I'm generally pretty optimistic.
No, I think you can...
If you can laugh at the jokes at least then you're definitely going to enjoy it.
There's some really dark episodes that really do it WTF.
But you know, for the most part it's actually just good humour.
Yeah, I've had some proper laughs.
It's good to get a laugh once in a while.
Even if that laugh stems from the dark side of comedy.
Well, that was what made me feel uneasy about the symptoms back in the day, the symptoms.
The symptoms were even falling down a cliff and it was breaking.
I mean, he was always breaking himself, but he's breaking his arms and stuff.
And it was maybe even tame in comparison with Tom and Jerry.
But there's just...
I recognised how disturbed it was.
Oh, and something that had me on the floor in bits and I couldn't get up.
It was laughing so much.
It was Bart Simpson.
It was a time...
I think it was under a maple.
And they were dancing round, sort of weaving him up with his own intestines or something.
They had chopped his arms off.
It was just so sick.
Clarke, I shouldn't have been...
It shouldn't have been funny.
And it hurt.
And I felt guilty.
Okay.
Yeah, and I feel guilty.
There's a very solid line between comedy and reality.
And I think that is something that is actually highlighted with Rick and Morty.
It's just literally so out there that the realism disappears from it.
There's a...
Yeah, and I like the psychology there as well, actually.
It's entertaining.
You know, not knowing trivial.
You know, not trivial.
You've watched it.
One of spoons.
You've actually watched it there.
Yeah, I'm not seeing them all.
I only watch it for free.
Oh no, my friend sent me some...
I don't know where it ripped those from.
But generally, I watch it on YouTube years later.
So I haven't seen them more recent ones.
And I don't have Netflix.
I can't be bothered.
I generally don't watch cartoons.
But yeah, I do go looking for that once in a while.
When I'm just super bored with everything.
Yeah, I've cancelled Netflix after the whole cutie thing.
I mean,
Talpone is just one of my...
It's actually one of my active targets where my gray ad comes on.
And I will not feel guilty breaking the law,
attacking people, hosting and supporting Talpone.
So I cancelled Netflix.
But there's a South African
streaming service called Showmax.
And at least they've got the Recon Maudi series there on there as well.
Right, I got a friend who was doing some active
fight against child abuse.
Something to do with Operation Death Eaters.
He was forever getting, trying to figure out how to do proper,
nevermind, to a security that's terrible.
Because you can get yourself in trouble.
Yeah, the thing is if you just stay anonymous,
the search engine.
So if you know the dark web, this is search engine called Not Evil.
That is probably when you're new to the dark web.
It's probably the first search engine that you will come across.
And at the time, I was collecting combo lists
in order for my security usage.
So the idea is to have a combo list
of usenames and passwords, like a couple of terabytes in size,
then disconnect the username and the password from each other
by keeping them in separate tables
and sorting them alphabetically so that you can't even go by
number of rows and get the password.
And just searching for combo list
on that Not Evil Search Engine.
It was flooded with child porn.
So that Not Evil Search Engine
did get onto my radar as a possible target in the future.
Right, I'm just not, I just guess I'm so paranoid about
or not paranoid.
I recognize my limits when it comes to signal analysis, you know.
So one of the things that I do is when you do something like that,
firstly, regardless of how good you think your sick ops
or you never execute from home.
So and not even in your town or city or whatever.
You go take a travel, you leave yourself in a home,
you get on to an anonymous network
and from an anonymous operating system or a brand new VM
and that's where you take it from.
Yeah, I'm not taking chances and that's why I haven't done anything yet.
There's still a crap load of research that needs to be done.
Yeah, exactly.
You just got to assume that you that I would assume that I don't know what's on my
on that wire and who else is and who else isn't and how.
Like I just don't need to anyway if I try and think it through to be
yeah, I don't know.
I'll be sweeping up broken glass under a hedge somewhere.
Yeah, I think I won't even use any of my existing hardware.
So I would go and buy a Raspberry Pi 4 and just use that as my PC
and after everything is done, you just go and blow it up with 220 volts or whatever.
I don't know what to say.
After going through, think my train of thought going to signal in,
what is it, data integrity or where you the reason you have your encryption
and you're checking that the signal that you sent is the signal that you receive
is because that's really important, important in industry if you're either medical,
remote control or airplanes flying.
That's always necessary.
But then for me to be thinking there are so many positive things that need to be done
in the world that there are so many messages that you want everybody to hear
rather than hiding stuff.
But yeah, I know you can't, sometimes you can't retreat.
There's nowhere else to go and you're in that concrete room.
Yeah, I think that concrete room for me is the things that's happening to children.
I mean, I agree.
No, I agree.
I shot through the roof.
South Africa's seen such a hike or hike, sorry, of, you know, problems.
There was an attempted kidnapping 200 meters from my house at a crash where my
children used to go a couple of years ago and I need to stand up to that.
It's just like this fired burning inside you to say that, listen, I might have the skills to
do something. It might not be, you know, flattening it all of it, but do something and spread
the word and let others do a little bit as well and eventually because child porn used to be
fairly available on the open internet as well. And with the rise of tour, everything has moved
there and it seems like law enforcement, they keep on taking the drug dealers and whatever,
but they're letting child porn be and I just didn't get that.
Somebody needs to stand up.
Yeah, child abuse is like how you get people looking out for other people's
kids, like how you need to really, I don't know, the community that needs to exist.
I mean, in order to flush that out to the greatest extent, it's not a small issue, is it?
No, not at all. I've been planning this for a year already and I'm not even close to starting to
commit. I think actually what is needed is not one man. I think underground community needs to
rise up and it needs to be a team effort of a couple of hundred of people with a certain
state of skills to sort tackling these issues.
Yeah, my first idea is just you want to stop the abuse before it happens, don't you?
I mean, good enough to, I recognize when you can't, that if people are sharing
new material between each other, then you're quite close to the end of the trail there and you can
fair enough, you can hunt those things, those transactions down and maybe that is a better way
to catch people. You know, you've got bigger chances, right? It's a numbers game.
Certainly for a small resource. Yeah, no, no, no, what's the word? I see the logic.
Yeah, but now the thing that gets me down, I mean, I've browsed all over
door and all the hidden places and there's these random chats where actual parents swap pictures
of their own children between each other and that just makes me one of them, sorry about the
language. It breaks me that a parent, somebody that brought somebody into this world,
sought to protect that child actually is actively involved in destroying them.
Without reducing the focus or the recognition that it's a horrible thing to abuse,
any human, there's a lot of abuse that goes on in the world and I wonder, I guess,
okay, even within veganism, for example, they discuss, you know, after you've tried to do no harm,
when they start trying to stop the actual harm that's being done and I don't know, it's such
and all of the interventions you might make in the, I'm not trying to change the subject at all,
I'm just thinking when I find myself absorbed in an activity, then I do wonder,
I try to check myself to see if I'm not missing a greater effect that I could have.
From some other angle, even on the same subject.
Yes, I think you're talking about the bigger picture, so there's always, always, a bigger picture,
but I think we're sitting at what, 8.0 billion people on earth and everybody's got their own
frame of reality and if individuals, good individuals, choose their battles and dedicate to certain
things, then we can actually start to make a change. So me being a meat eater, I'm not going to be
involved in the animal activism, although I do find it atrocious what some of these
obituas are doing, but this is not where my bad, I personally go and I buy from a free range
place where I've actually seen the abattoir and I know that death is instant and all that,
yada, yada, yada, I've had this conversation before, but that is not my battle. So I choose to
select where I get my proteins from, I know it's humane and I know it's free range and all that,
but for me, something that gets my adrenaline going a little bit more than animal rights is
child rights, being a dad of two, so I think every person needs to pick his own battle.
For sure there are billions of humans as well, but if you examine that you can catch perpetrators
and maybe you'll catch ten or even a hundred or a whole 500 people who are actually transacting
images, but to stop the, even the idea of abusing another creature or one's own
children across the population, I wonder what would be necessary, what's the best way to reduce
anybody even wanting to do that? Not for you know, to not think that it's okay, so the example
of people eating meat is that they'll jump through hoops to justify this horrific thing,
they would never themselves do to an animal, not personally, or most people wouldn't,
but they'll pay someone else to do it, or they will allow it to happen because it's, you know,
it's not, so what is it that makes a, because clearly the people who won't do it,
something happens in their mind that they wouldn't even dream of
persuading someone else to kill an animal for them, so another person who maybe wouldn't abuse
their own children, they wouldn't know, the point is what makes a person consider that their action
is, has impact on another person, how do you, would you reduce more the actual perpetration,
that's what I'm getting at, rather than the the transaction after the fact?
Okay, so I think, um,
time to take this conversation, just one little up, and no judgment at all, I just would like to know,
are you a vegan or not? Yeah, I am, but the, I mean, it's funny, it's the use of the word,
like it's a tricky word, when I, when I stopped eating animals, it was because I didn't want to
have any other animal harmed or be, be killed, you know, and then I later on, or you start
identifying with this veganism thing, and it's about not buying leather shoes and all of that,
but yeah, the answer is, I don't want animals to suffer, I don't want to kill other mammals, certainly,
I mean, I don't need to take it to the end of the degree, but if, if, if, if just people laid off
the mammals, that would make a big difference. Okay, so, but I'm not trying to change the subject,
I'm not trying to change the subject, I'm not trying to change the subject, I'm not trying to change the subject,
how the abuse happens in humans to each other, I, that, that's my, I wasn't trying to change the
subject at all, just, you know, just catching current traders and then stopping it from happening
is all. I think we're actually still on subject, it's just from another angle, and at this point,
you might actually ban me or block me or whatever, but person, okay, I live in South Africa, and we grew
up pretty much as hunters, most of us. However, the drive for not hurting animals is still there,
it's always about the most humane kills. So now, if you think about animals in a mass abattoir
in one of these, you know, 10,000 cattle, um, of the raunches on, in, in the U.S., um, and how those
animals are treated, walking among their own feces and things like that, I'm not comfortable with that,
but if you have something like a kuru or, you know, some sort of antelope, living his life in nature,
the way the garden tendered, and you manage to kill him, you mainly, which is, you never take a
shot when you know that there's any chance of a risk of any suffering, it always has to be an
instant kill. And I know it doesn't always work out that way, especially if you watch some of the
YouTube hunting channels and things like that, but that drive is always there not to cause any
distress or panic or things like that. And I know this is subject that we're going to differ on
like one hundred, one hundred and eighty degrees, um, I think the sentiment behind it
still stays the same and might actually still be relevant. I wouldn't spend too much time trying
to stop the very rare hunters that think like that because the majority of suffering is caused by
humans who are just paying someone else to abuse animals for them. So it's not, you know,
and I'm familiar with the mental territory, and like I wasn't vegetarian vegan till I was 20
years old, so I've been immersed in that mindset, and that's the relevant thing in this
in investigation into why people do things and how to, what it is that changes in a person's mind
for them to alter their behavior or for them to not consider to abuse another creature or to,
you know, abuse a child or a human, whether that's self-control or, you know, what, how you
work weave that into society to stop it from happening in the first place.
You know what? I can give you the answer to that. It's profit. It's money. That is the driver behind
all of it. If you think about, you know, we, we as hunters, we, we try and do things as ethical as
possible, but if you look at a, a ranch with 10,000 cattle and the abattoir that needs to kill them,
they need volumes. They need volumes of meat to go out to the consumers. And at that point,
money is more important than the suffering of the animal because they're in a business. They're
in a business of making money from animals. So the animal rights just blows out the door.
I think like little 99% of South Africans are so connected to nature. I mean, it's one of the
most beautiful countries in the world where nature is concerned. We've got this vast diversity of
plants and animals, and we've all been raised by respecting it at almost any cost.
And I think that is the difference. It's when you bring capitalism or, and I'm not against capitalism,
but when you bring the sort of money making into the lives of animals, then the rights of the
animals goes out the door because money is involved. Do you think the profit is driving a child abuse?
Oh, absolutely. Those guys are literally making billions. They're making billions. The guys
in control. So if you look at the whole Epstein thing and what's that that woman with a black
head, they get stupid. Yeah, there's plenty of prostitution in the world. There's no doubt.
Yeah, there's prostitution and forced prostitution as well. So even way a woman of legal age
is still forced into certain activities. And that is just as wrong as the whole child abuse thing.
And again, I think it boils down to where I choose my battles. Yeah, it's something that
breaks down. It breaks down. It's very deeply with me. Yeah, good work. I've got no, you know, good work.
So yeah, I think let's talk about something a little bit less dark in the bracing.
Yeah, technically, I'd be happy to, I don't mind sharing technical knowledge if I had any.
You into oscilloscopes? I've got one. I still need to figure out hard works. I know one function
when I bolt amplifiers, which is a hobby of mine. So I bolt my preamps using vacuum valves
or tubes. And then I use my the bolt power amps based on the NAPT 250 design that's been
published a couple of times. And then when you're setting the bias, that's actually the only thing
that I use oscilloscope for. So I saw just to make sure that the bias is exactly that. Yeah, a really
nice tutorial at this scope that someone was showing. And they had an allergic analyzer as well.
I think that's what it was actually. So they'd hooked up on an allergic analyzer to this signal.
And not only did it after it zoomed in, you know, you're familiar with the scope and you consume
and stop that thing from wiggling around and look at a specific part of the signal. And this
logic analyzer, you know, you could zoom in on one of the thousand repetitions of the bit of
information that was sent. And not only did it show that, but it translated the signal on the
screen, you know, it was digital thing into the instructions that each of the logic signals were
coding for. It's really such good technology now that you can just read it off the screen without
even cross-referencing to a table or anything. Yeah, I draw the interesting, but what I would still
hope to see one day is where you could get analog data as a stream from oscilloscope so that I
can run my own Python scripts and things against it to try and analyze what's going on. But my
oscilloscope, yes, like I think it's from like 92, 91 there, but it's still a CRT that displays.
That I've only used a dual trace like CRTs, but the digital ones now they're available.
And you can certainly play with a software already because you can get open source software.
And there's some open source hardware as well, but some of those go some more, you know,
it might be $4,000 or something.
Yeah, now for me it's, that stuff is fascinating. I actually need to spend more time with it,
and I wasted my entire December with some other projects. But yeah, I think I'm definitely going
to take it out. Unfortunately, I sold my signal generator because I was strapped for cash,
but yeah, I mean, I just need to spend more time with this stuff.
I think there's a lot to do. For me, it literally has a lot to do with it.
Go ahead. Sorry, yeah. So for me, that scope has literally one function. So I got a second hand
from a technical college for probably, if I do quick conversions, maybe $40, $50 there about.
And it included the scope and the signal generator that was literally from the 50s.
But I sold the signal generator and just held on to the scope.
You already said about getting 100 people, and yeah, you don't need to do everything yourself,
do you? You can hire time on a scope if ever you needed to analyse the signal to that level.
And you've got experts in different areas. And I guess if you came up with data to be analysed,
to break open some abuse ring, then people would help you with that. And you can always just publish
stuff, can't you? Yeah, exactly. And I think publishing data specifically like that might actually
go on as some extra support. It's nearly my bad time now, so I'm going to disconnect. Have a good
evening. Go well. Enjoy your evening. It's 9 o'clock, so I think I'm going to stick around for
another hour and mess around and yeah, see you around. Cheerio.
I do not think at 8 p.m. GMT, this channel should be this quiet. Just testing audio, thanks.
Hello. I think I left myself connected to mumble on that, so I was trying to figure out if this
is working. Yep, sounds good. I think they've finally quit at about 8 o'clock central time.
Ah. I'm just going through a tutorial on next cloud for the pie. Oh, yeah. I didn't need to
go one second, sorry. Like I said, I don't know. Earlier, I think I just need to set up
next cloud when I send a new to work on. This is my goal, and I had a little bit of time, so I just
wanted to kind of work it out. Yeah, sounds fun. Yeah, there's no rush. Here, we'll check out
my acetone. No, I mean, I've heard of it, and I saw the links. I just haven't looked at it yet.
I like, I know what it is, what kind of I'm assuming it's more than I thought it was now.
More than what would I? Like, I didn't realize it was a self-hosted thing.
Not necessarily self-hosted, depending on where you get on.
Yeah, but I didn't know it was something you could even do. I just thought it was like one central
thing, because I didn't really look into it. I just turned to it a few years ago. I wanted
to start being a thing. I'm still awake. No, I'm calling it.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is. HackerPublicRadio was founded by the Digital Dog
Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the
Creative Commons, App Tribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
