Episode: 3843
Title: HPR3843: LinuxLUGCast pre-show ramblings
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3843/hpr3843.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:31:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3843 for Wednesday the 26th of April 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Linna Clubcast Pre-Show Ramblings.
It is hosted by Hong Kimagoo and is about 72 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Luckcast Participants Rumble about things before the podcast.
My science projects?
Crap.
I watched every other movie.
I've missed movies before it happens.
I think I watched around birdie movies and TV shows.
I think I've read them off to Lovecraft the other day when we were talking.
I haven't done much.
Yeah, I was in quarantine so I watched a lot of crap.
I think I saw you on my plaques.
No, I didn't go on the plaques.
I should have.
Why don't I flex it up on the fire stick upstairs?
I won't say I've flexed on the tablet that I use.
So because of my apnea, I've been stirring through my CPAP machine.
And because of that, one of us usually winds up between my wife and I winds up sleeping on the couch.
And because the sleeping on the couch doesn't bother me all that much, I wind up going up there more often than not.
But I don't want to turn the television on because I feel like it's too loud.
So I usually just watch stuff on my tablet.
So I have plex set up on the tablet.
Why don't you turn your pressure on?
I can't.
It's an apAP.
Oh, it's an automatic.
Okay, okay.
Yeah.
And I was supposed to do.
So the first time I did a sleep study was a take home sleep study.
But when I told them that wasn't working and I went to ENT, they said they suggested doing a sleep study at the hospital.
And that's what I was supposed to go last Tuesday when I had the COVID test to do the test to do the sleep study and it came back positive.
So then I spent the next five days in quarantine watching television.
Don't forget to take some sleepy time stuff with you.
What?
Tylenol p.m.
Some Advil p.m.
Something to help you sleep.
See, the whole thing is I don't have a hard time falling asleep.
I don't have a hard time.
I don't have a hard time falling asleep in other places too.
But once they strap on all of those diodes to your head and your face and your chest and everywhere else.
And then tell you to get comfortable and every time you roll or move it's pulling all that crap.
And the gel is in your freaking hair.
Alright, that's a good thing to keep in mind.
It's not like sleeping at home, it's really not.
And you know, maybe you don't need the sleepy time pills but then again it's better to have them and not need them.
I think I can get away with just some melatonin.
Um, melatonin doesn't do a whole lot for me.
I mean, if I work through melatonin then I'm awake for the night.
A lot of times what I end up having to do is take like Advil PM and melatonin.
And the melatonin kind of helps get me to sleep and then the Advil PM keeps me asleep.
But if a melatonin works for you then just go with that.
I'm just letting you know it's not as comfortable as being at home.
And you don't want to be like staring at the ceiling the whole night and have to schedule something again with the pills.
Right.
I don't know, I've never, I've never really taken anything to help me sleep.
The closest I've ever come is night cool when I don't feel good.
There's always whiskey.
Well, yeah, whiskey is always good.
But I think they suggest that they suggest you don't drink beforehand or don't drink a lot again.
The suggestion is that you drink as much as you normally would to go to bed.
So that's a lot of whiskey.
The suggestion is for, for the test that you drink as much as you normally would before you go to bed.
For me, that's nothing I don't really drink, but I'm just saying that's a suggestion.
So if you normally drink a fifth of whiskey before passing out, then that's what they want you to do when you take the test.
Excellent.
I don't know if they want to watch you pound a fifth of whiskey.
Listen, I am a sharing individual, all right.
They might have some things to say to you after you pound that fifth of it.
Like I said, they, you know, if they share, then they're going to be less likely to be upset about it.
Oh, no, no, no.
Because the doctor's still going to be upset about it when he talks to you on your follow-up.
Like you have a drinking problem, sir, if you drink a fifth of whiskey every night.
La, blah, blah.
Listen, I'm just here about the snoring, not about my drinking problem.
So on the second day of my quarantine, something I ordered arrived.
I ordered myself a steamedex during the sale.
Oh, how much was it on sale for?
349.
Was that the 64 gig?
Yeah.
Can you replace the hard drive on the 64 gig?
Yeah, Ken, but I put it a 256 SD card in there and I'm playing games off it without any problem.
That's cool.
I mean, they're all coming from steam anyway.
What's it matter?
I mean, if that micro SD card dies, you just replace it and then re-download your games.
Right.
I slept at 32 and took it to begin with, but I got a game that required more,
required more memory than I had at the moment.
And so like $21 later, I got a 256 off of Amazon.
Oh, and all I had to do was format it to EXT4 and then just did a copy and paste.
And that was all I had to do.
And I got it.
Since Danny seems to be playing around in the audio test area, I opened up the Jitzi.
He can always restart it.
I actually have it plugged into a external monitor.
Yeah.
I haven't plugged into an external monitor with Cat5 connected to it and like a keyboard and mouse right now.
I want to see if I can do a share screen just to show off the desktop mode.
That would be cool.
I've been trying to get people to show me the memory structure on it for a while.
I can't anybody that actually has one because I just want to see how they do the updates and the maintaining the backup copy.
I assumed that it was with like three partitions, old partition, the new partition,
and then the data partition.
Maybe four partitions if they also have a root partition.
I think you have the micron honky on Jitzi.
That's what it sounds like.
Sounds like you suck.
Yep.
Sorry.
All right.
I know it's been what three weeks since our last show.
Yeah, it sounds right.
I spent one of those weeks too sick to move.
Ooh, that sucks.
What's up?
Are you got the new liquid deaths?
I haven't picked up any of the new ones yet.
I got to go by five and below and see if they got them there.
Because the local 711 picked up like the old flavors, but they didn't pick up any of the new flavors.
I got all the teas and the convicted melon.
I am listening to myself.
Echo, echo, echo.
That's not me this time.
That was last.
All right.
Hello.
Again.
Again.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Echo.
Do you need to grow something?
I had enough.
Didn't you watch your most recent episode?
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Yes, we're here twice.
And render ourselves.
Good.
Hello.
Hello.
That's better.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Yes.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Is there anybody out there?
There.
There.
Is there anybody out there?
Is there anybody out there?
Is there anybody out there?
Is there anybody out there?
Just nod and hear me.
You hear me.
Wow.
Is there anybody out there?
Hello.
Hello.
That's better.
And now we're first.
I can't hear anyone's words.
What's the problem with it?
Fellowes are selling this.
Now what?
Okay, that's better.
Good.
FJ.
Okay.
Sadly, we can't hear a lug butt.
I know, I don't know why it's doing that.
doing that. Let me show them its operator issues. Yeah. Get Seek. Logcast. I'm gonna
have to kick everybody off so I can record. Yeah we knew he would. Well hang on I got a
record mumble too. You sure you want to give this to HPR? Why not? All right I'm
gonna restart everything here. Oh boy here we go. What is hiding? Did see. Who's
sharing their screen? Me. That's uh oh balls. I had to I had to it was ball. Why
were you showing your balls? You know you wanted to see it. I wanted to see balls
I'd stared my own. You've already seen those. Those are old balls. Balls are about
the same age son. That is true. Maybe it was. No it doesn't. Oh my god. I don't know.
I don't want you to be able to mute your audio and then just talk, talk, talk, talk, talk.
All right. You pretty open here. Okay. I was saying I have not finished the most
recent episode of the Mandalorian. Uh the one that came up this past. Wednesday.
Wednesday. Yeah black. Oh I did not see that. Damn you ugly motherfuckers are trying to break
my monitor. Okay. Don't forget to mute. Yeah. I'm already mute. Yep. Somebody wasn't
though. Recording. Recording zone. There's your balls again. Yep. Uh bad things. Yeah.
So that's the Steve Deck in desktop mode. Oh. Oh. I thought you had Steve my
last install. Yes, but it's on a Steve Deck. Can you bring up discs or G-parted or
something like that effect? It doesn't have. That's what I was looking for. I know I can
install and I may. Or you could you know bring up the command line and do what is it a
D.F. Space stash you. I don't remember. It's been a while since I had to do that.
F H H is human readable. That's what I usually use to D.F. That's it. That's H. It's been
a while. I'm trying to remember. I don't think D.F. is the correct one. Oh, no, no, no,
no. It is. What are you trying to do? Space stash H. Yes. That is correct. That is correct.
Wait, who's that? As long as you don't have a snap. Who's that green has not muted?
That's the Steve Deck. Oh, okay. That's fine. Wow. It looks different now. I updated Jitsi.
So that's what the partations look like. Right. I'm looking at the NVME and the MMC
lock 0 P1 would be your micro ski card. Right. So the NVME would be your internal drive. Yep.
It looks like there. Yeah. So there's slash home, which has all your data and your games and stuff.
And then there is a five gig and a 230 meg is not excessively helpful. Okay. So it's not what I
thought. And I'm not sure how they're doing your your backup. How does this sound?
Sound okay? Yeah. Sounds fine. All right. Because I get it too close to my mouth and you can hear
my breathing. But if you can hear me okay now. You'd just stop breathing. I think we'd be okay
with that. You know what, Jill? What? I got something for you right here. I'm here. I'm
sandwich. That's knuckle sandwich. Oh. Well, bring it on by. Mm-hmm. I'll drop it off.
Drop it off and leave. You see the concern, right? All right. All right. So I'll
stick my puppies on. You got a steam deck. Yes. Yeah. He was just talking about getting it on sale.
I got it for like what was it? 300 and something? Yeah. It was like 349 or something like that.
When did this happen? Actually, my second day at quarantine. I got a steam deck. Oh, yeah,
you had COVID. Yeah. I spent most of that Wednesday just sitting there watching every time a truck
goes by staring out the window. Wait for the steam deck to show up. Yes. He had COVID and he probably
ran out there to meet the FedEx guy and shook his hand and said thanks for bringing me this cough,
cough. I'm going to dig with a deep French kiss. That's for like a deep French kiss. He
tongueed him, tongueed his anus and then let let the FedEx guy take the COVID to everybody's house.
That's right. I've been suffering from debilitating and serious illness,
a rare disease that is related to luckbot. No, it doesn't, doesn't get enough coverage,
but luckily I've been cured recently. I had a diarrhea. Of the mouth? No, of the asshole. I don't
know what I ate, but man, it was bad. It's not necessarily something you ate. There's a stomach
bug going around. There's a really bad thing. There's a really bad stomach bug that was going
around and everything goes around North Texas twice. So I'm pretty sure we had the flu at my house
because everybody in my house was sick and we took the COVID test and nobody had COVID.
Yeah, I wasn't the same flu usually.
Nordivirus? Yeah, that's, but you know, I never threw up. I just, it was had a constant
nauseous feeling. I just couldn't, none of my turds were solid. It was just like soft
soda ice cream, 24 hours a day. I didn't have any diarrhea, but I had really, really bad like,
cold chills and hot flashes. Really? Did you, what about your stomach? It very well could have been.
No, my stomach was okay, but I didn't, there was some nausea, but there was a lot more like
dizziness and oh my gosh, I had to sleep like something like 20 hours a day to get four hours of
functionality. Yeah, the head. Do you think it was a flu? I think it was. Well, like I said,
we tested for COVID. It wasn't COVID, so yeah, testing.
Why is it different now? I don't understand. Before it worked fine, I wonder if there's a setting here.
Yeah. You clearly said you upgraded it, so that'd be my guess. I upgraded the Jitsi. Not,
not lug bought. Yeah, but it's lug was ever, but it's lug bought at and up on the Jitsi, or
is it lug bought? It's not working lug bought. Oh, no, lug bought's not connected to the Jitsi.
Like, she who is connected? Who, we got one of those is probably net minor. Who's the other one?
We got Lovecraft, net minor, Importancy, Joe. There's two fellow Jits here, so I'm guessing one is
lug bought one is the recording. No, lug bought is not on the Jitsi. What is it? One is you
sharing your screen. Right. Yeah, but there's two fellage. Okay, one on one away. He must have
heard us talking about them. Like, they're about to kick me off. I don't care. Right? I'm just wondering who
was. No, there's still I see three. You still see three? I see two now. But no, there's two and a
screen share. One is the recording, but more and see you're still seeing three fellow Jitsis.
Besides the screen share. Yeah, I see a total of eight icons. Yeah, that's right. That's right.
That's right. Two, two fellow Jitsis. One fellow Jitsis screen, myself, Joe, Lovecraft,
Honky and Minnex. Yeah, earlier, there was four fellow Jitsis. One was a screen share. One,
I guess, was recording share. Yeah. One was, uh, there's net minor here. Net minor. He's not
on a mumble. Well, I said he disconnected. Maybe it's Cherry Hill Tony. Cherry, is that you?
Yes, I did watch one interesting thing. Only one. Only one card. So Batman Doom. Doom? Batman Doom
of Gotham or something like that. Animated DC animated. Yeah, yeah. What? The Doom that came
to Gotham audio output built in. This should be oh audio input echo cancellation mixed echo
cancellation. We'll try that. Why? Okay. That's that one. Okay. Okay. Okay. Like it's like it's just
still not working. So why do we record? Not recording the place that audio. What devices
screen? Are you sharing your desktop audio output on a laptop? I'm sharing a monitor, a built-in audio,
and a locked stereo for audio output is what I don't need to correct something. Yeah, right?
Oh, you just have audio. Do you have? Hang on, let me turn this off for a minute.
Honky, do you have yours, uh, that laptop that you're using to stream the NYE? What?
Do you still have that laptop handy that you're using to stream New Year's Eve? Yeah,
I'm recording on it right now. Oh, you are? Yeah. Uh, well, you don't want to mess with that.
I was going to see what your settings were. I lost my board. Oh, there it is. Okay. So that
you're not getting a... Well, it is. He wants the desktop audio to be passed through. He wants
everything that comes in to be what goes out. You don't. I don't want any audio input. I just want
audio output, right? Right, but you're outputting everything that comes in. Yeah, but I don't want any
input at all. I just want output. I'm lugged by it. So then on it's, um... Oh, um,
reduce its volume. No, that won't. Yeah, reduce its volume to zero, and two happens. For audio input?
Hang on. I'm using a V, so input. I want that to be zero. Okay, now let me turn that on.
Can you do a per application and just reduce the volume of... Hey, I think that worked. Bumble?
Yeah, but is it outputting anything? That's the question. So have it say something? No, it's not
outputting. Shoot. Right. That's what I thought was going to happen there. Oh, can you just reduce the
volume of the output from... Bumble, Bumble. Okay, per application. Oh, yeah. Okay. Hello?
Okay. Okay. All right. I'll see if it talks. No, that didn't work. Oh. Oh. Yeah. There's two mumbles.
There's an X still. Okay, so I have two mumbles. Microphone from and mumbles speakers. Echo from.
That would be the one I would reproduce. But that is too easy. Let's go. Let me do audio.
Oh, maybe built in it. Hello? Let me try a microphone from...
Oh, and jiffy.
That it always. It's too easy to make a microphone.
Yeah, but my turn is built in playing. Oh, okay. Let me try this. Hello? Hello? Can you hear me?
Yes. Okay. Now, let me see.
That worked. All right. So...
Are those settings? Take a screenshot. Yeah. What are they?
In volume control. P-A-V under playback. Mumble speakers. I set that to mute. So...
I mean, what Joe said? You didn't say under playback, did you?
I just said to mute the output of a mumble. Which means nothing. So you mean nothing?
Okay. Does that want to play a game? We should probably point out that we were talking about making
this a HPR, which means it's not going to go in the official show.
Oh, that's right. Yeah. I'm sure everybody will be loved to hear this.
This is thrilling audio right here, all right? All the sausages made.
There we go. Why does it look about sound like he's in the other room?
I don't know. It's not broadcasting over mumble. Well, not directly. It sounds like it's coming over
your mic. It's not coming over my output. In other words, can you hear it through like your...
In other words, I heard it on the computer in your room as opposed to it going being piped through
mumble. Yeah, it's monitor. Okay. Output. Built-in audio analog stereo. Yeah, it does sound
like that, right? It does sound like it's in the other room.
It doesn't sound like it's not being piped through mumble. It's going over your microphone
because you could hear it over the laptop. So it's like if you had the television on and I was hearing
the television playing. So you think it's not going... Well, the way it's piped is through the monitor
of the built-in monitor of the laptop, which maybe that's bad. But I don't hear anything
except through mumble. I can't hear it coming from my laptop. You can't? Yeah, so it's only playing
through the laptop. I mean, it's not coming out of an external speaker or anything. Okay,
but I don't know, but I don't know why it sounds like that. Output devices. Built-in,
an analog, maybe under-advanced latency. No. Maybe it's a mumble control settings, audio output.
Yeah, built-in audio analog stereo. I have these options system pulse audio. I wonder if I should
change that to ALSA or OSS if that would help. Maybe position the audio, turn that off. Let's try that.
Does that sound better? No. Okay, but yours? Yours didn't sound like that. Did it honky? Or it could be
related? Yeah, disabled. No. Quality. Okay, maybe it's the quality. Turn quality audio. Noise suppression.
I don't want to suppress anything. Off. Okay, let me apply. That's probably not done
doing anything, but the low-loomers. Ah, that was it. It was a noise suppression setting.
I am the bot. I am your dog's owl. Yeah, it works. Hello, god. So good news. Question mark. I will ask you
a question right now. Hang on, look, but net miners talking. Go ahead, net miners. Good to hear from
you, by the way. I watched your video with the guy that had the giant bolt that broke. Do you
know what I'm talking about? Yes, I did. Also, in an earlier video, he showed me a wrench that he had
another shop cut cut out of steel plate for that. I believe for that for that nut. Are they made
a custom wrench for it? Yeah, well, yeah, with a plasma cutter, you could do most anything.
Oh, how are y'all doing, by the way? How's everybody doing? It's been a long time since we talked,
right? Nobody replies to me on matrix. I feel like it's just my own personal blog on there now.
I've been, I'm like a leper and outcast on there and I just talked to myself. I respond.
Everything you join falls apart, I mean, barely. Or you could kick off one of the two
and look at the discord. Yeah, but this is supposed to be a community effort on matrix
you know, you're all supposed to be involved. Is that what it is? Y'all says he hates software. It's not
proprietary. Is that what I said? Did I say that? Honky is too busy researching COVID on himself.
Warnsey, I hadn't seen him anywhere. I don't know what the hell happened to him. He's got his new
wife now. He doesn't talk to his old friends anymore. That's what normally happens when you get married.
Yeah, he just hates us all. He doesn't hate you guys anymore. Yeah, he doesn't hate it. I've had a
very bad week's week. Oh, really? I did notice that nobody's playing like movable or whatever
the other one is. Yeah, I haven't played movable. That's true. I've been trying to actually write
mover reviews of things I've watched. Keep in track of those. He's just trying to blog of all the
new reviews. You know, you know what I want to do is I see I used to use letterboxed which is
like a social media but for movies people watch and I was hoping something like that would come out
for the fedaverse kind of like bookworm is for book reviews but nobody's done anything like that.
So I was going to go ahead and tell Joe to start working on that pretty soon. I was going to get
right off soon. So I'll get that built and so I can start leaving my movie reviews.
Yeah, I will pay you with like exposure and recognition. I'll just put your name up there. You
know some people know. That's good. I'm good. I don't need your exposure. I will expose myself to
you for payment. Keep your pants on. Don't be like last time. We'll be last time. I don't do anything
I don't know what you're talking about. Quit showing up at my house with no pants. That's what I'm
saying. I definitely didn't do that. Uh-huh. Let's see what my camera says about that. So I'm just
keeping, so I'm just using makeup. Hopefully you're keeping your pants on. From my personal
movie review blog. Where's by the way, I've got a couple more I need to put on there. As far as tech
related stuff, I did a couple of HBR episodes, which I guess this will go on. If anybody is listening
right now, they need new episodes. Their queue is very low. What else? I went to the dentist today.
I got that deep root scaling where they torture you for about an hour and it makes terrible noises
and you wish you were dead, but then when it's over, I can't, man. I'm glad I'm alive and
survived that. That sounds horrible. Why? Why? It's like a periodontist has to do it. It's like a deep
cleaning, but it's between your gum and your teeth, your gums and your teeth. So inside there,
and they take this ultrasonic tool and they clean that and then they take a metal, some kind of
metal scraper and go in between your gums and your teeth and scrape all that. If you've got a lot
of gunk on your roots, he sounds like he had one of the lesser procedures. Don't get me wrong. It's
still a pretty big procedure, but I actually had the VA dentist threaten to peel my gums down so
that they could scrape and then then throw them back into position and say, no, I'm good. I'm
a starflossum. Luckily, I didn't have that, but it also, they use a laser on there. It's a cold
laser, so you don't feel a heat, but you can smell the burning. Somehow, somehow it's still burns,
but it's supposed to disinfect that area and it was a pretty crazy experience. So I don't recommend
that. Can I just like swish alcohol in my mouth every night for a while and hopefully that I'll
just disinfect everything? They have this tool that Joe probably knows about. It's like a probe that
goes in between your gum and your tooth and however many millimeters it goes down, they have a scale
to say, if it's one or two millimeters, you're okay, three to four. It's kind of a warning and more
than that, you need that procedure done. Preventing gum disease. I got the same probe. You do?
You had a bunch of probes, we know. So just a tip. Just a tip. That's what they said with that
camera and it wasn't sure. No. More than seal, tell you all about it. Oh, 12 feet of camera later.
You don't have to get that done yet. Soon. 45. Yeah, I'm past you already, so I need to get
done. Two more years in. Two more years in. Yeah, they changed it. That probably would have caught
Mon. Really? If I would have had it done four years earlier. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah, you would have
caught, probably would have caught yours. Oh, did you, did anybody look into the gravitar stuff we
talked about on Matrix? As far as like, Oh, no. Didn't you say that you made one for Jitsi? I mean,
for a lug button? Yeah, I made one for lug button. Let me see if it works. I see here. I think.
Wow. It's probably going to mess up all the audio stuff. It's kind of part for the course night,
isn't it? Yeah, but I have a question to start to show. Maybe. I have a question for you guys.
Yes, sir. We were talking about, I think, steam punk books on a previous episode. Okay.
We're calling you. Ouch. Don't stare at them. So do you see lug box gravitar? Yes. Very good.
Okay. So whoever doesn't want to show the camera, that's an option is just do go to gravitar. Just
Google it. And because when I post the video, all I see is just letters on there, you know,
for YouTube. You don't have to, but it makes it a little more pretty or you can do a background
picture. What else do we say that you could do? Share the screen. Do a sheet. Yeah, screen share.
If you want to share a screen share, and you just go through the links. Yeah, post the,
the show notes or something like that. Oh, I know what I could talk about. Hold on.
Steampunk. Steampunk audio box. So a friend of mine is getting her master's degree in her writing
class. The teacher is very, very picky about everybody's writing. She's the only one in the class
when she submitted her rough draft of a story where the teacher said she had no, no critique
to provide and suggested that she publish it as a book as soon as possible. Wow, really?
Oh, really? So is anybody interested in reading the first chapter and giving her feedback
Oh, yeah. I don't, I don't, I'm not like a steampunk enthusiast, but I'd love to help out.
Yeah, I'll check it out. Yeah, I told her about audio books, you know, when it came around and like
all the authors that just skyrocketed out of that, Mike Bennett, JC Hutchins, Scott Siggler,
the guy who did the trilogy about the Elven folk, I can't recall, but there were tons of them
that were just amazing authors that they paired up with editors to get out of the publishing
corporate publishing world, but that's no longer around. But I told her that self publishing might be
the best way to go about it and suggested offering it to you guys to look at. And I think
weave, when he did his book, got tons of ISBN numbers. Is that wrong about anybody?
I don't know, he has what three different books or at least his different versions of the
Blenderford dummies, I know that. And then a liar liar liar pants on fire. Oh, that one.
The Indiegogo or Kickstarter that he did for that book, I met him after the book was published.
So before the book was published, he did the crowdfunding and he said, if I get reached this
goal, I'm going to buy one ISBN number to publish the book. And then at higher tiers, he was going
to publish more and offer them to people if they were okay with the name of his publishing company.
So apparently they get infinitely cheaper the more you buy. One is super expensive,
but if you buy 10 of them, they get cheaper, a thousand of them. Each one is dirt cheap.
Does that make sense? Yep. This is a conversation like six or seven years ago with him itself.
I miss weep. Yep. He should come back. Yep. Yep. He's popped into the matrix chat, hasn't he?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to check his blog.
Just out of curiosity. I'm running. Now you were saying something like self-publishing on
patio, are you wanting us to read the first chapter or listen to the first chapter chapter?
Read the first chapter. I told her about patio books and she was like, how do I get signed up
for that? And I was like, some company bought it a few years ago. Another one of the books that
I liked on there was an audio book about a night's templar who becomes a zombie. It conscious
zombie, conscious undead. I can't wait. I know I have it. Okay. Yeah. Is that? Okay. I thought I heard
echo. There is echo. But I don't want to see. Okay. Oh, just from him talk. Me? Just when you talk
when you talk. If we talk at the same time, there's echo. It's not a big deal. It's not a big deal.
Okay. I was trying to talk to him. Oh. Oh, does that really?
So you were talking about the movies you've seen in your movie reviews. Is there anything recently
you want to or anything that you really thought was great that you want to share?
I will share the list actually. So a series that I watched are the recruit on Netflix,
a inside band on Netflix. Who were we? Who were we running from? Godless and dead to me all on
Netflix. And I just started justified the old epics show and the reviews are. No, no. I was too
busy when it came out and didn't want to play catch up. And I was like, watch. I'm really like
not a lot of it. Not a lot. I'm happy for the first season. I did not like the way that the first
season of recruit ended. I like to show that last episode was just kind of like what the hell?
Should the hell. Yeah. Are they going to do another season? What's going on? Right. It was a good
show though. I really enjoyed it. So if anybody doesn't know, it's a lawyer gets recruited from college
work for the CIA. And his case, he gets kind of like pulled into field work and nobody at the agency
is helpful. They're all like backstabbing, conniving, scheming. Yeah. Nobody wants to help. It's
funny. So then the movies I watched were The Curse of Bridge Hollow, which was cute and funny.
Too gun. That was good. That was good. Kill Bokosan. My name is Vendetta. The old way, which is a
Western with, did it have Nicholas Cage? I think a Nicholas Cage. I think a Korean movie called
Project Wolf Hunting. That was interesting. Guardians of Time. More of a kid's slash Narnia style.
It was okay. I could have not watched it. Operation Fortune. Rews. The Guerrero. I think that was
a Statham movie. Maybe Hunter's Moon. Werewolf movie. It was entertaining. The unbelievable
weight of Massive Talent. Another Nicholas Cage and Pedro Pascal. Cocaine Bear. Funny in the
way that I thought it was going to be. Bloody Back. It's a short film from the film company that
did the movie. I talked about the last show called A Radication. The Apocalyptic Zombie type movie.
This was a short film about the British, the fight for independence in the US with British soldiers
that were zombies. Gunfight at Rio Bravo. RIPD2. Rise of the Damned. Would you think of that?
RIPD2. Yeah. What I expected. I loved what's his name who was in Bernotus. Yes.
But he hasn't been in very much. No. I've actually seen them in quite a few things.
I'd have to go back and look, but I've seen lots of stuff he's popped up in. He had a show. There was
a show on Hulu a while back. I figured what the hell he was called. He was like a
hippy. Yeah. Yeah. My mom read her, took her things to put. I watched a couple episodes of it.
I didn't watch all of it. But I liked him. I thought RIPD2 was, it was like a sci-fi movie.
It's a prequel to RIPD. Yes. Yes. Don't kill me. Glass onion and knives out mystery. I finally finished
that one. The pale blue eye. Yeah. Yeah. I liked the glass onion. The pale blue eye
has supposed to have Poe in it and then Edgar Allan Poe on a military. Whatever.
Academy, I think. And the main character is Christian Bale. Okay. Okay.
And then the gentleman. I finally saw the gentleman. That popped up in the... I never saw any
previews when it came out and it popped up on movie doll and the other one that we play
a while back. Yeah. It's my list of stuff to watch back then. Yeah. I might do pinky blinders
soon because... Keep meaning to do that one. Justified was in front of that. And then after
pinky blinders, I'll probably do a longmire. And there was another one along the same
veins on Netflix that I never got into that people recommended. But I can't think about it off
the top of my head. Like something that was several seasons. And then I was watching all the
same shows as before. I'm caught up on I think absolutely everything. There is a new show with
Keeper Sutherland in it called Rabbit Hole. And then a comedy musical, I think, called up here.
What's... And see the five of Slasher started. My plan. Oh, and Bob Odenkirk is in a new show
of Lucky Hank. I'll check that out. Do you want to know? No, but it has Bob Odenkirk in it.
Right. I don't think I've not liked anything I've seen them in. I'll read the caption for
the first episode. Hank Rance Against Railton College calling it a mediocrity's capital and
the administration is pressured to fire him. Hank and Lily contemplate a future outside of Railton.
I don't know. That doesn't say anything really. That show that you were talking about was called
Shut I. Oh, okay, yep. And Slasher. We talked about it over a year ago. It's a each season
that's stylized after an 80s Slasher type movie. Like there's a camp. There's a Halloween
person in the costume that's a serial killer. It's like different. It's... each one is themed
like a 80s horror movie. I started watching the first episode of season five and it looks like
Jack the Ripper type thing, but I think it's going to be different than that. It looks like it's going
the route of it being Jack the Ripper, but it's one of the rich people,
trolling, cruising the prostitutes that gets bad stuff happens to at the beginning of the first
episode. It makes it look like he's going to be the bad guy. Cool. And I'm done. Let's see. I tried
to watch pitch black, but realized that that was a very, very horrible movie and it was in my
opinion at least the first... I want to say 45 minutes to half an hour of the movie that I actually
watched was worse than Universal Soldier if that's possible. So I guess a lot of people I know
really like it. I don't remember it's watching. I know I watched it. I just don't remember it.
No, I think I've watched it about three times. The first half is like completely different from
the second half of that movie. So each scene is like five seconds long. So it's like an ATV
to get water. Boom, next scene. We have to do this next scene. It's just nothing but like one quick
sentence and then it's the next scene. That is my pet peeve when it comes to especially modern
movies are real bad about that. They never give you time to just dwell on what's going on. They just
cut, cut, cut, cut, cut. It's made for this short attention span generation. It just
drives me nuts. You were saying that about the Elvis movie, yes. Yeah, that would have been a
cool, a lot cooler movie if they would have just spent more than two seconds per scene just so you
could kind of soak in the tomography, you know, both whatever, you know, and just have an actual
conversation instead of splitting each word up between the faces and the background. My attention span
is not that short. I can tolerate a scene that lasts more than 10 seconds long, you know. Right,
I would have been happy with 10 seconds with half of these scenes. I mean, it was, I like all the
cast in it, but I just couldn't. No, I hadn't. That's why when I was in quarantine, I'm like, oh,
cool, I'll watch this. I started watching. I'm like, holy hell, this is so bad. So many people
love this movie. Love this movie. It's the worst thing I've ever seen. Would you have liked 20
years ago when it came out? I don't know. It was a little different watching it 20 years ago.
Cinematography has changed a little bit. So I started watching that. So then I asked for some
suggestions and I went through, let's see, I watched the cube, which I thought was, I think I
saw a low budget indie horror. It's not bad. It wasn't bad, but I hated all of it. At some point,
I basically hated all of the characters in it. And I wish they would just die. And then they
did, except for the challenge kid, who everybody made fun of them, actually challenged kid throughout
the thing, which is half the reason why I wanted everybody else to just die. And then they did.
Your wake was granted. Yeah. And then you suggest the wish master. And that was actually okay.
Yeah, that's a cool movie. Yeah. Yeah. I'd like to make fun of those puppet master. I think you're
thick enough. Maybe, maybe. Wish master is its own master's own thing. I did also watch the
puppet master one. But the littlest Reich? Reich? Yeah. Yeah. I've seen it before, but when you
mentioned it, I turned it on to be and watched it. Yeah. I'd never seen it before. Okay. Okay.
There were four masters. There were four wish master movies. Yeah. I think the only
the first one was West Craven though, right? Yeah. I think only the first one didn't suck.
What do you think, honky? Do you like it? Which one? Wish master? Yeah. I like to wish master.
Yeah. That's right. Cool. Practical effects. HB Lovecraft, giving us some good suggestions of,
well, he suggested Big Trouble Little China, which I own, and I love that movie Escape from New York,
which I couldn't find anywhere really like watch, which I should have played. I should have
put my bikes on to the to the fire stick. Yeah. Trouble the safe from movies are on my
plate. Seven sign in first power. I think I was able to find one of them and I just didn't get
around watching it. I watched Crossworlds with with Rucker Hauer, and that was actually it was an
okay movie. That was pretty cool. I mean, from what it is, it was it was pretty cool movie. It had
a very, very, very young Jack Black in it. It had the only way I remember this guy is he was on
that show Sports Night, and I love that show Sports Night. He's one of the two main anchors in it.
The Crossworlds was a fun movie. If you haven't seen it yet, I would definitely suggest it.
On our list, I think it was on our list. On point. There's nothing technology based about it.
I mean, they traveled to different worlds, but they don't usually technology to do it.
Okay. I'll have to watch it. I haven't seen it. And I like what you guys recommended it to me. That's
why it's on my plex. Trying to see whether it's so I for some reason gotten into like a Stephen King
kick where actually my brother suggested storm of the century. So I watched storm of the century.
Oh, is that the state? Yeah, the yes, that's pretty cool. That was good. I liked it. Yeah, I like that one.
That's where the devil man comes and they have to like set. He tell it was he had to sacrifice
somebody or something like that. Yeah, they had to get their talent. He recruits one of their children.
Yes. Yeah, that's cool. That's a cool. That was the May for TV series. Yep.
Yeah, one of the guys from wings in it. I'll have you seen that that other Stephen King one,
many series ahead of May for TV. The stand. No, I love the stand. Love that that the stand.
That's pretty cool, man. That was one of my favorites. Yeah. Tommy. Have you seen that one?
I saw Tommy Nockers. Yep. Have you seen all the different version of the Langa Liars?
I've only seen one with Balky. Yeah, I remember that one. That one was a sci-fi channel,
but there were a couple others that were actually close to the same time period, which was weird.
They kept remaking the Langa Liars. I had no idea. The Belgian members of the CGI and that one was
so crazy bad. I would you even commit that to film. It was insane. Anybody who saw that before
came out should have said, no, stop now. We're redoing this. Well, a lot of the Stephen King stuff
was originally many series, wasn't it? So what was it? Oh, crap. What was the vampire one?
Salem's lot. Salem's lot. Yeah. That was the original TV movie. That was a good one.
That was creepy. Was it originally a mini series? Was it just a movie? No, it was two movies.
No, technically it wasn't mini series. Wasn't it? No, I think it was. You're taking it
out returned to say a young and a little old. Yeah, there was two movies. Or was it? So it was
like it, right? It's what we're talking about, right? No, Salem's lot. No, we're talking about it.
There's a lot. Well, Salem's lot. There is two movies. There's Salem's lot and there's
return to Salem's lot. Yeah, but Salem's lot, the original is the one I was talking about,
where the kid was in the window, the vampire kid, and he wants to come inside. Okay. The original
it movie was considered a TV mini series. So part one and part two, right? And to me,
it was a lot better than what they rebooted in the theaters a few years ago. I haven't seen that yet.
It might be that you can't beat the cast of the original. Yeah, it's awesome. Yep. Let's see,
what did I go to after that? I went to graveyard shift, dead zone. Wow, you watched all those?
Yeah, shift nurses. I haven't seen that. You should check it out.
Close it. So I downloaded the audio book of. I was got his hand.
Of readers. So I was listening to when I first come. Oh, my God, there's so many. Well,
I just got the first two killing floor. And I forgot what the second one was. So I started listening
to kill them for because I listened to all the other books. And it reminded me so much of the
Amazon Prime show, Richard, that I just wanted watching all of the Amazon Prime show, Richard. Yeah,
it did follow it pretty well. I mean, they added one character to the TV show that doesn't
come in until later in the book series. Was that the one with John Krasinski? No, that's,
that's not Richard. That's, uh, check, Ryan. Yeah. Oh, but the Richard series does follow the
books pretty well, other than some small things here and there. But yeah, the audio book is really
good. The entire series is decent. It does drag on a bit, but it is, you know, like, what, 20, 30
books. Yeah. And like I said, I just got the first two. I got a Grand Villars. I just didn't want
to bog down your network. What else? I watched all three of the JJ Abrams Star Trek movies.
I kind of liked that first one. I didn't see the others. They were fine. If you, if you go into it
with the idea of that they set up, I mean, I've never seen anything set it up like this as a
multiverse, as it's just a multiverse and it's just something in their version of a Star Trek universe.
If they're just fun movies, a lot of people hated them, but I like them, but they're fine.
Yep, just multiple timelines. Yep, but I will say there's like so many like Star Trek TV shows right
now. I haven't watched really anything since like the first season of Voyager. Well, I,
I watched like maybe the first season of Voyager. I tried to watch the first season, maybe halfway
through the first season of Enterprise. I watched basically everything of TNG and I watched the first
season of Deep Space Nine and I just couldn't make it past that. Well, it's that I watch.
I can't remember now. Should we watch the live floodcast on YouTube?
No, but I actually listened to it on the flight home to catch the beginning part which I had missed
and then I watched the movie. I downloaded the movie like the next day and then watched it the
next night. Well, if anybody wants to know what I've been watching, all you gotta do is go to our
Matrix channel. At what is it? I forgot. Isn't the show notes, isn't it? Yeah, it's logcast.
.element.io slash pound slash room slash pound logcast. Yeah, call in whatever it is.
Yeah, you're right. Call in next time. And so maybe that'll get you. And he's calling that's right.
Gets you into the room and there's lots of exciting extras for you in there too.
Oh, I can see from your background that you cleaned up your room. Yeah, I decorated it recently.
And I got everything I broke out the old e-machines PC and I thought I'd do something different.
So it's my man cave. Been drinking a lot of Milwaukee's best.
Have a good time because we wanted a quality beer.
Loggiest best. Drinking the beast. What's everybody drinking tonight, by the way?
Dr. Pepper zero sugar. We got coffee. That's all. I'm already had a I think he had a mango chainsaw.
I am drinking a grim leaf. Grim leaf. Oh, it's just the tea. Yes. And then I have an armless
polymer as well as a rest in peach. And I had a conveyor belt in earlier. And I posted all four
flavors and links to them in the chat or in the show notes as well as the new Motorola phone
that I got to replace the broken Nokia. What's what is this? This is their new flagship?
Now this is one of the cheap ones. This is a Motorola stylus 5G 2022.
Marked down. Marked down from I think $500 to $2.49. It's got Android 12 unlocked and 6.8
inch screen. 8 gigs of RAM. 512 gigabytes of storage. 256 is the ROM. The other 256 is a pre-installed
SD card and it is expandable to the SD card is expandable to one terabyte. It's got headphone jack
so I can talk on my headphone on the podcast. My other Motorola does not. And of course the stylus.
I'm going to try and put that 512 gig SD card out of my old old old Nokia that I use for podcasts
that's full. And see if the phone is full. The SD card is almost full. And see if I can get
patio books, patio books beyond pod to work in Android 12 and access the SD card. It would not
access the SD card in Android 11. So I'm guessing by this new phone purchase that you haven't gotten
your Linux phones in the mail since we talked last. Correct. And I am arguing with them over their
contact us thing on how to get my money back because apparently you can just request
the order canceled at any time and get your money back. They keep going you need to send us
the details of your order. And I was like I sent it in the message so I have three different
tickets going on trying to get them to give me my money back. So they finally that my last message
was a little nasty and they not was firmer than the other ones. And they said well for this to
the finance group and that's the last I've heard. But they they were kind of I thought they came
across as dicks when I said I pre ordered it through their web page. And then they said oh you
can just get updates by watching the Indiegogo page. And I was like no. Apparently they even
have the order number that they stopped that in July. And they haven't shipped anything since the
first part of the Indiegogo orders in July. They're having some issue with shipping them out of
Hong Kong since July of last year. And I can't be the only one complaining and asking for an update.
No way. No way. Well I hope you get it resolved. Yeah well I can't even find which credit card
or debit card I purchased them on because most of my online stuff only shows the last year
of statements and it's been year and a half. So are they trying to say that they're still going
to be sending it to you one day? Are you one day? I know the last thing I got was about a week ago
and they said that they were sending it to the finance department to get me my refund. But before
that were they saying that they were still going to try and send it to you. They said that
they're being shipped. Yeah they are in the process of trying to get them shipped out of Hong Kong
since July of last year. And I said I want my refund. And they said send a short order details.
I go I sent that with the message. Here's all my order details. I want a refund. Cancel my order.
I want a refund. It's tired of their crap. Tired of their crap. Tired of paperwork for a visa
to get L over here. That's been frustrating. We both have all this information. We have to compile
that's going to be difficult to get. I have to go. I have to find time to go visit my dad
and get information about him and my mom. The details they want are pretty ridiculous.
What hospital my dad was born in all this stuff and mom. Yeah they wouldn't like my answers
if they started asking me those questions. Well I mean I have to provide those in the document
for them to consider bringing her over. My dad doesn't have a birth certificate because he was
born in Ethiopia at a time when the US was not supposed to be in Ethiopia. Okay. So it makes
things difficult. I imagine. And I won't talk about it on the recording but work. Oh my god.
Yes. Some things you don't want to mention on the recording. I understand.
Anybody else? Well like I said the only thing interesting that I watched was Batman,
the doom that came to Gotham. And it was interesting but it was completely different from the
normal like DC animated stuff that you watch because like they change the origin of everybody.
Harvey Dent, Mr. Freeze, Penguin, Poison Ivy. Basically all of their everything was
completely different. And they killed off the two robins or they even became Robin.
And they turned while spoiler I'm going to spoil the last part of it. The man in demand
back left him that way. It was just nerd shit. I guess. It's an other world thing I guess.
So it's not like in storyline or anything that's completely different. The best thing DC does,
I mean sad comics I think is those animated features. I mean yeah. I think they're better than
what Marvel's put out as far as their animated stuff. They're definitely better than DC movies.
Jackie wants to tell you all about Batman. She thinks I'm doing a horrible job about telling you
about it. Okay Jackie. Okay can you guys hear me? Yes. Okay he did a terrible job.
All right he always does. All right well I'm the Batman fan in the household and I'm DC he's
Marvel. I'm DC too. All right so this is a one shot by the creator of Hellboy.
So the one shot took place back in 1999 and there's three comic book issues only and it
99 to 2000. It is by the creator of Hellboy and the artwork is very Hellboyish but imagine if
you slammed it together with Lovecraft. Oh nice. So it is it's strange. It's unusual. You're
they weren't really origins as much as it was the characters that they were portraying. Yes it was
like Poison Ivy. There was Penguin there was Mr. Freeze. There was Rosalgool. There was Talia
all ghoul but just it's a twist and it's a twist on it and it's like I remember the story
Saran. The city of Saran Lovecraft was what it was combined with. That's cool. The doom they
came to Saranath. Thank you. That was that was that's kind of what it's based around and then you
get the instead of the Hellboy or Hellboy movie. The older ones I would say it was very similar to
the Hellboy that it has been released recently. Oh okay. The one the one the one note the one
less people liked because it didn't follow or because it did follow Hellboy more than the Guillermo
Totoro. Yes so imagine that style animated smashed with the Lovecraft story and all the weird
and strange horrors that come out of Lovecraft. I like it. I didn't think I because I didn't really
remember seeing that the ad for it or anything so I wasn't prepared. I would definitely watch it
again. I'm not gonna let my 13 almost 13-year-old watch it yet. Oh really? A little bloody,
little horror and it's just because that's not his thing. He's not quite into Lovecraft yet but
when I have a problem with my 16-year-old or when my daughter's were 16 I wouldn't have had a
problem with it. It was just I would kind of wait for him more to be able to understand all the
the nuances of Lovecraft but most of the the new animated movies are not really meant for kids
anyways they're meant for older teens and adults so it's awesome. Yeah so there's a three comic
series and then the animated movies based on the comic series. Yeah. I need to check them both out
because I like the way it sounds and you're right. Joe sucks at describing stuff so I'm glad
came on and and said I'm straight. I saw that it had come out and wasn't interested and based on
your review I'm adding I'm adding that to my watch list right this second. Yeah. Well I was like oh
okay we'll just watch it it's I like Batman and I literally he was like we can pause this and
we can go do something for a minute go get a drinker to say don't stop it I will power through
I love the twist of it and before you give him any hell he's really good at describing Marvel
movies because that's his thing. So here you go. I just remembered I watched the first two seasons
of Vox Machina. First two seasons of what? Vox Machina. I think I might have liked the
second season more than the first one. They were both very fun. I didn't watch them back back
though so I'm just going by I really enjoyed watching the second one recently when it dropped.
That's what I downloaded for the plane ride but on the plane ride back from Florida to Austin it was
I had a mother and a young girl next to me and I'm like nope I can't watch that. Yeah I had the
cancel watching the New Horror movie X when I was on the plane kind of like night late mid-70s
Texas chainsaw massacre style filming at the beginning and some people from California go out
to a farmhouse rent a house to from a farmer and they're gonna film their porn movie. So it started
getting a little graphic and I just had to switch to other stuff on the plane.
No no I haven't gone back to watching even either. See on my flight down I had two guys on
either side of me and they were both like I don't know at least 20 plus so probably
between 21 to 25 26ish so I didn't mind watching it then but the ride home I'm like uh nope.
Hey guys it's an hour and a half into the pre-show. Do you want to start the real show?
I guess since this this pre-show is not going to be in the regular lug cast it's supposed to go
to HBR. Is there anything we want to say about the lug cast to the HPR community or I don't know
I'm trying to pick the lug cast here. Yeah anybody that's liked all the Linux stuff you've heard
so far by Linux make sure you try to troubleshoot audio for lug bot. Yeah make sure you turn to
the podcast for plenty more or that came from. We talk about Linux on the show anymore.
We go through a bunch of Linux. You're right but they're going to have to come and listen to
the show to find out. Yeah that's right. If you want to hear the real technical stuff the
things that will get you ahead in life that will uh get you raises and make you assist admin.
Yeah that will that will uh see make another video to a supermodel and all that stuff then you
have to get into the show. Check out the midcast. Listen to the midcast.
But maybe also we have a YouTube channel check us out on YouTube check us out on peer tube check us
out on Reddit we have a subreddit and the whole point of the show is it's an actual online
on-mumble Linux users group which means everybody is welcome to join us and we'd love to hear from
people that listen to HBR and and come and join us on the show on the first and third Fridays of
each month. And if you have any Linux questions and troubleshooting you want to and heard you just
want to hang out and talk and BS with us uh we'd love to hear you. So come on the show. We're the best
at BS. Yes we are. We are a talent for that yeah. Yeah zero script. We are kind of the opposite
of a script. Yeah which I think is what people like about the show is that it's kind of a
off-cuff. People listen to what? People listen to all four listeners. I think all four listeners
are on the show now. We finally convinced them to join. Right. Well that's tonight. We don't
have hopper. We don't have any of them. We'll get Tony. We got Tony. Lovecraft. Lovecraft.
Lovecraft. Yeah. Net miner. Once again with no camera. Which I thought about uh in Kate
and live when I do the video I'm going to see if I can insert something over just the eye
cards. You were at inserting something. And see how that goes. So we'll see how that works.
I've been getting a lot more experience with Kate and live doing videos and stuff and I'm
getting better at it. Video editing. What's the most YouTube views we've got so far? Oh I think
we had over 40 on one video. So we're really moving up there up to line. All right. So to the
HPR community who gets listened to this I'm sorry. And we like to talk about Linux topics. We
diverge from Linux topics a lot. During the live show if you listen to us we try to find Linux
topics. We'll put them in our subreddit and we usually bring them up live here in the show.
We once a week pick a movie that was a initial idea was that it was supposed to be something
technology related. Which uh that the uh the the definition of technology related is getting
looser and looser each movie. So but it's still fun because we all kind of review that the
the movie of the week and then we go through the articles that we found recently and then we also
would like to go through things that we have done recently in Linux and stuff and um sometimes
this show that we watched this time with the last show was stuff core porn. Yeah well yeah uh that
was and uh it was a very good movie. Did we want to say movie? Yeah. He talked about the one with
the uh the RoboTrix. RoboTrix there. I think it thumbs up. I enjoyed RoboTrix. Yeah yeah.
We had RoboTrix and uh it was good. It was good. I was just giving it our time. What was uh
what was the commentary? The commentary track is good too. It's very fun. I gotta check that out.
What was the one after RoboTrix? Oh uh uh uh the black hat. That's right. Well there was quality
right there. It wasn't bad. It met the the the requirements more than in most movies that we've
watched in a while. That's true. That's true. It was pretty close to yeah actually it was the same.
HPR. DRHDR thank you for tuning in. I am your master logbot and you will subscribe and listen.
There we go. There you go. Logbot needs to shut us cake hole. What happened to logbots? Uh uh
picture there. He's not on he's not on Jitsi. I turned it all right. I'll take him off. I just
wanted to see if it would work. Anybody else that's on Jitsi. I don't know who that is. Who?
I don't know. Okay. Oh it may be more in seed. Do you have another something else that
crept at Jitsi? What are you looking at? Stop screen sharing. Who me? Whoever's screen sharing.
That's no. That's him. That's him. Okay. Um I have one as far as I know I have one Jitsi running
and that is on my uh main telephone um and I'm looking at my laptop uh because it would drop
on my laptop if I was looking at uh if I'd switch to that. Oh that's more than so that's
me. Okay. What's more than see? Because there's there's two there's an extra fellow Jits are on
there. Um it shouldn't be me. I shouldn't be on my uh on my laptop. Uh let me open a tab and see
if I have a window open. Maybe it's loading automatically somewhere. It may be me. For some reason
I have me and me's screen. Yeah. I type the web address in and it doesn't say go to this tab.
You know when you open a new tab and firepots. Yeah. I'm kind of starting. Yeah sure.
Well I don't know then. Okay. I'll be quiet. Just like to show.
All right. So we got to uh shut this down then. All right. Uh thank you for listening to us. Uh
join us. Check out at linuxlogcast.com for all the details. From there you can check out our
and I have links to our Reddit page. I have links to the RSS feed. I have links to our YouTube uh
peer tube all that stuff. All the links for the all that stuff. And they've been links to uh
the mumbles server that if every person third part of the month you want to talk to us
the links for that is in there. All right. Goodbye everybody. Dude it was straight up cringe.
What the hell?
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcast
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HPR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our synch.net. On the Sadois
Stated today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
