Episode: 3269
Title: HPR3269: Linux Inlaws S01E23: The first year of the five year plan
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3269/hpr3269.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:59:13

---

This is Haka Public Radio episode 3269 for Thursday 11th of February 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Linux Inlawn S-Nero 1-E23, the first year of the five-year plan
and in part of the series, Linux Inlawn, it is hosted by Monochrome,
and in about 48 minutes long, and Carriman explicit flag.
The summary is, it inlawn review the first year, the highlights, low-light and all the bloody rest.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
This is Linux Inlawns, a podcast on topics around free and open source software,
any associated contraband, communism, the revolution in general,
and whatever else, fans is critical.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language,
offensive humor, and other certainly not politically correct language.
You have been warned.
Our parents insisted on this disclaimer.
Happy mum?
That's the content is not suitable for consumption in the workplace,
especially when played back on a speaker in an open plan office or similar environments.
Any miners under the age of 35, or any pets including fluffy little killer bunnies,
your trusted guide dog, Ananas on speed, and Qt-Rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
Previous to Varychi, greetings comrades.
This special broadcast of Linux Inlawns marks the first anniversary of this podcast
with the implementation of the first year of the five-year plan of world domination,
club and source.
We are happy to report that episode production has increased above plan alongside studying
clays in listening ship, now clocking in a five.
We aim to ramp up this up to 10 next year and get more brothers and sisters to join the revolution.
That just to yet fuss, long live free and open source software.
Privyat Martin, Comrade, how are things?
Privyat, Comrade Chris, things are great in the union, yes, the union of the Linux Indos.
I understand you have been to the central committee recently,
talking about the five-year plan, any news.
Definitely, definitely, much news, much news, so the first law is being implemented tomorrow.
And what's that?
You will be glad to hear.
So, listening to the Linux Inlawns is mandatory every evening on train of death.
Or going to Sabia.
Gulaks!
Your choice.
Gulaks?
Gulaks, I guess.
Your choice, your choice.
And Comrade Martin, what's been the story with the first year of the Illos then?
Ah, but the first year was the preparation for the grand take-over of the world.
The listeners, if you're still listening well done.
Welcome to the Linux Inlawns episode 23.
No, no, no, no, no.
The law number two is there's no stopping halfway through the episode.
Or Gulag, right?
Yes.
So the idea is essentially to recount what's been happening for the first year.
here, because yes, this is episode 23. We have been on, on a public radio for one year
now. And the idea behind this botched intro. Let's put it this way, basically, once was
just basically to to recount the year. And of course, to lay the foundation with this.
For the next four years of the first five year plan, hence the somewhat Russian introduction,
because yes, we are communists at heart. Well, I am anyway. And yes, and of course, this
is only the first five year plan. It depends basically on how long Martin and myself will
be living to see how many five year plans there they really are. But needless to say, as usual,
as we probably know and his if history is anything to go by, five year plans never mind the revolution.
Well, in some parts, anyway, haven't really succeeded. Well, at least until now, because there is,
of course, still something called the Linus in laws. In addition to the first revolution, right?
Maybe, just maybe communism, where have the upper hand this time. Here's a question. Yeah, this
time, I mean, revolutions have traditionally not worked for all that long. Although, I guess
the French did okay with it because they just chop off every head. But Martin, if you take a look
at France now, this is not really communist anymore. All the attempts have failed. Agreed. Agreed.
So what you're saying is to, there is no hope for communism. Until now. Until now, yes. Of course,
of course, yes, sorry. Yes, definitely until now. But until the beginning of last year. Yes, in
addition, and yes, of course, we being the Linus in laws, we do rest on the shoulders of giants.
When did, when did, when did beloved riches of storm and found the FSF?
Back. Oh, sorry, sorry, yes, we're coming to the limit. Sorry, yes, of course. Okay, first things
first about what was it? 32 billion years ago, something happened like a big bang or something.
I don't know, I wasn't there. Okay, fast forward. 2000 years ago, somebody tried to work
over water. I didn't really work out. That's a different story. Well, for some people, it probably
did. But anyway, the accounts of this maybe, maybe, maybe fixed one. We don't know. We do not know.
I have never certainly tried it, but maybe other people have. Anyway, it doesn't matter. Okay,
I'm fast forward to the 70s when somebody called Richard Armstrong and wrote some,
what was it? 80s. I can't remember. It'll be in the show notes anyway. The statues of something
which is now known as the free and open source of war. The rest is pre-much history and then some
finished student invented a terminator that became a lateral operating system. Some
invented a terminator emulation. Is he part of which later became somewhat of an operating system
for a moment, he was part of SkyNet as well. No, he entered pretty much a terminator, which
basically became an operating system afterwards. Yes, then the search company took this as, well,
not the search company itself, but rather another company took this as foundation for a
something that resembles a small robot. Subsequently, a search company bought this
of the company. Again, the rest is history. After that, an engineer turned into SkyNet. Listen to
the previous episode. The link will be in the show notes. SkyNet failed to conquer and rule the
world and now we are back to do to some improbability draft back in 2021. Yeah, it's interesting
point about SkyNet. I'm not sure that is entirely that well predicted given the current
situation with their products. As in, you can't find any of their hardware.
Like PlayStation 5 or the rest of them? No, mainly the miners and the gamers that are going for
well over retail, all these modern products. Okay, back to the list.
Yes, five-year plans. Yes, what about your visit committee?
No, I thought you went. No, it's quite simple basically because about 10 minutes into the session,
Zoom break down. Sorry, not break but broke down. Sorry. And Zoom, of course, being
in proprietary technology is surprisingly broke down. Anyway, it doesn't matter. Are you sure you
want to see? Yes, they tried and that failed too. Yeah, and it took them about four weeks to install
big blue buttons, but then it gave up on that too. No surprise there. The moral of this story is
what exactly? Okay, back to the subject. I mean, Martin, now we're clocking in at 23 episodes.
We have done 22. So what about the highlights and the lowlights?
Oh my god, there's too many lowlights. Well, lowlights are probably just a tech, right? We have had
a few hiccups here in the audio department. In addition to it's probably being the last example.
Yes, I didn't know that that conference that a free and open source conference systems systems
would be so bloody tricky. It's surprising that given the high usage of the phone,
there aren't more people. I mean, I ran a hacktober. I mean, I think we, I ended that order. No,
maybe I didn't. You'll find maybe the link in the show notes if I can take this up. Last year,
a couple of people got together for a so-called hacktoberfest run by
Digital Ocean, exactly, off of Digital Ocean fame. Digital Ocean, of course, being the hosting
company. They do a hacktoberfest, I think at least for the last four or five years anyway.
The idea behind these so-called hacktoberfest is to take an open source project and literally
a group or a couple of individuals get together and improve this open source project. And then
Digital Ocean, upon recognition of the contributions of this group, basically gives them t-shirts.
The idea, of course, not being to get the t-shirts but rather to contribute to the community.
So, quite a few people got together for this hacktoberfest thing and tried to properly
contain or write a big blue button. We set aside a month, say the month of October, and 2020,
2020, sorry, yes, of course. But regardless of how many hours we put in, we never got to do it,
we never got around to kind of get it to work. Is this so, is that due to the lack of effort,
do you think, or is this due to the activity of beer drinking?
No, I think it's on to the technology mix that the project has deployed because there were about
five people, everybody putting about 20 hours of work each week, times four is 80 times five,
it's 400 hours of work. And as we never got around to even kind of, we stopped
most of the address cause analysis because we couldn't get even to run the initial version of
the conference thing that we had in mind. But this episode is of course not just about big blue button,
afraid if you're listening. What are you on? A big button on the VMS slightly more straight
from the film. Exactly. Okay, the highlights, rather than the lower lights. Yes, the highlights. Yes,
well, yeah. Okay, what was the last one? I was probably actually the Transylvania episode
that you wrote. Okay. And I particularly liked the contribution of the peasant girl.
And people, we will have the peasant girl back in the very, in the very new future.
Unfortunately, not talking about how to unionize a vampire's workforce for change. But rather talking
about probabilistic data structures because the peasant girl, oh no, I can't spoil this. Sorry,
no, sorry, you have to listen to the episode people. It's coming up, I think in March time frame,
so stay tuned. But if you like the peasant girl, in that particular turn to running the episode,
she will reappear only with a slightly different tack. That I can review. Not quite. Not quite as a
peasant indeed. But the girls will stay the same. Yes. The accent might be different. Never
mind the subject. But she'll be back. Excellent. So what was talking about being back,
talking about being back, what about our interviews, which, which one did you like?
This is hard to say because if I pick one or the others will be in front of my doorstep with
pitch boards, right? Well, they can always come back on the next episode. No, I mean, without jokes,
it's hard to say. I mean, every episode I loved. So I don't know. I mean, because I mean,
I think the everybody was different, right? So really good. Yep. So what about you?
Very different. Famous episode. Oh, sorry, not famous. Favourite episode and famous. Famous.
They're all famous. Yes. And please like interview. Of course, that was a joke.
Where are we?
It's very voluminous question. Yes.
But let me repeat it. How was your favourite episode?
And you're at least like interview, but that of course was a joke. So let's grab this.
The most beloved dark side episodes. Let's put it this way.
Okay, let's do questions, right? Where's Potent Martin?
Yeah, that's fun. That's fun. This is way too little.
Talk, talk in a little bit. Give me a second. Take your time, Martin. Take your time.
And we're back. Yes. The most favourite, I guess, is the Transylvanian episode of DST?
It would be yes. That was the most fun one to do in terms of other episodes.
As you say, all the interviews were great. I mean, for me, I enjoyed having Bruce on the show
because he's a great guy. And obviously, I know him. So the spires.
Okay. Bruce, I suppose, got fame, but on the same token, all the others were great and very
different, specifically the next vowed story, the LPI last time. They'll bring in something
different and kind of, I don't know, maybe not for you, but for me a bit more eye opening,
because I'm not overly familiar with all these projects. So that was great.
Now, Den, I did enjoy the call in episode, specifically, where people had questions for,
maybe love it co-host. Yes, that was great crack, wasn't it?
It's, I think there might be some more fun, Corbin. Is that a threat?
I think we should give our listeners the chance to phone in there.
That may get fame, Corbin on it.
And then there will be pictures.
Yes, indeed, Martin.
I don't think we would do an interview.
No, but we can't put them on the website.
Yes. Okay, okay, okay.
Does your wife know about the show?
I would be interested to meet this, I mean, interesting to meet this, this Famke or this
pictures of her because she says she knows she quite well.
By the way, does your wife listen to the show?
I say so Famke, if you're listening, let's discuss these pictures of life.
Why?
She wants at least, what's the thought of what a long story goes for you as well?
Sure, Shannon, yes.
Excellent. Yeah, on that subject.
Do continue, please Martin.
No, that's not fair enough.
Well, we'll come back on that one a little bit if that's one dark side episode that I really like was actually the
Mario thing
Where the dogs yes
I took us basically from Sicily right to New York to some outer space thing and just right back
Well, we have a road this I think was you must his I think the guy was actually called Claudio, no, sorry Claudio
Yes, that's no sorry
I'm okay, I'm okay, I'm okay
Sorry, yes, Claudio
People's names
Claudio Claudio listening maybe you are yeah, we'd really love to have you on the show dark side are not yes
Yes, yes, so if you fancy um an appearance
Can be dark side can be just ordinary appearance
We just love to have you on the show
Talking about mac operating systems or other things
Please get in touch simply send a mail to feedback at linuxinlaws.eu
Excellent plan
Yes, so that I guess that brings us to your favorite this Claudio
No, this is no no, this is Luna must be right
Yeah, I think so and of course the grumpy old coders at least one of them anyway
Well, these these are the list as we know there might be two others. Yeah
Yeah talking about grumpy old coders
And they have somewhat confirmed an appearance they will be on the show in
March, I think live rubber you some flotties if
Planning is anything to go it hang on. I mean the least they they featured us on their recent show as an episode six
Here we hear a year in review. Yes, and they threatened us to have lost with rust
Of sorts, okay
So David if you're listening
We can discuss rust we also can discuss other things. Yeah, we did a we did a
Yes, we did
And he thought something should we do this again?
Yes now with real programming which is like Haskell
Like fourth
Like the ones that
Ah, no, we were going to do one on
Pascal and algorithm. Yes, that was you had it because you're old
Ah, okay
Remember this
So next time you meet
So some beardy young sir just just explained to him the
Absence of knowledge
That you have acquired
I'm just wondering if that works for you or not
Apparently it does
I have a beard. I'm young. Yeah, that's fine. Yeah
Yes, who lied to you about this
You kids your wife. That's all better. So it's it's it's all better. Yes, it's
Ah
Given a given the duration of the exact I mean if she talked to somebody at the age of beyond 100 yes, you are young
But if you're talking to a hipster that is who is below 30 you are
What's the English word Stonehold? No, it's for what I'm wrong for
Overaged
Yes, over is I would I just in fact I just minted this
I just think that's more related to
To X rated movies and stuff
Because that's you tell me no, no, that's very such a thing as overage then and you would be it
Well, there is no
Oxford what is called Oxford realistic. If you're listening
You are you oh as the mula
If it's not in there now
In
Other things yes, of course the one and a half interview
The one where you were the yes, the where interview with the
Determinator one and a half
Ah
Okay, why is it
Because this is what's going to
Call him
Okay
Terminator
I mean that was the episode where you couldn't make it remember
But I'm sure you've listened to it right
The interview so don't remember anybody calling calling anybody that's a tremendous name
No, I'm not
I mean you wrote the episode I don't know I just I just read this I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to
Transcribe it and
Post the results to you like we did with them which brings us across to where it is unsubject
Of course, yes, dark side
We of course write all these sketches, but maybe
Some budding author out there has
Thought about making contribution in terms of
If
If you're listening for fame fortune and money
Don't get in touch with us if you're listening if you're looking just for a good time sorry if you're looking for fame fortune money
Don't get in touch because we can't offer this sorry actually we can offer a good time, but we can offer
Fortune and money
But jokes aside
If you want to be part of one of the most important free and open source source podcasts as and then it's
Norse being on the humor side. Please do get in touch at feedback and Linux in our study you
Especially if you have an idea as even or even script for the dark side
Because if ratings are anything to go by Nielsen and France ring the bell
Dark side is rapidly becoming the most listened to
sketch season series what I'm what I'm looking for
Um contribution whatever
And in the open source
humor's world some of this as in the funny side of open source. Yes
It's probably quite a small world
So I don't know. Yeah, HGR sense across statistics um the episodes that
Dark side in them now clock in about about
300,000 million trillion quadrillion billion downloads
Where in where as the episodes that do not contain the dark side
Clock in it at about five downloads. So there is a difference apparently
Okay
Sounds like they have some serious bandwidth
Okay
So the we featured this quite a lot in the beginning
But then somewhat somehow it got down at the end of the day. Linux in laws is your show
We have somewhat settled on the frequency of
doing interviews and talking about our own shit
Like peep shows and stuff
I'm one of the previous episodes as in the second one before the last last one
The
Long day the one before the last one sorry
But as I said if you have thoughts suggestions comments feedback get in touch
You can send emails to feedback a little was in lost or do you or of course you can leave a comment on the hecka public radio website
We will pick this up
And of course. Yes, you will be taken on board as Claude you and other members of the of the community
Especially Luna if you're listening Luna sent more feedback have already found out
Back to the five-year plan. What's head Martin? Yes, what's that what did the central committee say?
Well, we got number one right which is so say so
You must be assistant to so yes, we have one year in the back for enough
So that's four years remaining of the first four of the first five-year plan
Yeah, yeah, well the end of the five-year plans obviously will be
So everything in between is yeah, it's purely building on that as in with various
Well, by just one is obviously continuing our episodes
Making sure the right staff is in place in the
Central committee make any comment on your on your on your on your staff turn I wonder
No, no, they're very pleased with my approach
So
But that's a very costus cost the approach because of all the redundancy packages, right?
Oh, no, no, no, no, this is coming after all. They just paid him in page. H. H.R. things differently
If they had anything to go
Send them to Siberia as well
Your way to the gulac
Yeah, so I think so we got the end point we got starting point
I mean, it's still the audience right
I mean, this is what we are this is why we make the audience is missing
I'm trying what I'm trying to say is actually they're the most important part of the podcast because otherwise
We wouldn't be making it right of course, I mean
People have people probably have a misconception that we're doing the podcast by
Because we think it's a great time and we can get drunk and talk about shit and stuff. No, that's not it
The podcast is made for you
That's that's what you want to work on
This is the reason basically why why why we're active look for feedback and stuff because
If we're missing the target here, we haven't done our job center committee or not
Well, we can always blame one we can always blame what
I thought it was just something
Oh, we can make jits here though. Yeah, well, we do
It's not difficult
Yeah, sitting by the nose and on a serious note, you are entirely right. So
All five of you please write in with comments and feedback
Now Martin for the shocking you so much even more than five listeners
Oh, we want to say even seven or more
Um hang on best Luna
David best
Claudio
I don't think we can count the grumpy old coders because it's kind of a
That's your wife of course
Yes, yes, don't forget Dennis yes theme course very important
Yes, yes, when there's the Irish to contingencies
But
Well, they're just looking for blackmail material money is usually yes
Yes
Okay, I think what's left to recover
Apart from the four year for years ahead. Yeah, I mean on a more more more intermediate
intermediate immediate note
Um, we're almost in year two
So any upcoming changes that um we have planned that are not
Been haven't been suggested about our listeners
Do it like to let our audience
Absolutely
For the time being, I think we'll continue with this
Alternating
Formate of an interview and
Some shit that we made up
Needs to say
Ah guys and girls and all the rest of the people listening um as I said if you have any suggestions for subjects that you want to see covered
Preferably above the open source, but if you want to make a nuke
Let's see what we can do about it goes as well
Send feedback that's it
Otherwise, maybe you should talk about which
We can
Because otherwise we have we said we still have to continue to make shit up right
And just hope it finds your
What's the one I'm looking for?
Appreciation
Indeed
Okay, well, I think yeah, for me, I think uh, yeah, what we have been a little bit short on is DSDS
Yes, Martin if you would simply write more
Because
You've done mostly all the episodes, right so
I think I have one in fact you don't know as well don't you um we got one for for um perfect excellent
Yeah, I mean, uh, maybe I can convey I maybe I can be convinced right something too
But you keep complaining about the lack of
It's about time yeah, yeah
But as I said, maybe some listeners have have ambitions too, but all means get in touch
And if if Martin could set up a working email server, there would be this email address at the dark side
At the news in lost or the you but that Martin work on this, okay
Why don't you shall I work on the gizzi
Why do you edit why not
Okay, ladies and gentlemen, this is this close up basically to an episode 23
Without the dark side, but there are plans to of course include more dark side episodes
Say to you. That's what I'm saying or we are saying and with that
Yes, um, what is what is fair? Well in Russian Martin you know Russian, right? I don't
Don't see that. Yeah, people
Martin
Yes, you turn
Yes, but that was a cue
Sweden in listeners
Don't we don't you listen to us. It's not sweet at least. Oh, we have to cut this out. Come right. Come right
Don't we don't yet. Don't we don't yet listen
You
Okay, Martin that was actually a very interesting episode looking back for this year of our five-year plan
But now on to but now onto the box. Yeah
I think there's probably a different word than interesting for this episode, but let's not talk about that right now
Hey Sarah
I
I've personally go with amusing but there yeah
Um, yes, my props of the week is a comedy series called not going out and
The series 11 episode one is absolutely hilarious. So
Not going on Corona related as in pandemic stuff. No, no, no, no
Well, that's that's true. Now, um, okay, so the series been going for
Uh, quite a few number of years. They're on series 11 now, um
and
It's basically it used to be a guy who was uh, uh, a lodger at someone's house and he like the girl and all sorts of stuff happened
Ha shenanigans go on at some point. Anyway, series 11 the the episode one is a must watch because I just
It's so amazing
Okay, of course you will find the link in the show no
I won't give anything away, but okay, yeah, I fell off the show for laughing
Good or bad
Which most not much comedy can do that
It's definitely a good thing. Yeah, I mean, the series is pretty good anyway, but yeah, that one was
To that kind of just just wondering Martin did ever you you I apply when you watch this
w.i. Who's this watching under influence. I was he uh no, no, I never do that
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Martin, that's a post today in public you know this right
No, no, this was uh um, okay
Hey uh, yeah, exactly
Let's see I'm going to check it up
And yeah, well, there's probably no chance of it not being on the influence, but let's go back to your pox of the week.
My pox is actually my two pox.
Two.
Yes, because I don't have any.
And well, I do have anti-pox, but I think we've called them before.
So this is the pox.
Yeah.
Okay. Yeah.
One pox is actually a movie called American Pickle.
Seth Rogen features in it.
And it's about a Jew being conserved in Brian for about a century.
And then waking up in modern day Brooklyn.
And then a food developed for food.
Few right few.
Sorry.
Between his great grandson and himself about how to conquer the world, making the best pick and all the rest of it.
It's to sum it up.
It's scenarios.
I won't give away much more.
Check out the movie if you want to.
It's on this streaming platform of your choice, I suppose.
And it's also it's very funny because both of them are Jews.
Okay.
Do you not work for this very company?
I do.
I have to be careful.
No, I mean, I absolutely love Jews.
Don't get me wrong because I like the sense of humor.
And that's exactly what this movie has.
A lot of it in it.
So it's just hilarious.
Second box.
It's a.
Yeah, it's a person called Mrs. Honey of HPR fame.
I reckon that not that many people will know what I'm talking about.
So let me give you some background here.
There is an episode 32 51 on Hacker Public Radio where a couple of 16 years.
Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of drinking alcohol.
Let's put it this way.
What I at first looks like a very sober, pun intended discussion.
As it's kind of very subtle humor.
If you're into kind of couples discussing various aspects of their personal lives and
advanced disadvantages of intoxicating substances.
This is the episode for you.
And with that, I think we're through, right?
I think so.
Very good.
In the case, zero on the next one.
In the case, zero on the next one.
This episode is sponsored by Communism.
Not the deodorant, short, pretzel sneaker, but rather the ideology.
For the last few centuries, Communism has aimed at making the world a better place to live
by sharing ideas and wealth like, while most of the initial implementation of this algorithm
were flawed, this has changed with the advent of free and open-source software.
Now ideas and the implementations can be shared among people from different cultural backgrounds,
beliefs, genders, sexual orientation, and programming language preferences, nevermind tax editors.
Let's better humanity by using technology for all of us rather than just a privileged elite.
Programmers of the world unite.
This is the Linux in-laws.
You come for the knowledge.
But stay for the madness.
Thank you for listening.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the Creative Commons license type attribution
share like.
Credits for the intro music go to Blue Zeroosters, for the songs of the market,
to twin flames for their piece called the flow used for the segment intros,
and finally to celestial ground for the songs we just use by the dark side.
You find these and other details licensed under CC Achimando,
a website dedicated to liberate the music industry from choking copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
Music
I have to do this again, Mark.
I'm going out.
Let's try that again.
What is hello in Russian anyway?
It's private.
It's serious, okay?
Yes, there you go.
Private, like a rolling.
Private Martin.
How are things?
Private Christophe.
Comrade.
Comrade.
Comrade.
Comrade, comrade.
Oh, fuck it.
Shit.
You should have said many in Russian.
I do not speak Russian.
Okay.
Okay, we have to do this.
Okay.
Okay, because otherwise we get nowhere.
Maybe we should be in the Russian for the time being.
Let's just go with the non-authentic Russian.
Okay, comrade.
Sorry.
How good is it?
Should I get another refreshment myself?
But maybe that's good idea.
So, small cut?
Yeah, so I guess that's okay.
I called the cut.
Sorry, sorry.
Let me get another refreshment myself.
Oh, right.
And when I say we're rolling again, we can start discussing things.
Yes, so short.
Autistic break?
Indeed.
Okay.
Recording is on.
Apparently it's on.
Yes.
Does it work down?
It's free.
Okay.
Yeah, should we?
Okay, just the box and rolling.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at Hecker Public Radio.
There are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
Today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
and we'll see you in the next video.
