Episode: 3913
Title: HPR3913: Lurking Prion Q and A
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3913/hpr3913.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:51:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3913 for Wednesday, the 2nd of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Lurking, Priand, Q, and A. It is part of the series' privacy
and security.
It is hosted by Lurking, Priand, and is about five minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Lurking, Priand answers questions about his name former career field as an MM.
You are listening to a show from the Reserve Q. We are airing it now because we had free
slots that were not filled.
This is a community project that needs listeners to contribute shows in order to survive.
Please consider recording a show for Hacker Public Radio.
Alright, welcome to a Q&A episode where I answer some of those questions that are lingering
out there.
Now I am your host, Lurking, Priand.
Now Priands are misfolded proteins that have the ability to transmit their misfolded
shape onto normal variants of the same protein.
It is not something that should happen, but it does.
So essentially, it is a protein that can make another protein take on its own shape.
So yeah, Lurking, Priand, I am there, I get in your brain, I tickle it, and who knows.
Maybe even manipulate it to do something you didn't want to do, like be more secure.
Like I could do that.
Alright, the question was brought up, I had mentioned that I was an MM.
That is a career field in the US Navy called Machinismate.
We work down in the engine room dealing with the big equipment we do with the main engines
that drive the ship.
We deal with the power generation, the generators that make all the electricity.
We also deal with the distilling units that make all the water.
So a lot of heavy equipment down there.
Lots of water, lots of steam, lots of fun, lots of heat.
So when my time in the Navy was up, I gladly parted ways, I only did eight years with them.
That was more than enough for me.
And then I joined the Air Force as a tech controller, 3C2.
So that career field, we were responsible for the back end of one computer to the back
into the next, whether it was across the room or across the world.
So whether it was a local area networking or long haul, including SACCOM, we dealt with
all of that.
We did not deal with what was on the computer itself in theory, however, in reality that
almost always fell by the wayside.
So I started out with Marconi Networking, moved into Cisco Networking, and there I moved
into a position called Circuit Actions where we were engineering out new configurations
of builds for different locations on the base.
From there I moved into a facility coordinator office position where I was liaison between
DISA and all of the DOD sites in the local region, which gave me a good chance to get
into the policy and procedure side of security.
Definitely a lot of interesting stuff there, disaster recovery, disaster preparedness, business
continuity plans, lots of good stuff in there that I managed to tuck under my belt.
From there, security, like I say, has pretty much always been there for stand foremost.
We just kind of moved in and flowed along with it as it progressed.
Along the way, cyber attack, cyber defense, red team, blue team, ethical hacking, setting
up security programs, setting up MSSPs, lots of fun stuff, played in healthcare, played
in a financial sector, DOD, and a few others.
So I've got a bit of wide range of experience.
I like to share my passion for security, and that's one of the main reasons why I'm
doing this podcast.
It's just kind of to share my cyber evangelism, if you will, and hopefully make some recruits
along the way, if nothing else, maybe convince you to use the internet a little bit more safely
than you did in the past.
I've got a number of different episodes that I've already got lined up in the queue and
more on the way.
So if anybody happens to have any more questions that they want to know, go ahead and throw
them away.
I'll be sure to answer them.
Until next time, this is Lurking Pryon.
You know a little bit more about me, and, hey, I'll see you next time, Cheerio.
Thank you for listening to another episode of The Stuff, Evil Steve, doesn't want you
to know.
I'm your host, Lurking Pryon, getting in your brain, and perhaps scratching an itch that
you didn't know you had.
Until next time, try to stay safe on the internet, and win it out.
Quit clicking shit!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive
and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
