Episode: 3277
Title: HPR3277: Microsoft in my Debian repo
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3277/hpr3277.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:02:08

---

This is Haka Public Radio episode 3,277.4.
You may not want to turn on February 2021.
Today's show is entitled Microsoft in Miami and repo.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 5 minutes long and carrying a clean flag.
The summary is Microsoft Raspberry Pi Bash Crypt.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15.
That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good morning Hacker Public Radio.
I'd like to welcome you to another episode.
Before I start, I'd like to encourage anyone listening to pick up a microphone and any recording device
and record anything of interest to hackers for this show.
For a show of your own.
As of this recording February 13, 2021, Raspberry Pi Foundation has added a repository for VS code.
I didn't really want anything related to Microsoft code in my repository even though it didn't affect me because I didn't pull down.
It doesn't affect you until you get the VS code software but still I just didn't want the chance of being tracked.
I tried burning a few distros to different SD cards and trying them out but settled back on
trying out pure Debian as the dongle that I was using only had a software available for that.
I actually found out a little bit later that ARCH has a repository for that same software that's available on GitHub for this dongle.
RTL 8812.
Anyways, the other software that I am using current on the other SD card I had that was running Raspberry Pi OS.
I run Codiana and I run emulation station with Retro Pi as a front end.
When I tried using the regular Debian it was able to compile and install everything as I had hoped to.
I was one wise person set on the ASPRA community.
It just took the path at least resistance and put the oldest card that had all the setups for Retro Pi and the Codie setup.
I recreated the repo name with a mutable tag and I'll show that on the show notes.
Since that repo is available on ARCH I may try it at a later date.
Right now this is working and right now this works for my setup.
One of the little things I noticed in some of the tutorials people are using apt get and in the recent years as a tip Debian now can just use apt to install a program.
The conversation about the subject started on the mailing list so if you would like to continue that conversation do so or if you have a comment about it leave it here.
Thank you for listening stay safe and always remember to use free software.
Bye bye.
I'm back. I didn't mention that the dongle is a TP link archer T2U.
I'll leave a description about where to find this in the show notes and the GitHub repository to pull down to be able to use it.
I use DKMS modules and I'll also listen to the show notes how to utilize that.
Okay this now this is the end.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
