Episode: 3731
Title: HPR3731: Speech recognition in Kdenlive
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3731/hpr3731.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:44:33

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,731 from Monday the 21st of November 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Speech Recognition in KD in Live.
It is the 10th show of DNT and is about 6 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is a brief description of how you can use speech recognition to transcribe
your clips in KD in Live.
Hello and welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is your host DNT.
I want to share something I just found out about a KDE in Live.
So this is a nonlinear video editor application from a part of KDE, I guess.
I used this a very long time ago.
The first time I had a computer with a Linux operating system installed, it was Ubuntu
back just before the Unity desktop came out.
I think it was maybe version 8 or something like that.
I had it installed on a little network and it was so bad that KDE in Live, I don't
know why, I'm sure it was for some specific reason but I didn't know it back then.
So KDE in Live couldn't even preview the video in the application itself.
So I cut the first videos that I ever cut on that even though I couldn't see the video
I could only hear the sound.
So what I would do is I would play the video on VLC and I would kind of take some audio
cues from that and then in KDE in Live based on the audio cues I would cut the video.
So I cut a couple of videos like that and then I kind of decided that I was going to pursue
this for work for a while video and then of course, you know, soon I moved into, I kind
of went into the idea that now you have to have an Apple computer to do this kind of work
so I eventually bought a Mac and then I used Final Cut Pro for a long time and then now
I don't work doing this anymore so I don't need to use this kind of thing.
Nobody will care what I use so now I've been using KDE in Live again and I only do video
for my own things just for fun.
But anyway, so using KDE in Live to cut a little video recently it was an interview and
then I found out it now has this thing, it's like a speech recognition and it can basically
transcribe your interview for you.
You have to install a couple of Python libraries which the KDE in Live does for you.
I assume it runs PIP to do that.
I don't know, it doesn't really tell you.
But anyway, it installs those two things for you in one click and then you have to go
to a website which the application itself links you to that website then you download
a model.
There are multiple different models and there are models for several languages and the
models are like pre-trained models for speech recognition and then you load this model
into KDE in Live and you use it to do speech recognition on a clip in your project in
KDE in Live.
So then it'll generate this little window thing in KDE in Live that has the transcription
of your video and you can even click through and it'll take you to the clip and so then
you can literally click a word and then press the space bar and you'll start to see the
video right at that point where that word was said.
And it's really great.
I don't think there were any errors with the transcription.
I think everything was correct.
So this is really impressive because if you've ever done this before, you may know the
transcribing interview is kind of a big pain.
Nobody wants to do it.
It actually makes me think of some old interviews that I still have that I shot many years ago
and I never got to finish them or anything.
I could at least run them through this thing and get a transcription of the interviews
for at least for archival purposes if nothing else.
So really impressive stuff, just amazing to think that this is free software or open source
software perhaps I'm not sure.
But anyway, something that's freely available and that works very well.
And also that same application that I was using about 12 years ago when I first started
editing videos is still an excellent application on Linux to edit video.
So yeah, I came across this and I thought it might be of interest to hackers.
Recently we had an episode from MrX about editing videos as well.
He was using shot cut.
I've tried that myself but I found KDE in live was a bit better for me but not too different
anyway.
So and yeah, it was funny MrX was kind of in a pretty similar situation so that one
I was in about 12 years ago editing video on a computer and barely able to play the
video I was trying to edit and having to use VLC to assist me in knowing how to cut it.
Pretty cool stuff.
So anyway, thank you for listening.
Remember we're running a bit low on shows right now so if you can sit down and just talk
about anything that you've come across recently like I just did and then post it to hacker
public radio, we would really appreciate it because I like to have those shows coming
in every day even if they're just short and simple like this.
That's great because then I have more time to do other stuff.
So thank you and I'll see you next time.
An attribution 4.0 International License.
