Episode: 3605
Title: HPR3605: Aspire-ing to use 13 year hardware
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3605/hpr3605.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 02:04:25

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,605 for Friday the 27th of May 2022.
Today's show is entitled Venturing to Use 13-Year Hardware.
It is hosted by Archers 72 and is about 8 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is part 2 of using Slackware on the old netbook.
Hello, this is Archers 72 and in this episode, this is my second episode venturing into using a 13-year-old
acer-inspire netbook.
In my last episode, the netbook was running a bit warm, but only when I had the lid closed.
It was puzzling me for a while, so in an effort to try and figure it out.
Since Slackware 15 had come out, I decided to split up the drive.
Since I had about 120 gig drive, I did 50 gig on one and 60 on the other.
I put 14.2 version of Slackware on one partition and 15.0 on another.
Since version 15 was done last, then I booted into 15.0 and edited the lilo.com and added in an entry,
which I'll show in the notes, about how to edit an entry to also be able to boot into 14.2.
So at the end of lilo.com, there is a section that starts with image equals boot slash VM linos,
and root equals dev sd in my case a3 for Slackware 15.
The label default there is just as Linux, you can change it to Slackware whichever version using in this case, it's 15.0.
And then those four lines, I copied and pasted them below, and instead of saying sda3,
the partition for 14.2 was an sda2, and then it changed the label so that I would know the difference when I was in the boot screen,
to which one I would be booting into.
As part of trying to diagnose the issues with the CPU, I was using H top, and I found out a couple of interesting things about it that I didn't know before.
One was if you do Shift K, you get the kernel activity.
And with this I found a couple of kernel threads that two different ones that were reading between 40 and 50%,
which would account for almost 100% CPU usage.
I learned a couple more things about H top this week.
One is you don't have to necessarily hit the F key to get into the setup, you can just use the mouse,
even when I'm running an SSH session, I can mouse over the setup.
And you go down to, there's things about the CPU.
And one of them is you can show the CPU frequency, and also the temperature right in H top.
And I don't know, it's a particular slackware, but one of the things you have to do to get the settings to stick is to have a dot H top RC.
Any settings there are automatically saved into this file.
The first kernel parameter I found was ACPI equals HT, and I put that under the line append in the lilo.com.
And the function of that is what it tells the kernel is to use ACPI boot table parsing, but do not enable ACPI interpreter.
This disables any ACPI functionality that is not required for hyper threading.
ACPI is defined by kernel.org, is the acronym for advanced configuration and power interface, and is an open industry specification establishing industry standard interfaces for OS directed configuration and power management on laptops, desktops, and servers.
As a result of this parameter after and lilo again to confirm the changes, I rebooted, and now the, instead of the one course of the CPU reading 100%, it was now reading 50%.
The next thing I found that helped was if I did a grip space dot space dash R space slash cis slash firmware slash ACPI slash interrupts, it gave me a listing of all the interrupts, and I spotted the one that was giving me trouble that was head 32 minutes.
32 million interrupts, so I think I'm reading this right.
I don't know if that's per second, but it was GP 1D, and then I read later online that if I have to echo the word mask versus disable to slash.
And then forward carrot to slash cis slash firmware slash ACPI slash interrupts slash GP 1D or whichever interrupt was giving you the problem.
It initially massed that parameter in a cron job under root that I found out later that I could put it actually put it into lilo after that ht parameter, and just run lilo again.
So again to make sure that option stuck, and then after a reboot everything dropped to between 1 and 5% rate, even with the lid down.
I don't know as of yet what I'm going to do with this netbook, but I may do something like tattoos episode 3511 and try out some containers with pod man.
There's a couple other things I left out. For one, the fan noise came back, so I picked up one nice or shall over and found one on AliExpress, and the other someone brought to my attention that memory for a netbook is relatively inexpensive.
It was about $13 for two gigs, top grade it for one gig, and overall that was about $20 in parts.
Well, thank you for listening, and feel free to record an episode of your home.
Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our things.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
