Episode: 3058
Title: HPR3058: The COVID-19 Work From Home Stream - Day 3
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3058/hpr3058.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:03:18

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3,058 for Wednesday, 22 April 2020.
Today's show is entitled The COVID-19 Work from Home Stream, Day 3.
It is hosted by Thach Sarah,
and is about 101 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is
A few HP are characters decide to spend some of their social distancing time being social.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
And she looked after the kids for an hour, she has lunch.
Then they occupied themselves in front of the TV
or read a book or something,
until I finished in about 10 minutes.
So I thought, I'd come and stick my head in
and say, hi, whilst I was technically still on the clock
or something.
Yeah, yeah.
My work has said that there'll be flexible if I need it,
but we're gonna see how things go next week.
We've never had three kids at home to try and
look out for while they're trying to learn
whilst working, so we'll see how it goes.
It's funny, I've been,
Poland has been two weeks earlier than us
in the isolation thing.
And at the start, you know,
people are hushing their kids out of the room.
And the last week it was kids on the lap.
And now there's just no remarks paid.
We're just, the kids are there next to mama.
Make a study is there has to leave
and do something with the kids and come back in.
It's just, yeah, this is the way it is, no?
Exactly.
This is the flexibility that the businesses now have
to afford you and to be fair.
We were doing this well before this started.
So the company I work for,
I'm really, really fortunate to have that level
of flexibility.
But yeah, it is a bit disconcerting way.
Well, have a look at that BBC interview
when the baby started crawling into the,
sorry, started cruising into the room
while this dude was trying to do an interview on live TV.
And that's that's kind of how thing,
that's the norm now.
Yeah, I thought that he handled that extremely badly.
He should have just picked the child up,
put them on the lap and continued on with the interview.
Yeah, precisely.
It was awkward, that was the problem
because when I presume his wife came in to extract the child,
she was like, almost like crawling on her hands and knees,
trying to do it so she wouldn't be seen.
But obviously she wasn't aware of the camera angle.
She was a home help.
She was the manning.
Other than any right.
Who is giving us back feedback,
testing, testing, testing, testing.
Was K, the K-wisher, Iost,
but they've muted themselves now.
So thank you very much, K-wisher, Iost.
And one way that I've been able to introduce them.
Here all of you are.
So I've got into recording YouTube videos recently.
I've done what they're on, seeing those.
I have.
I don't know if you have.
You were the one that told me that I'd upload one
without video before.
But public service, mate.
You're welcome.
Thank you very much.
Yes, I did a video about creating a vagrant virtual machine
with Ansible and Inspec.
And did a couple of git commits that I wasn't expecting
to do in it when I was setting it up.
And one of my colleagues then said,
you just completely skipped past all of the stuff
about git and why it's, what the errors were
that you hit there.
And given you supposed to be doing this as a meant,
it's like mentoring style stuff.
The sort of thing you'd have, if you had a guy
sitting next to you that you're not
worked, that you're trying to upskill or somebody
that you've, these new to your team,
you could upskill them with these videos.
That's the premise.
That's to whether or not it's hitting it.
I don't know.
So if you'd have hit those git issues
when you had somebody taking next to you,
you'd never have been sitting there going,
what just happened there?
So I went back and recorded this one last night,
some ridiculous clock.
I'm uploaded it, hit the upload it about.
Autopath 12, some exhausted today, but never mind.
Island.
Yeah, you know, we're listening.
Talking of uploads, is anyone,
anyone aside from Dave, come across library yet?
LBRI as a video upload platform.
Some of the channels I listen to are YouTube,
they're trying to promote it.
Do you have a father who works tonight and is recording this?
And I'm sorry, off that was that.
Don't know, somebody prankled my son
because they're all on WhatsApp,
so now they're getting prank calls and recorded calls.
No, I agree.
Yes, but every time I go to the website,
I can't get anything.
It's just a blank page.
Oh, interesting.
Probably because I've got a cookie blocking in all sorts of.
Ah, that might be it.
Yes.
It is very much designed to be all the latest tech enabled.
So yeah, if you're blocking anything,
it's probably going to break it.
No, so I'm from a content upload perspective.
It's interesting as to whether or not
it's got any life to it as a project that I don't know.
But it's distributed, isn't it?
Yes, I think it uses blockchains, doesn't it?
I think the blockchains are just for the metadata
if I'm entirely honest with you.
So what about the actual content?
Or is that a bit torrent?
So it's not bit torrent.
Or I feel a show coming on here.
What?
Yep.
We lost Dave.
Nice try.
Nice try.
What?
That's off partway through saying something.
And then that was it.
OK.
I said, I think you should do a show on library.
Oh, right.
OK.
Sorry, I thought you were taking the mickey
in the computer game.
No, not immediately.
Genuinely, you got partway through talking
and then it went and then cut off.
Ah, OK.
It's a nice guy part of John.
They're a little bit missing.
So my tagline now, more or less run,
I don't always live up to my name, but I do try.
That's all anybody can ever do.
Absolutely.
Right.
Now that I know that you guys are here,
I've got this server configured in my mumble client.
I will endeavor to start trying to join a little bit more
often.
So I'm going to have to go relatively soon,
because it's the witching hour of kid-to-clock.
Yes.
Well, it was good to speak to you, John.
Indeed, indeed.
I have a band in this community for too long,
and I need to get my dairy air back in here.
You heard it here first, folks.
I'll also drop off.
That's OK.
Have a good evening.
No worries.
I'm going to be dropping off in a minute anyway.
Have a great show tonight, Dave.
Thanks, mate.
Who's here for real?
And obviously, Caroline, not just Dave.
Thank you.
Thank you.
It's just because Dave talks more.
We just forget you.
I thought you said, Dave's a minute ago rather than Dave.
It's like, oh, that's a bit.
I'll come on, you know, Johnny's always very out front.
Yes.
Yeah.
Hopefully.
And I haven't done my track shit the other way.
I'm sorry.
I haven't done my track shit yet.
Oh, haven't you?
I have been busy.
Well, you know, work.
Surprisingly more busy at home than I would be in the office.
We've been traveling.
Not surprising.
It's not surprising, but it's a well-known fact
that people that are working from home
tend to put more effort in cause.
You feel like you've got something to prove.
Yeah.
That makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, yeah.
To prove that you're working, whereas in the office,
you know, people look around and see that you're there.
People look around and see that you're, you know,
fingers are moving on keyboard and they think,
ah, you're working.
When you've not got that.
And you see people seeing you.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
Oh.
Right.
Have a great show.
Speak to the audience.
Thank you.
We're going to drop off as well.
So thanks to anybody else listening.
I'll speak to you later.
Bye.
Bye.
Well, if you're listening, hey, Kevin and, uh, Tush.
I think Tush is AFK.
Ah, ah, ah.
How are you doing?
I'm fine.
I felt a bit, um, in disposed of a while ago.
Over the milk.
Now, um, are you working from home?
Oh, yes.
Well, I'm technically between jobs right now, so sort of.
But you're at least able to do something to right now to be able
to get some sort of an income during this time.
Oh, no.
I mean, so I'm technically in vacation from my.
Uh, uh, previous employment.
And I'm going to start my new employment next month.
So I won't have a situation where I don't have an income.
Ah, that sounds like it.
I'll kind of work out.
Yeah.
How's things there?
Uh, um,
starting to get a little bit crazier.
I mean, run here.
They're starting to do, um,
they're doing complete shutdowns of individual states.
So, uh, I think I heard midnight last night.
California was completely shut down.
And, um,
I want to say somebody just called me.
So I've seen you think about it yet.
Then again, I haven't looked.
But, um, I heard that New York was just completely shut down.
So.
Which state are you in?
Massachusetts.
I see for a minute there.
It seemed like they had successfully managed to, uh,
so-called flattened the curve here, but turns out no.
Now, where are you?
Sweden.
Now, are they on.
Lockdown.
Oh, no, not by a long shot.
So far.
I mean, a lot of people are working from home.
My employment, my current employment.
My coming employment.
They're also all working from home.
And, uh, I guess they just closed or are going to close the preschools now.
Have they closed any, uh, restaurants and bars yet?
I'm not sure.
There was about, um,
the cold state of emergency about a week.
And then they started shutting down schools.
And then I think it was, I don't know whether it was, um,
it was just past Sunday that they shut down restaurants and bars, uh,
shut down all.
Um, basically it's one of those things that you don't have to be open.
You need to close.
Sounds legit, but I'm, uh, I'm generally keeping not too close of a night on the news.
That's fair.
I mean, what I have to do is stay home.
So it's like anything that happens outside the door is sort of, you know, secondary.
Right.
Unfortunately, I work in a grocery store where it's just called an essential.
And which means even if they do a complete shut down of everything,
I still have to go to work.
Oh crap.
Right.
Yeah, you got to be careful out there.
Do you have a mask or something?
Nope.
Well, at least wear it in gloves.
Wash your hands often.
Back to.
So what do you do for?
I was finishing my PhD until last Wednesday.
And, uh, next, next up, I'm going to be working for a computer vision company.
Cool.
Um, what?
Sorry, I didn't catch that.
I said, cool, doing what?
Uh, something to do with automated driving, I guess.
Super cool.
Yeah, I still don't know very much what I'm going to do.
What exactly I'm going to do.
I am all for automatic driving.
Yes.
Because I don't like driving.
Yeah, I mean, either every time I go back to my home country, it's.
I didn't know because there I need to drive.
I don't understand people who drive for fun.
I mean, I've been to track my eye before, but even then it's.
That, that, that wasn't bad, but I mean, anytime you have to go or like stuck on a long trip.
Forget about it.
I mean, if I had some way, I just put my brain off for a little while and let the car just do it on its own.
I would be all for it.
Yes.
I think the longest I've driven is probably like three hours and even that was too much.
Oh, driven.
So in the United States, I've driven from Massachusetts where I live all the way down to my grandparents placed down in Florida.
And we did it all basically in one trip.
And so that's around 24.
How many stops?
If you don't stop, I think it's 24.
If you do stop, it's on some off like, you know, food, beverage, that sort of thing.
It can run up to about, you know, 28 hours, something.
But I mean, even all sitting back and forth with my wife, at some point, it just really starts to wear on.
I can only imagine.
I was back.
Me and a couple of friends went to Norway and we were hiking in mountain range for.
Well, the weekend, I guess, like three days or so.
And the last day.
Oh, actually, just one and three days.
It doesn't matter.
Last day, we get on the car back and my, my friend, then we drove all the way back from there to here that was like what?
It was like six hours after a, after a whole day's hike.
Oh, that's rough.
Yeah, I don't know how he did it.
On the other hand, he's one of these people that does like driving and that was a rental car.
And he was really excited about the car because was, you know, meat.
Sorry, didn't catch that.
I said my version of meat would be Tesla was self-driving.
Ah, yes.
My version of meat would not having to go through the drive.
Yeah.
Yeah, we also did some long trips with my family, but usually it would be over within the day.
So more like 14 hours.
Well, that's a good question.
Trying to get some idea of for a show to record right now.
And also trying to write some stuff for a colleague.
Cool.
Also, the other day I had to record my defense, something for my defense.
And that required quite a bit of a fan peg because my, or more FFM peg that I had ever used before because my laptop is only a core i5.
So any heavier application is going to be too heavy.
So yeah, just FFM peg really.
Hello.
You're all the guys talk.
Just quiet run.
Hello.
Hello.
So why are you?
You guys waiting for someone or?
I was just hanging out.
Or rather hanging around.
Yeah.
Memble seems to be very dead than put on being.
So many people were joining Memble for but nowadays and close to no one points.
I guess it depends.
Probably get more people in the new year show.
I think it's like four or five years since I accidentally don't think to you guys.
Well, not me.
Not me for sure.
This is like the third time I'm here.
In as many days.
So you only know about this four days.
Actually, I think I heard that HPR has this mumble instance.
Maybe just after the new year show.
Where are you talking from?
Number.
Oh, you mean there.
Correct.
No way.
Oh, hello neighbor.
So there are you talking from UK, maybe?
Stockholm.
Oh, Stockholm.
You switch.
Portuguese.
But I'm not Stockholm.
You know, region or?
Yeah.
Because your English I cannot point out to being so it's very Swedish.
Yeah, people have a hard time pinpointing my accent.
My first guess was the great easy guess.
Oh, you say somewhere.
If I cannot point out the wrong, you must be you say.
So you come here often.
We lost things.
Yeah, somewhat.
I'm spending a lot of time at home lately.
You?
I don't think I'm often a numble, but I spend the last week at home.
Yeah, at some point you start going insane.
Do you live alone or?
Yeah, I live alone.
So I feel relieved that being alone part.
Yes.
I don't talk to my friends.
My friend doesn't want to see me because they are afraid.
Yeah, that seems to be what's going on right now.
I'm not directly afraid.
I just want to hurt my few friends.
I got to watch others.
No.
If I can hurt them or not.
If I think I can hurt their name, going insane.
But try to random the bump into them.
Yeah, everyone is going.
Everyone is trying to be cautious right now, I guess.
Or with the children.
If you are, I was out of it and what shocked how many children kind of running around like.
It's the 90s.
Hey, what's good, everybody?
Oh, hello.
How is everybody's day of quarantine?
What's amazing.
I was so happy finding someone on a numble.
I feel bad that I was like, hey, we should all do this thing.
And then I wind up being busy every day.
So I'm here.
You're not always at home, but no, no time to remember.
Yeah, it's amazing how much stuff comes up while you're still at home.
I guess between having children to take care of and videos to upload.
And curriculum to write and everything else.
Yeah, it's hard.
How's mastering Python right now?
It is going.
I haven't yesterday was kind of a watch.
I didn't get all that done.
Our governor of our state decided to make a proclamation that all the schools are basically going to be out until May 1st, which caught everybody by surprise.
So there was a lot of scrambling on our end yesterday of like, what are we doing?
How are we going to handle this?
It was a hot mess.
I like everyone talks about everyone being afraid, but I'm pretty sure the kids are like super excited right now.
Yeah, the kids in Norway runs like in kind of masters, kind of 20, 40 in a kind of good running around in all the less open shops alone.
I think the kids were excited at first.
And most of them for here in our area, most of them are on spring break or getting ready for spring break anyways.
So they were kind of done with school.
But I think as this goes on, they're going to be more and more light. Can we just go back to school?
That's only a good thing, right?
I mean, they don't want to go back to learn. They just want like social interaction.
But yeah, I mean, I'll take what I can get.
So we don't have any friends close by then.
The kids you know about.
I don't know. Everybody here's a little bit crazy right now.
So I don't I think like even if my daughter had a friend that lived down the street, I'm not sure that my wife would let her go.
So I think the kids are mostly pretty isolated at this point.
Yeah, the kids eyes are seen around there.
I think it kind of just sheep going around the outside.
It also doesn't help that like today is the first day in a week that it hasn't stormed and rained all day.
So not only is everybody isolated, they were stuck inside.
Yeah, it's what raining and it's got something at the moment.
All thing things can close on in Norway.
Or but eating shops.
No Egypt.
Yeah, you get toilet paper and stuff.
Yeah, I've been joking all week.
I had to go to the grocery store the other day and I'm pretty sure it was like a scene from Mad Max.
So I don't think anybody is voluntarily going there.
It's kind of red.
I heard about the toilet problem and toilet paper problem.
This is the only problem in the shops in Norway.
I don't understand the reason to take only toilet paper not to fool.
Only the toilet paper.
Yeah, that's been a thing that I constantly just don't understand.
This white toilet paper was the thing and it's funny because we have a bidet.
So we're like, oh, okay, no toilet paper.
No biggie.
Like we're fine.
You have what a bidet.
What's that?
It's like a little water jet in your toilet to clean you off.
So you use a lot less toilet paper than you would if you didn't have that.
Wait, it's in your toilet?
Yeah, it's like a little extra nozzle that just popped out when you press a button and cleans everything off for you.
It's wonderful.
I don't know why the world all over it doesn't have these.
Is it a Japanese toilet?
No, it's actually my wife, I guess, got introduced to them when she lived in France.
And when we bought the house, she was just like, I won't want.
So we bought one.
Interesting because all my life, the days were sort of a separate piece of not furniture.
What do you call these things?
Yeah, this one is built in.
It's kind of just bolts on the toilet like normal, but it has a control panel.
And it just doesn't even appear until you hit a button and then just pops out and does this business and then just disappears again.
It's very convenient.
So may I do you live and then take it?
KDG or you're lighting up, but I'm not hearing anything.
Oh, so I've heard that.
Maybe I talk too deep to quite a few seconds and I don't know.
So they are from.
I live in the United States.
I'm I live in Indiana, but I'm very close to Kentucky.
Like I could throw a rock and practically hit it.
So kind of in the middle of the middle of the country.
So you can travel or different ways to get to the closest to shops.
You can take four more different directions.
Yeah, I never thought of it that way, but yeah, I can't go pretty much in the interaction and find a place.
So when the day you do something, you can one day drive one way to get out to the right job.
That day is when you really come to you say.
Well, part of the problem is America is the land of the sprawl.
So I'm probably five minutes away from one sort of radius of stores and then another five minutes away from the same stores just in another loop.
And then another five minutes away from the same stores.
We just kind of replicate ourselves as we go further out.
Much like a virus.
That's actually kind of a fairly appropriate analogy, I think.
So it's a good and a bad thing at the time time.
I would be a lot happier with it if it was like, okay, five minutes away is, you know, a grocery store or
something and then, you know, stores, but like not the same stores five minutes out.
Like different stores or like local stores.
It's all just like here's a Walmart.
Here's, you know, big grocery chain.
Here's Target.
Here's, you know, it's the same stores every five minutes.
Oh, yes.
That's not so fun anymore.
It's guys forever.
And you this time around because if one shop is empty, you can go to the next one.
Well, we have sort of this on demand economy, I guess.
I don't know.
It's probably the same way everywhere.
I don't know.
I'm not that familiar.
But basically all the stores run with like maybe a day or two of stock.
And that's it.
So they get shipments every day.
When the problem is is people are tearing through those shipments faster than they're coming in.
And there's no way to kind of amass things at this point.
I assume they're working on it.
But basically every store is empty.
At least in my area, like we just took my daughter to the doctor this morning for her checkup.
And we stopped at a store just to grab a couple little things that we were running out of.
And they had a little more than they did the other day.
But the other day, I mean, it was it was rough.
It looked like a hurricane or something.
It did.
So anybody doing any fun work from home?
Doesn't do any work at all right now.
I'm pretty sure I would be going insane if that were not the case.
Like I'm somebody who I hate being home like for more than eight hours if it doesn't evolve sleep.
So at least I have work to keep you busy.
But as that starts to dry up, it's probably going to get rough for me.
It's kind of paradox.
It's all there.
And normally a happy being home alone.
No thing to do.
But no way kind of nowhere to go.
So man, yeah, I've never I've just never been a pro.
I feel bad saying that because it's like, oh, it's one of my family is, you know, it's my home.
But I just I'm somebody I have to do too much ADHD.
I cannot sit still and just be in one place for too long.
Like I can't even set watch a movie because I get antsy halfway through the movie.
So this is this is definitely trying my the way my brain works.
So you are not computer guy then.
No, I am not.
I'm an educator.
That's what I do.
I used to be a teacher, but now I work at the university and I run a program that works in the public schools.
So I basically still teach every day, but I'm helping other teachers and administrators and stuff like that.
So actually I went from being in one room all day to just like running around a crazy all day every day.
And I actually prefer that. I enjoy it.
I need to go.
No, there come back later today.
If you still aren't.
Yeah, I mean, even if I'm not on, I will the stream will still be up and I will keep recording it.
So hopefully there will be people in and out throughout the day probably.
Hopefully.
See you later.
Have fun. Be safe.
Bye.
Hello.
Hey, you made it back.
Yeah, I made it back.
You didn't live there.
Oh, the guy left.
This is what's his name.
T-R-B-S.
Got it.
Have you talked to him before?
Yeah, we've had several conversations.
And we talk all the time on IRC.
Ah, are you serious?
So you have a heck of a public radio.
I see room.
There's one.
I'm not sure exactly where it came from, but it's pretty much the hacker public room.
And it's a.
Yeah, you guys.
Yeah, it's where we all hang out.
It's called all cast planet.
And that's that's pretty much where everybody chills.
You don't remember where you got the info to join.
Yeah, I think you have to have a registered Nick on free note to get in, but other than that.
That's I think that's the only barrier to entry.
So how many are there?
In which I know 1000.
No, not thousands.
Actually, I can tell you real quick.
Well, I thought I could for some reason I got kicked out.
I just thought to count them.
No, not to not do many more counting them.
I guess they said decided I was unworthy.
Oh, hang on.
I just got back in.
And I can start to count.
And then.
Well, I use a matrix bridge to to get into the room.
And for some strange reason, it seems like matrix, the matrix bridge, specifically two rooms that need registered next occasionally just boots everybody.
And then connects again.
So that's what's happening.
It looks like there's probably like 35 people in here.
Ah, so if or talks at the same time, it's got very cold.
Yeah, it's pretty interesting because I guess we're all geographically sort of spread out.
So usually when you jump in, there's just sort of like different shifts of people that are in there.
So like I always kind of talk to the same people at the same time of day.
But it's nice because you can leave messages for people and kind of talk to people you don't usually get to talk to.
So you randomly can jump into someone who kind of never seen but they are being like, like, are you or two?
But they are trying a different time and then people.
Yeah, there's a bot to where I could say, hey, tell this person the next time they log in this thing.
So you can kind of leave messages for them for whenever they jump in.
What do you call the place?
It's hash augcast planet.
Can you see a STPL?
No, I can't even kind of just do know how to write the number.
Yeah, there you go.
Oh, okay.
Yes, it's not it's a total of 40 people at any time.
Yeah, a lot of us state like it appears like we're all on there all the time.
But especially like some people leave open an IRC client so they can come home and read the stuff when they get home.
And it just runs all the time so they're always logged in or like the people like me who use matrix to bridge into it.
We're always logged in, but we're not always paying attention.
It's kind of hard to tell who's actually there and who's not.
Yes, I used to mix and I have a computer on 24 seven.
So yeah.
Yeah, that's that's how I used to do it.
I used to have a RISC open and a terminal just on my server and leave it up all day.
That is the same thing I have open.
Ten name.
I have a two mix season name Iris.
Nice.
I had VHS, but I learned that VHS was going to drop as a package.
And I found you don't need to learn something else.
So you advance.
I rest you so.
Oh, it was not the tech use.
So did you say you were in Sweden?
Is that what you said earlier?
I can't remember.
I've got other questions in speed and so.
Yeah, I knew he was.
That's what I was wondering if you guys were in the same spot.
I am a country, but no way.
Country right.
Other side.
That's actually a long time ago.
That's where my family is from.
So I have some, you know, genetic predispositions of the Nordic countries.
So like five to ten, maybe.
Like kind of no in you in you say it's for me to say.
Very, very, very few people.
Yeah, we're all from somewhere else.
I believe my family tree, if you go back far enough, is mostly sort of Nordic and Germanic.
Like mainland Germany type situation.
So yeah, my family definitely is not from America for well from the United States.
No, it's kind of just five to ten percent from there.
To be completely honest, if it is five to ten percent, I would be surprised.
That seems remarkably high.
That is the highest.
It's maximum left if they are hidden in the forest somewhere.
Maybe, I mean, like if you told me less than one percent, I would be like, yeah, that sounds about right.
Yeah, I've not been so much and I'm not sure.
Kind of maybe I fled to Mexico.
Maybe there's actually a lot of sort of native cultures that were originally from that area that still kind of exist.
Sort of towards the Southwest, towards the Mexican border.
But like where I live used to have a native culture here.
We've completely either wiped them out or pushed them all the way across the country to the other side.
So well, there are still people who are native or still have native culture to find somebody who is primarily native as far as genetically in my area is exceedingly rare.
Yeah, so I kind of mixed between something.
Yeah, that is a lot more common.
So I know like there's a group locally where we're at that does sort of Native American cultural activities and religious events and stuff like that.
And when you go, it doesn't from an outward appearance.
It's a lot of people who look like me there because they have at least some genetic connection to it.
And so that they feel like calling to it to go do it, which is cool.
I like that that's there.
But it's very rare where I'm at to see somebody who you look at and you're like, oh, you are the native person.
So you are not the tech savvy.
I think I asked you once before.
Well, I'm tech savvy ish. It's a hobby.
It's not my career, but it has influenced my career.
So like right now, one of the things I'm working on is a curriculum for the schools in my state to teach programming because I kind of know what I'm talking about.
Not a lot, but enough more than anybody else in my program.
So it gets thrown on my shoulders to come up with it.
So if you learn the horse has horrible, horrible things to do, right?
A whole kind of ration of people for me.
Your live is learn the bad way to do things.
Yeah, pretty much.
That's what I've been doing during this quarantine is trying to catch myself up and learn as much as I can to make sure that I don't do that.
Because that would be terrible.
So kind of the next thing that shows and is like 10 times better than the first, because you got the wrong learning value.
Yeah, I'm basically putting things together in small chunks and then sending it to my friends who are actual programmers and being like, hey, does this make sense?
Getting checked off from them.
So I think it's kind of something you can turn application, you can use to test if your code looks okay.
Yeah, the place that I find myself strongly the most or at least it may just be perceived that I find myself struggling the most is from the theory perspective.
Like I can usually bang together some code and just smash it into each other until it does what I wanted to do.
Not probably is horrible and breaking like 100 rules for programming.
So that's the part I'm trying to get caught up with is like, how do I do this and make it like acceptable for, you know, if these kids decide to eventually go become a coder or something like that.
To where they're not doing this thing that they learned in high school and they get on the job and their boss is like, where did you learn that? That is terrible.
You can point back to you. It's not fun to someone born you.
I just don't want to be that guy.
Yeah, so it was Peter knew was learning people or other things.
I'm sorry, I missed part of that. What was that?
It's see programming or what is it as far as who's who's learning it?
No, what the language in programming you learn the way.
Yeah, our state wants to kind of standardize on Python, which is a language I kind of know.
I mean, like I said, I know enough to make something work, but it's not.
I prefer like this.
I do a lot with racket that's sort of my favorite language to play around with right now.
So it's just sort of not only I'm I'm coming from this very list be functional programming world into like object oriented Python and trying to just wrap my brain around that whole dichotomy shift of a new thing.
Lips is that in MX kind of language.
Yeah, that's actually how I learned it. I became an EMAX user and you spend any time being an EMAX user. You learn EMAX list pretty quickly.
Yeah, I make some skips like two years ago and we're really into it.
But it kind of is what all of nothing and try to use it.
It was too little, too little kind of it.
I was didn't find any way to team it different to time to time different task was going to do.
Yeah, it's one of those things that you, I don't know, I live in it. So I'm always tinkering with it. I'm never happy and always writing like new little snippets of things to kick off things, but it's I was saying earlier this week for even just for my research stuff for work.
I don't know how I could do it with any other software. I'm so my brain is so into the EMAX org mode way of doing things that I, if I had to move from that, it would be like starting over completely.
The learning curve to learn something else would be so high that it would be practically impossible for me at this point.
So I'm like Max has been around and it's never not going anywhere anytime soon because it took a long time to get EMAX, but now that I have it, I don't think I could do anything else.
I learned EMAX and didn't at the same time same year.
That could be hard on the brain.
The good thing about it is I can go, I can be better on both. EMAX was kind of help because I didn't understand how to do double, double kiss.
Yeah. I've been so long, long, long time with, I think half a year before I understand I didn't need to read the control key each time.
Yeah, because I did that and I thought it's hell.
I'm torn between, so I get really mad when I'm in a program and EMAX key bindings don't work, which is most programs because most people don't add them in, but then key bindings work everywhere.
So it's kind of like I've learned them through other programs because I'm not touching my arrow keys is just not happening.
I learned a little bit of both. I still don't know how to get out of them though, like I don't know how to shut it down.
So you kind of need to, you kind of exit the whole thing.
If you have a kill process and you get for more of it.
I thought running in the tunnel, then you kind of go for the good thing and then you get a menu and can look through the menu in the case.
Yeah, I don't think I've ever run them gooey. Maybe I should try that at some point just for curiosity.
You run most of the time, EMAX in the gooey, but the first thing I do is shut off all the menus and everything because I basically just wanted to be terminal with there's one.
There's something I use in EMAX that basically only works in the gooey. I forget what it is.
But basically my gooey for EMAX just looks like another terminal, terminal emulator.
I'll turn off the tool bar. That is horrible thing.
No, I turn it all off. It's just literally a big black square on my screen with this in it.
I had a global menu on my thing, so my menu vanished to the top.
Yeah, I'm using no. It probably does have a global menu. I just never paid attention.
No, it doesn't really. It did once, but it's kind of 20, 40 years ago.
Yeah, I just pulled it up and in no, but basically it's like close. That's it.
It's the only thing that's in the global menu.
No, I haven't had the global menu since it was gnome 2.
I use gnome, but I have put enough basically extensions into it to where it's i3.
It's a tiling window manager for me. I don't actually use gnome the way you're supposed to.
Yes, I think it's possible to have a global menu, but the plug is for global menu.
Breaks each update.
And it's kind of no maintenance for anyone.
As I said, that sounds like every extension for gnome, it just breaks every time they update.
So I am not a gnome fan because of that.
Yeah, I am. I'm on arch, so I basically just keep those packages behind until.
All breaks each day you update and behold, that's just.
Nah, it's not the way it works.
You just have to be careful like mission critical things.
You just don't update until you know it's safe.
That's that you just can't like pack man update everything and expect it to go well all the time.
Kind of us update each day or if you really feel proud of yourself,
you had it to update each time you're off.
That would not be a choice I make.
Cone all in all on.
I too like to live dangerously.
So fun kind of I sometimes read about arch and new kernel and no boost after kernel update.
Yeah, that's happened before.
And I think I'm so happy and not running out day.
I'm not sure how to get around it if you cannot boot anymore.
So that's that's the that's the wonders of arch because when you learn to install arch,
you have to do all these weird magical incantations of lecture roots and stuff to actually get it to install.
So when it doesn't work, you just kind of go back to that and get it mounted and start playing around with it without actually booting into it.
And then most of the time you can fix those things.
Oh, you can fix it.
I've thought this I've thought this no grub and nothing boots when you can have you so black skin.
Now, there's a voice around.
Well, I mean, sometimes it's just totally messed up and you're not going to get it back.
But I this laptop I don't think has been.
I don't remember.
Actually, I don't even know if this laptop's running pure arch.
It may be running like my jar or something.
No, I haven't.
I mean, but I've screwed it up and I've gone back and fixed it.
But that was it.
But I haven't server that runs like just arch playing a large and it's been chugging along for years.
So, you know, if you take care of it and you're careful, it's not.
Do my glume, but it's definitely not like app get update and just run it and everything works beautifully.
I'm not sure.
So, a notch doesn't sound like a good match.
You need to really know what you're doing with it.
Well, for me, the operating system on the server is just enough to blow Docker and then everything's in Docker containers.
So, I can, you know, worst case scenario.
If something does go wrong with the operating system, I just blow it away, reload the operating system and I can load any operating system and just rerun the Docker containers on top of it.
And it shouldn't be that difficult to do.
And you may be held back up so you can kind of load it all in.
Oh, this back in.
Oh, yeah, backups are important. Like always have backups.
Especially running out.
You know, I like to add a little throw to my life.
That's it.
The day you get a whole update and you update to come.
Yeah, it's on the comment for me to go a lot longer than I should on the server between updates.
And then you you look at the list of everything that's being updated and you're like, uh, this this might end up being a problem.
Yeah, I try out once or twice or four times, but each time I kind of came to the bracket because I didn't update it off enough.
I run it in those blocks and somehow break it.
It's every time.
Or I don't know.
How to break the package man show.
A lot of times like the main thing that I see with the package management system is if something.
Goes wrong.
There's like this weird lock file that gets created in Pacman.
If you go and delete that file, it usually just takes off again.
And I've never fully figured out why that happens, but sometimes you'll get like a database lock for Pacman.
And you just go find that file and delete it and then it works just fine.
I remember what my problem was.
I think it was the public key something.
The security something, but each time I was going to look at it, I need to totally disable it over security sex.
That sounds like something that may have been like installed from the you are that was conflicting with something that was built in.
Like the regular repositories because that happens quite a bit.
I don't know.
It's actually the reason I moved to arch in the beginning was because I was sort of a Debian slash Ubuntu slash all those Debian derivative fanboy for a long time.
And then I just hit the string of where I just everything would crash every and I just kept losing everything.
And I didn't have that problem once I moved to arch.
So it's actually been more reliable for me than Ubuntu was.
Now I think that's changed, but you know, it is what it is.
Is that Kevin Wischer in the chat?
Yes.
He tried to talk with you are so much higher.
Mike and he so he doesn't.
I don't have him, but I see him lip and kind of.
He'll figure it out in a second.
He's a pretty smart guy.
I think he was.
He was going from the last time.
He was going to the next and he joined the same second.
I think he was checking in from like a phone or something and he was just listening in.
Yeah, but he was definitely unmuted I think from the start.
Yeah.
And he's kind of asked why does anyone talk?
Well, there he goes.
So he didn't come back again.
Yeah, he actually lives relatively close to me.
Oh, yes, barely, barely hear you.
I can hear you, but if he hit other one talk, I cannot hear you.
I think you can kind of do something.
A member doesn't sound always so good that you kind of can afford it to get higher.
Sound of a member.
Yeah, you can change the gain inside the sound settings.
So how are you enjoying your like month and a half long state mandated vacation?
Well, so far, it's not a month and a half vacation for me, because I'm a full time employee.
So it's a let it equals out to once you remove all the holidays and stuff like that.
Then weekends, it's a 260 day, they call it a 260 day employee.
So I'm I'm grouped in with the custodians and the maintenance staff.
So I am a full year employee.
So the only thing it's changed here recently, and this is pre yesterday's announcement,
because it was late in the day when the governor made the announcement to close till May 1st,
pre that announcement, they decided to give force us.
And it's very, I mean, they're being very generous on this because they can't,
they're trying to justify not doing any type of ghost employment where they're just paying us to stay home and not do nothing.
So they gave all of us 260 day employees an extra 10 days of PTO time.
And we're being we have to take it.
So we're taking five days here in the next two weeks.
And then there's going to be five days after our spring break, which actually the official spring break was started.
It was supposed to start next Monday.
So I still haven't heard, I guess they had an emergency admin meeting this morning.
And I haven't heard word about what how that's going to affect us yet.
Yeah, I, I think our IT guys are all kind of on one of those contracts too.
Yeah, we, there have been so many meetings the last two days about this that it's, it's a little ridiculous.
And it seems like just from what I've been a part of, it seems like IDE got completely blindsided by some of this.
So they're just like, we don't know what we're doing.
Exactly. Yeah, there was no, I mean, there's no precedent for this.
And it's just, it's kind of a flying by the seat of pants type of thing, you know.
Yeah, they're, they're letting teachers back in the buildings like Monday for like four hours to get all everything they need.
To kind of just essentially finish out the year because when we go back, it may first, there's only like three weeks left.
And most of that will be just kind of fluff like it always is.
Yeah, I'm kind of a, I'm guessing that there will be no more students come back after May 1st after, you know, especially the way this stuff is spreading, it's getting worse every day.
I'm just assume I'm just going to take it that there's not enough time left to do anything from May 1st till the, you know, 1st of June, whenever graduation date was, I don't remember the exact end of the school date, but it's always that last week of May 1st week of June.
And I don't know what this, you know, what, you know, what they're, did you, did you listen to it as a dress yesterday?
I heard it's basically after I heard parts of it.
My wife came down and told me when it was going down and then I, I basically went into meltdown mode because I was like, oh shit.
And then all the stuff from work started pouring in like, how do we keep our grant if this happens?
So it's just been a mess.
Yeah, I mean, they don't even know what they're going to do with, you know, about this year's seniors.
I mean, how do they, because they have to, you know, they got to meet certain requirements to graduate.
What are, are we going to extend this delay the end of school and come back, you know, July, August and let the seniors finish to get their credits?
And you know, what, what they do about this year's graduating class?
Well, I don't, there was some talk of trying to put together something statewide.
I don't know if that's actually going to go anywhere to where instead of things being decentralized kind of has it is now or different districts are handling it different ways trying to create something statewide that they know what's happening instead of, you know, right now a teacher could be really good and be doing the e learning really well and some teacher may not do anything for the next month.
There's talk of maybe trying to standardize that, but it's kind of like everybody is scrambling because how do you do that? How do you push out the information?
Especially like down here, I don't know, I don't know how it is a your way. There's, there's a high percentage of the kids that don't have any internet access down here just because they can't get it run to their house.
So it's, it's sort of this, we can do all this stuff and it's really nice, but is it ever going to reach everybody that we need to reach?
So you both do the same thing?
Well, I'm a network administrator at a K through 12 school.
Oh, you both do school, but you just do the same thing at school.
Kind of, but I'm more, you know, network IT, I think Taj is more what instructional related.
Ish, I guess technically, yeah, it's a very quality most days, but yeah, we live in the same state.
So all the stuff that's happening is kind of similar for us despite the fact that we don't work in exactly the same place, but we all the things that are happening on the state level are happening to both of us at the same time.
So you get the new rules that you both need to follow and you both know what that TV consequences happening in your face.
I think the idea right now is is that they know that something needs to happen.
They just don't know how to make that something happen or how to guide anybody in trying to get any movement towards making that thing happen.
So our school is like, you know, we average 100 kids per class, so K through 12.
So you know, it makes what 13, roughly 13 to 1400 students.
So we're kind of a medium size school.
We're actually probably the smallest school in Howard County here in Indiana.
But we're all one to one iPads K through 12.
So they are doing e-learning.
And I don't know exactly what days have been deemed e-learning days here.
So it's all changed since they eventually closed last week because the last Friday was the last day of official kids at the school.
So this was the first week without kids.
I think all this week was e-learning.
So the teachers, they didn't actually get told that we were closing a week to week.
Actually, yeah, week early before spring break till last Friday also.
So they had that kind of, they were scrambling to get everything prepared for e-learning.
And they're kind of breaking up into like Monday is periods one and two, two days periods, three, four, Wednesdays, you know, five, six, seven.
So they're kind of breaking it up into like a block scheduling as a way I understand it from my bread.
That's a really cool idea.
We're not doing anything.
You're the, that inventive like we, so the district that my wife teaches in and I work in.
There's probably if I had to guess, well, one of the high schools has almost 2,500 kids.
The other one I think has 700 kids and I think the other one has like 400 kids.
So I mean, there's, you know, it's a lot bigger school, but they are one to one with Chromebooks.
The problem is is they just a never kind of gave the teachers any real instruction on e-learning.
And they're still dealing with the fact that there's just not internet some places like you can have a Chromebook.
That's awesome. If you can't get to the stuff, you can't do the stuff.
Where my daughters district, they have no infrastructure.
They're not one to one. They don't have any e-learning things in place.
And they're, they're in a much worse situation right now.
Hey, KDG, do you have pushed the talk enabled?
No.
You're probably out too, because you're picking up your crumbling or whatever you're crumbling.
Yeah, I was wondering to note that when I was doing the post-up I was going to be so fast, no one had it.
So we do have some kids that do not have internet at home. I don't know.
I think there's probably more or less app to that than what you are down there and the hills of Southern Indiana.
So, but there are some kids that they relied on getting all their content, you know, while they were at school on our network.
And then also we have a weird situation here in our town here that the public's library is actually attached to the school.
I don't know. I think we're the only one of two situations like that in the state where the public can come in during the school day and the kids are in there at the same time.
So there may be there'll be adults from the public, you know, it's open to the public and the students at the same time.
And so like during after hours, the kids that don't have internet at home would go to the library to get their internet.
Well, now the libraries are closed because of the governor's or the state board or the county.
I don't know who shut down the libraries first before all this school closing was, but now the public libraries are closed.
Yeah, come kids can't without internet can't come in and teachers are not allowed in the buildings and so.
But they're actually delivering still delivering launches to kids that require that.
So I don't know if they're somehow they're probably going to have to do some printing of their assignments and get that delivered to them somehow.
I'm guessing is what I'm guessing, but I have heard that yet, but that's what you know that's how we're handling the kids that don't have, you know, any type of internet right now.
Yeah, we basically I don't know who I think Northern Indiana you guys have or.
I don't even want to get to the Northern Indiana here's more central, I guess.
The service provider down here for everybody's spectrum because that's that's the only person who runs high speed pretty much anywhere.
They're offering free internet, but like here, like even the road I live on our house is the last house on the road that can get high speed internet like my next door neighbor cannot get it.
They just will not run it to them, they told them, oh, it'll be like 15 grand to run the internet and then like basically everybody further down the NOS on this street, who are all still like in our district can't get internet and it's like that a lot of places around there.
So internet in you say is kind of the hard to get.
It just depends on your area, I mean, because like I'm just what would you say were a part maybe 150 miles 200 miles apart from Kokomo to.
What town I don't know what exact talent you're close to you're down by Cincinnati almost, aren't you?
No, I'm I'm central, so I'm I'm right across the river from Louisville, so like street shot down from Indie 65 that's where I'm at.
Yeah, so we're probably a lot of 150 term miles apart.
Yeah, I mean, if even that, I mean, we may actually be a little closer.
So I mean, that's just show you that the chain where and the terrain down there where Todd is is hilly southern down by the higher river.
So it's hilly. It's where the glacier stop rolling, I guess, is why it's so hilly down there is from what I'm my learning from school.
And up here it's where the land got flattened out by the glacier. So I'm kind of flat flat slightly rolling hills here.
I mean, not even really any hills up here by Kokomo.
So and it's not so rural and population is closer together, but yet there are places where high speed internet does not get reached to not more than, you know, maybe five miles.
There's a five mile radius around my town here that you cannot get high speed internet.
You have to rely on dial up or you're relying on some type of wireless broadband.
The phone kind of thing.
Well, even like DSL, they won't run out here because it's too far away from I guess there has to be a centralized node. I'm not a networking person, so I don't know.
To where you can't you can't even get that in your house because it's too far away from the last station.
And for them to build another station cost money and they they're like, yeah, we'll run it to you, but you have to pay for that infrastructure.
We won't build it. You have to pay for it and build it and then we will run it to you from there.
So it's it's this weird like because we're so spread out in the United States that there's these just giant blacked out areas where there's no connectivity at all.
So like even where I live because Kevin was talking about how hilly it is down here.
Like specifically on my street, like we face kind of it's not a mountain. It's a big hill, but it's big enough and it's right in the south that like you can't even get satellite here.
Because it's just sort of physically blocked by it to kill.
So there's and there's no cell phone signals here because we're just far enough away from a tower that there isn't one.
So people just don't have the internet here.
So kind of you and same state and it's kind of 90% blackout.
No, I'd say it's probably reversed. I may be like worst case 80% of the state probably can get high speed internet, but 20% can't.
And both of you live close to them.
So I probably live closer to it than Kevin does.
So if you're living with both your places in maybe one percent on that use of it.
It's one of it's one of the things that this this crisis is sort of pointing out is that it's really it's really cool to say, hey, we're going to do school on the internet.
And then you get a bunch of kids specifically the school that I taught at before I went and worked at the university.
It wouldn't surprise me if I third of the kids don't have internet of any kind outside of a cell phone.
And then they don't really aren't able to use that at home because it's not a good enough connection that far out.
But I worked at it really really rural school.
So it's a little different.
I cannot live home because we need to be content but we have no internet.
So I cannot do a homework.
Yeah, for sure.
So very often because we don't have internet.
And that's what they're trying to work around is like how do we how do we get to these kids and and not fail them for something they have no control over because they really don't like.
Yeah.
There's nothing they can do about it.
I think it's easier just to say, hey, we're just going to give everybody a check this year and we'll just start again next year.
How about that?
I hope not but that maybe you wish for thinking.
I'm hoping we can get an under control.
10 years in.
Hmm.
Next year, next year.
I felt I heard about it.
But could change somewhere and.
I don't know.
Yeah, well, the only place I know that that happened is basically I'm very, very close to the Vietnamese community here in town.
And they were talking about how within like a week and a half of their first cases Vietnam was completely contained like there were no like they felt like they had the entire thing.
Everybody who had it was in quarantine.
And they were like mandatory testing everybody and if you test a positive you went into quarantine and they took care of you in quarantine and they put they were like taking these hotels and turn them into quarantine hotels so people would just kind of stay there and they bring food and everything.
And they were a lot of the people I knew were kind of proud that that was happening there and that.
In Asia, it's always kind of thought of as sort of this little country they can't really get their stuff together and that they had really done a good job.
And then I guess a week or two ago, somebody who was a had dual citizenship from Vietnam.
And I guess somewhere in Europe went to Europe went to a fashion show in Italy went to London went to Paris and then flew back and brought it back with them.
And they were able to be ignited everything there to where they don't have it contained anymore because that person apparently just went around.
Blind to people about their symptoms.
Yeah.
You need one person and it's a wildfire kind of thing.
Yeah, I think that's what makes this it's dangerous as it is is that that fact right there is that it only takes one person who's not kind of doing what they're asked to do and it can really ruin everything.
It looks healthy as hell, but nope.
It's kind of a whole can be totally okay, but one person can come in and just watch away or work done.
One of the things that like we're very careful about specifically is like we had to go out today, which you know, I liked because I don't like being home.
I already covered that.
But there's almost zero percent chance that both my wife and I have not been exposed to it at some point because we're both teachers are both work with kids all day long.
And a couple at least one of the cases that is confirmed we know had contact with kids that we worked with.
So it's like even if we don't have symptoms, we're probably carriers at this point.
There's a little bit more of a you should stay home for us, I think, than the normal.
Yeah.
So you had the kids too, so we have.
Yeah, we have two kids.
And our one daughter, our one daughter is too small. She doesn't go to school, but the other one goes to school on a different district than we work in.
So it's sort of like we have these three massive germ factories that we all go to every day and then come home.
So I'm sure somewhere along the line, we got exposed to it.
Yeah.
And the moment you kind of if you're not exposed to know and monitor somehow need to leave to do something that is what you get exposed to.
Well, and it's one of those things that like if you know, we're all fairly healthy.
I won't say terribly healthy, but you know, we try.
You can have it not have any symptoms and just still have it.
So it's hard to tell.
It's like, oh, I feel fine. I can go out. You may still have it.
So have they get gotten some kind of test you can find out if you have it or not yet.
My understanding is they do, but it is not widely available.
So they are sort of just reserving it for cases that are highly likely to be it.
Yeah.
I heard it in my kind of city where you get.
Yesterday they was running empty on test.
And it kind of.
I didn't want anyone on the hospital anymore because the test was well know.
Yeah, we took my youngest. She had a doctor's office checkup today that was pretty scheduled.
And we called them and we were like, hey, are you sure you want us to come in and all this stuff?
And they were like, yeah, if you can come in, come in.
So we went and we weren't allowed to go in the building.
We had to wait outside and then somebody inside the building.
Talk to us while we were outside the building and filled out our stuff took our phone number.
We had to wait in our car.
Then they called us and then one of us was allowed to take my daughter in.
And as soon as we walked into the building, which was a separate door, they took both their temperatures before they let them in the building.
So I mean, the medical community is definitely on lockdown as far as that.
Yeah.
I was going to get something in the hospital, but I don't.
I'm not a patient and I trying to kind of walk in and they kind of, yeah, don't come back.
We don't want you here.
Yes, more or less.
What are your recent, what your good reason to come here?
What your good reason to come here?
And I just have a very good reason I need to get something in the shop.
That only shop does exist inside the hospital.
And we kind of they have a monopoly on selling something in the hospital.
How about a thing right now?
We're only ready to get it in the hospital and they don't let anyone come in.
It's also being a patient.
So yeah, I need to be patient by the thing from the monopoly thing.
Hopefully the thing you weren't looking for is toilet paper.
No, it's not.
If it was a, that would be a big problem because I kind of was looking after.
I was randomly walking around the shop and wondering what do people kind of shop like.
There's nothing in tomorrow's paper.
The only thing that's empty in the shop is toilet paper only.
Yeah, see here when I went to the grocery store.
It's like all the canned goods are gone.
All the meat is gone.
All the toilet paper is gone.
And like most shelves are at least maybe a third full.
Like it turned into a feeding frenzy here.
People just kind of lost their mind about everything they could get their hands on.
No, it's what many, many warnings in my country.
Do not, uh, what is it's called?
Kind of much shopping.
What do you call it?
Harding.
Harding.
Yes.
Do not holding food.
Warning.
On all the news.
Send me my country.
Do not hold on.
If you don't have a no problem.
If all had a.
Many problems.
Yeah, I see I'm pretty sure if they made that same announcement in America,
everybody would be like, yeah, right.
And they go to it anyway, because that's just who we are.
Yeah.
But when we're talking about paper, then no way it's holding as hellish as you say is.
No, box food and dry food is.
Ah, it's very empty.
But all food, uh, meat and fruit fruits are enough.
Oh, I want to pick fruits.
Yeah, I was talking to, uh, Hockey McGoo, I guess yesterday or the day before on here.
And he works in the grocery industry.
And I was talking about the last time I went to a grocery store.
I literally saw a person crying in the canned goods aisle because there was no food.
Um, but then I walked into the produce place where all the fresh food was.
And it was full.
But like you're over here crying because I don't get it.
Like what's the problem?
You kind of don't know what I want to trust something in that.
Constable someone had one such.
I think it's more because people just don't know how to cook.
Slash don't eat real food.
It would not surprise me if some people just don't even consider that.
Because it's so outside their norm that it's, we have terrible diet here.
No, I have a terrible diet.
There's a lot of people that are talking about it.
I kind of eat the first food since I'm out.
Family.
10 years, 12 years and years.
I eat the first food more or less.
So I kind of look around and.
But okay, this is kind of.
I know about it, but it's kind of.
It actually start to.
It's right in the day and no one to pick any apples.
Apple is kind of a tour.
And normally people can pick apples.
But no one seems to be into that anymore.
Well, guys, I need to jump off here for a little bit.
So I'm like a radio silent.
I'll stay in here so we're still recording.
But if I don't talk to you guys again, it was nice to talk to you today.
Yeah.
Do you stay on 27?
I'm staying on most of the day because I'm the guy that kind of spearheaded this.
Like, work from home stream.
So I.
Oh, yeah.
I stay in long enough to record it.
But like, I'll just mute my mic and keep the recording going.
So if somebody jumps in and has a conversation, we still have it.
And we can release it on HBR.
So it's, it's like I will see him.
But the kind of thing I.
Being then.
Yeah, we just kind of talk about it.
Actually, I think it was here.
It was.
Yeah.
CRVS.
He brought it up that like.
It would be nice to have something like this because, you know, every.
A lot of people are stuck at home and.
It's going to get a little rough socially.
Like for people like me who really need social interaction to be mentally healthy.
So I was like, hey, this is, this is a cool idea.
We should just try it.
So it's, it's easy enough for me just to log on and start recording.
If people use it, they use it.
If not, oh, well, it's not a big deal.
But I hope I see you.
I hope I remember to join you guys again.
And hopefully you are not muted.
And I'm randomly jump in and someone else.
It's up for sure.
Have a good night or whatever you're going to do.
Alright, I catch you guys later.
Later, touch.
So what are you doing?
Well, I have a part-time business at a home-based business doing computer repair.
I had a customer call me or texted me to just about half hour before I jumped on here.
Said he is a Dell laptop.
He's, I have Linux for him.
And it was not booting up.
So this is the first customer I had contacted me since this virus outbreak.
And I was thinking, okay, how do I be social, keep my social distance away from a customer that's bringing me a computer to my house.
So I had him.
So I called him and I explained to him, you know, I said, hey, I'm going to be.
I don't want you to think I'm weird or anything, but I want to keep social distance for this virus outbreak because we just don't know what's going on.
And just leave the computer outside my back door or my side door to my garage where my workshop is, ring the doorbell.
I will collect it after you leave and I will diagnose it and call you back.
So I didn't even have to a meeting face to face.
Yeah, I hope that was possible there.
I'm leaving.
I hope that open again.
That's the kind of service you're doing.
Well, it's part time.
So it's not my soul income.
So, you know, I'm not like my, my full time job is at the school.
You know, so this is a part time thing I do on the side is repair computers.
But I bought a system before Christmas and I'm not satisfied with it.
I want something fixed on it.
First, I waited.
I waited too long.
I started asking for fixes about it the same day.
The outbreak kind of no more open all things.
Kind of like things kind of closed on the same day.
I started asking for things.
Hey guys, can you help me?
Is my computer?
Yes, after.
Break, break, break.
No, dot, dot, dot.
So are you on kind of Linux?
I'm sorry, but I'm having a hard time understanding your, what's your accent?
Could you say that again?
I try to understand why you don't talk anymore.
Maybe you don't understand me.
That reason you don't respond so much.
But other guy doesn't seem to misunderstand me.
Yeah, I think, I think if you slow down just a little bit, I can do better.
Oh, yes, I talk too fast.
Too fast.
I'm maybe a bit off to practice because my only time I talk English is on the number.
Do you sound like you have a French accent?
Is that correct?
Or from you say that.
Where are you from?
No way.
Oh, no way, okay.
You are not the first one to guess that.
Taste the present of guesses is you have a French accent.
Kind enough, I never met any French one ever on the book.
I wonder what they are going to guess I am from here.
So are you very into Linux?
Yes, here at home, I am pretty much totally Linux.
I have a Windows laptop I use for.
I have a CAD program I have to use for my doing my 3D printing.
So I've been trying to switch over to, I think it's called free CAD on Linux.
But I just, I'm too old to learn new tricks.
I can't teach an old building tricks.
So I rely on my solid works was what I used in a previous job and I ended up buying it for a home-based business.
I did years ago doing CAD design for the plastic injection mold, plastic injection molding industry.
So I've learned solid works and it's ingrained in my brain and that's what works for me.
Now I've got it on a Windows 7 virtual machine that I just pull up when I need to do some CAD work.
Yes, you just need to fill systems for it.
If you need a full system, it sounds open.
But if you can run it in other books and now it doesn't seem...
Well, I'm well versed in Windows Mac and Linux because at the school I work all staff have Macs.
But we also have some Windows computers for some labs.
And of course, and then I've since I'm a system administrator, we have a virtual VMware virtual environment.
We have a mix of virtual Windows servers and virtual Linux servers.
I run Linux on my desktop at work.
So I have the freedom to run whatever operating system I want.
But I also like say I've been forced into learning Mac because staff maybe decided to go down that route a few years ago.
Do you need to understand how to fix the problem with random ligates?
Correct, right.
So I mean, it's helped out in my side business also.
So now I can work on customers that have Mac Apple computers.
But I advise people, I push Linux for people that for my side customers that bring a computer around that I see that they're...
They have no need to have Windows.
If they don't have any Windows software that is that they're dependent upon.
And I can find, even if they are, I'll look and see what they're dependent on.
If they're the viable open source Linux opportunity, equivalent to that software, then I will advise them to switch to Linux and then give them instructions on how to make the switch.
Oh, so that's the random left kind of...
I put my computer on the repair and I notice that they go from the beginning of the Windows machine to the beginning.
Linux machine.
You may be not understand what I said.
Go ahead and repeat that.
You just randomly switch it on people when they are doing a repair.
I mean, I don't... I consult when I recommend Linux.
I don't force anybody to switch to Linux, but I should explain the benefits of...
I heard about people in you say sometimes take a privilege of calling out people.
I kind of talk about feeling and I can feel it so good.
I kind of have customers that understand I kind of got switched.
Probably less than give people one.
And it's surprising that I would say a majority of my customers are elderly.
You know, I'm close to 54 myself, but I mean, I'm talking older than me.
So 60 plus years old, some of my customers.
And you'd be surprised that the number that are using Linux and they get along just fine.
Yeah.
If the main application I used is a web also and it's...
How do you know different doing your switch?
Correct.
They're just mainly getting on the internet, doing their Facebook and email and web, you know, basic stuff.
And doing some basic, you know, word processing with open, you know, Libra office, you know, nothing...
No, nothing important.
And that's how I will know.
That's part of the service I provide is to see what they're doing.
What they're doing with their computer and how to tell them, like I explained the advantages of using Linux and open source.
I'll even offer to...
If they do decide to go to Linux, I will offer to move them back to windows for free if they don't like it.
So, if the key is kind of...
The Linux key is combined in the computer and you kind of need to buy a Linux key to a renail program system.
Some people bring me a computer with windows that's so, you know, bloated and messed up that they think they need to buy a new computer just because it's running slow and bad.
And when I can show them that, you know, I can boot up to a live USB disk and it actually runs better off of a USB disk than what their current system is running.
And they're just amazed at how much faster they're old computer, you know, they're old that they thought was going to have to, you know, scrap them by a new computer.
But I try to control my grandparents to Linux.
They kind of say that they're against it and they end up buying an iPad Pro and after they buy it, they forgot their header computer.
And kind of, I got the computer and I used like fire four hours and got things on dead.
Oh, it's so fast. It feels fast.
It's about fast, the moment I open the browser and oh, it's just slow computer.
Well, I'm going to have to jump off here for a while. I'm not going to be like tall to go silent for a little while.
I got work on this computer, so I will.
But you said good.
It's good talking with you.
Yeah.
So you're still wondering what iOS device do you have iPhone or iPad device on for today?
Well, that was just a, I don't know, it was a, what happened to have a iPad mini.
One of the first generation iPad mini is like keep around for, I like the form factor of it.
And I just, there's a mumble client for, you know, mumble for mobile devices.
And I use that every once in a while just to listen in on a, on a mumble channel.
So, you know, talking, when I, when I want to talk on mumble, I jump on my computer so I can use my headset and everything.
You've got kind of, I think, deafened and then used it yourself.
Kind of hard layer and I was in closer.
Yeah, it was, I'm not, I mean, I don't use it that often to know, like I had some headphones plugged into it.
And when I unplugged it, it automatically muted it.
Oh, I see.
So I had to jump back in to play it on the, on the built-in speakers.
I don't, I don't know why it muted itself when I just unplugged the headphones.
I see, I think it's a setting, maybe.
So anyway, I'm going to go mute here for a while while I get some things down here on this customer's computer.
Oh, I see.
It's good talking with you.
Yeah, maybe I see it all today then.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at Heka Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative commons, attribution, share a light, 3.0 license.
You
