Episode: 3529
Title: HPR3529: Linux Inlaws S01E48: Year Two of the Five Year Plan
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3529/hpr3529.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:03:28

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3529 for the first 8th of February 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Live XinLos S0148, Year 2 of the 5 year Black and this part of
the series, Live XinLos, it is hosted by Monochrome, and is about 52 minutes long, and carries
an explicit flag, for summaries, for two aging heroes discussed the past year in review.
This is Linux in Laws, a podcast on topics around free and open source software,
an associated contraband, communism, the revolution in general, and whatever fences your tickle.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language, offensive humor,
and other certainly not politically correct language you have been warned.
Our parents insisted on this disclaimer. Happy mum!
Thus, the content is not suitable for consumption in the workplace, especially when played back
in an open plan office or similar environments. Any minors under the age of 35 or any pets including
fluffy little killer bunnies, you trust the guide dog, a lesson speed, and QT Rexes or other
associated dinosaurs.
This is Linux in Laws. Again, the review of the 5 year plan, and this would be season 1 episode
for the 8. Welcome to the review as in the second year of the 5 year plan episode. Martin Howard
thinks. Yeah, good question. What happened to your Russian? Well, I haven't practiced it for
a while. I think at least 10, no more than 10 years.
What is your question on last year's 5 year plan episode? I can't recall it well.
Okay, well done, me. A lot has happened in that year, which seems my 10 years.
Yes, for the people who are listening, for the two people who are listening to Linux in Laws for
the first time, we are doing this small as every year for the last 20 years. The intention is actually
to review where we are. Let's talk about a little bit about the road ahead, and of course, maybe
let's pass the year in review. A concept that we blatantly stole from a few other podcasts.
The Granpeo Court has probably been the best example, but more on the Granpeo case later.
More on Granpeo. They are many Granpeas, yes.
Okay. Martin, what's your 5 year plan episode of the last year then?
Oh, there's quite a few. Let's have a think, because I think probably, actually, you know, that's
an easy one, because the one with Paul Ramsey stood out for me. Okay, why is that?
Because of his approach to open source, right?
Okay. What approach his endeavours and talks around it, the kind of stuff he's,
he's obviously been in that area for a long time, but he's thought about it a lot, and
indeed, it has a kind of a high level view of how open source should work and could work and
it doesn't, at the moment, as we know. Very enough. Certainly food for thought indeed, yes.
Well, by yourself then, which one do you like? I'm still divided between the BSD and the
Lenin's panel episode. You probably remember the one where we had the Lenin's chronicle
derivatives on the on the panel, as well as the BSD ones. And I'm a slightly
slanted towards the BSD one, because they provided some food for thought indeed.
Because if you, if you recall this, they essentially hinted at the fact that GPL
Martin, that the GPL, as in the group public license, might not be one's house fits all,
especially for their purposes. Granted, for enough, they are coming from a different background,
because the BSD distribution license is a very liberal license, whereas in the GNU public license,
referring back to the episode that we did over the summer, people, if you can't get to sleep,
probably references will be shown on the map. We did it. Exactly. We did a show on
open source licensing. So for all these, for all the insomniacs out there for you, among you,
rather, and this is the episode to listen to, because you'll be asleep in no time. Jokes aside,
the GNU public license, as probably quite a few of our listeners will know, the GNU public licenses
is essentially a very strict license when it comes down to publishing any changes that you do,
to a code base, whereas, and this is considered to be a very strong copy-left license,
whereas the BSDs of the world would be considered to be more liberal licenses,
that do not have that limitation restriction, whatever you want to call it. So the idea behind
BSD and some other liberal licenses, as you take the code, you give it some attribution,
and then you are free to do whatever you do, whatever you see fit with the code base.
So, and this is essentially what we discussed you in that panel that quite a few
use cases or adoption references that we're looking for. In that space, go back to the fact that
this licensing is way more liberal than the Linuxes of the world, because, as we all probably know,
the Linux kernel is under GPF version 3, meaning whatever you put into it, you have to publish.
Okay. Yeah. I don't know until, yeah, it's for me down the licensing bit is all bit.
It's obviously relevant, but not the most exciting of topics.
I mean, if you, like we are, if you have that ultimate goal of world domination,
there are a couple of ways to achieve this, right?
Probably more than a couple, but yeah.
So, of course, the question is how to get there.
And that's exactly where the, where they kind of wrote up if you will divide.
No, I think the answer is probably not without the source of it.
It remains, that remains to be seen, I suppose, because quite a few companies are pretty much ahead
using open source towards that goal, towards that end goal, if you will.
Google, for example, comes to mind.
Yeah, I guess they might be using it, but I think, what did I actually, how big is Google
compared to Amazon, right? It's pretty minute market cap. Good question, don't know, but
I just came across something that said today, when I was reading the paper, that said
Google's market cap is at least the equivalent of a handful of Dex companies combined.
And Dex would be the German equivalent of Dow Jones or another kind of stock market index.
So, the market cap of alphabet must be significant.
You'll find this quite funny. So, Google's valuation for last year was like 2000 billion.
You mean alphabet or you mean Google, there's a difference.
Yeah, okay, sorry.
I'm talking about the umbrella group now, as in alphabet.
We could look at that.
Alphabet, the umbrella group is 2,000 billion almost.
Now, in comparison, Amazon is 1.7 trillion.
Seriously?
Yeah.
Not just AWS.
No, it's all books as well, remember?
Yeah, they do indeed.
This is where they're, yeah, this is where they come from.
So, yeah, there you have it.
If you want, well, the donations start selling books.
That's interesting. Just look at the Wikipedia pages and Amazon,
with regards to revenue loan clocks in,
and with nearly 400 billion last year,
I'll show that clocks a little bit at 182.
That's less than half of it.
Interesting, interesting perspective.
Because I thought that alphabet was bigger than Amazon, apparently, I'm wrong.
Both in terms of market cap as what is revenue, of course.
Well, they don't have some nuts for running it,
and they don't have anybody firing rockets in the space either,
so obviously they're doing something wrong.
Are you sure in terms of revenue?
Because, yes, Alan would be very rich,
but I don't think that Tesla would be anywhere near these numbers.
No, not yet, but I'm sure he'll have something up his sleeve,
or to change all that.
Well, I mean, SpaceX is still experimental.
I mean, they're putting rockets into space,
but I think they're still kind of,
they still have to get to the commercial breakthrough.
I don't think they're black at them, or more of a hobby,
and if we could be as anything to go by,
the revenue, have a guess, what do you think is the last year's revenue of Tesla?
Well, it's got to be in the
millions, millions, probably 100 billion.
No, less than that, 31, 35, 31 or five.
So people out there buy about Tesla's,
if you want to, of course, for disclosure, we don't own Tesla,
we are not participating in Tesla.
Our names are not Elon Musk.
I'm just saying, indeed.
Okay, going back to much more important topics.
Oh, yes.
The something called Linux-LOS, I don't know if that rings well,
it's some sort of open source podcast,
if a completely mistaken.
Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
the open source podcast, right?
Sorry, yes, of course,
we are talking about the five-year plan.
You're sorry.
Yes, you'd be glad to know Martin that actually,
and we are ahead of production,
so I think we now have five listeners.
That makes us one listener ahead of, of, of, of, of current planning.
Because, oh, no, no, no, no, we don't just have listeners,
we are also unusual, apparently.
Yes, indeed, we are.
Somebody is scraping us on YouTube.
I don't know how you got that.
Is that allowed?
Yes, I'm, I'm, I'm that sure it is.
Okay.
Well, yes and no, yes, but, right, because.
I mean, if it, if it isn't Sundar,
if you're listening, Mr. Pichai,
please get in touch with your,
we'll be at and saw this out.
No, I mean, jokes aside, we are releasing
under share, under, under creative comments,
share like attribution,
so everybody basically can take the content
and do whatever they want with it.
This is true.
So, yes.
So, we cannot see you Google or sorry,
YouTube or whatever these days,
or whatever it's called these days.
And so, if you're listening,
don't worry, we won't see you because we count.
But, if you want to send us money,
Sundar, the email address is sponsored
and it's in lots of you.
Yes, we do take more because it's not working.
No, Sundar, we do take shares as well.
So, so, if you don't want to send us cash,
then it's okay.
Good plan, good plan, action.
Okay, we will be.
Yeah, breakthroughs.
Of course, yes, I think our listener base
has now increased to a total of five listeners.
Maybe even more.
Does that include you, I mean?
No, I think that doesn't include you, I mean.
Okay, well, at least seven, then.
Speaking of which, there's another episode
that comes to mind, of course,
Hacker Public Radio with Ken Fallon.
Mm-hmm.
Yep.
Yeah, that's good as well.
And, well, this is it, right?
You have to choose one to come to say,
well, they're all good because they are, but...
Well, yes, it's a word clap.
Yeah.
But, actually, no, no, no.
Instead of communism, they all win.
Okay, fair enough.
Use the ones who didn't.
Okay.
Yes, I can't if you're listening.
This is a kind of plug for Hacker Public Radio, of course.
People, if you have, and this is a full disclosure,
we have been hosting Hacker Public Radio since day one.
We're still on Hacker Public Radio.
So, if Ken, if you're wondering where all the traffic comes from,
it's a show called Lins in Loss, just in case you're wondering.
Yes, and Ken, there will be an upcoming episode
on how to do websites, right?
So, stay tuned.
It's pencil info next year.
Or this year, actually, if you're listening,
because we're recording this.
Just before New Year's Eve, in 2021,
to release is somewhere in 2022.
Anyway, it doesn't matter.
And, of course, people, if...
Yes.
And the Hacker Public Radio, the project as such,
this, or stands by, what's what I'm looking for,
thrives, thrives from contributions.
So, if you've ever, if you've ever talked with the idea
of doing a podcast, and haven't done this yet,
topic doesn't matter, it can be...
That easy, too.
Anything.
Mental hospitals, and open-saws,
hips are programmable languages like Rust,
or maybe even Java.
Well, the HBR is not just computers based.
Exactly.
So, if you want to talk about...
Exactly, if you want to talk about your upbringing
in the Catholic Church,
Hacker Public Radio is the place to do so.
Can't be anything.
The thing is, basically, don't be afraid of putting the word out
in terms of...
Even if you've never done a podcast before, just do it.
It's not hard, actually, to tell.
Exactly, because we have to do it for two years,
and see what we are. Exactly.
Yes. So, oh, two years, right.
Yes, the hell, if it's two years, does that mean there's only three years,
theft of the five-year plan?
Indeed. Before the next half-year plan.
Question then is...
Well, I was going to ask you this,
because what happens to the five-year plan after years has gone past?
Does it then become a four-year plan?
What do you... Sorry, I didn't get that.
What do you mean?
Well, you start a five-year plan.
A year has gone by.
Does it then turn into a four-year plan?
No, we are into...
Year number two of the five-year plan.
As in the year two, year number two has been concluded.
So, that's three years left of the first five-year plan,
and then we do the second five-year plan.
The thing is, basically, our great leaders
back in the 20-hundreds didn't have ten-year plans.
So, this is the reason why we have to stick with five-year plans, right?
In the great spirit of communism and the Soviet Union and other great things.
Yeah, now did the Soviet Union change their five-year plans ever?
During the course of the five years?
I think after every two months or something,
I guess, when they had to make a production adjustment.
But that's beside the point.
No, that's curious.
Yeah, with planning, if you keep it fixed for five years,
you may be not necessarily be doing the right thing anymore.
As you know.
Well, too, this is the reason probably why they adjusted the seven-year plans.
But they still stuck to the original notion of a five-year plan.
This is called the human plan.
This is called the difference between theory and practice as both.
Going back to much more serious issues, namely our
relationship and, of course, people who have reached out to.
There's going to be more than five, isn't it?
Because we've got Chloe here, we've got...
We've got Biko.
Yes, Biko made a suggestion.
Oh, another one?
No, yes, he did indeed.
But that was kind of in 2021.
So he suggested to get in touch with the project called Serenity OS.
Okay, and he also mentioned two guys,
Condon Raskling and Linus Groh.
Both, of course, were contacted.
And let me read out what Andres Kling sent back.
Hello, Christ.
Thanks for reaching out.
Due to the political content of your podcast,
I respectfully decline the invitation,
regards Andres Kling.
Ah, yes, I mean, I just want to.
Yes, and he thought so in this morning.
Well, I don't think we were political at all.
To be honest.
Oh, nice.
Oh, nice, he's...
He's got something against the Soviet Union, or what's his name?
Vladimir, but...
So, yeah, I'm not trying to show what he's referring to.
What do you think?
Should we bring Flanima on for an episode, I wonder?
But then that would be that would have to be dubbed or recently later, or something.
Because I'm not sure that he's actually able to speak English.
Do you think?
Well, do you speak Russian, right?
But, um, he has all the...
Uh, I guess he's going to normally travels with the translator, doesn't he?
Well, true, and I'm still wondering about the...
I mean, it would gel with communist approach, yes, but I'm not sure about the open source angle.
No, no.
But going back to Andres, address if you're listening,
and we were quite confused about this.
We were...
It's a work of rejection, this is, that's probably what I'm not going for.
I think he's saying...
He hasn't listened to it yet, go ahead.
Well, the question...
I'm quite clear with it.
Yes, but the thing is, basically, we can't really take the piss at this at this response,
because he's done in a very polite way, and we should respect this.
Hmm, oh, yes.
Well, we can't trust him.
He made him ten more times for those good points.
Well, we can't, but we can certainly do a program about that, does that for us.
Because that's a very notion of open source software, no?
But annoying people.
Well, yes, but only through automation.
Okay.
And Biku, don't worry about this, about this rejection.
What about the other guy?
Yes, sorry.
Yes, thank you.
Yes, sorry.
Yes, little school, we can't take the piss at, because he never replied.
So, then, if you're listening, shame on you.
He's got a spam filter, clearly.
Of course, that's another opportunity, go on for SerenityOS to plug the whole thing
on one of the most important free Libren open source podcasts in the universe,
Namias.
Yes.
Another chance if anybody is listening, which is unlikely, but SerenityOS.
Need to say, if somebody is, if somebody is using SerenityOS, please get in touch.
Need to say, because Biku suggested it, we are more than game to do an episode on this one.
I checked it out myself.
It looks very interesting.
Unfortunately, as I said, the two programmers working on this,
declined or never get back to us, maybe there are two users out there
who want to talk about the experience with this open source operating system.
Well, apparently it was started by a Swedish guy called Andreas Kling,
so maybe we should run to Andreas instead.
Well, this is the one who declined.
I thought his name was someone else.
No, two guys are running this and Andreas Kling and Linus Grom.
Oh, Linus Grom, sorry, yes, okay, fine.
Okay, well, there's many other operating systems we can...
Indeed, instead.
So, Mr. Nadella, if you're listening, although Windows is not open source yet,
maybe you won't get in touch.
We can maybe have the scoop for the open source of Linus on the show.
They might want to do that.
Next on plan, let's put that in there.
What do you mean, Linus?
Linus is open source already?
You've never been in Windows.
Windows, yes.
So, Mr. Nadella, if you want to spill the beans,
please do it on our podcast.
Yes.
Well, he dresses Microsoft and Linus Illos for the you.
Assensable move on his part, for sure.
Indeed.
So, that covers two out of four listers, right?
We cover Claudio, we cover Beku.
You know, we have, we have quite a few.
We haven't heard from do-line ages.
You had Luna, yes, we also had...
Well, you see, funny, hang on, funny enough, he got in touch.
You see, thing is basically...
I've never told you this, right?
I went to this mini-deb con as a mini-debbing
maintainer conference in October of 2021.
Hello, yes.
And I need to say, give a presentation on Redis
and on Rust and the usual topics that I don't want to talk about.
And Luna must have viewed the video stream.
So, he got in touch.
And this is when he stopped listening.
Say again?
Is this when he stopped listening to the chat?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, okay.
He got in touch with me and said, now I can put a face to a voice.
Ah, okay, okay.
Well, if he'd only gone to the website, he could have seen our faces, but yeah, anyway.
Speaking of which, we should probably reveal what these two, what these two mark shots on the website are, right?
Because we have given the fact that we're...
We could do, we could do a...
Quite a few people suggested to go on Twitch or YouTube with our podcast.
But then we, yes, they did.
But then I was kind of replied and said, look,
there's a reason why the mom told me you have a face for a radio podcast,
or you have a face for a podcast with a video cast.
Not just what your mom told you.
I love it. We never talked about podcasts.
You never...
So for these two other people, the two mark shots on the website are actually ex-chapendails
that we paid a significant amount of money for to take their shots being taken.
Martin and myself look quite different.
Indeed.
Okay.
So people, for the time being, we won't appear on YouTube.
No, that's for sure.
Unless you pay us an insane amount of money,
then we might be tempted.
Unlikely, unlikely.
Unlikely, exactly.
Yes. Okay. So where were we?
Yeah, a number of listeners.
And I'm sure there's more than that because we have many comments, really.
Yeah, but Martin, speak of...
Go on, go on, go on, go on.
The marketing just one more time.
You, as you run marketing, if you haven't fired the month and the month and the
last two weeks, what are, what are our search engine optimization results in terms of
open source podcasts, search results, and all the rest of it?
Well, I can tell you that.
If you give me a minute, please.
The function is called R&D as in random.
I see.
Anyway, keep talking.
No, I'm just waiting for the numbers to get to come through, Martin.
In terms of how popular are we really with regards to if somebody types in the search term,
open source podcasts?
Oh, I see. No, I was going to look at the R&D six on this.
But we can probably just have a look at the
at our popularity.
Let's have a look.
Well, we are number one, clearly.
Excellent.
So that hasn't really changed since last year.
And by the way, you probably noticed that we are also being, well,
scraped by many, many, many other podcast websites.
We are Google podcasts, but that's the sole reason why, because I put us there.
No, no, just there are also some podcast sites who just go around scraping
podcasts.
Yes, and indeed, and in quite a few of them scrape out of Australia correct.
It's curious, but there we go.
And how many results do you think there are on Google for links in those?
I do not know, because Martin is your domain Martin.
Have a guess.
Two, maybe three.
No, keep going.
20?
You can't, you have a few orders of magnitude wrong there.
Two trillion, five hundred, five hundred, almost at a million, almost at a million
third results.
Are you serious?
Yeah, but this is actually, this is because Google split Linux in-laws into two.
So the box that you read finally paid off.
Okay, no, this more like a 287, that's better.
Makes sense. Can't spoke about triple digits.
When we were futilely, futilely set a word, no, it's not.
When we were discussing download figures, and where can write the observe, that's not a metric to go by.
Because you have, you kind of bots downloading the episodes left or right in center, it doesn't make sense.
We have another listener, but at least two, seven.
To Sir Evan Labovic said, nice interview of me on the other side of us.
I'm kidding.
Mark, this is called progress, no?
We're being promoted as well, yeah, it's great.
Perfect.
Indeed.
So, how have we gotten on with our review five years?
Yes, do we want to talk about fuck-ups?
Did we have any?
A server.
I thought our audio was reasonably supported.
Quite a few server migrations come to mind.
Oh, yes, yes.
Yeah, oh, a handy tip for you.
If you want to, if you want to go to OS, do not run, you've been.
Let's hear.
Same goes for postgres and devian people.
If you're upgrading this, that actually happened to me.
If you're upgrading this on, on, from Buster City to Bullseye,
and if you have a running postgres instance on that machine,
you want to check a very serious look at migration paths,
and you want to do this before the upgrade, just in case.
And, Martin, fun enough, it took me actually not just to enter the castle called postgres,
but to go down to the center to fight some saber-toothed tigers
and some guards and some other atrocities, let's put it this way,
before I can even near the crown jewels, as is now it's done.
And this was, and that wasn't a great example for postgres documentation, by the way.
Well, Buster City is documenting the code, you don't need the documentation.
Martin, if you have about five people screaming at you, why this bloody server isn't running,
never want to, never want the postgres instance on that,
do you really think you have the time to go through the source code?
I'll just check it.
Well, it sounds like a clear and unprepared bit and prepared bit of
bit of upgraded activity.
No, the documentation team, we feel listening postgres documentation is normally excellent,
don't get me wrong, but this bit could be improved, especially in migration tools.
In terms of what server is running has to run one and where, and what the migration path really is,
because I had to find it out the hard way.
And that wasn't pleasant.
She should have asked someone else.
That's better, that's good.
Well, who comes to mind, Martin, I wonder?
On many postgres, I see people out there.
So that was one fuckup.
Okay, fun.
And there's of course the continued challenge called Littings Audio.
Oh yes, just a bit.
Well, I don't know, we've kind of settled on a method that appears to be working.
Yes, until we can get big group button containerized properly for a change.
I don't know who's working on this, but that's beside the point.
Well, you try and fail, didn't you?
Indeed, but that was over a year ago.
Well, the other
fuckup, well, the issue you had.
You can't, Martin, you can't be explicit.
We're labeled as explicit on all of that.
I wouldn't go that far because it isn't really as more of a small issue,
was the, the lost Opus file switch.
Yes, I have to recover from the video recordings of Big Blue Button.
After a certain cause, Hesse, you left right in centre.
Why was that again?
Is that because he didn't check the, I would have postproduction didn't download the episodes
that they're correct, yes, not in time anyway.
Indeed.
Yes, yeah, so Big Blue Button has a handy cleanup feature that leads all the Opus files after two weeks
for the, yes, but it doesn't do is, it's clear, all the video recordings after two weeks,
luckily, sir. We're all good.
Excellent, excellent, excellent.
So Big Blue Button, if you're listening full marks on this.
Yes, try not to introduce a video cleaner for team, please.
Yes, or come to think of it, basically, why, I mean, there's no backup framework
as part of Big Blue Button, right, because you have to do it all manually.
Indeed.
Never mind the fact that the recording interface could be cleaned up left right in centre as well.
Well, we don't use the recording interface anyway.
Because they're not right.
No, no, they kind of end up in this, in this web page at some point, but
but because this rudimentary would be an exaggeration, I think.
Yes, but that's just my opinion.
Yes, but you don't need it because you've just seen it instead.
But yeah, I think in all cases of these issues, it's probably a case of people
not reading their documentation as well.
If there is any.
Yes, yes, that's certainly in my case, the case here.
There was no documentation that said anywhere.
It's going to be deleted here.
There you have it, people.
Yeah, if these are the two minor issues that we can across last year.
But that was about it.
I mean, in fairness, no.
I mean, other than that, we are hosting on Debian, at least the website and other stuff,
and that has been quite stable.
Let's put it this way.
Martin has certain challenges with Ubuntu, but I reckon that's down to him,
and his technical expertise.
I might be wrong, of course.
Oh, sure, yes.
Anything you want to add, Martin.
Funny enough, for next time, it has to be quite stable.
No, it hasn't.
There's always something wrong with the certificates.
No, there isn't.
I think this is one of the, I think the IT department must be still in communist Russia
because the tickets will never get rid of all the tickets.
What tickets?
Ah, yes, that'll be why, because they're spreading the bin here.
It's called DEF-MAL, yes.
Okay, where will we listen to ships?
A listener.
Listen to a ship?
Yes, but I think we tackle this.
So, what's that, Martin?
In terms of what's going to be the next 12 months?
In contrast to the show?
Yes, we are not going to go into Haiku.
Like, for example, the Ubuntu podcast did for the last 14 years,
by the way, they are gone, right?
Did you know this?
They have a broadcasting in October or something.
You mentioned it.
Well, not surprising, really.
Well, 14 years is a long time, no?
How long did the outlaws last?
Four, five years, I love this.
I think the fact and then the other broadcasting in 2010 and I think they packed it up
in 2015, maybe in 2016.
So, five or six years are reckoned.
Details may be in the show notes.
In terms of a Wikipedia page or something.
Maybe not.
Okay.
Actually.
Yeah, well,
so I don't think, no, it doesn't say in our five-year plan that we're going to stop after five years.
No.
But that would mean another three years before the first five-year plan has actually been concluded.
So that's a lot of episodes down the road.
I reckon it's fair to say that you have to endure us for the next couple of months anyway.
Well, there is no such thing as that.
Enjoy, I think, is the word you mean?
Be.
You're clearly talking about the wrong podcast here.
Maybe.
Let's see.
Needless to say listeners, the old adage to stay is still valid if you have any ideas.
Like Be cool, for example, just topics every now and then.
I mean, because we have settled on a format where we're also
in case you miss this, we will alternate between internal shows where we don't have any guests
and shows where we do have external people on the podcast.
Needless to say, if you have a topic that crosses your mind,
like Be cool, suggest every now and then.
Be good and fair, fair, fair, fair play to you in full marks here.
Please get in touch.
The email addresses feedback and little signals are the you or simply leave a comment
on the current on the corresponding episode web patrons of something like a public radio.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what I think.
Do we I don't think we've had any successful
suggestions for an episode, except for the upcoming one, the next year, but from Ken.
But Be cool send into any to us and other stuff.
Yeah, but that's not what I'm materialized if they're not going to turn up.
Correct.
Yes.
Whereas, yeah.
Yeah, but yeah, we can we have many topics to talk about anyway.
Yes.
Indeed.
Also, now's the time to talk about the Mia Echo, the in-laws guard of the last 12 months.
MSBC calls it an open source podcast not to be missed.
Fox News, Trump or not,
concurrence with if there's only one Floss podcast you want to listen to.
If you're serious about free and open source, it's the Linux and laws.
Even NPR had to say about us.
We in brackets NPR maybe perceived as the ultimate source for communist ideas and ideals,
but for the real truth always referred to the Linux and laws.
The open source podcast with the most radical approach to sharing ideas in the real meaning
of socialism and beyond.
But the ultimate endorsement comes from the grumpy old quarters.
So just a warning to our listeners, right?
It's sometimes a bit crazy.
Crazy.
Okay, as this may sound out of context, he is the full endorsement.
So maybe time to do some cross-marketing.
There is an episode, the last episode of the Linux and laws, but you can hear on
heck our public radio, right?
So HPR.
If you would like listening to us, you might like to listen to this little fight
actually our conversations with them always a little bit like
we don't say heated up, but we tend to have our little tiny
controversial discussions in a very friendly way indeed.
Very friendly bento, I think bento is the right word, a bit of a fourth bento.
Maybe, maybe.
But I mean, let's say Kristoff and Martin, they have a good sense of humor as well.
I really like those guys.
Exactly.
So meaning much true if this is coming through this podcast here,
but usually I'm quite sarcastic, right?
Well, by the sense of humor, they have a slightly different, right?
It's not just sarcasm, sarcasm.
It's more surreal.
The sense of humor is more surreal than ours, and it's a little bit more...
It's quite nice, I like it.
Yeah, I like it as well, but it's just the warning to our listeners, right?
It's sometimes a bit crazy, let's say, right?
Reality changes during the hour that you listen to it.
Yeah, by intention, I guess.
But anyway, good fun though.
Everyone should listen to them, I think.
Exactly, exactly.
Listen to the loose and loose.
I couldn't have put it better.
As usual, the grumpies are spot on.
But wait, there's more.
As our regular listeners will probably remember,
we were guessed at the GOCs during the year as part of an episode on free and open source software.
So now, what else?
Open world.
I actually opened world was one of our most successful ones.
Really?
This was with the...
Yeah, I've regarded it in number of listens, let's say, right?
And I think because it was with the crumpy...
Sorry, the other convue quarter.
So the linox and loss, right?
So, one minute.
Okay, who are we?
Who are we gonna say?
Yeah, where am I?
My name is David, sorry.
Is it?
Thanks, yeah.
Maybe.
Okay.
No, with the linox and loss.
There, we actually were guessed with the linox and loss.
Guys, last week, right?
Two weeks ago, two weeks ago.
Some time ago.
Yeah, a couple of time ago.
I think the episode was released last week, but...
Yes.
The year end thing.
Yeah, the year end.
And there, we are always the guests as crumpy of quarter.
So I was kind of a bit confused about this.
But yeah, the linox and loss, guys, were guests,
thankful for the open world episode.
And we just talked about open source and the role of open source and so on.
And I think this was a good one as well, right?
I think so too.
We just rejected a number as indeed as well.
But I guess what happened there is also that
of the listeners of the linox and loss kind of
listened to all podcasts as well.
And they were the cross promoted that.
Yeah, it was cross promoted, but it dropped afterwards again,
which means that I'm not sure what is...
But this is telling us, right?
So maybe I...
Maybe we basically attracted new people, right?
So hardcore open source fans, and then we said,
I scared them away with Kotlin again, right?
I guess this is what happened.
I would tell.
So people, it's straightforward.
If you want to boost your numbers, just invite us over
and we'll take care of the rest.
And we are cheaper, more affordable,
than you may think.
Just get in touch.
Martin, so what do you make of this?
The grumpy singing.
Yes.
Yeah, as I said, it was surprising to me.
I mean, we are perfectly sane and
nowhere are any animals harmed in the process.
No, Martin, we are not.
Because the last remarks, actually, from David,
that we are crazy.
Yes, I know.
David, if you're listening, and I'm sure you are...
I'm sure there's something wrong with him.
Oh, that's crazy.
No, no, Martin, this is the biggest compliment that we could get.
Because you see, we are off the beaten track since day one.
Yes, that's true.
And never mind the comments we got from MSNBC, CNN.
And Fox and whatever.
Oh, yes.
Can Brazos actually read the math?
No, no, no, no.
What did that for?
I don't understand.
I've already done this about two minutes ago,
but that's what I thought.
No, I mean, this is just one limit that we could get.
I mean, never mind the comments or not.
Yeah, it's also nice that they enjoy the episodes
with us, which is mutual, I'm sure.
So, yeah, no, it's a nice compliment indeed.
We try to not to be too sane anyway.
To be fair.
Well, actually, we don't need to try very hard to be fair.
And people, I mean, speaking of cross-promoting,
you just heard the clip so far enough.
So we might as well take the opportunity to cross-promote
the grumpy oil quarters.
Yeah, they're done a few interesting things this year.
Indeed.
And it's way beyond if you can't get to sleep,
like the license episode, listen to them.
Like, you listen to us if you can't get to sleep
about the license episode, don't worry about it.
But there are two episodes worth mentioning.
And the teaser is actually,
if you listen to the New Year's episode,
we'll be with them together.
You have to hint there.
And we leave it at that because, of course,
you should listen to the backhouse log.
Hey!
Commercial break ending right now.
Yeah, yeah.
Hey, I got an idea. Why don't they sponsor us?
They're already doing this, if you had,
if you would have the decency,
if you would have the decency to check out our account balances.
Oh, I don't know.
You seem to be keeping account balances from me, sir.
Perhaps I should be there.
No Martin, just have someone else for fun.
Just get in touch with your other U in terms of the CFO.
And you have it right in front of you.
You see Martin, the account credentials are in both our names,
so you can check them out anytime you like.
It's quite straightforward.
Well, yeah.
And I think was that this whole thing comes to length, no?
Yeah, I think that's here.
Here, one, the year two.
Year two, yes.
Year two of the five-year plan.
Yeah, I'm afraid to add that the podcast won't come to an end,
but just here too.
So no sweat.
Yep.
So yeah.
Our dear listeners, including Biko,
Claudio and the other three listeners will have to endure us any longer.
But we may be able to spread the word even further.
Martin had this brilliant idea of putting us on the app podcast,
so stay tuned.
We have this offer saying there.
Oh, not.
Depending.
Well, it's one or the other, right?
No, Martin, it's not it's actually true.
It's it's it's not, it's not quantum physics.
No, no.
The place we won't be appearing,
unlike other kind of podcasters,
it's outlawed.
It's sure.
And the unless part,
unless outlawed wants to join the large number of sponsors,
of the good ideas, exactly, and send us money.
But apart from that, or until this happens,
soundcloud, I'm afraid it's a no go.
Yeah, sorry.
So if you want to if you want to boost your your subscription base,
please add us and but before you do the send us money.
Yes, we don't come cheap.
No, we don't.
We should probably thank our listeners for last year's
just your ship.
Oh, I want to be honest.
Yeah, exactly.
So to all the eight or be all too sorry,
we got to cut this out.
And to all the eight out of you there,
thank you for listening.
Yes, keep up with me.
Yeah.
This is the Linux in-laws.
You come for the knowledge.
But stay for the madness.
Thank you for listening.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version
of the creative commons license.
Tap attribution share like credits for the entry music
go to bluesy roosters for the song
salute margo to twin flames for their peace called the flow
used for the second intros.
And finally to the lesser ground for the songs we just
is used by the dark side.
You find these and other ditties license
under creative commons at your mando.
The website dedicated to liberate the music industry
from choking corporate legislation
and other crap concepts.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR is kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive
and our sync.net unless otherwise stated
Today's show is released under creative commons
attribution share like 3.0 license
