Episode: 3658
Title: HPR3658: Linux Inlaws S01E62: HPR's inner workings
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3658/hpr3658.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 02:59:30

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3658 for Wednesday the 10th of August 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Linux and Laws Saye.
It is part of the series Linux and Laws.
It is hosted by Monochromic and is about 33 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is an overview of PRS inner workings and stats based on a ludicrous claim by the
Indian Laws.
This is Linux and Laws.
A podcast on topics around free and open source software, any associated contraband, communism,
the revolution in general, and whatever else, fans is critical.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language, offensive humor,
and other certainly not politically correct language.
You have been warned.
For a parent insisted on this disclaimer, happy mum, thus the content is not suitable
for consumption in the workplace, especially when played back on a speaker in an open
plan office or similar environments.
Any miners under the age of 35, or any pets including fluffy little killer bunnies,
your trusted guide dog unless on speed, and Qt-rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
This is Linux and Laws.
Season 1 Episode 62.
Martin, how are things?
Yes, 62.
Very good, very good.
Yeah, no, things are excellent.
Are you enjoying the summer in the UK as in 50 degrees, 15 degrees, and almost snowing?
Yeah, yeah, no.
Perfect.
No, this heat wave for us, hope we want that.
What about you now?
Are you enjoying your showers in June?
Well, we can't because we don't have any water.
We don't have any water.
We don't have any change here.
No.
Well, you see, this heat wave thing is really getting to us because we're talking about what,
60 degrees centigrade in downtown Frankfurt.
I mean, forget about these hot spots in the US.
I mean, Frankfurt is the place where it happens.
No, I'm joking, of course.
And today's, and we're recording this at the very last day of June,
today has clocked in at around 30 degrees in downtown Frankfurt.
And it only has rained for a couple of hours in the last couple of weeks, which is not that much.
So, Martin, if you can get a downtown Frankfurt there, do you?
Well, I don't, but I go there frequently.
Okay.
Uh, for where I live today, I'm thankful it's about four miles, so it's not that far.
Uh-huh.
And you might live by some kind of on top of some mountain where it's freezing cold and windy all the time.
You know, as soon as.
No, I don't live in the UK, Martin.
It's any consolation.
No, but today is not about the weather.
Uh-huh.
This is not your, this is not your weather podcast.
No, this is much more about an episode that.
I love it.
First thing called confundate.
Prior to the 20 to our 20 years in review.
Episodes.
And without further ado, 60.
Yes.
Okay.
Let's take a look at.
What's my staphane is referring to.
Uh-huh.
So, the thing is Martin, I reckon, I mean, the details within the show notes, but including the link to that episode.
And.
The important bit is people listen if you're interested in this.
Now, HPR works internally and all the rest of it.
Listen to this episode.
This is important bit because much of the following will refer to this episode.
For example, uh, Ken.
Right through the states that we have more listeners.
Than the people has in the than the earth, sorry, than the earth.
Wow.
Yeah.
Well, I don't have to begin front of me, but he talks about a 200 billion listeners.
Obligatory drumroll.
And you can logically say that the Linux in law show has a total of 270 billion, 718 million,
3,000 and eight subscribers.
And Martin, in terms of marketing, this is pure gold.
Yeah, we need to rehearse.
Martin, I'm just taking it.
When did you, when did you father that's marketing department, but we could go?
No, we haven't.
No, I didn't rehearse.
So there's no marketing department.
I'm clearly going to need one.
It's been proven here.
Martin, in that case, you'll be glad to hear, but you think, but you think is this,
this, this number only leaves us to one conclusion.
Mm hmm.
Forget about marketing.
If we have more listeners, then the earth has inhabitants.
We must have extraterrestrial listenership.
Well, yeah, no, no, no.
Sorry.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
I'm planning to listen to us.
You probably didn't count the sheep that listen to us on a daily basis.
This is the thing, right?
Yeah, all these farmers that plays in that.
Yeah, she's welcome.
I just see Martin.
If that figure is anything to go while you must have a significant extraterrestrial listenership.
Well, I took the, you forgot to count the sheep.
Martin, without, even with either way.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Go back to marketing.
Oh, my God.
Because because you fat marketing, I took the liberty of reaching out to some extraterrestrial
sponsors.
Ah, okay.
So, so let me at first of all, thank you very much.
Oh, extraterrestrial.
Did I have a name?
Yes, they do.
Let me get this right.
Quick hacks.
Oh, I thought they came from Ireland.
So, yes.
So the end of the end of the transcript is actually, and I was supposed to read this because they
put about 20k of mula into our, into our coffers.
Quick hacks.
No acts kills faster in the known universe.
And clink and please, please, excuse me if I butchered read this, this message, as I said,
my clink is awful.
But as I said, it's, we are on the rise in terms of extraterrestrial sponsorship.
So Martin, that's another X up 20k and all right, with just going down our hosting costs,
right?
We would have even more cash as at your, at our disposal, Martin, if you wouldn't always
expense your coke habit.
More than zero.
Okay.
Makes a change.
Speaking of coke, PepsiCo.
Coca-Cola.
No, no, no.
No, no, no.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal.
It's a big deal.
We have, we have, we have quite reasonable sponsoring plans in place.
The email doesn't sponsor a Linux in-laws or the you.
And as you just heard, if you're thinking about extraterrestrial expansion, we are the
podcast you want to get in touch with.
So let me repeat that email.
Sponsor at Linux in-laws or the you.
And plans are affordable.
And as I said, we are probably not only on the open source space, but we need the podcast
that is listened to.
Across universe.
Well, not only that.
If it is case, number of side, they think they go by.
Not only that, we're not just.
Listen to across the universe.
We're listening to more outside of earth than on earth.
So it's the.
Yes.
Are we?
Yes.
She or not Martin.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Or even terrestrial, extraterrestrial.
So Martin, here's a homework task for you.
Hi, I saw marketing department that can take that will look after extraterrestrial sheep
sheep and other species.
Excellent.
Okay.
Well, we can always get into it.
Please get in touch extraterrestrial sheep.
The email.
The email.
Exactly.
She.
Look at that.
The extraterrestrial not exactly.
Yes.
So, yeah, we have no jokes.
Yeah, jokes aside.
But Martin.
Of course, the two of us have, have listened to this episode.
So the thing is basically that can.
Reviewed quite some important interesting insights into HBR.
He does.
He does.
He does.
He does.
Yes.
And he spent two weeks collecting all these stats, which is.
Yes.
Right.
Exactly.
I don't even understand.
The rules.
Exactly.
The rules worked.
We now know how HBR works internally.
So Martin, full marks, mission accomplished.
Yes.
Yes.
And with that, we would like to, again, thank HPR, especially Catherine Fallon.
Yeah.
HPR and sponsors.
And sponsors.
Exactly.
And by the way, what about this this campaign planning?
Because it's going to be amazing.
I mean, can validate that we have 200 billion listeners that makes it.
I can almost see the headlines, New York Times, London Times.
Ring on times.
I've got them.
Ring on times.
Yes.
But other people have come to mind.
Herald Tribune.
Los Angeles Times.
The Irish Times.
Maybe the independent.
The German Times.
There's no German Times now.
But we, of course, we have a front foot argument.
I don't.
Yes.
I mean, I can almost see the headlines.
Linus in Los.
The most listened to podcasts across the universe.
Amazing.
And with that, we are almost at the end of the episode.
That was actually the shortest episode in this.
This is the Linus in Los.
You come for the knowledge.
But stay for the madness.
Thank you for listening.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the creative comments license.
Type attribution share like credits for the intro music go to blue zero stars.
For the songs on the market.
To twin flames for their piece called the flow used for the second intros.
And finally to the lesser ground for the songs we just use by the dark side.
You find these and other details licensed under cc hmando.
A website dedicated to liberate the music industry from choking copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
Okay, you're still listening, which is good news.
Okay, now jokes aside.
First of all, Ken has a couple of valid points when he basically at the last of the whole thing and came to the conclusion that these figures may be a little bit off.
So let's take a look at some of his arguments.
You want to go first Martin?
Yeah, we can do so I think he has actually confirmed the archive of all numbers.
So from that point of view, we are good.
The bits that he's kind of picking up on is the fact that we well, we talked about syndication, which was the wrong word.
We kind of assumed that what assumed.
Yeah, let's go and assumed that when we are on something like Apple podcasts or little podcasts, then you could expand those numbers by a factor, which was obviously an unknown factor, which is.
However, as he points out a lot of these podcasts hosting, I don't know if they have that to say.
A name for them, refer back to the original HPR location.
Yes, they're hosting their web server locks exactly.
Probably now it's the time to shed light on how we came to this conclusion.
Can rightly points out we're listening to an archives dot org as in downloads that's between 1500 and 2000 a bit.
Fair enough, if my stint at one of the biggest US ISPs is anything to go by.
Unfortunately, I cannot mention their name because the check hasn't arrived in the mail yet in terms of sponsoring.
Did you not do the job?
Marketing hasn't reached out to them yet.
If they refuse to pay you, I mean details, I mean, you can easily sus this ISP out by looking at my LinkedIn profile, for example, if this experience is anything to go by.
The download figures, as Ken rightly pointed out, do not reflect real world in terms of can or dimensions that anything you not, you do not see the web server locks.
Content delivered networks as an CDN, the likes of Cloudflare are coming on rest of them tend to cash these things.
So in that case, Ken is absolutely spot on syndication wasn't the right term, but rather caching.
If my past experience and if my past experience at this ISPs anything to go by tripling or quadrupling these figures is a very conservative estimate.
So if we clock in at around say, let's 2000 download figures or 2000 downloads on the episode on archive.org, if you quadruple this your clock in about 8000.
So we are not totally off if that assumptions anything to go by.
We assume that between 5 and 10,000 people don't know us per episode.
Plus the fact that you do not see the nats or the natchet downloads in your luck anyway.
So and but Ken is absolutely spot on when he says that this is not an exact time.
And this is actually very true in terms of it's far from an exact time.
So what we essentially did is we took these download figures from archive.org and this is what you can scrape from the websites and then projected it to these numbers based on past experience.
And this is how we arrived at these stats.
Well, they're not stats.
Projections.
Yeah.
And yeah, one guy out.
No, yeah, as he's saying, you know, as the saying goes about stats, they can be used for many many reasons.
But yeah, as long as we can explain the logic behind our calculations, that's fine.
And as the same as Ken has done explained his logic, which is great.
Yes.
And there's also one.
I mean, people by all means check out the episode and also very important.
Read the transcript.
Yeah.
No, it's not very.
Yes.
And Ken full, full marks.
For doing this transcript, never mind coming up with the with the figures, never mind doing the liberal office magic.
But if you take a look at the plot figure that is in the transcript, I'm proud almost to say that we are in the upper third percentile of the download figures on all of the published episodes.
And of course, it's a matter of debate if little in laws by uploading the the audio files is actually a true podcast in itself.
Because Ken may have a point of insane that HPR's actually podcast not a podcast hosting platform.
Some people may agree to differ on this one.
But at the end of the day, in terms of if you take a look at this figure as in the plot figure, we are up there with regards to the most downloaded episodes on heck of public radio, even within the first couple of weeks of publishing new new content.
And again, listeners, thank you very much.
We wouldn't be there without you.
This is the important bit.
Never mind whether you're extraterrestrial or not.
Yeah, I would like to know what the episode was on July.
Someone in July, which had the most hits in HPR's history this year.
Of course, I'll reference that to the episode list.
The details will be in the show notes, yes.
Probably the water.
Yeah, it's probably the episode.
I think it's Mozilla CTO with no completeness.
But I may be wrong, I don't know.
Again, people, thank you very much.
Keep listening because you make the podcast.
If you want to, exactly if you want to skew the figures even more, spread the word.
So more people are down on this stuff.
People speak extraterrestrials anyway.
We don't mind.
Spread the word.
I was clinging for.
Thank you.
I'm putting this my thing is far from perfect.
Okay, I think we still have some feedback.
We do.
Are you sure?
Yes, I'm positive.
Let me start this.
It's.
We don't have this.
No, no, we haven't done this.
No, no, no, no, we haven't done this.
On the episode, Operation Level virtualization and Martin's faith, which of course season one episode 57.
And the comment refers to unite Germany and Russia from mechatonic.
No, mechatonic yak.
Sorry.
Russia and Germany would be a powerhouse to help with NATO Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya.
How many more victims are they going to be while the cowardly in evil West goes along with it?
This is a highly political comment.
But as we are a explicit and be on not sensors, I hope.
Martin, any comments on this?
No, it's someone's opinion.
Clearly a political one that is somewhat from the, let's say, eastern part of the world.
Martin, I mean, just for the.
For his point.
Point what?
Yeah, what what would happen if you would unite Germany and Russia?
And I'm not talking about the former Eastern Germany.
I'm talking about the old, the old of Germany.
Okay.
I would know, of course, record the Ukraine and some other states.
NATO, of course, wouldn't take hardly to it.
Well, the downside is that then they wouldn't have any more bias for their cast because.
Two, but you see.
No, Russia could.
Russia could join NATO first.
Yes, we mentioned this to me.
Correct.
Yes.
So if Russia would join NATO, of course, that probably would probably mean Putin stepping down or something.
The likely of that happening.
The likelihood of that happening may be very small.
That's this would actually be possible.
Yeah.
But as a chance of that of the taking place.
But yeah, I don't think you make a Tony at his fan up later.
Correct.
Yes.
You see, without the buying of NATO, this,
this unification wouldn't happen.
Unless Germany decides to leave NATO, which is probably of course anyway.
Okay.
Well, there's that guy in charge, isn't it?
You want to wait the next one?
Sure.
No.
No, there's next one.
The one from Sarah.
Yes.
So on episode 58 by Sarah.
Hello, which was always it will be fun to collaborate one of these days.
Well, Sarah, please do.
Sorry.
There's more in the comments.
Yes, there is more.
Yeah.
Others making a comment on the comment.
Sorry.
Of course.
Go away.
I thought it was going to be to comment on my comment on the comment as well.
No, no.
Go ahead.
Sorry.
Anyways, she continues.
She continues.
And yes, lol.
I did let my show remain labeled explicit when there was probably no swearing.
But I never know what offense folks.
So I don't consider damn or hell swear words.
But many folks do.
And since I normally swear like to say it, I thought better safe.
Sorry.
It's maybe face wink thingy.
There we go.
Yes.
And of course, referring to the episode of season one, episode 58.
Come on, listen, friends.
And actually named Sarah.
So Sarah was actually or that episode was actually a pox as an epic of the week.
Which I came across when listen to episodes or to publish audio files and have a public radio.
And Sarah talks about hardcore, if I call this correctly.
Also memory fading about knitting and some other stuff.
So Sarah, if you're listening to this and my money would be you.
My money would be on you are.
Please get in touch.
We would really love to have some the show.
So that we can talk about other hardcore stuff as well.
Both of our shows are explicit.
So we can go even down the route of.
Also for weaving and some other textile.
If you're sorry.
Yes.
This is hardcore Sarah.
This is the real world.
And jokes are right.
If you want to, if you want to be part of this.
Yes.
We are looking forward to having on the show.
Please get in touch.
E-mail addresses feedback and labels in us on the you.
Fee free.
And we'll take it from there.
So Martin, any, any, any boxes.
I don't think of the week.
The box was a.
It's movie this time.
Well, probably that.
It's.
It's one of the few things I can discuss.
It's my.
Go ahead.
Anyway, so this is the movie.
It's called the Lamont 1966.
Which is really about the.
The story about Ford trying to buy Ferrari and being.
Stuffed and then building their own car.
And this which is a.
It's a story.
If you're into those kind of things.
That room.
Yeah.
Actually, that reminds me of.
I think I mentioned this already.
There's another movie on this object.
Where actually they.
And I don't think it's the same movie.
Okay.
Because they actually.
It's almost like a local entry.
They.
And links will be in the show notes.
The movie speaks about Ford putting a serious amount of money.
Yes.
Yes.
Into into how to combat Ferrari.
Because Ferrari office was a Ferrari declined the offer to be bought by Ford.
Yes.
And Ford came up with their own car.
And the movie pretty much depicts what happens.
Around this.
Maybe I'm really old.
Maybe I'm real of old age.
There could be multiple movies on the subject.
This is a heavy.
Yeah, but it wouldn't.
It's more than one movie.
Exactly.
Yeah.
But the links will be the show notes.
It's certainly worth taking a look at both of them, I suppose.
If they are really different.
That different.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's really a.
I wanted to say a trash movie.
It's called Book of Monsters.
It's a show notes.
It's.
Yeah.
It's.
It's.
I'll be.
I am DB scores it 4.7.
So you want to have a little bit of boost before you watch it.
But if you are slightly intoxicated, it makes an excellent watch.
Because.
The whole thing is so hilarious.
That you get the most fun out of it.
People do not watch it sober.
It doesn't make any sense.
Or it doesn't make much sense.
Let's put it this way.
I'm kind of.
I'm kind of innocent.
Quite.
Some time ago.
I think it was reduced in 2018.
So it's a little bit older.
But.
If you have nothing else to do anyone.
If you want to kill a couple of hours.
And if with the right brew.
Attempts.
If you want to kill a couple of hours.
And if with the right brew.
Attempts.
It went.
Certainly.
A way of the time.
There's a watching it.
Yeah.
And if you're listening to sponsors here could be a cure.
Just this mentioning.
The right brew could be.
Your band.
So.
We started back as the back.
This.
We.
The cardsbergs.
And of the world.
The addresses.
Martin wants beer.
And legs in our study.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah.
I guess that's the one thing that we've learned from this episode.
Listen to them.
I'm not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then he falls on the moon.
That's.
But before we.
But before we forget this.
Now I think it's.
It's a good time as I need to say.
Thank you.
Yeah.
For.
To something called.
Hacker public radio.
Oh, yes.
Well, we do that often.
Yes.
This is a very.
Specifically.
Extra time to do it.
Even all can.
And friends.
This is their hard work.
So.
The platform.
And sponsorship.
Yes.
So can David.
And all the rest of them.
Yeah.
As they call.
Genetic.
As they call.
Genetic.
Or they always say cause themselves.
Yes.
This is the following is for you.
Hacker public radio.
Don Kuehvel.
Martin.
No, she turned.
Okay.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
How.
Yeah.
Thank you so much.
Now that that you could go with English.
Merci.
Merci.
.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Many thanks.
much as gashes. Ah, sped it, yes, yes, of course. Maybe there's something more, bear with me.
Make a problem, are you? Are you us? Apparently that was Russian.
Okay. Anything else? Any other languages come to mind, Martin?
I think that's very sufficient.
Yes. Well, that means I guess we're missing Chinese credits, credits,
clothes can. Yes, we wouldn't be there without you. So all in all, thank you very much and
rebuttal comments rebuttal about the site. We will be on Hacker Public Radio until we decide to do
otherwise. And thank you again for having us.
Yeah, we should really buy kind of the interesting thing. Yes. And with that, thank you for listening.
This is the Linux in-laws. You come for the knowledge. But stay for the madness. Thank you for listening.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the creative comments license.
Type attribution share like credits for the entry music go to blue zero stirs for the songs in
the market to twin flames for their piece called the flow used for the second intros. And finally
to the last year ground for the songs we just use by the dark side. You find these and other
didies licensed under cc achamando or website dedicated to liberate the music industry
from choking copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listening like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it leads. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net. On this
otherwise stated today's show is released under a creative comments attribution 4.0 international license.
