Episode: 3221
Title: HPR3221: HPR Community News for November 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3221/hpr3221.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:05:48

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3221 for Monday the 7th of December 2020.
Today's show is entitled, HBR Community News for November 2020, and in part on the series,
HBR Community News, it is posted by HBR volunteers, and is about 49 minutes long, and carries an
explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows released, and comment posted in November 2020.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Get your web hosting that's honest and fair, at Ananasthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This time is Community News for November 2020. Will this year ever end, Dave?
Join me tonight, it is.
Dave Morris, and the cat in the background, you can probably be here.
Yeah, so this is a HBR community podcast, where the shows are submitted by the listeners,
very much like you, in fact, exactly like you, and for those of you who missed the opportunity
to post a show this year, I have some great news.
260 new slots have just opened up for the year 2021, so feel free to send in your shows.
It's wonderful how that happens every year, isn't that, isn't it, it's amazing.
So, Dave, would you like to welcome our new hosts, please?
Yes, yes, we have an interesting young fellow who's joined us.
It's called Porek, am I right?
Yerun Salon.
So, it might be some relation here, it could be, it could be some relation here.
But hardly because he's into Star Wars and I'm a Trekkie, so.
Oh, I couldn't be possibly the pay on it.
Well, yes, that's my son Pucky.
Yeah, it's great, it's good to see the hierarchy sort of being passed on and so.
Good.
Yep, well, I suppose he wore me down and got me to make a character sheet, so I guess
I was able to wear him down and get him to do a recorder shield.
Yeah, it seems fair enough.
So, this show, for people who are new to HPR, is a show where we go through the
shows that have been posted in the last month so that everybody feels like they've been heard
and they have, but sometimes it's better to hear that directly from the community without
having to wait two years for your first feedback.
Yeah, true.
And the first show on the end of last month was the community news for October 2020,
and we had no common stave, which means we weren't in controversial enough.
So, let's fix that.
No, no, no.
Our controversy leveled a low, aren't we?
Yeah, we must boost them up.
And then we had Penn's pencil paper, an ink part three.
I can't believe you're only managed to squeeze three episodes out of this series.
Very disappointed, Dave.
Yeah, yeah.
I, well, there are ways in which one could go on and on and on about this.
I sort of, I don't know whether the vibes were telling me,
I'm like, just maybe two other people are listening, but the rest are not.
So, but never, you never know.
Somebody might say, hey, Dave, do some more of them.
So, I might do some more sometime in the future.
Exactly.
Send in your columns, folks.
And then we had Income Life Assurance, and then Chopin, which is a bit of a giveaway
for our poll, a crook, up there in Canadian.
Yeah.
So, it's a nice way to end an episode, I quite like, I'm enjoying this.
I'm good tips, actually, all-road.
Yes, yes.
The whole business about managing your finances and the sort of stuff.
If it's something we should, it should just be part of normal education, shouldn't it?
I don't know whether it is these days, but that wasn't in my day.
Just, you know, get out there and earn money and then fall down whatever holds you fall down.
Yeah, exactly.
It's amazing, we do spend a significant amount of time with the kids here, teaching them,
that sort of stuff, how to balance the budgets and how to order a line and determine if something's
good value or not, but, yeah.
Yes, yes, this led to, this particular show led to some conversations within the family
on areas that I'm not at liberty to talk about, but in nothing, nothing, nothing that I can,
nothing major, all in a good positive way.
Good, good, well, good to have these conversations, I'm sure.
Indeed, so bad audio, weed eaters, bugs, and sprinklers, and bubbles.
I had no clue what you meant by this, but I think, yeah, bad audio, that's for sure.
You know, we have this thing on HBO, you know, we will accept it as long as it's audible.
And this show was right on the edge for me.
And yeah, me too, yeah, but I was able to get through it, I was able to, I was able to understand
just particularly what a weed eater is a is a streamer.
Yes, yes, it's, yeah, it's a photo of the names for these things,
especially it's a piece of string, a whizzing round, a spindle, yeah, and it waxes things,
yeah, yeah, I quite like the term weed whacker, actually, I've heard that, but that describes
what it does, but weed eater, I don't know, most of the weeds get thrown in my face, I find when I
use mine, I'm not careful. Well, I did enjoy this, it was nice, a nice show.
Yep, yep, no, I've probably just got some interesting things to say, hopefully you'll be
here in a moment. I think you're already, he's seen, because he was trying a new lapel mic, I think,
in later shows that he's submitted, that's some of the issues of all regimen results,
so there you go, yeah, what was important? We've probably all fallen down that
toe in our time, so you know, not to make too much of it. No, I wouldn't, I don't really,
I wouldn't even comment on that so much, except that we know the operation is a long term host
and it's going to get offended. So, activity pub, and oddly enough, I, this is a better social media
by Huka, his series, and oddly enough, I pointed to somebody to this very topic today,
this whole, the whole concept of free liberal open source communication tools come up, and
basically I was able to silence, you know, I sent this link, and then suddenly the whole chat went
silent for about five minutes, as everybody was reading the articles, so very good. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
it's some very concentrated information here, which is what Huka does, which is fantastic,
so it's a resource you can go back and refer to again, and again, I think, I need to refer to
it some more, of course, I haven't absorbed it all yet, but it's a fascinating subject.
So a small intro to 3D printing from the button, they're about 3D ender printer,
following the call from me to which about requesting more shills on 3D printers, and oddly enough,
what do you know, people send in shills on 3D printers.
Yeah, yeah, this is good, I enjoyed this. I mean, it didn't tell me anything, I didn't know,
but it's always fascinating to hear how other people see a thing that you think you understand
yourself and then find, hang on, they've got a different viewpoint, and that's really interesting,
yeah, this is a whole new stuff to me, Dave, all of this was new.
You, of course, have a 3D printer. I do have everything as a spool of plastic here.
Yeah, yeah, I'll tell you about it one time. Yes, yes, I am waiting for that, actually.
I've done one show on my 3D printer, yeah, it needs another one.
So, one big question. First show, Patrick asks, a big life question. Well, okay, more like an undo question.
So, is this a vampire or a linch? Which vampire or a linch? Which side do you come on, Dave?
Well, I can sound it with my local expert who said a linch is preferable because they're more
powerful on the magic crunch. So, there you go, at the end of this and the story as I'm concerned.
Enigma says, great first show. Enjoy your first show. I never knew I wanted to be a vampire.
I don't know. You come down on the wrong side there. Yeah, yeah. Look, you need to knock on your
powers only of use. Half the day if you're lucky. And you need to be invited into somebody's home.
Please come in and sleep me, why don't you? Yeah, not lich, lich, definitely.
Yeah, yeah, so I'm told anyway, I don't know. And we heard Paul Quark again,
retro computing. This was enjoyable. I was pulling in some polls in the garden listening for this.
This was very enjoyable. Yeah, this is a hobby of polls, I believe. I think it's done another.
Other shows on this. Yeah, I'm right. Yeah, yeah. Um, so he does know a lot about this stuff, which is,
which is really cool. Yeah, I personally don't know that much, even though I lived through that time,
because I just had the one machine and start with it, you know, the, um, the BBC micro was my
machine for many, many years. So, yeah, when straight into the PCs, the only, uh, we had covered our
64s in school. All right. Another Apple 2s there, but I prefer the Commodore. We're easier to program.
Yeah, it's, um, I actually did a evening class. I taught an evening class in BBC,
basic, but, uh, using a lab at the university I was working at. So, uh, so yeah, you get into that
to a fair degree. Um, so yeah, it was, it was a good time. There was a lot of exciting things going on,
then the micro computer revolution or whatever they called it at the time. I do a show. I forgot
my phone. The following day, Taj had, I should actually have the, uh, website with the dates,
with the day number behind it. Remind me to fix that as well. Taj gave us his view on the 3U printing,
and this was actually quite good about the FFM and FDM and the Ender 3D.
Seems to be, Ender 3 seems to be the way to go if you're, if you want to get into printing.
Yeah, it's, it's a good price. There was the original Ender 3 which I have, and now there's a
Ender 3 Pro in a version 2. Version 2 is a little bit more expensive, but it's fixed a lot of the
problems. I'm almost tempted to get one, another one actually, but I don't know. I'd be scolded
probably if I did such a wicked thing. But, um, no, it, it just would be nice to have something that,
that's a bit more reliable than the old Ender 3. I think the one I got was a little bit shaky in
some of its, its features. And you can work around, I mean, you, you can fix them, but I don't
think we fixed them all yet. So, okay. But yeah, anyway, you know, it's, it's really good.
Tatch knows a lot about this subject, so it's really good to, to do it. He's, uh,
to go to the whole series, actually. Well, so I wrote here to myself, we need more 3D
printing stuff from Tatch. So, you know, we really do need to have some more in-depth stuff
if he's up for it. That would be fantastic. And of course, he ruined us all.
And anybody else who wants to send them, anybody who, uh, who can contribute to that,
I would be wonderful. So, backups of your backups of backups, do you have backups of your backups?
Well, you better listen to this rant. This was, this was, this was interesting. And I know exactly
what he did, and I hope to have a follow-up show for this about the cloud solutions, very, very
frustrating. Yeah, yeah. I've tried to do, do everything myself, and I've probably made a mess
by doing it that way, but, but at least I'm not worried about spider-roaks and other,
other such witnesses. Somebody deciding that you're, you know, you, you, uh, you clone a CD,
you purchase the CD, you put it on to your PC, and then you put it into a backup,
to have your backup, which is all of which is perfectly legal in the Netherlands. And, uh,
I'm not a lawyer by the way. And then you can't access it because somebody checked your backups
on the cloud and decides that you're not allowed to have that. That's, that's invasive.
That's what I would say. I would say so too. Yes, yes. I, I, I avoid anything cloud as much as
I possibly can. And so that would be the thing for me. Also, that you take a photo and then a,
uh, you, your photo is saved a copy of a, a, a law resolution version of your photo saved,
because you have to subscribe to the master plan. No, no, God, that, that couldn't have defeats
the purpose of what you're saying to do here, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I know. I know. I know. I had a photo where somebody, some commercial organisation came along,
said, oh, uh, since you put it up as a public domain thing, we're going to use it in our brochure
or something like that. So I thought, I don't give it down. Why don't you do what the hell you like
with it? But I was just a little bit shocked that, that I had such an approach. And it was sort of
a, a given that they would, they would just grab it and run away. That, that was on Newflicker.
Many years ago. Okay. Um, next day, Dungeons Dragons for the Blind Calatou has done a show.
And the best person to comment on that was without any surprise, Mike Ray.
Shall you read this one or shall I? I'll do it. I'll do it. Yeah. Um, Mike, Mike says,
thanks for a great show. Thanks for this episode, Clad 2. There were some good things
in there to think about. A bit of a pity you didn't use the theater of the mind phrase
to emphasize the way DMs and players can enhance their enjoyment by graphic and detailed
description. But I guess it's a bit of a cliche. I will think about responding to this show with
one of my own. And what I've done in a way to taking up the indie again after over 40 years,
of not playing since I was at school, one, one term I had never heard until this show is diced
tower. Now, I think you might have caused a few more quid to leave my bank and end up in Jeff
Bezos. Even though I can't see the diced, I've been unable to resist buying lots of them recently.
On listening to the critical role podcast, I fell in love with the sound of what sounded like
a wooden dice tray. Typing role D20 Elinus prompt is useful, but lacks so.
Did I not see a hack today? About six months ago where there was a, you could pick up a dice
and put it underneath a camera and you would do all sear on it and tell you what the number was.
I don't know what I want to check that out. That would be cool. I saw all that somewhere.
Yes, I remember the diced tower thing. I remember Clarty mentioning this. Some time ago,
somebody in New Zealand who makes these I think, isn't it? Yeah, and I followed it up and
had a look at it. It looked absolutely lovely. Really nice piece of work. Quite fancy when
it comes up. No good reason. It looks really nice. So, following day, we had a fireside chat with
Enigma. It was a bit rambly. I've never actually spoken to him in real life. Talked to him a lot
online, but there you go. He sounds like a really, really nice guy. Very cool. He knows lots of
stuff and a lot of experience there. I really enjoyed this. It was a great, great episode.
Yeah, he seemed to be enjoying himself going over the history of stuff and getting back into
HPR and that type of thing as well, which is good to hear. Yeah, and he's got some good ideas
coming up as well. Looking forward to them. So, Paul Quirk, I was up who room the bedrooms for
I heard this one. So, why I have to tell you this, but it's a fact of life. Why come with a
pine book and my thoughts on the DMCA take down for YouTube DL? So, that was nice. Yeah, no good
stuff, good stuff again. It'd never go to me to do anything like what he was doing with a tablet
to sign PDFs. I think it was, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah, it's a pretty amazing thing to do.
Makes perfect sense when you do that. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And the technology to do
that on a pine book too is quite impressive. So, yeah, it's the Linux thing. They put some
the kernel. It's in the kernel. Yeah, it's right there. You just plug it in and oh, it works.
Awesome stuff. Charlie Brown AU says feedback from HPR 3208E. Can I pull? I emailed you feedback
response regards Charlie Brown from AU. It's good to know. Go. And the next day we had the Linux
in laws with their interview on next cloud. And Kevin had some feedback, which will never read.
So, yes, Kevin O'Brien says, I love the show. Great interview with Frank Carlett's check. I'd love
to know more about next cloud. So, yeah, calling all cars, calling all cars, we need tools on next
cloud, calling all cars, all cars. And you know what else? I need Dave.
What's that? I need a show about wire guard Dave. I emailed a certain person down in the
foot of England. In order to get that show that person. Yeah, oh, yes.
Because I see the text of the show. So, the person only needs to record it or tell me to record it
Yes, yes. You have to ask that person directly, I'd have thought.
I already have. All right. Okay. There's no go back to me. Or maybe there are some
having male issues. I'm not sure I'm getting responses from this. Okay. Okay. I think that the
person you're talking about is on master done. I remember, remember, right? I can tell you
off line what information I have on that subject. Indeed, indeed. Well, I do not have that person
on that subject. Okay. Gimp patterns ingredients by Huuka is Gimp series that go beyond simple
colors unless you create interesting images. This is quite nice actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I knew
I knew vaguely that such a thing exists but hadn't really delved into it. So I'm quite intrigued
to mess around with this when I get a moment.
Good stuff. I don't forget folks there. With Huuka shows, there's always plenty of information
on his own website there. Chainsaws by Apparator. Chainsaws, not something I had a little bit of
experience with but not something I regularly would have. No, there seems to be a lot more nature
around. Yeah. Well, yeah. I had a conversation with N.Y. Bill years ago saying, are you lucky people
with all your trees? And he said, yeah, but you lot cut all yours down, didn't you?
Make chips and stuff. And of course, he's quite right.
They do exist here but it's not a thing that most people have, I think.
I don't know anybody who has a chain so personally.
Yeah, no, I know a few of us. You wouldn't, it's not something that you would get access to.
I've used them in my time, but it's not, wouldn't be high in my list like
for my back garden, wouldn't be a little bit overkill. You know what I mean?
Three-due printer. I might be able to get a chainsaw. You know, that would be hard to get past
the family we just dealt with people. I quite enjoy the process of
wiping up bits of wood and stuff, but I've certainly pruned a tree in my back garden with a,
but I've just used a hand saw, you know, a pruned saw and that does the job pretty well.
So having it, owning a chainsaw, just like I don't own a hedge trimmer because I got a pair of
shears. You know, just go snip snip with them and you're good. Yeah, I don't have a lot more
because I've got the size. Actually, yeah, I'd love to learn to use a saw, that would be fun.
I've used it in the past. Well, it's not bad actually. It's all about all of those controls.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. My child had a beast to use a sickle to do various
weedy type things when I was a kid. I was fairly good with sickle, but you have to sort of grovel
down and be on your hands and knees to do it. Something could be great. But yeah, you'll easily,
easily take your toes off, I would have thought if you're not knowing what you're doing.
Cool. Next day, we had Beezer back with an excellent show. And the thing about this is I heard it
and I had to wait three days before I got time to actually play it. But the challenge was to use
a Model 3B as your daily driver. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What an interesting thing to do.
It's, yeah, it's not unreasonable. I mean, it is the way things are moving.
There are three B is not as, no, when near as powerful as today's Model 4 machines, but
obviously, and he's well aware of that, obviously, but it's a case of what he had, which is fair enough.
Yeah. And the natural fact I have had a three B as my secondary screen here.
So I've got two screens, my laptop on one screen. And then to the rice, I've got another screen
which I just updated from an 11 inch to a 14 inches. No, from a 14 inch to a 21 inch. It's nicely
a nice, more, not a 16 by nine, but a, you know, this more square ratio. And I put the four
there. And that one would be a case of Ram. But up until this, the three B has been, you know,
so long as you do one thing. I'm not sure it's been absolutely fine. I agree.
Shogi, when it goes to video. So what I wanted to be able to do was just use it as a second screen
for doing video conferencing. Okay. The four B might be a little bit better for that. I'm thinking.
Yes, yes. I must admit, I was a bit tempted by the Pi 400, the one that's built into a keyboard.
But I can't really justify it because I've got loads of pies and they're all headless and doing
various jobs. But the 400 would be quite a fun thing to play with. And very usable in this sort
of way as a, as a sort of low spec desktop type thing. Yeah. Yeah.
Interesting. Next day, electrical safety, because Paul is a electrician and none of this
qualifies us as advice or whatever, but I asked to do a little show for us and he did this.
So Norris says, great episode. I hope you do more about work in the electrical trades.
Maybe some detail about getting into the industry and what apprenticeships are like.
And Kevin O'Brien says, I love the show. I thought this was a great show. I look forward to more.
So yeah, good. It's quite unusual actually as a show, show content. And it's good to hear people's
work experience of this sort. I was most intrigued by it. Absolutely.
I mean, the operator sent in a rant about websites. And he goes over the history of websites and
the complex, the nature of security and complex websites. And right now at this moment, Dave,
I couldn't agree with him more given that my own website has been redirected.
They managed to find a way to put the to redirect the WordPress site to some other
location. And I've spent an hour fixing it. So yeah. And that's with all the security things
turned off. So yes, I agree with operator on this. It's a strangely fragile thing. I've never
been a lot keen on the way that the web is evolved. I mean, it does wonderful things compared to
the early days and stuff. But just still seems to be based on quite a fragile structure underneath
to my mind. I don't know. Am I wrong? Yeah. So yeah, I think I think I'm going to,
I was just saying to you that while WordPress is creationable, it's just too complex for
you know, my website is just static pages. So I'm tempted to just call this in HTML and push them up.
Job done. Yeah. Well, it's quite desirable to do something like that. But yeah, operator's point
about not really being able to analyze a site anymore. Just point W get at it and wait to see
what you get back and examine it is in no way. That's not a thing that gets you anywhere.
So yeah, in the middle of it. And it's going to be worse with the HTML two or this web two thing
that they're watching. Google think it's it'll be just a data pipe. And that whole concept of
a view source is out the window as well. Yeah. Yeah. So the world's going to change a lot.
Well, with a reward is a good question because what I find what I'm finding now is that a lot of
I got contacted by Google saying that my website wasn't doing it correctly that they that I'm
blocking indexing in the robot star text. And I shouldn't be doing that. What I should be doing
was putting in a special Google tag in every single page. And I've gone, no, you're not telling me
what I'm going to do. I don't care if nobody comes to my website. I don't care if Google doesn't
do my website. The only person that my website is about is me. I use it that if I want to tell
somebody here's an article that I've published for myself and you might find it useful. Here's
a link. I could care less. I could can care less or could care less, which is it could not.
I could not care less if it was never indexed by Google. Anyway, you know, yes, I know,
I know, I know. Oh, I agree. I agree with that very much. It's it's just the way that the world
is, but I hate it. Yeah, but I'm tempted to go back. Deep geek in the labs had a go for websites
at one stage. I think it yeah, actually, I'm more inclined to go go for maybe it's this is just
where I am. It's a journey that you go through, you know, eventually, you get sick of everything
being so complex and you go back to a go for websites. It's probably a deep underground network of
all the great viewers who are using it go for websites. Yeah, do you know that is really fascinating.
I can remember we ran a ran go for the university I was at and it was it was doing really well.
It was just the early days of people putting up stuff that you could access over the internet.
And then I remember being in some committee that was looking at this wonderful new HTML stuff,
HTTP stuff and you know, the conclusion was oh yeah, we should drop go for a move to this,
but we took a while before we did drop go for but it was it was still around for quite some time,
but I don't know that that the conclusion drawn there was based on much information. It was just
new and shiny. Yeah, exactly. So yeah, I was never very I'd have been happy with go for it and
really enjoyed playing with that. So anybody who really wants to dislike a hooker,
it's very hard. It really is because the man is a nice guy, no matter what you say.
He gets a 3D printer of what does he do with it, he gives it away.
Yes, yes, I know. Well good for him and all. No, it's really I think it makes you feel
too much about people want to know. I know, I know, I know, I know. It's excellent. The thing,
the thing I was going to comment on, but I thought I'm guessing I'm not. I know, I know, I was
to say, but what was it? What printer was it? It would have been lovely to know what it was.
So I could say the model library. What model was it? I actually looked at the
OLF 2018, I think site where I looked at a search for OLF in Raffle and it was a Lollsbot mini.
I think it was it was commented on in January 2018. I'm not sure when that was when the
conference was maybe the year previous, but yeah, that's just me being nosy, I wanted to know.
But yeah, the enable people seem to be utterly delighted with this printer because it was
much better than what they had. So lots and lots of points for who I would say that's a very,
very good thing to do. They're basically build prosthetic arms, static bits for people.
What a cool idea. Absolutely. Absolutely. Anywho, you run,
wanted to buy a second home in France. This is an interesting one from the point of view. Well,
I don't want to buy a home in France, but there you are, if you did. It's a nice example of
using the data that you have available to you. Now it is to to approach a problem and to filter
it down. I don't want to admit I've done something very similar to this. Not this, but I've
been recently parsing files for to extract data in a very similar way to this.
Yes, it's fascinating. It was so it's good to hear people's solutions to think like this.
And the fact that it is relatively easy is to get this sort of data. And then if you've got
the skills to extract what you want them to do, do kind of things with it. So yeah, it was quite
an impressive journey that he was talking about there. And if you look at the site he mentioned,
the overpass turbo.eu is quite an interesting looking place, actually. Yeah. Most intriguing.
Pretty cool. Yeah, I wouldn't mind a house in France, but it's not getting away from it.
Pretty good. Pretty good. Pretty good. That's all you're going to be able to spend now, Dave.
I want to skate. All right. We become French, get away from this stupid Brexit nonsense.
You have to learn French, you know. Basic French, how French you examine it? I know. I've
had more than 300 whatever a year. Yeah, it's not really set up for old age pensioners and stuff.
But yeah, who don't speak French very well? Schoolboy French.
They've proved him I don't know that stuff. He waited long enough for Scotland to be devolved and
back into the EU. Yeah, yeah, yeah. True, to Northern Ireland.
Yeah. Come down to the Republic and get your for your whole way around the back.
All right. The next show was one from Brian and Ohio, which was I think you wrap off the end of
the half. Yes, and you're going to have to tune in next month. Yes, to find out what that was all
about as easily done, easily done. So where are we now? What's the next part traditionally, Dave?
Miss comments from last month? Yeah. Well, that comment was your comment and you sent it
during the show. I did. And I think you mentioned what it was at the time. So even though the
algorithm says, er, er, we missed this. So we should talk about it now. I think we can probably skip
over it. All right. It was so good comment though. It's a good comment. I enjoyed it.
I posted, I myself posted three comments to audacity stuff because I wanted to split up an album
and I went back to HBR 1771, which was John Culp's show, to say that, yes, I found how to label
tracks. Then I went to audacity chain marches and labels, which was Cheetle 4493, which I need as
well. Thank you very much. That was a whole piece of the post. And my own show, 2881, which was
automatically split an album into tracks in audacity, proving that I had totally lost my memory.
So yeah, yeah, but it's good. It's good when you think, I don't know how to do this. Oh,
I wonder if somebody said, oh, it's me. I did it. Yeah. So that is, that is pretty good.
That is really good. It just goes to show that HBR does serve a great purpose then. Because
so you know this, the of interest hackers can also extend to yourself. You find it interesting
and yourself in six months time will find it interesting. Or in that case, what was this?
When did I record that show a year previous year? Yeah, yeah. I did something very similar,
actually. I can't remember exactly what it was now. I was there's some, I hit a problem while I
was trying to fix something. And I thought, oh, I don't know how to solve this. Oh, maybe I have
solved this before. And I can go looking on my wiki, which you can search in reasonably
sophisticated ways and find, yeah, I've gone into enormous detail to tell myself how to solve
this next time around. Except I've forgotten that I had to tell myself how to solve this next time
around. So it was, yeah, it's really, really easy today. But having somewhere where, where you
keep that information is good. And that is HBR. I've got to do Andrews all. Yes. Andrew did a show
in title metrics, but two. And I wrote a comment to him just looking up a word, which he said,
and he says, Dave, thank you for looking that up, dividing surprises me. Actually, it was the word
was geodesic. Surprises me, actually, as I was thinking, it was more to do with movement, but
lines divided to the space, great circles, divided the sphere. So it makes sense. And the answer
is sesame mochot, who says, and says glad it was helpful, on a tangent is very up choice of words.
So it was all about things pertaining to tangents, of course. Yep. And MKV to back up your media
question from Archer 72, in response to Jane Duck, who, thanks for the show, unfortunately,
a better local Windows partitions. I use Handbrake to compress the video files. So sounds great idea
for your show. What did you find works best for the compression settings? Did you use standard
settings or fun tweaks that would best suit your setup? So Archer 72, done the role there
of a HBO volunteer, and extracting another show out of something. Well done, Tim.
Oh, done. Yes, indeed. So we had the show from Polkwirk Meet Antithesis, and
to comment from Brian in Ohio that says, great show. Have you considered doing a series on
dark table? It would dovetown nicely with the GIMP series. And Huca, who's doing the GIMP series,
says completely agree with Brian. Well, he says, I agree with Brian. I think Brian has the right
idea. A show or memory several on dark table would be awesome. Again, channeling the HPR.
Yes. Yes. Yes.
Yeah. What are you next, Dave?
Right. We look at the mailing list. I think, don't we? Let's look at the mailing list.
The mailing list on the mailing list was a discussion about Mike Ray and Dungeons and Dragons
and episode request, which was continuing all the requests for blind shows.
Then we had an email from Platoon about the HPR RPG Club November 1.
They just concluded, Shadow on 5. Next, they'll be doing Dead Earth at the classic 1990s post-Pock
Killer Dick and GNU3 Document License RPG, because the big part of the game is character building
with standout. The startout was a session dedicated to generating characters. As usual,
the schedule is available in a completely difficult to read XML file or in a nice CS file that
doesn't build for me. I didn't actually try to be honest. Okay. But in case it's 2020,
10, 04, and I just want to say that that is suspended at the moment for, so the HPR
Club is, the D&D stuff is temporarily suspended for a while until the new year, hopefully not too.
Okay. Accessible iOS app for rolling a D&D dice by Mike Ray.
Got a mention buying player post a few days ago about playing D&D,
was in the October news, listening to the electrical PC last night, listening to the
Electron of the Results trying to get together for an idea for an audible poly rice roller with
an ESP 8266 microcontroller. Got the design together, but in a spare minutes I checked iOS,
App Store and found a totally accessible app called Neutral 20 Lite. It'll roll a D4, 68, 10, 12,
20, 100, etc. With voiceover on the iOS device, it works well. So that's pretty much a tip there
for blind players or visual impaired players for D&D. Very cool. I'm intrigued that he's making,
or he was making a device based around an ESP 8266 and ESP. Yeah. Yeah. Cool.
I have a show recorded on the ESP 2, not on what about ESP 222. Cool.
So, do you want to do Kevin's one? Yes, Kevin asks, I propose the discussion earlier about
next cloud. He says that he just listened to the interview with Frank Carter's check on
Linus in-laws and he also commented on it, got me thinking he said the interview was mostly
about the project itself, which is fine, but it left me wanting more. I suspect there are people
in ESP that can satisfy my requests. One, I'd love to have maybe a short series of my look at how
next cloud is installed and configured. Then it's some of the applications you might want to use.
One of the best apps to replace things like the Google Apps, for instance.
Number two, if you did install these apps, would they work on mobile phones like my Android pixel?
What would have to happen for that to work? Do I need another? Do I need other apps on my phone?
And three, where can this be hosted? I suspect my internet provider won't let me run a server
at home that talks over internet. What other options do I have? Are any of them relatively inexpensive?
Have technical? Do I need to be to set this up? So, you can see there's a lot here and I hope
someone's will pick it up regardless given a brand. Yeah, good. Just the sort of questions I'd like
to hear answered is there actually. It's interesting because in the last week or three I've heard
several different people talking about requesting on cloud seems to be just right now people
are interested in on cloud. So let's do a folks send in on cloud's all level of
don't don't assume that just because you've installed it once yourself that that show will not be
of interest to us it will because everyone's view and the thing is unique as you said yourself
about the printer episode. So yes, please send us in your shows. And it's next cloud really that
we want rather than own cloud. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cool.
So it's time to announce the ninth annual New Year's Eve show where the community gets together
on mumble to help them each and every time zone for the New Year. Nine years ago an idea was put
forth to have an event where podcasters and listeners would get an opportunity to exchange greetings
regardless of the time zone blah blah blah. It's the HPR New Year show it'll be starting on the
31st at 10 a.m. on the morning and we'll continue for at least 26 hours if not longer so long as
there's banter we shall be recording. Oh yes. There you go. Bring some dear Dave and we can have a chat.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm looking forward to it. Yes. It's always good to listen to very least. So yeah,
usually try and pop in at some point. So I'll do that. I'll work out again this year.
Good. And do you want to update us on the tags and summary stuff?
Yes. Scroll scroll scroll. Got too many tabs here. Just to tell you that there are no updates.
So the time ran out. I don't know what happened to this this past month. I didn't manage to
get the things I wanted to do done. So yes, there we go. It happens like that sometimes.
Yep. So Dave, next month what disasters will have alien landings? Apparently that's already
happening with all the monoliths appearing in other place. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah.
No, no, no, no. We have if we had worldwide parmatheric, fire wildfires,
listing floods, earthquakes, disasters. Yep. Yep. And the Arisee boat, ready to tell us go now
apart. Well, it's very, very, very sad indeed. Yeah. Very sad. Yeah.
There you go. I'm sure you did all from this gun. You're missing presumed dead.
Dear, dear. So yeah. Who knows what December will bring. Join us now. I'm sure this all
was supposed to do the tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker. Public.
Radio. Oh. Yeah. Think you think that I'd know how to do that by now.
We get that for too later, Dave. Yes. See you soon. Cheers.
You've been listening to Hacker. Public Radio at Hacker. Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode
yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
