Episode: 3506
Title: HPR3506: HPR CONTEST 2022 01
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3506/hpr3506.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:40:08

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 356 for Monday 10th January 2022.
Today's show is entitled HDR Contest 202001.
It is hosted operator and is about two minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
For summaries, I give away $50 prize.
Hello everyone and welcome to the episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host operator.
This is going to be short and sweet.
What I'm doing is I've been recording with this Samsung Go mic portable USB condenser microphone.
It's valued at $50 to any new host or existing host that has an interview with a third party can be entered to win.
Now this is for the month of February.
If I get feedback from the HBR volunteers on months that this will work better for, then I'll do it then maybe quarterly.
Maybe we pick a month every quarter that we know we have weak numbers in for submissions and we can do this whenever you guys want.
The idea is that you've been a show as a new host and or if you have an existing host and you interview someone that's also applicable.
But just keep in mind, I'm going to lean more towards new host and new content and something creative and fresh and engaging and new.
With that in mind, I'm going to go through the honor system.
If you do upload under a different name and I don't notice your voice, then that's not necessarily fair and hopefully nobody does that.
But I will accept, again, interviews with other people with existing host, but I really would like to focus on new host that will come back be creative and stuff.
So this having this microphone will help you record a theory, good, easy audio and will kind of go from there.
So if anyone wants any questions or has anything and wants to send me your email address for the submission,
you can email me at F-R-E-E-L-O-A-D-101 at Yahoo.
If you're uncomfortable with like providing your address or something like that, feel free to message me and I can instead of dropshipping you, I can just send you like an Amazon gift card or something.
And hope that you honorably use that to purchase a microphone or record other episodes.
Anyways, I hope you guys have a great new year and we'll kind of go from there.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR is kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sync.net.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLike3.0 license.
