Episode: 3484
Title: HPR3484: My vim setup with GnuPG
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3484/hpr3484.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:16:16

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3484 for first 8th and 9th of December 2021.
Today's show is entitled, My Vim Set Up with Ganupigi and is part of the series Lightweight
Apps.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 8 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, My Vim Set Up with Ganupigi Vim Plugin.
Hello Haka Public Radio, this is Archer 72.
I am going to create a new GPJK as a speaker and I will do that GPJKMR.
I am going to do that GPJKMR.
I am going to do it.
Okay, I am back and the purpose of creating the key is so I can use it as a Vim Plugin.
It is the new GPJVim Plugin to edit encrypted files.
Either get up from the Vim.org or get home as it gets long and make a director call
plugins under your dot vim folder and extract the Vim Dash vim pg.
I am going to go back and I started typing GPD Dash Dash Gen Dash key, but I run the
file to a new one.
I am going to do 4 keys, so I am going to choose the Out of Apps, GPD Dash Dash,
GPD Dash Gen Rt, so I run on RSA, which is default, I am going to do it for a month,
because I am not going to pull out, I am just going to show what I am doing.
This corrects, yes.
I am going to put my real name in my hand, or I am going to set it to the original source,
and I am going to put my real name in my hand, and I am going to test the real name.
I am going to do a password, one, two, three, four, three, four, five,
right.
And a lot of other r Born Selle have wanted me
to go to the mall, did not match.
For my test, keep me, keep me.
Keep me, keep me, keep me.
There you go.
Now I have an actor.
An insecure password is.
Take this one anyways because it's just a test.
And then, the reason I wanted to create this is so that when I maybe, once in a while,
I have to change the second factor of the location key.
When I'm not in the previous other side.
And so I want to be able to edit it instead of being crypt every time.
So I'm going to go file.
And this is just file.
Now I'll show it for the later one.
Now I'm going to go file.
All.
And then, the darkness.
Find the key.
That's it.
Switch.
Now I want to do.
Do you see?
Actually.
I should be able to just type test.
Now that did not work out a bunch of gibberish because I forgot to tell it what to encrypt.
Now I'm going to go file.
I'm going to go file.
I'm going to say.
Encrypted it.
So now if I do.
Test.
I should be shutting this file as for sample purposes.
I'll just do them.
This is my test file.gpg.
I need a passphrase.
Now I'm going to test a key.
And then, let's make it into the file.
Which reads one ring to a little bit more.
And then, the darkness brand.
Quit.
Yes, that's all.
So, I'd be nice if it was other ways to do it in other editors.
The thing is, when users can encrypt anything I would like to.
And to release name.
Number three software.
Bye-bye.
