Episode: 3371
Title: HPR3371: HPR Community News for June 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3371/hpr3371.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 22:13:40

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3371, for Monday 5 July 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, HPR Community News, for June 2021 and is part of the series HPR
Community News it is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 66 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is Dave and Ken talk about shows released in comments posted in June 2021.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
My name is Ken Fallon and welcome to today's episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is Hacker Public Radio Community News for June 2021.
Joining me this evening is...
Hi there, it's Dave Morris and for those of you new to the show,
Dave will now tell us what HPR is.
Remind me, yeah. Some sort of podcast thing, it's not a community, well there's a community behind it,
but it's a podcast that produces a show every weekday and by the community, for the community,
which is a phrase you like to use quite a lot, and yeah, it's been going on for many, many years now,
I don't remember exactly how many, 15 something like that is it? So yeah, so what we want is host,
so please join us. 15 years, 9 months and 21 days, Dave, there you go.
And the community news show is where the janitors who are responsible for keeping HPR taking over,
not for making decisions, which is kind of odd, for a lot of people who have trouble with that,
but we're not. Where we come on and basically run down through all the shows that were released
in the last month, tell you any news that was new and interesting, and most importantly,
introduce new holes that joined us this month, and they are Dave.
Well, the new hosts are Legion. Oh, sorry, zero.
Yeah, yeah, it's shocking, isn't it? Why? Why? And we know all these people who would be
making shows and yet they haven't stepped forward. Yes, they must be disappointing, the most
absolutely, absolutely. Anyway, hopefully next month, we'll see an improvement on that when you,
dear listener, decide to press record. Okay, let's go through the shows, ethical analysis of renewable
energy conservation by Paul Quark. This was an interesting one, I was not expecting it to go
the way it did, and for more information, you're going to need to listen to the show. Indeed,
and indeed, you could read the original essay that he based this on, which is quite interesting
to read. Yeah, right. Yeah. No, it's a good show. More of these, these type of shows will be
welcome. Academic, quite an academic thing and some interesting points being made.
With, to my mind, the sort of density of information that didn't quite stick in my head. I did
make a note to go back in this, but I've not had a chance yet. Yeah, worth a second listen,
I think, if you're interested. Yeah, yeah. Well, it's basically about
solar panels and making sure, you know, the cycle of poverty and that sort of thing. So how do you
make sure that everybody gets access to renewable energy, because it's essentially all our problems
that we need to fix? Yeah.
Anyway, the following day, we did a dedicated show on feedback that we got from Hedora,
and there were some comments by Hawking's The Wizard, who said, I've been wanting to comment
about this for some time, the quality of the audio is somewhat important, but not a qualified
but what I at least want is the level of the volume to be normalized, 95%. It's hard to hear
in noisy environment like a car or places with background noise. This is easy for a
submitted sample. Run all inputs, submits through a normalizer and compressor. Volume checks in
mumble radio should also normalize. And I will comment on that. We do that. Every show is normalized,
but it is just a automatic process and sometimes it doesn't work. Again, if anybody has more
information on how to automate that, that's absolutely fine. If somebody wants to do it manually,
that's also fine, but be prepared for a busy life, non-trivial.
Oh, on that side, we do have the originals of any show. So if anyone wants to go, we do have
the originals of some shows. So if anyone does want to go and edit the audio for any of the
shows that we do have the originals for, then knock yourself out. We will repulse them for you.
So as he give him a day more work, but there you go. Yeah, we can do, we can do.
So second comment was me who commenting on, I was trying to remember the show, This American Life.
What was the context that we talked about? Yeah, it was about somebody that we're doing an
interview and then somebody butts in telling you what it is that they were talking about it.
So listening to this, I remember what I was complaining about in the show,
and I was referring to podcasts and presumably radio shows like This American Life,
which interview people but translate what they're saying over the top of them. This is a style
that many broadcasts into have adopted. Many of the BBC podcasts, I've stopped listening to do
this too. I find it distracting and insulting to the interviewee. It seems to be an example of
media people reinterpreting what experts are saying in many cases. We know how much misinformation
comes from this practice. If this is professional, I don't want to have anything to do with it.
There you go. The following day we had an interview with Paul Ramsey,
Foss Fischer-Nardo and Entrepreneur from OpenGeoFame,
this related to PostQuest SQL. Found this one actually fascinating. These guys have the ability
to get people to onto do interviews, which is great. Yes, this guy is one of the primary developers
of PostGIS, is that he's it, which is the geographical interface thing sits on top of PostGress,
which lets you do some sort of map related coordinate stuff. He mentioned this to some extent,
but he had a lot to say on the future of free software and open source and all of that,
so yeah, it's a fascinating chat. So if you haven't had a chance to listen to that, go on,
go on download it's well worth a listen. And the next day we had blending layers by Ahuka
and this is about in the game series and the number of ways that you can blend layers.
And I know Ahuka doesn't get a lot of feedback on these shows, but I think that's due to the
nature of the, you know, people understand that he's put the whole series together, but just like
the open office, the brotha series, it's like, this is just rock solid, you know, concrete foundations
for HPR, it's brilliant, brilliant stuff. Yeah, too much praise on this. Absolutely, absolutely.
It's getting into a lot more depth with this particular aspect of the subject and talking about
sort of maths of how you do this merge of layers is, well, it's, it's goes up my head to
let's accept it, sounds if it's going to have a lot of interest there if you, if you want to get
into it. So yeah, good stuff. And as I said before, a lot of the stuff that he's talking about in
game is, you know, it's going to be the same in Photoshop or it's going to be the same in other tools,
like blender or inkscape. Yeah. So well worth the listen, if you haven't followed this series,
might be no harm to just click on the part of the series, click on that and there's a separate
fee there for this entire series you can download it and listen it in one go. Next day, community
news, we said nothing that was of any interest to anybody because nobody gave us any feedback.
Yeah, I was trying to handle that. And then we had the new year show, this was episode four already.
Wow. Text editors, X11 Willand, Mastodon, Distribution Jewel, Flurk, Music, Culture.
Oh yeah, yeah. And we had a live, we had a live playing of a song, which is something that I was,
I was not aware of, which is kind of cool. Yes, was it that one or was it the later one? But yeah,
it was Mast from the the min cast who is a film musician. And he also explained why it's called
Philk. Because the eye is right next to oh on the keyboard, he said, so it was a misprint,
a mistype. It's a typo. That makes it much better. Yeah. So yeah, yeah, he's, he's an interesting
guy to most interesting. I was fascinated hearing his comments all manner of things. I must say I'm
struggling when I hear, I don't take this wrong, people in the States that I struggle when I hear
people struggling with medical issues. And that not being treated for lack of money, that just,
yeah, oh yeah, it just pains me, pains me, pains me, pains me.
What can you say? I know it's in this country, it's like going back to the 1920s or something like
that, you know, that even that, I don't think it was quite as dire as it is in the USA.
Yeah, I don't think we get the political here, but I think we've covered up. We've already covered
you know, that DNAHS is a very, people with a socialistic organization, you know, health care
provider by the state. And in the Netherlands, it's the, it's exactly the other way around,
it's completely capitalistic, all the hospitals are privatized, but everybody's required to have
health insurance. And if you can't afford it, then it is given to you reluctantly. But all kids are
at least up until the age of 18 or 20th, whenever they leave college, I think, are automatically
get everything, you know, including dental and all the rest. It's just, it's just a pity.
It's like that, you know, the breaking bad, I saw a comment on that in one time, some Swedish
guys says, if this was in Sweden, the whole plot of the series would be, he gets cancer,
he goes to hospital for treatment. Yes, yes, thank you. I would like to thank the entire Hacker
public radio community for participating in the New Year show. Next day, some guy on the internet,
absplunking my terminal journey, part one, excellent tips here. And loads of comments.
Yes, he's, yeah, he's, oh my god, loads of comments. He's come at this in such an interesting way.
Everybody, you know, he said, wow, never thought to do things like this, yeah.
Okay, let's start with FXB says, good listening. Long time nothing's user,
I both can fully sympathize with some guy on the internet experience seems to be a particular
pattern in how many of us learned to use the command line. Really well explained, though,
will make excellent listening for anyone who's new to the command line and who finds it's scary.
Good stuff, man, look forward to hearing more.
Jesra says, hey, that's how I learned. Wonderful show. It was an absolute delight to hear your
command line adventure. There's one thing I've learned about the command line in my user computing.
It's there's always more to learn about the command line. Smiley case. Very good.
Trey says, well done. Keep up the good work. I've been using various flavors of Unix over
since the 80s and I'm still learning things. Your details and key of full explanations are great
for a beginner and even listening to and even interesting to folks like me. Don't worry about
being you. You are learning method, Dave. Butthodically. Thank you. You're sharing what you learned
with others. That is always to be commended. Thank you. Yeah, good point, excellent. And
Archer 72 says, good to hear this one. Long time limits use a bit still learning. I will
definitely go back and listen again. Two packages you might try are NNN and Ranger.
Which I think not. I thought I'd heard them both through HDR but I might be wrong. Okay,
with their terminal application file managers, they both have good uses just a different approach
and key bindings. Look forward to hearing more. And some guy in the internet replied,
giving thanks. Thank you all for your encouragement and kind words. I try to provide more
shows on this and other topics. Has anyone had any issues with the sound quality or the volume of
the episode? Just a QA check. Sesame Mute Show says, nice. I'm show with good audio,
as have been all your shows. I enjoyed the clear presentation. We're like hearing different
ways to use the command line. Thanks. And Frank says, comments feedback on your show part one.
Frank. Frank. You know my rule. Okay, that's right. Hey, some guy. Regarding your surprise about PWD,
I didn't know the actual history. Your assumption of a minimal prompt might be true. However, PWD
is very handy for scripting. Bear in mind that scripts don't have a prompt to smiley face.
Winky face. Pretend that you're in directory A and some subscript is in directory B.
So on the terminal, you enter B slash script to run. Now, within the script, there's a variable
$0 contains that calling string. In that case, B slash script. But if you call PWD in that script,
it returns a warning. So if you use dot forward slash as the path for your dump files,
that means the files are will be created at your present working directory PWD.
I often write quick and dirty scripts for one-off tasks. They tend to use relatively relative
paths for simplicity. In such cases, I use the following line at the start of the script. CD
calls, double sign, open bracket, deer name, space, dollar Z, dollar zero, close bracket,
close double call. And that's what we call that Dave. That's command, that's command substitution,
command substitution. You can do it with back takes, but this is a better way to do it.
Anywho, this changes the script current directory to what is actually located,
to where it is actually located. The quotes are there to handle spaces in the path names,
and are good habit to acquire. I'm kind of allowing which purists and don't like find names
riddled with underscores. I find them hard to read and hard to work with.
Now we'll go into part two, Frank.
Yes. Okay, my time.
See you after class, Frank. I have to spit my comment into two parts because I was getting in
a, that if I did it in one post, and I refer you to our decision to keep it short,
that if you were going over one comment, you would be submitting a show.
Anywho.
So, Dave, Josh, do you want me to do this one? Yeah, yeah, just to give you a rest.
He says about Bash keyboard shortcuts. It's not a default setting in most disser as well. I think
it was in mind when I started with Linux, and now I can't live without it.
It allows to type a few characters, and then page up down keys, page through all history entries
that start with those characters you typed. For that, put following into slash,
it's central slash input rc, or till the slash dot input rc, and he gives some character sequences,
but I won't read out. Actually, I think that's a good idea, which allowed to do history search
forward history search backwards, but they were here in the comment. Regarding Greb,
this comes from, he means the name, comes from the g command, the ed editor,
ed, as far as I'm I rc, g means do the following command globally on the file,
him has the code on g command, which does exactly that. RE is the command to run and
means match with regular expression, and p means if it matches, simply print the line.
Cool. Yeah. Yeah. If you look at computer file, is it somewhere called on YouTube,
Brian Kernigan is on there, and he explains that, because he, I don't know if he originated it,
or if he was in the room, it was originated, and he explains that pretty much the same way,
and yeah, and he's also a fantastic guy to listen to, so if you recommend that, recommend that.
PS is necessary to, it is unnecessary to touch a file, if you write something to it, right,
after, unless you use the result value of touch for error checking. Happy Bimming, he says.
That would have been such a good show, if it was right there. I know, I know, it's got so much
me in there, and we go. Yeah, just imagine, I have a business for so many other shows.
For example, other escape things that you can put into your input or see file,
advantages and disadvantages of doing so. Yes, yes, there's quite a lot there, but all those
shows are lost, like tears in rain. Any here, moving on, my devices, I walk around my house and talk
about any interesting devices I have, and I add a show notes to this, because
operator has a different view to whether show notes should be released or not, and he has a correct
view, which is that if show notes are not provided, that's fine, which your requirement is to
submit a show not the show notes. However, Dave and I mistakenly fell into the trap of being so convinced
that we need show notes that we do them for people who don't.
Yes, yes, crystal. You don't always want to relisten to the show to get the various things.
What was that thing you said? Oh, let's go and check the notes. Oh, there it is.
Right, I'll go and check that out. Yeah, it's just just why we've learned to write as a species,
I thought, that we could keep notes. Anyway, but yeah, that's, you're a definite advantage
for submissing shows, but as janitors, we overstepped our mark insisting,
we overstepped the line, insisting that people should submit shows, it will be great if they would,
but they do not have to. However, this one definitely needed show notes, because
half of the things on this list, and I've already sent them a list of, there's like from number
one to 34, of the things I've sent them a list that I had never heard about and that I actually want
to hear more shows about. So that's excellent. And I would have thought his house was very busy with
stuff until I've moved, because we're renovating our own house at the moment. And I had like three or
four different boxes of computer stuff to bring over here. I was thinking, surely we don't use
all that all the time, but yes, apparently we do. Yeah, yeah, I know, I know. So too easy.
Yeah, just I were sleeping downstairs in the living room now and I kind of
full up it, because the kids have their own rooms and gone at night. Yeah, I have to wear a night
patch, because there's so many blinking lights around. Computers, the power strips, the flashing
chargers, the Raspberry Pi's with network, things like that. You don't notice that they're all
downstairs in the living room. I've got a number of switches, network switches. And for some
reason, they're always blinking. I don't know what's going on. There's one here on the desk with
it. It's just flat, you're flat, you're flat, you're all the time. So yeah, it's,
can't have that makes you when you sleep. But there was the load of stuff in here that I'd never
heard of before. Even something as simple as Gorilla Glue. No idea. Do you have Gorilla Glue in the UK?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Never heard of it. Not a great fan of it myself. It's more hype than
glue. It was my impression. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's sort of foam slightly in and
sets like, like a sort of, um, toffee-like material, which is not very strong. It's okay, it's
dry, but it itself, but it doesn't, doesn't glue things together well. Right there. There was
somebody out there who is right now thinking, oh, well, I know more about, I can, I want to give
Dave feedback on that particular comment. Could that person please do a whole series in Blue?
Cause it's something that we haven't covered and they're in huge amount of use around the house
and in building, like they, the new house, they put builders glue in instead of, you know,
concretion between the blocks that's put up builders glue. That was all.
Glue technology is amazing. So maybe I'm wrong about Gorilla Glue and it's gone a bit better,
but so it wasn't. There's a guy I watch on YouTube who, one of his, he's an, an engineer,
but he's also a woodworker and he was saying, look at this Gorilla Glue and we're going to stick
these two bits of wood together with a really strong joint for Gorilla Glue in it and they're
going to do the same one with woodworking glue and I'm going to see which one's the strongest.
Of course, the woodworking glue is the strongest because it soaks into the,
and if you were, it's made with wood. And the Gorilla Glue just, just shattered.
Yeah, but it's probably that you need it for the right application.
Oh, yeah, why are we checking something else to show Dave?
I know, I know, we could have made a show out of this.
No, perhaps not, perhaps not.
So the following day, we had another show by operator Tiki Hell,
don't buy Tiki anything and the show was about, you know, those Tiki lamps,
you know, outdoors, touches, oil lamps, porches, I think, and where to get them.
That's another thing that I don't think we have, we tend to use. I've seen them around
and some people's gardens, but not that often.
Yeah, I've not seen them much. I think I've seen them in the DIY shops, but I'm not sure how
much they sell. I think they get with citronella in them, so they, especially, to scare off the
biting of the boxes. It's midges here. More than musky toes, as you told me, midges are a
musky. Well, they're not actually, but they're biting insects. I thought, remember when we did that
interview? I didn't know what the guys on their set there was muskitos and midges.
There were a form of muskitos. I don't think so. I don't think so.
Five, five, five, five. Well, we never studied midges in my ability degree, but we certainly
looked at muskitos with great interest. In fact, I worked in a lab where they had a large colony
of muskitos. I used to go and watch the guy feeding them on him, as you do, and yeah,
it's, but midges are, midges are much smaller, and they're the particularly in, like,
place like Scotland and Canada and Russia. Yeah, they're really. And they're absolutely deadly
things. I'm really, they bite, they just try to get insane. Yes.
Image is a small fly, including species in several families of non-muskito,
nema-tukarian-dip-tieria. So they're not muskitos. Interesting.
It's true, probably. Probably two wing flies, the dipped being the wings.
So yeah, yeah, yeah, but they're lovely, lovely bitey things, but they're tiny. Tiny, tiny.
They're used to driving nuts in the summer. Oh my god. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, the up the fields are cotton, you know, on the tractor going around in the middle on the land.
I mean, that's, that is what it is. Yeah. Next day, HBR community stops by for a chat.
This is episode five. In this episode, we talk about vaccinations, COVID lockdown, vaccinations,
virtual conferences, programming languages, the size of Texas, religion, and Linux.
Pretty much a normal day for heavy conversation. To Hitchhunky says, thank you. I would like to
down from the Linux tech shop for playing the promo for the New Year's show on the Till's
podcast. Thank you. That episode is nearly five hours long. Four hours, 41. I literally
know, no, it's too long too long, but it wasn't. It was, I don't know, it's great. But anyway, Kevin
doesn't agree. Kevin, on the other hand, says, nice show, but too long. I really do enjoy hearing
New Year's Eve shows, but this one was 282 minutes long. That is almost, and that is most of the
weight of five hours. I'd have divided this into four shows, each of which would have been a bit over
an hour. Yeah, yeah, maybe a slice somewhere would have been good, but how to, yeah,
the thing about the New Year show, how do you, how do you divide it? It's hard to know what good
point to cut. I was doing a lot of cooking that day, and having that going around the background,
not requiring a lot of attention, but really entertaining. I thought it was absolutely great. It
really, really made my cooking experience a lot of fun. I had the same I was gone, oh my God,
how am I going to, where am I going to get five hours for listening to this show? And then I was
just doing something, and it was going on in the background, and it was fine. It was, and then at
the end of it, I was going, oh, right, that's great. Yeah, it was a lot of fun. I could see I had,
I was a bit behind with listening to each of my shows, and I was thinking, oh, it's Wednesday.
How many hours of listening have I got before Saturday when we do our recording? And it was something
like 20 hours. Yeah, that's some weeks, it might be 20 minutes, and sometimes it's like a box of
chocolates. Yep. Uh, following day, some guy on the internet, are we shorting that to sg on tinde?
sg on t, sg on t doesn't sound that, that wonderful name. No, he might, he might quite like it.
Are you, uh, where are we? Uh, absolutely. Yeah. Both package managers using the, um,
apt in various different ways. Quite interesting. Yes. Yes. Another case of somebody taking a different
view on things than maybe you've done yourself, and, and finding things that you, you know, been
there when you were looking, but you didn't notice them. Yeah. And, and, and, and yeah, I found it,
it's really nice looking at, looking at apt in DP, KG package managers, and he, he, he, he came up with
with a bunch of things that I was not, not that clear about myself and never really bothered to look
and never ever seen some of the stuff before. No, no, so it's just really good. Enjoyed that.
I shall be referring to this in the future. Show notes is impeccable.
Oh, the show notes are brilliant. Yeah, yeah, it's on a great job there.
Um, although he doesn't need to link his other shows in, because that's already covered in the
series, but I still, I would know. Yeah. No. So yeah, shall it, is it my turn to do a comment?
That's true. I think you did Kevin the last time. Okay, go on then.
BJP says, I loved listening to your talk. As a long time Debian based destroy user, I learned
some things about apt. Thank you. Plus the recording was well done, good sound levels, clear,
no background noises, and you're, you explain things really well. Thanks having the show notes
is an extra bonus. Full marks are on there. Hmm, absolutely.
MTP score has gone up to 9.9.
Blast him. A wicked Sega Genesis Mega Drive emulator and an interview with author of
brought you by Ciclop, the most leadest of all hackers.
Yes. Yes. The, this is great. I like, I love to hear interviews with people who are so
deeply into this sort of stuff. And obviously Mike, who was being interviewed was, was, was, was
very, very, very deep into this subject. Good stuff. No comments on that, yeah.
We'll probably have to wait another 20 years before the Mega Drive people get around to,
yeah. That was a nasty, you know, that was nasty. We love, we love shows about retro computing,
which we don't get enough of either it did. Now true enough, true enough, there's, there's a lot of
people who are delving into that subject we could do with hearing from more of them, I think.
And this is the next day limits all outlaw's political politicians of art official intelligence.
And more stuff about TensorFlow and PyTorch. Yeah. And good links as well. Yes. Yes.
It's quite a lot of things to follow up there. It, again, I know it's so little about this sort of
stuff, but yeah. Good stuff. Some stuff on computer file about this as well. But I haven't been,
I have something on the way behind on all my non amateur radio stuff,
all my podcasts. And basically for the last, what since lockdown started in February of last year,
I, the classes went online and I started studying to come on radio operator. And last weekend,
this Monday, I passed my full exam. So I am now a amateur operator, waiting for my
certificate to come over so I can legally use a radio after that. Fantastic. Yes. Well,
congratulations. Thank you. Yeah. But this is why I'm behind on all my tech podcasts and stuff.
Mm-hmm. Yep. There you are now. So you can expect some ham radio shows from me shortly.
Just push shortly. I mean, sometime in the next 15 years.
And yeah, what was that got to do with anything? Yeah. That episode, deep learning,
artificial intelligence, computer file, and to do some quite good stuff there on explaining
artificial intelligence and how it works and how scary you should be. Yeah, I haven't,
I haven't actually followed them lately. So yeah, I've also got holes in my watching lately. So
I tended to be watching that volcano in Iceland, more than I should have. It looks incredibly
scary. So the following day, we had a, in the Privacy and Security series, we had a show from
Ahuka. A type of malware, a type named Joker has been affecting Android devices. And in this
episode, we did a little deeper what it is in Hardware. That was good, actually. Yes. Yeah, actually.
Yes, I haven't to realize that there was stuff that we're still working about in this sort of
way for such a long time. He did a very good job of going through how it works and the various
different stages involved in it. And he's got excellent links and show notes also to his,
to his WordPress blog where you can pretty much read it. I don't know if it's a transcript,
but it's the equivalent of quite a few shows this month. We had episode nine in which Hunky
says I would like to thank members of the U random podcast for having me and Kevin Wischer on to
promote the New Year's show, which in itself was a very interesting show. And we were discussing
vaccinations, movies, and oh yeah, this could be the one where the song was performed.
It was, yes, yes, it's yeah, Alice, the first woman on the moon. That was a deep song. That was
it was. It was. There was a joke about this subject on
Futurama where they go to the moon and there's all this stuff about whalers on the moon,
which is all about people completely misunderstanding history after in 100,000 years or whatever it was.
And yeah, Alice, the first woman on the moon was from a sitcom or something that where the
which was basically about domestic violence. Yeah. So this is a riff on that subject, which is
yeah, it's pretty sad, pretty sad, but an interesting way of representing it.
And yeah, I remember that show and at the time me, it was normal to have
it was pre pre-politically correct, memos were drawn to various different broadcasters. So yeah,
yeah. And they also covered Dungeons, Dragons, History, Staying Away from any of our
geography, Geelyology, Minecraft, Schools and Lama, which possibly my son may have influenced the
content of that episode. I'm just imagine a little bit of influence. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, he did very well. I thought he kept the conversation going for a long time.
It is. A lot to say. And found a lot of like-minded people to talk to as though it was great.
I've had a lot of direct feedback from people who appreciate it and been on there. So
yeah, yeah. I actually, it was interesting to listen to is as a HBR listener and trying to book my
concern about protection of your son aside, because you know, at one point you have to let them
fly the nest. And it was great to hear the people of our community treating him with respect. And
you know, well, not considering him weird, which has not been totally here. When he goes off,
it's hard enough to find people who find the stuff that he's interested in, interesting. And it
was great to find that he was able to do that with a HBR. Yes, yes, yes, exactly. He was amongst
people of similar interests and knowledge and mind-set and stuff. And he's open to listening to.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I found myself to be one as well, who was the most intrigued by the
way the conversations were going there. Yeah, very good. And of course, I've done a
complete 180 and the whole, I'm dropping that and just moving on about the whole new year show.
When you kind of just take it as a, you're sitting in at a hacker space kind of thing.
It really, I really do enjoy listening to the new year show afterwards.
Yes, yes, yes. Me too. Me too. I've certainly enjoyed this year's been really good.
And in the following day, we had run back with an update on the Spambot Honeypop thing,
which was a back in one episode. It was a link here. Let me just go to his, I'll click on his username.
And when you do that, you get a list of all the shows produced by that host.
And it was episode three, two, nine, six implement a honeypot style spam filter for your forms.
And as feedback to that, there were some questions raised about accessibility issues and about
where would work with screen readers and has it worked or not. And this was feedback and that show.
So this, this is a good one. This is like scientific. We have this theory. We do this.
And then later we come back and we present our findings.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, he did a great job there. I found it wasn't quite as straightforward to use his
form with, I forget what it was he was using. But with the accessibility speech to text to speech
stuff, which I must admit, I've not tried myself. But yeah, it was, I imagine, hopefully there's
going to be a further follow-up on this one because it's a very interesting subject.
Archers 72 did some podcast recommendations on electronic podcasts to which I deliberately,
deliberately did not listen to because I was studying for my handwriting exam and could not be
distracted by anything. My greatest fear was that I would study something outside of the
syllabus. So I had to restrict myself. But this is some of them I know about the amp hour and
the Hackerday podcast. Better FM, I haven't heard. Yeah. And he made reference to Big Clive,
or at least one of the podcast he was talking about made reference to Big Clive who by watch
pretty regularly. Yeah. A native spot like yourself.
Killed while the Hague is for breakfast. I'm sure he's more native than I am, but
not too old. A few accents are almost identical. We were having that conversation
my kids and I the other evening. As my son and my daughter, both of whom do not have much of a
Scottish accent, though they say if they're in England, they are asked if they're Scottish.
And my son's girlfriend who is born and brought up in the lowlands of Scotland, she just
does not have a Scottish accent at all. And it's down to the parents. The parents are
handing over these English accents. So it's a shocking thing, but it happens.
My kids with a with a rescommon accent from Ireland. It's quite funny actually here in the
Netherlands. You can tell if somebody's got a bilingual or they've gone somewhere, they've brought
up somewhere else or if they've learned Dutch in school. It's somebody then will just start
talking English to you in a completely Australian accent, or somebody with a Canadian accent
or a South African accent. It's really hard to go stick. When I was learning French,
you talk like Inspector Tuzil and then you learn a few French words and you put them in and
you've got the shape of your mouth. Whereas here, I can't grasp your typical Dutch accent,
you know. Some people can, but I can't. I just can't. I'm shitting in a shitting, you know.
I just can't do the typical Dutch accent. There you go.
What has that got to, this week in Rambling Codgers, where are we? Part 1, all this Covid
crap sent him right, telling us about not so much Covid stuff, but what was he doing?
Well, he said he'd been, he'd lost motivation to do shows during the Covid stuff,
which many people have said. But he's got a new copy-pot. I think that's what he said was
a copy-pot. Yeah. So he's, he wanted to to get back into this stuff and talk about his
copy-pot and that sort of thing. And that was great. It's always good to have these sort of
insights into people's lives. Yeah. Yeah. That's good to hear from him too.
Yeah, don't forget there's the word community in our, in our mantra, your community podcast
metric. That also means like, you know, you're coming into the hacker space and you're hanging
up your gold and you're telling us about the stuff going on in your life, yeah. Don't be afraid to
do these normal shows, yeah. No, no, no. I think it was. I would say so. I would say so.
And yeah, often you find that people do enjoy that sort of just general humanity,
chatting to humanity. Occasionally going in the areas of related to attacking and whatever.
I must get my wife on here again at some point to do some shows about the need for people to
feel connected in the community. To feel part of the community is extremely important.
She works in the life sciences. Her job is there's no direct comparison first. It's not a
psychologist because that's that's related to looking at one person. So her job is to look at
the person requiring care in the context of their entire family, their life, their working,
their living and how they can be best helped. So instead of I have a problem, it's okay,
you have a problem, but where is that coming from and how can we help you with it and, you know,
all that sort of stuff. But as part of that, the whole needing a lot of issues are where people
don't feel they've got a group that they fit in, that the social contact that they can communicate
with the stuff. So quite a lot of that. Yeah, that stuff is quite interesting. And I'm going to
listen, feel free to do the show because I'm never going to get around because she doesn't like doing
podcasts. Yeah, yeah. It's not uncommon to do that. That response happens in my family anyway.
A lot of pucky wants to do loads of shows. So I don't know if people will be interested in hearing
stuff about Minecraft and Dungeons and Dragons. So for the life of me, I can't find anything
interesting in Dungeons. I can get through that sentence with a straight face,
but I know a person who listens to the show who's in Dungeons and Dragons. How do you?
Well, I was chatting with my daughter about the subject just the other day and she said to her,
Dad, they'll come in time when you want to get into this stuff, won't you? And I went,
probably not, probably not. She's heavily into D&D. So I know it's a different mindset or
something or other. I don't know what it is. And I said on there, you won't hear it, but I'll leave
that often. I can listen to HBR shows about it, but actually going through an episode or you know,
doing a thing itself, I found very hard. But anyway, Diablo 2, portable and modding, and I had
no clue what he was on about for this. So I found some references in Wikipedia and basically
posted links to them here so that you can find out what he's on about. It's about modding Diablo 2,
which apparently is a rule based hacking and slashing computer game developed by Blizzard North.
So, and mod Y is a mod of mod program for that, and MediaNXL is an action RPG with extensive
end game content. There you go. There you go. Yeah, well, that's me a little bit wise from what you
just said. But yes, I was running out of time when I was listening to that one. It being close to
Saturday, so I didn't delve into it. But yeah, it went right over my head. Yeah, I'm just not,
it's not that I don't, it was a good show actually, and I was quite interested into these modding
scenes and what people do, but I just don't play games. It's a sad thing related to me.
It's not a youth thing. Absolute 7 of the HBR community news,
language, the murmur server, midcast, Linux, chat about packing and selling, free movement
and Irish passports, guess who's awake, D&D talk, guess who's also awake, HBR shows get posted
later, so let's just use fun, storage, video games, duo fixes, headphones, weather and hunting.
And Hunky says, I would like to thank Porky for coming up with the idea of the new show.
Without this show, I don't think I would have ever had the courage to start podcasting.
All that is absolutely awesome. It is, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, honestly.
And Hunky, such a stalwart in the podcast, yeah. Yeah, it's a great thing,
anything to think that that was his start. I think Kevin, Kevin Musher, who could
got in as well because of the new year show? Uh-huh. Where would we be without him?
Kevin is retiring, folks. Uh-huh. Yes, this is a worrying move.
The following day, we'll show making books with Linux Part 1 as part of a two-parter,
by Andrew Conway, and you're good self-dive. And Andrew tells how he does it,
or was this one you about how you do it? No, this was Andrew talking about his approach and,
you know, a little bit of back and forth about things that we've come up with to solve the problem,
but it was mainly Andrew's, Andrew's one. And yeah, pretty good, pretty good. Did you read
his book, Hull's Cutler Dorks? I haven't read it as such. I have sort of, I've got a copy,
but I haven't gone into any great depth with it yet. I'm not very good at reading at the moment.
I don't seem to be able to read much. So just the old COVID stuff. You thought it'd be a great
opportunity to read it. Yeah, I can't seem to keep my mind on it. Anyway, yeah. But yeah, it's,
it's, it's an interesting thing that he's done. And I did go to his, um, uh, there was a
presentation that he did in Edinburgh, uh, when the book came out, or just prior to it being
coming out, which the publisher of it organized, I think. And, uh, so I went to that and listened to
to his, uh, description of what the book was all about. And he had quite quite an interested
audience who, who were asking lots of questions and stuff. So that was, that was good. So that's
the most of them that I know, really, to be honest. So I think it was just very close to the end
of the month. So not a lot of content on those shows as yet. So, but I found this one interesting,
and you're one indeed, but that's for next month. Then we had the InfoSec podcast. And in
this one, it was about social engineering and the podcast were hacking humans, the social engineer
podcast, the privacy security and OS into open source intelligent techniques podcast. And, uh,
yep, do you want to take the comment on that? Yep. Um, pork chop says recommendation.
I think that those interested in the shows mentioned, they also enjoy the layer eight podcast.
It's made by layer eight conference. And each episode features a different person with OS
in ties or experiences. And they share stories and talk about how they got into the field.
It's more entertainment rather than education centered. So someone not familiar with the field can
enjoy it and get a better understanding of what always int and red teaming are.
Various. Yes. Yes. Yeah. So I do enjoy Trae's enthusiasm when this subject is really comes
across as somebody who's, you know, very much, very deeply into this stuff. So that certainly
carries the show for me. But I was so much to dig into. I haven't really a chance to look
much, but it's a, um, I sounds going to be job hunting soon. So I don't know if it's an area
that might interest him. So I'm going to be pointing him in this direction. Very cool.
And I've found myself that, uh, even the barest amount of listening to these tech podcasts
is enough to keep you one step, step ahead of the game when it comes to, uh, information security.
It's very good. Yeah. No, it's good. It's good. It's, it's, uh, it's an enormous subject these days
and obviously incredibly important. So yeah, it's, it's, uh, it's fascinating to see
from the point of view of somebody who, who used to do an amazing security as part of my job,
but it was teeny. Okay. So we have some shows on the previous shows.
This one was on my tech beginnings from all nine L. So do you want me to do that one?
No, no, I'll do it. That was his first show. And Archer 72 says, welcome to HPR High
all 9L a few months later, but welcome. Life has a way of getting away from us. Looking forward
to your next show and don't worry too much about how you sound. No, it was a good show actually.
And that it was good, because Oh 9L was on the new year's eve thing.
I was saying that he was going to do a show pretty soon and he certainly did do that, but
didn't get a lot of feedback, sadly. So it's great to see some, some feedback coming in.
Yeah, absolutely. And I think we did, uh, yeah, I think we commented on this because I actually
posted the comments during last month's show asking for a comment who was on the Cardinal Contributor
panel. And yeah, do you want to do CRBS as well? Yes, yes. So CRBS says in response to episode two
of the new year's eve show, listening to this reminded me that I never actually listened to the
interview with Ken's ISP. So I could hopefully he's now gone and listened and that was a great show.
I enjoyed that one. Um, SAO you did Morris. Uh, yep. Did it was searching your regional comment?
I read it. Yeah, yeah. What does SAO stand for? Because we were puzzling over what it was
trying to guess. And I said I did a bit of searching and found that SAO is Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory. It's Wikipedia page and it's pointed to it. And the comment from KG
is a show all in its own right. I'd love to hear more about life as a grad student doing this kind
of stuff. Absolutely, that's where we came we came from as in the first place.
And the tray had a comment on ties to show about audio for podcasting, equalization.
And Tray says, thank you. While I'm still using headset microphones and planning to move
to get a good dynamic mic soon, I tried to apply a subtle EQ enhancement to TM latest HPR recording
based on your recommendations in this episode. It is scheduled to air on the end of June HPR 336A
and keep up the awesome work. That's that. And it was sounded fine, didn't it? It was very clear.
Yeah, it's good. And we had some comments on the mail thread. So we had a mentor mentorship audio.
And this was from an operator of free loader. I can help with mentorship, best to contact me and
it gives us email address. Be interested in audio command line processing. I have issues leveling.
So I need to do research for a bit. I know some old HPR episodes I can use for a proof of concept
command line audio, whether really loud noises that need to be leveled out. Contact me if you're
interested in talking about logical approach ideas for automation processing. We could do a show
to if you like. Yes. Logical steps will be spider HPR first 30 seconds for the audio, bad
levels frequency noise, etc. Find the average level of the audio for the entire stream,
move, click pop his general noise reduction. This could be done programmatically, all
silent and remove all silence to zero dB. Find the longest area of the lowest dB and make that noise
profile combine a few detected low dBs and stick them together to create dynamic noise profile
level out the audio to average level send audio to speech to text program for automation show notes
manual review audio show notes and repulse the episode giving credit along with just text to
speech audio for bad audio, not good for ESL but heavy accents, etc. Mentorship. So that was that
one. I was just finding where I had to click. Starting this is from Klaatu and he is talking about
the June RPG club. Starting 20th of June UTC the HPR RPG club is going to play test, Kin,
a fantasy game by Victoria Corva who is an indie game publisher. I met on the Macedon social network
the game system uses an interesting dices skill mechanic that I think will be particularly fun
to try and any playtesters who help have the option of being listed in the resulting book.
I run games that are ardently all ages and all experience levels as always you yes you are
invited to this game whether you have experience with tabletop role playing games or not
we're an inclusive group whose main goal is to have fun and make friends play at 1700 UTC Sunday
and he mentions the mumble server and I'm attaching a character sheet here but for the first
session we'll build characters together and I think we may be moving to the other server sooner
rather than later because there's still have no credit that mumble server and some clients
are starting to complain so that one has a server for us rigid rock so that would be that
then we had one other comment and that was from Robert again for low to 101 anybody done DIY
year around the house LED I think I got it all shortly most most based on a PDF which is given
spec calculator links below and needless to say I will be doing at least a two-part series on
this one which is good to know and you've got links in there looking for guidance on syncing
controllers even if I need to have one splitting voltage splitting signals data guidance safety
mainly fire or not if I fall off the roof well that's my bad so if you know what he's on about
with that which I actually do know what he's on about might be interesting to get in touch or at
least read the information that he has available here and get back to him and I think that was it
for the events counters not really a loss we have a link in there to the LWN community counter
yeah we've got ghostly online stuff still online for lots of things
and then unfortunately we need to give our condolences to Randy knows where they
on the loss of his wife last week and I'm sure a lot of our community will join us in
extending our someplace to him and finally at this very very tough time yeah very very sad
yeah okay yeah yeah yeah well what can you say it's just going on with that with the other
AOB odds and ends adding shows old race VR shows to archive.org I managed to do a hundred in this
past month just by doing a few each day and so we're not too far off the the end I guess you know
another two three hundred I can't remember now so maybe more actually then the other one
was the tags and summaries well this past month it has been a bumper month because we managed to get
82 shows give tags and summaries and we're now at 295 that need attention and most of that was
down to archive 72 who has been sending a lot a lot of updates I did a few because I wanted to get
them in these are shows that I was going to upload to I don't know but to archive 72 it's just just
been just hammering away with this stuff fantastic thanks yes great thanks for that that really you
that whole tags page has become just so easy to find stuff from HBR you know when I've been several
times of work where I've heard something somewhere and I wanted to check what's on HBR and you
just type it in jump to that you know F3 F3 F3 and then you get today to a particular section it's
absolutely brilliant yeah yeah it's it's uh I use use the the tags link quite a lot myself yeah
it is it is extremely hot so that's it Dave we've done yes yes we we've done that's the end
and I will try and try and remember that we have this recording on Saturday so it's the third time
in as many months that I have completely forgotten about the show in my defense my excuses Mont-Davies
that my battery has gotten my phone number phones in for repair so the reminders that I have
are not there but I wouldn't have mattered anyway because I was over at the other house looking at
cables onto the floor wondering why we just didn't do it like I was asked them to do it but okay
yeah yeah yeah it's a pain yes yes well I'll never mind it's uh it's not managed to
I said it's the first time I'd used my new phone with the the Bluetooth headset so
it seems odd that it takes me so long to do these things with me who the hell is ringing me for ring
that's my brother but he never rings me unless he wants something I'm not in the mood to talk of
techno yes yes guess who sorry how did you forget again anyway we got there in the end to
do we do it to maintain it hopefully all right it's more of what do you have anything else to say
I do not okay then tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker public radio
okay seven trees for me all right all right all right okay
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments attribution share
light reader dog license
oh
