Episode: 3433
Title: HPR3433: A Squirrels thoughts about RMS
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3433/hpr3433.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 23:21:16

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 34334 Wednesday, the 29th of September 2021.
Today's show is entitled, A Squirrel's Thoughts About RMS It is the 10th show of Zen
Floater 2 and is about 43 minutes long and carries an explicit flag. The summary is RMS
and the subject of freedom. This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An HonestHose.com.
Hello boys and girls from Zen Floater. Your favorite magical forest squirrel farmer
human being converted into squirrel by aliens in the 1960s. And today I want to do a podcast
talking about Richard Stolman and throw in my two cents on his life and what's happened.
As you all know, Richard Stolman went to MIT in the early 70s, worked in the Artificial Intelligence Lab.
And then I guess through the Berkeley project where they got a copy of Unix, he decided he would
begin to form the Gnu project and write their own free software version of Unix, which they started,
I think, in the late 70s. He formed the free software foundation project. I believe some time
in 1983, roughly a year or so before IBM released the first personal computer. Before that,
it was just things like VIC-20s, Amiga's, Texas Instrument computers, and several others,
TimeX, I think, had one. Of course, Apple had theirs. Don't forget about Apple and the original
Apple operating system. At any rate, Richard developed the GPL license,
which requires anyone who uses the free software code and modify it to return the changes to the
project so that they could be shared by all. Being an open BSD user, I can tell you that the BSD
license is nice, but it doesn't require you to return software changes so often. Corporations
like Apple who developed Mac OS X, largely stripping a lot of free BSD to do that, never return much
to the free BSD project. The Gnu project has literally thousands of people working on it around
the world. It is the largest collection of free software I'm aware of and without it. Open BSD would
be nothing but an operating system. There would be no applications. A lot of the stuff would be
missing. It would be basically a server OS only. Things like this Google Chromebook that I'm
talking to you off of. I'm using the old Acer today to make this recording, not the new Chromebook.
And I'm trying to get some use out of it before I convert it.
This thing wouldn't be, we wouldn't have Raspberry Pi's and the Raspberry Pi operating system.
We wouldn't have Android phones. For that matter, we wouldn't have the Mars helicopter, would we?
I mean, there's just all kinds of things. It's running on the International Space Station
to my understanding Linux is the operating system that controls the cruise missile that we
use to deliver nuclear warheads. The multitude of things that Linux controls today,
even in vehicles and car stereos, your thermostat, remote television cameras that you can mount
and transmit back to a server on Wi-Fi. Just God, it's just such an enormous project. I mean, Richard
Stalman at his peak was a very attractive person to developers. Most developers agreed that if
they were going to write free software, they didn't want another corporation to just steal it up
and make millions of dollars on it and not return anything to the community.
So, I thought I'd do a little reading of a number of websites
that I've gone through and just do some reading.
I've opened several pages here.
Here's an article from Newstack. It's thenewstack.io.
Why almost everyone wants Richard Stalman cancelled. I thought about providing links to all
these websites in my notes, but I figured why bother? No one's going to open them anyway,
but I'll just read through some of this. Advocates of open source inclusiveness
felt sidelined this March when the free software foundation reelected Richard Stalman to its
board of directors. And this week the free software foundation doubled down on this controversial
decision in a statement on the election of Stalman. And I agree with that. They should have never
been able to take him out to begin with on the comments that they're claiming are about pedophilia
and directly pedophilia. Reason being is, you know, Richard Stalman, even though he is the leader
or figurehead or whatever you want to label him as of the free software movement.
And it's just a huge armada of software. I mean, it's the largest collection of developers
and software that I'm aware of anywhere. There's no corporation that could match him.
No government could match him. The free software project is like the empire in Star Wars.
It's the imaginary empire in Star Wars in that it's just mind-boggling how large it is.
But beside that point, Richard Stalman is a very small figure when it comes to political
decisions like pedophilia. You know, as you all know, I'm part Native American.
And in Oklahoma, I was required to attend four years of Indian school studies of which
I've studied the history and culture of every single Native American tribe in North American
Canada, you know, Canada and the United States and even Mexico down through Central America.
And some of them, a few of them even into places like Brazil and, you know, the northern tip of South
America. And I remember we spent three months studying pedophilia in that school. And the reason why
the Caucasian community passed laws against pedophilia was they were witnessing in the Native
American tribe back in the day, back in the 19th century and the 18th century.
That they were breeding their women as soon as they could develop a period. In other words,
at age 14 or so, some of them even at 13, they were impregnating them and trying to have a child
with them. And virtually 80% of these females were dying. I mean, they were literally killing
themselves off as a community and they wouldn't stop it, you know, because they liked to have sex
and they didn't see anything wrong with it. Native Americans had an attitude toward women that
was almost identical to what you see in the Muslim community today, the Islamic world as we
witnessed it as they come into Europe, Canada and America. They basically just treat women like
cattle. And Caucasian people wanted to stop that so they passed laws against it. When the
Indians were put on reservations, they did everything they could do to stop it, including separating
the men and women in cases and putting them in separate schools just to try to cut it down.
They tried to and did force Christianity on the Native American community. And as you know,
I'm an atheist farmer. I don't think you could ever say I was a Catholic. I never really adopted
the Catholic religion. I think I've always been an atheist in my mind.
But at any rate, the point was well taken that if you get a 14-year-old girl pregnant, you put her
at risk for death. And on the issue of gay sex, men with 14-year-old boys, let's say the same thing
can happen. You can have serious damage to them without having to go in any detail over that. I mean,
you can literally kill a small boy trying to have sex with him. So these things are
discouraged and laws are passed preventing them from doing this, engaging this activity through
threat of imprisonment to stop this sort of bestiality and destruction of human life.
And that's what understood. But at the same time, when we look at the European Union, we see that
there are a growing number of people throughout France, Germany, all across the European Union,
that it's currently there, trying to pass laws to basically legalize pedophilia. And they've
been trying to do that for the last four years. And this has been an ongoing political movement,
even in the United States. I forget the name of the group here in the United States. They
actually have a pedophile group here in the United States. You know, I'm not doing a specific
amount of detailed research into that entire group. But amongst the people that are pro pedophilia
largely are the liberal Jewish community. And Richard Solomon was once Jewish, he's an atheist.
And perhaps he's just feeding into that same brain trust that they all are of.
They don't see a reason for Christians to invoke their laws against them and they want to be
free of it. You know, they're for freedom. And they're not bothering to look at the physical
aspects of why it was that it was banned to begin with. Not surprisingly, the state of California,
this year passed a law legalizing pedophilia down to the age of 14. So if you're caught having
sex with a 14-year-old girl or boy, you won't go to prison. The state of Oklahoma where I'm at,
we've known since I was a child that we still have on the books, a law which allows you to marry
at someone who is the age 14 or above. Now, this may seem strange to you that this law still
in the book because I think my first podcast I did, if you recall, was about a, was it a
Creek Man? I think it was that we're trying to throw in an Oklahoma prison for actually committing
pedophilia. And it went all the way to the Supreme Court and Justice Roberts helped throw the
deciding vote that the state of Oklahoma had no authority to jail this man because he was a Native
American. And this opened to the possibility, not the possibility, but actually made it so that
the individual five civilized tribes and all the other tribes reside here in Oklahoma are their
own individual governments. They have their own right to their own criminal system. And of course,
the man didn't end up going to an Oklahoma prison because of that. And so they have no
ability, at least with Native Americans, to stop them from engaging in pedophilia, not in the
state of Oklahoma. And I haven't heard much more on that subject, but that still stands that hasn't
changed. So there is this movement, and I'm not being judgemental, and I'm not endorsing pedophilia.
But there is a movement within the human race to try to legalize it globally. And perhaps some of
that in Europe is based on the fact that they have a growing Muslim community, and they all feel
that it's customary that the issue of pedophilia and the laws that prohibit it are morally wrong in
their mind, two mindsets, even though the same thing is happening over in Middle Eastern countries,
you see stories occasionally of some 40 or 50-year-old man getting a 14-year-old girl pregnant that he
married, and she dies. And these stories will continue to pop out. In fact,
I'm seeing stories being a member of GAB. And I watch these stories fly across GAB where
the Afghan refugees, a number of them, were taking child brides onto the C-17s, the C-130s,
and they're flying to other countries to be vetted, and they can't come into the United States
with a child bride. Sorry, but you can't do that. So at any rate, Richard's comments of which
there have been many that if it's mutual consent, then it should be allowed. I kind of agree with him
on that, but I also definitively understand the reason why that's illegal.
And it kind of backs up the notion that the reason you have
the age of 18 as the official age that you should be allowed to marry and have intercourse
with somebody else. You know, both partners have to be 18 years of age or older.
Basically indicates that anyone who is younger than 18 years of age has not developed
the adult mindset to be responsible for their own life, to vote, to be drafted and sent to Vietnam,
to yet they can drive a car at age 16. They cannot drink. They cannot, in many states,
smoke, even though I started smoking when I was 12. You know, and I think I talked about that before.
My culture and my heritage is vastly different from yours listeners, all of you.
I mean, here I know for a fact that you have not walked a mile in my shoes and I certainly
haven't walked a mile in years. So my background and experiences in this arena are vastly different
from yours. But it kind of backs up the notion that children under the age of 18 are basically
irresponsible. You know, they cannot make their own decisions their own without a parent's guidance.
And that is rooted in the fact that they're too young to have children. They can't reproduce.
And the clarity of this came into my mind when I went through my Indian education that the reason
we have the term minors is to signify the fact that they cannot reproduce successfully
without the threat of death. They're too young to have an established career somewhere to actually
start a family anyway. And that their choices and their ability to use logic and do the right
thing for themselves is not there yet. And frankly, in my opinion, it's probably not there yet
till they're about age 24, frankly. But it is funny, you know, when I was a child, my mother
took me down to the Tulsa airport to jump on an airplane that I was going to be sent to the
relatives because my parents were remodeling the house. I believe they're remodeling the kitchen
at the time. And they wanted me to go visit my grandparents. So I had to jump on an airplane
they couldn't go with me. And I went alone. And as a Native American kid, I packed a bag and on
that bag I packed my 45 caliber handgun. It was a cult. It was unloaded. I put in one box of
ammunition that my father had bought for me. Of course, enough clothes that I could change for
a week. You know, I could get my clothes laundered there at the grandparents house if I needed to.
I think a magazine or two I threw in there and I don't remember what else. And I'm like, you know,
12 years old or 11, 12 years old, something like that. Very young. And they sent me down to Tulsa
and they booked a plane on American Airlines. And American Airlines went up to the terminal.
My mom took me up and turned me over to a stewardess who was going to be responsible for my check-in.
And I had care on luggage with the bag so I carried the bag with me. And carried that gun right
on board the airplane. I also had cigarettes in my bag because I was smoking. My dad gave me
cigarettes which today, you know, if my parents, if I was a child today and my parents did to me
what they did back then, they would be in a pen pantry. They would be because we've taken all
the freedoms away from kids. They're all gone. They're all gone. So anyway, I get on board the plane
and I meet the captain. The captain's there. He wants to see me because, you know, I'm going to be
flying alone. So he shakes my hand and I decided to show him the gun that I had in the bag. He didn't
act surprised because back then you could carry a gun on an aircraft. It wasn't illegal.
He just wanted to make sure that it was unloaded.
And I took a pack of cigarettes out of the bag and put it in my pocket with some matches because I
didn't have a lighter. And there was no log against someone my age smoking. So anyway, he turned the
bag over to the stewardess. He put it in the overhead which I wasn't tall enough to even reach
and I was seated and strapped in by the stewardess. And it was a brand new 707 by the way. It was the
707 that I was on. American Airlines is a brand new aircraft. And of course, back then we didn't
have any metal detectors or anything. That stuff didn't happen until the 70s. You know, it's a
wrong decade. I mean, this is way earlier than the 70s. And, you know, if you're wondering how I
got a gun through the airport, there were no metal detectors at all in airports when I was a child.
All this crap got put in. You've had all your freedoms taken away. And this is sort of a speech I'm
making to you as I almost cry for you because you've lost so many freedoms. My fellow Americans,
I mean, it's just, it's incredible how many freedoms we've lost.
Anyway, the airplane takes off. There's maybe only 30 passengers on this huge plane. I mean,
we're all scattered out through the plane. So I'm pretty much on my own out in the middle
somewhere. There's nobody near me for a good 20 feet. And after we take off and get airborne,
before they even light the smoking lamp, I decided to go ahead and light up a cigarette. So here's
a 12-year-old having a cigarette and using an asteroid. You know, airplanes that asteroid is back
then. And I'm smoking. And the stewardess comes up to me after we get leveled off and asks if I'd
like to have a beer. And I happen to have a couple of dollars and quarters on me and I ask,
well, how much will it be? And she says, it'll cost you 50 cents. And I said, well, I've got 50 cents.
So I gave it to her and said, sure, I'd like to have a beer. And then she takes a 50 cents and goes
away to go get my beer. And comes back a minute or two later saying she talked to the captain
and she said that we couldn't give you a beer because it is illegal in the state of Oklahoma to
give a minor a beer. But it wasn't back then in Kansas. So she said, the pilot said, we have to
wait 20 minutes for us to get across the state line to fly over Kansas before the pilot will
allow you to buy that beer. And of course, we flew, as we flew north to grandma and grandpa's house,
we crossed the Kansas line and sure enough, she brought, she brought me a, a, a can of beer.
And so I had a beer in a cigarette at age 12 on a 707 with a 45 caliber cold in my bag in the
overhead. And that's a far cry. None of you will ever be able to do that at age 12. If there's
anyone that's age 12 listening, all those freedoms have been taken away from you.
You live in a prison state. Now having made that plea to try to open our society back up
a little bit, and I hope we do someday. I mean, it'd be great if we could do that and trust each
other and love each other like we did in the, that decade, you know, the decade of JFK.
I don't think that it's going to happen. And that's, that's sad. It really is. It's sad.
And let me, let me go on and continue thumbing through these websites about Richard Stallman and his
comments. I wanted to try to find a, let me just click to here. Here's, here's the website
BostonGlobe.com Metro. Richard Stallman resigns from MIT after comments about Jeffrey Epstein.
It says, Richard M. Stallman and MIT computer scientist, a pioneer in the free software movement.
And the winner of the MacArthur Genius Grant has resigned from MIT and his foundation after he
posted comments about a victim of Jeffrey Epstein who testified she was coherst into having sex
with a now deceased MIT professor. Well, being coherced into and being a sort of a sex
slave isn't exactly mutual consent, is it? It isn't. And that might have been one of the problems
with Richard trying to back this up. But it just goes to show you the power of that movement that I
was talking about of these people that want to legalize pedophilia and will openly express their
their opinions on it. There is a movement. They're trying to do it. And it hasn't stopped.
And so Richard Stallman got caught up in it and to my knowledge, he's the only one of the people
that have made comments like this that has been chastised and punished by any community. They stood
up and they chastised him. When you go across the globe and you look at the European leaders that
have tried to do this or the people in California, there's been no punishment for any of them.
None. And they're the people that could actually stop pedophilia and they're not doing it.
Richard Stallman has absolutely no control of her pedophilia. He's just making an open comment.
You know, he's not a god that it has control of all laws in the land. He's just the leader of the
Free Software Foundation movement or was anyway. And my mind still is because without his efforts,
there would be no Free Software Foundation. I mean, let's just be very plain and blatant about it.
And, you know, thinking backwards in time, I remember reading something about the Free Software
Foundation in a magazine back in the 1980s and that's how I first became aware of this.
You know, we didn't have the internet back then. So, and of course, I hadn't been MIT or anything.
So I didn't know Richard Stallman or any of the people that were working to make the Free Software
Foundation a thing. But honestly, you know, back then, I believe they were running an ad that if
you sent X amount of money and a tape to MIT, Richard Stallman or one of his colleagues would put
EMAX on that tape and send it back to you so that you could have the EMAX editor free of charge
for the most part of the, you know, the labor and doing it, they're just transferring the tape,
you know, the data to the tape. You could get the program essentially free, free software
and use it on your mainframe, which one of our guys did and I got a chance to get introduced to
GNU EMAX on a mainframe back in the 80s because, you know, my background is mostly through mainframes.
It's not, I hardly did much of anything on PCs because PCs of the era were incapable until the 90s
came and then my job was to convert all of the Burrows systems from Epsidic Cobal to Microfocus
Cobal and I worked with Microfocus Cobal teams to do that across the nation and I'm
also the author of a program called Pathways and that's my life. So I worked in both the life
insurance and health industries for years writing software and we converted mainframes over to
basically homemade boxes in silicon graphic racks that we designed ourselves that used,
still used pulse-elect technology. So in other words, the people with dumb terminals out there
that were hooked up to these insurance conglomerates continued to function the same way as if
they were on a mainframe only, their processing was being done, converted from Epsidic to ASCII and
the Cobal was converted from Burrows systems to Microfocus Cobal and I worked with that project to
bring Microfocus net express into reality until I retired and the company got sold to somebody
else since over in Britain now. Well actually I worked for them during that process. I was
for a year or two after they had moved the company I was still working on it and I engaged them to
try to move Microfocus Cobal from OS2 to Windows NT and then again from Windows NT to Red Hat.
I wanted it to be on Red Hat and of course as you know the company followed the lead of SAP and
they went with SESA and OpenSESA and they're still over there this day and I'm not involved with
any of that anymore but I do have a background in SAP I've worked on SAP systems and also
Lawson by the way so I'm kind of unusual in that I'm not a multimedia person you know I don't
make memes to put on gab and I don't work with videos and try to make animated gifts or work with
XML match or any of these other things I just don't do it in fact I haven't written anything
probably in nearly 20 years now and I've enjoyed it I've just been a goof off on Chromebooks
you know I've turned a total calming here that's what I've done laughing at myself I mean I've
I shouldn't be on a Chromebook I should be I've got another computer here that happens to have
Triscoll on it and I jump over to that every once in a while when I want to get off on Linux Triscoll
a really nice operating system and so is Geeks I really love Geeks you know anyway I'm
going to go ahead and cut it short I'm glad that Richard Stalman's back he's not in full capacity
but you know what everybody dies to and and perhaps it was good that we had a transition just to
get him out but my main point for making this podcast is that Richard Stalman says all kinds of
things and we knew that when we first saw his website you know and got to know him that he was very
open and vocal about his opinions on things and I imagine he's made a comment on everything from
fine wines to UFOs I was reading through one of his websites about a girlfriend that he had that
died in Florida and you know some of his writings are very tearful Richard Stalman is a real man
we thank you Richard Stalman I've never met you but you know I did contribute I gave a thousand
dollars to the free suffer foundation here this year and I think I'll continue to do that
until I die even though I'm an open BSD user because they do have a function society
Richard Stalman does and you just have to take people for who they are that Richard is going to
make comments about things and you just don't need to get upset about it you know people are acting
like him making a comment was going to enslave them in a particular idiom and it's just not
true he doesn't have that much power and I don't know why it is you would be upset about his comments
it's I have pretty much shelved Richard Stalman's comments I'll read them just like I'd read
anybody's comments on gab but I for the most part treat Richard Stalman even though I've praised him
I treat him like my my dishwasher you know when I get dirty dishes I'll throw some dirty
dishes in there I'll put some soap in there I'll push the button and you know it'll clean my
dishes but as far as anything that the dishwasher says back to me in a comment pro smoking pot or
whatever I kind of let that go in one ear out the other you know it's his comment I don't I don't
take it as if it's port and concrete and it reinforces steel it it's just his comment it doesn't
directly affect me at all and as I said there are bigger players involved in this pit affiliate
thing and apparently it's serious because as you know Epstein did not die he did not kill himself
there's no way it's not possible he was not a very good man I don't think I don't endorse Epstein
and I don't endorse some of the things that they're saying but I can kind of see Richard Stalman's
point when he makes comments that if it's mutual consent then let it happen I can see that I can
understand it assuming the parents and everybody were all welling you know and everybody was in
agreement then I I could see that but in so many of these cases because of the the fact that we
have established the term minority and minority is directly tied to biological processes for which
14 or girls cannot have children and 14 year old boys should probably not be having sex with men
or for that matter 14 year old boys should probably not be having sex with 55 year old women
let's just take it all the way here I I can see the point of why we've made it illegal and
so many of these actions like the one that Epstein was involved in were under coercion it wasn't
mutual consent at all which perhaps is the only thing that I would agree Richard Stalman for on
making his comment is he's making a comment on on one hand he's made comments that he agrees that
mutual consent but on the other hand in the case of the Epstein situation it wasn't and his
friend at MIT Minsky didn't have anything to do with any of it apparently according to his
wife's testimony he didn't engage in any sexual acts the whole thing was crap so basically Richard
got drugged through the system that he was apparently not aware of and I can't imagine how
he could have missed this of the fight between those that want to legalize pedophilia from the
liberal communities and those who do not do the biological reasons and so he's been enhanced and
grown a little bit and I see now reading that Richard has backtracked on his comments and decided that
he does not support this you know he's had a chance to absorb the damage and understand why the
damage is coming to him and that's sad that people get tied up in this it's sad I don't know
personally which way pedophilia will go right now it seems to me on the legal stage on the governmental
stage the pedophiles are winning despite Richard backing out of it the pedophiles are winning
and you can attribute that to whatever you want the Muslim community coming into Europe and demanding
the liberal Jewish community thinking that they want to be free from Christian laws
of which many of them have stated that in fact they've even declared themselves not a part of
the white race because of it in front of the federal court and don't even want to be considered
Caucasian people anymore and of course the the other side of the coin the ones that are battling to
continue to make pedophilia legal the Christian theist community largely and some of the Jewish
community not all of them I mean the the number of right wing Jewish people that are in this world
that our pro-Israel you could almost count on one hand in my mind they were very small community of
people considering how small the total community of Jewish people are here on the planet are I think
it's like what less than 20 million people or something 40 million people it's a very small number
of people anyway that battle will continue on and we'll just see how it goes and see what they do
with it but again I think it was absolutely silly for them to go after Richard Stalman because you
know he's not going to have any say so in any of this stuff that's that's actually going on around
you and I don't see anybody from the community that attacked Richard Stalman going after any of
these political leaders who have passed the stuff I don't I mean they they're all show and no go
anyway that's my two cents worth on this and naturally I'm going to say one last thing I'm
Richard Stalman by making this I'm not accusing Richard Stalman of engaging in pedophilia or
or any sort of sexual misconduct I wouldn't even accuse Richard Stalman of smoking pot I don't
think he does I think he's just one of those guys that likes to have an open mind and express
his thoughts on a subject it doesn't mean that he's doing anything he's just expressing his two
cents worth you know he's he's he is using his free speech rights because after all you know
he's the leader of the free software community and that's what he's going to do he's going to express
his free speech rights and so on mine I I'm not going to show a bias either for pedophilia
or against it what I am going to say is that the human race is like an iceberg out the middle
of the Atlantic with all of us hanging off the edge and kicking our feet trying to push that
iceberg in a direction and that iceberg is going to move very slowly and right now despite what
happened our mess it looks like the pedophiles are winning I mean the iceberg is moving toward
the island of pedophilia and I don't see anybody standing up to stop that and I I would just figure
that history will repeat itself that if they do get it legalized and in a number of places and
girls start dying again they'll make it illegal again just like we've seen the the recent flip
on abortion with the state of Texas which is another hot subject that I'm not going to I'm just
going to graze in this podcast and let it go and again not making a comment on that one way or
the other should we support women in their right to choice or should we defend life as the Christian
Theas see it and you see I don't have a bias against Christian Theas being an atheist I've lived
lived amongst them all my life and I try to live at peace with everybody I mean clearly I'm not
going to be steering the political world I am just a passenger on this train just like Richard
Stalman is we don't know where the train's going to go so anyway I think I'll go ahead and end
this podcast and let that go and I just had to make this because I'm glad that Richard Stalman's
back I appreciate the free software foundation what they're doing it does have a meaning
and a purpose and we need to continue on with that and not let this distract him I would also like
to give credit to to Luke Smith for coming to his aid and defense by making a video that free
software does make a difference because in our world it's all in the license and even though I
can write software using the BSD license that does not mean friends that I'm I won't be sued
by someone for doing so and that brings me to the last point of the free software foundation which
is great is their legal assistance team that helps protect some of their developers and their
community from these malicious patent and civil lawsuits that are going on and you know Richard
brainchild all that so my my question is if you're really against Richard Stalman why didn't you
get out of the free software foundation why are you staying because I don't see the free software
foundation being in any way an organization that would tie the hands of anybody over free speech
rights I don't get it I'm not getting it now I understand why you're against pedophilia you
know you have a right to opinion and I'll support you right to opinion but you don't have a
right to brutalize and essentially fuck over other people because they make their thoughts
public on certain subjects they exercise their free speech rights their freedom rights to do what
they want anyway the free software foundation in my opinion finally is it's not a church
it's not a church you know you don't have a right to nail people to a cross because they said
something you don't like it is a movement to try to expand the rights of freedom around the world
and and that we've all grown to understand hopefully all right thank you for your time I'm
going to let you go next audio I do I'm going to try to do one over COVID because there's been a
lot of things come out about COVID and I need to discuss them and this might take a month or two
for me to collect everything together thank you all have a good day
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is
released on the creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
