Episode: 3334
Title: HPR3334: Infosec Podcasts Part 2 - General Information Security
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3334/hpr3334.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:59:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3334-430, the 13th of May 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Infosic Podcasts Part 2, General Information Security,
and is part of the series' privacy and security it is hosted by Trey,
and is about nine minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, presenting my favorite general information security podcasts.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hello again and welcome. My name is Trey. This is part two of a six-part series related to
information security podcasts. To recap, why am I recording this series?
Well, the topic, what podcasts you listen to was on the list of recommended topics,
and I am passionate about information security. We desperately need people to fill
Infosic jobs in many different specialties. Infosic is a rapidly changing field and it is
critical to stay current, and as a result, I listen to tons of Infosic related podcasts.
Because of that, there are so many podcasts to list, and I've broken them down into six
different episodes based on the topics. The previous episode, part one, was news and current events.
You can find that on HPR episode 3324. This episode, part two, is general information security
podcasts. Part three is career and personal development related to information security.
Part four will be social engineering. Part five will combine hacks and attacks,
technical information and learning, as well as Infosic community and social and history podcasts.
Then we'll wrap it up with part six, which is information security leadership podcasts.
So let's get started with general information security podcasts that I listen to on a regular
basis and love, and you might too. The first one I'd like to include in this list is the caveat
podcast. This is hosted by Dave Bittner and Ben Yellen. It's a weekly podcast where they discuss
cybersecurity law and policy, with a particular focus on surveillance and digital privacy.
They really get into some interesting discussions. Sometimes they'll have some really cool guests,
and you get a good legal perspective that we often don't get within the IT community. So
check it out. You can Google the caveat podcast or the link will be in the show notes.
The next one that I strongly recommend is the Defense in Depth podcast. This is hosted by David
Spark and he has various different guests. It is part of the CSOS series of podcasts. It's designed
to take a higher level view of various different technical topics and it will discuss a specific
trending topic that they've had on social media related to Infosic. So there may be a topic
trending on LinkedIn or on the Reddit feed or on Twitter or somewhere else that the hosts have
decided really took off and got a lot of people participating and a lot of people weighing in
with diverse opinions and they'll dig into that particular topic. It is a weekly podcast
and you can find it by googling defense in depth podcast or Google CSOS series or click on the
link in the show notes. The recorded future podcast is another of my favorites. It is also hosted
by David Bittner and it is sponsored by the Recorded Future Company. Recorded Future does
Thread Intelligence. They've now actually shifted their perspective. They're calling it security
intelligence instead of just Thread Intelligence. It's a weekly podcast where they talk about the
practical applications of Thread Intelligence. They will generally interview a guest who's
uses Thread Intelligence as part of what they do on a daily basis and why they do it and things
like that. You can find the Recorded Future podcast by googling recorded future podcast or clicking
on the link in the show notes. The next podcast I recommend is Breaking Down Security. Now I will tell
you if you Google Breaking Down Security you have to spell it B-R-A-K-E-I-N-G instead of
the normal way you would spell breaking. The reason for that is the name is a pun as one of the hosts
is Brian Break B-R-A-K-E. The other hosts are Brian Betcher and Amanda Berlin. They have amazing
discussions in this weekly podcast. They cover topics that aspiring information security
professionals really need to know or topics that will refresh the memories of seasoned veterans
or people that just haven't been able to get into a particular area of information security
and want to learn more about it. Lighthearted discussions, they dig deep into some topics
and really present it in a way that beginners can understand. So I encourage you to listen to that
one. You can google Breaking Down Security, make sure you spell it right or just click in the link
in the show notes. The Down the Security Rabbit Hole podcast by Rafal Los is another of my favorites.
The weekly interview based podcast where he discusses various different challenges of implementing
information security. Many of those recently have revolved around the trend of transitioning
to MSSP's EDR, XDR providers, other things like that. I'm not going to go into detail of what
those are because you'll learn about them listening to the podcast. You can find it by googling
down the security rabbit hole or clicking on the link in the show notes. The Security Weekly
podcast network is a collection of podcasts. It includes Paul Security Weekly, Enterprise
Security Weekly, Business Security Weekly, Application Security Weekly, Security and Compliance Weekly,
quite a variety of different shows that touch on different topics. Subscribing to the one security
weekly feed gets you all of those shows they'll pop up at different times during the week.
Each one of the shows is generally a weekly show as is in the name but you know the different
ones drop on different days. Lots of interesting discussions around all different aspects of
MSSP from people who've been involved in it from various different perspectives for quite a while.
I will provide a warning that some of the discussions might promote the consumption of alcohol
or smoking cigars so that's just that's out there for anybody to whom that is a concern.
Be aware that many of these podcasts are long. The Paul Security Weekly podcast,
I've seen sometimes go in excess of three hours so just keep that in mind in your listening.
If you wish to check it out you can google Security Weekly podcast or click on the link in the show notes.
One that I've started listening to within the past year is called Security Stories
and it's sponsored by Cisco and the hosts are Hazel Burnett, Ben Nahorni, and Noreen George.
Again this is a sponsored podcast. I try to tell you when it is a sponsored podcast because
you understand some of the slant or some of the preconceived notions that may be part of that,
some of the biases that may be part of that podcast. But this is an interview-based weekly
podcast that focuses on InfoSec Stories. I found that we can more effectively promote ourselves,
promote our industry, promote some of the concerns in our industry by telling stories instead
of just spouting technical facts. It gives an interesting perspective. I like it. Check it out
Security Stories. You can google Security Stories Cisco or click on the link in the podcast.
The Confident Defender podcast by Connor Sherman is also a weekly interview-based podcast with various
different influential or inspirational people in all areas of information security. You can check
it out by googling the Confident Defense podcast or clicking on the link in the show notes.
All right, the last one in the list is the Open Source Security podcast. This is one of another
of my favorites. Kurt Sifried and Josh Bresser's host this weekly podcast. They have light-hearted
discussions about information security topics related to Open Source. Very, very intelligent people.
You can learn a lot listening to them or you can sometimes just get caught up in some debates.
So it's a great podcast to listen to. See, I told you I listened to lots of podcasts.
Hopefully this episode is introduced to you to some new sources of information. Give them a try
and I would love to get your feedback. The next episode will be about information security careers
and personal development. Thank you very much.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
