Episode: 3261
Title: HPR3261: HPR Community News for January 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3261/hpr3261.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:52:27

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3261 for Monday 1st on February 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HBR Community News for January 2021, and is part of the series,
HBR Community News, it is hosted by HBR volunteers, and is about 60 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HBR volunteers talk about shows released, and comment posted in January 2021.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
and talk about it, you know. But yeah, more of those better, but yeah, I don't feel that there's
a drive to do them personally. Yeah, but I think this was a nice way of
of having a, a conversation I've often had that listen into a podcast where you're
responding to the comments of the podcast. And it was a nice way of doing that.
It was really well done too. Yeah, it was, it was obviously took some work to sort of slice
things up and stop at the appropriate points to to come back the comments and stuff. And yeah,
it did push the conversation ahead quite a bit, interestingly. Squirrels are innovating.
Okay, so next day, Pictor, a free and open radio astronomy, a discussion with the people
that created the Pictor radio telescope. And I loved this show, not just because it was Andrew
Conway, but because this is such a cool concept. Yeah, isn't it? That they have actually created
a radio telescope themselves, which, which is just, they're just making available to the world.
And wow, Andrew said he'd spoken to them or seen their presentation at Fosdem last year,
which is, which is fantastic. But yeah, I don't understand all the technical side of it, but the
the principle of it is brilliant. The only thing I missed in this show was like a description
of the telescope itself. And for that, I needed to go to the links in the show notes.
The Pictor site itself, I did have a look at that and it, it does look, yeah, I think they show,
show their model. I don't remember that it was a while ago, I looked at it, but I think that
they've changed the layout of the way that the telescope is set up and stuff, so they show pictures of
that. Wow. So one point five meter diameter telescope with a focal ratio of 0.411 for the prime
focus radio. Not that that makes a lot of sense to me, but okay, cool. Yeah, pass me by, I'm
afraid. But still, it's very, very interesting. And nobody's yet to comment on that one.
Next one was an interview I did with Angus Holter to horse all freedom internet.
And there are two comments. I'll do Kevin's. Kevin says, I'm jealous. I wish I had an ISP
as good as that where I came from. And I said, because I thought this one really did want an
actual comment, great show for lifting the spirits. Wow, I'm enormously impressed by freedom
internet. This is how businesses should be run. Thanks for this great interview.
Now, the summary of the show, I just realized that in the view of summary, don't like to give
some reviews of shows that I've done myself, but I had switched to freedom internet and then
I was on to the help desk and they were getting deduced. And I think I was the first room to report
it. And I was just so impressed when they were going, hold on a second, and you could hear them
shouting across the room, hey, you aware of that? Hold on, let me check. Yeah, I think we're being
deduced, hold on. And then I said, hell, there's no point being on the phone. And then you know,
you're talking to real people going through real real life stuff at the time. And then just
can I speak to your CEO? Yeah, of course. Yeah, this is reality. This is the way it should be.
All the front end crap and the, well, it's going to be AI is probably still is AI in many cases
and then called centers in some far away place, et cetera, et cetera, to keep the customer away
from the actual service providers. Yeah, it's not that. It's just brilliant. Well, it's kind of
two ways of doing it. Either you provide such a good service that nobody's providing, nobody's
calling you, or you provide service where you prevent people from calling you complaining about
your bad service. I go for the former all the time. I talk next day was operator talking about
tips on electricity. And I'd actually about how to suck it in three way switches work. Do you
want to do this little trick? I want some of this. This is a comment from Paul Quirk, who says,
show warning, electricity can kill you and burn down your house. For doing any electrical work,
please be sure to follow local codes and safety procedures according to the authority that has
jurisdiction in your area. And being a professional electrician, then he has authority in this regard.
Yeah, I think, although in fairness, when I was listening to that, not as an electrician
thinking about how he got shot, I was saying to myself, that's dangerous right there,
what you're doing. So having gotten shot myself in a similar way and learning my lessons,
yeah, so be careful with electricity. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I think maybe many of us have
had that sort of experience, hopefully in a minor way. But yeah, it is damn dangerous. And it's
not necessarily a case of you not knowing what you're doing, but it's just the traps that can exist
in electrical systems. And you know, the experience you don't necessarily have that would tell you,
oh, doing that is going to be dangerous. You could be blah, blah, blah, you know.
Also, you're tempted to make assumptions like, oh, I have a three switches in the kitchen
for various different lights. And one of those switches, I know for sure, it was unpopulated,
because I needed, I wanted to put the under cabinet lighting in there and never actually go
around to it. So I unscrewed it in order to put the lighting switch in there and then discovered
that it was, there were wires in there and not only were the wires in there, but they're live,
and not only that, but I have no clue where they're going with that. So okay, I'm going to get,
I'm getting an electrician in to have a look at this. Yeah, yeah, I've got similar stuff in my head
if sometimes something will trip a breaker in the kitchen area, particularly because my
the kitchen's got an extension to it. And I think whoever did the extension did things in a
rather weird way. So the breaker goes and some lights go out and a few sockets go out, but the rest
stay on. So who in earth, how in earth has been organized? I do not know. And boy, I really do
believe that I want to know which breaker controls every socket and light. Absolutely, for the future.
So that's a project either. I don't think I'm going to do. I'm going to get an electrician in to do.
Two pieces of good advice. One is always assume that the devil loads an empty gun.
There's number one. And number two always assume that somehow it's going to be light and the
electrical socket is going to be light. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Okay, moving on. Alex Cast,
freeing the Fairphone 3. This was a show by a good friend to be frank and has a new podcast,
which we premiered a version of here. And Kevin says, I loved the show. This was a great show.
I hope to hear more. So brilliant. Well done to be frank. Yes, it was a nice new podcast.
Yes, it was great. And I enjoyed listening to this, but also the information in there looked
really appropriate. I'm about ready for a new phone and a Fairphone 3 might be the answer for me,
don't know. There's a spare pine phone rolling around there in the UK somewhere in the
van. I don't think so. Yes, I quite like to own a pine phone just to play with, but I don't know
whether I want to make it my phone phone. I ordered a pine phone and it's, they were having,
after I ordered it, I saw that they were having delivery delays. And then three months later,
I saw a blog post and all our delivery delays are sorted. So then I had a look to see where my phone
was and it had entered Amsterdam. So that was fine. I was waiting for my phone. And then I looked
again at a left Amsterdam and arrived in England and then it's up in Suffolk's share somewhere.
My phone has been delivered. Well, the only problem is it's not delivered to me.
So I didn't do somebody else's phone along the way or something.
Yeah, I don't know. I haven't been able to get in contact with any of the pine phone people to
guess sort of redress on the other hand. On one hand, I know there are good guys and
yeah, there's just a pain in the ass to sort out. But if it was, if at least it went to somebody
worthy, okay, well, at least I donated a phone to someone. I'm thankful
as Tatoo has said many times, not always in my life. I've been able to be so generous, but now
thankfully for a period of time, I am. I would give the phone to somebody, but it's just sort of
yeah, yeah, yeah, I hope you get that result. So, so the next day, our first show by trumpet
John, uh, Sunday morning, autumn of routine. And I was just thinking of that today as I went and
fueled my wife's car up, something I've known in many, many years, but she needs a car now for
work. So yeah, yeah, excellent. So it's my time to read the comment. I'll read Kevin O'Brien's
comment. Excellent. He says it's always good to hear from a new host and I love the routine he has.
And yeah, it's, it's a good thing. I quite like the idea that he makes a list and works his way
through it. That's the way my brain works too, because otherwise I'd sort of do all that stuff and
realize, oh, I forgot to put fuel in the car or pump the tires or something. Yeah,
having checked this is a brilliant way to approach it. Oh yeah, well for that one. Yeah, good
excellent. I liked it very much. And also that you do regular maintenance and stuff, because cars
are a complicated thing. So if you do preventative maintenance, it's an amazing how much easier your
life is if you take that time. Yeah, yeah, indeed. The next day Beasy keeps throwing surprises at us
doesn't it? Now just SARS COVID-2 detection by PCR and explanation. And I think I'll go with Norse's
comment here, because I tend to agree with it. He's Beasy a genius. Ask if Masterclass on
it. Ork wasn't enough. No, he gives us a detailed explanation on PCR testing. Thank you for
this episode. It was incredibly interesting. Kevin O'Brien says another fantastic show.
I suspect Beasy has some serious scientific training because he does a good job on this.
A common misconception I've heard from some people is that the mRNA vaccines might change DNA.
And it doesn't work. It just doesn't work that way. DNA is what produces RNA, not the other way around.
So yeah, cool. It was brilliant. I really enjoyed this show. There's no PCR when I was doing science,
but I know that Beasy's got a degree in micro biology, because we chatted about it in our last
ork show. And we realized we were both trained biologists. So in my training was many, many,
decades before, not many, but several decades before his. So PCR is pretty cool. My daughter's
done a bit of PCR work as an undergrad and tried to explain it to me. I didn't absorb as much as
I did from Beasy's explanation. Probably me. It's because Dad's a thick and daughter is
necessarily appreciate this. So yeah. No, it was very good. It was really well explained.
mRNA was, I think, its use was discovered in about 1968, 2009, something like that.
It's all about ribosomes and how mRNA is processed by ribosomes to make protein and all that stuff.
So that was the point I was learning science. So all this has happened since I
got my degree to start to some extent. So yeah, that's my excuse.
You're on it. And that's why I don't know nothing about it.
Okay, the next day we had the big Linux in laws peep show that two chaps go fall,
and reveal it all. And there was one comment by operator greets greetings and a great show,
your rock. Now we got kernels that are like a terabyte. Oh, you need something. Yeah, man,
just turned all those kernel mods on. Everything is fine. I just discovered net hogs in Linux. I'm
along with m tmux zi or zi have a dashboard that shows GPU CPU network stats and pids.
So he gives some commands. Tmux space three space pain space failed safe
failed source. Okay, pql.chef tmux tmux new session
a stf my window battled split window split window select pin tblar. It's all in the show notes.
So I'm sure that is completely safe to copy and paste it.
That's like a tmux. I do use tmux. I use
send a screen, but I've looked at tmux and it's sort of similar, but that looks like a config file
where you're creating a window with a thing in and then you split in and put in different
applications running out of the small, small windows and stuff. Yeah, that's how you go.
Yeah, I'm sure now that we've all said we're running screen that there are people with
throbbing veins going tmux is better. Tmux is better. Yes, yes, emax is also better, but
it's still easier than something. I'm not sure what, dude. Oh, don't start.
Okay, moving on. That's my mother used to say when we get into a fight.
So much changing the subject. Anyway, GIMP, getting started with layers.
A hookah's series on the GIMP and layers are definitely something you need to know about
if you're doing anything with any graphical application to be honest, any graphics program.
Yes, as always, with Kevin's shows, I've probably come across some of the things he talks about
and tinkered with it without much of an understanding. And he suddenly points out, he's doing the,
you probably don't really understand this. That's how I interpret it anyway.
Yes, and he is definitely pointing things in the in the right direction for somebody who
who's skipped a few lessons, perhaps, and could do a bit of a catch-up revision course, indeed.
Ended. Windigo and his Mrs. Honny Hu discussed their views on alcohol. I liked the show.
Not just because I took opposing views to, you know, they had previously done a show on
tattoos, which I know, which now for some reason have associated with fixing a fence panel
in my background, because that's what I was doing when I was listening.
Well, this one I was listening to and I was thinking, yes, I actually, my wife and I would have
the same opposing views on tattoos and the same opposing views on alcohol.
But in this case, the other way around is switched. So,
financial, very good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's, I find it fascinating to listen to the different
arguments for and against and sort of agree with both quite a lot, actually. So, yes, I've had my
experiences on alcohol when I was younger, but I really don't want to admit anymore.
I like that. So, it's like, see both sides of that. Although, my wife for some reason has gone
to the extreme trouble of cooking some Irish stew, which I will tell you is her interpretation
of an Irish stew, which is, you know, the stew that your mom makes, that you think is the best
stew in the world. My wife makes better stew. It has to be said.
So, like proper Irish stew with vegetables and stuff. So, I went out and bought a can of Guinness
to go with it. It's a perfect thing. Yes, absolutely. Wow.
So, it's a good thing to eat in your house. Yes, indeed. Indeed.
What do you eat with Irish stew? What's the normal thing to, is it a meal in itself?
It's just like, basically, I think, goulash and every country in the world has a form of it,
basically. It's a ticker soup with bits of meat and stuff in it, but I don't think there's any
real defined recipe to be brutally honest. And if you're an Irish person tearing your hair out
over there, chill out, record a show, prove it wrong, go on then, I don't you.
It was, we would eat a lot of that. So, it was different. I was a kid and dumplings were the thing
that were often provided with such a, I mean, I've seen many people, it was a Canadian cooking show.
I looked at recently where they were making sort of giant dumpling sit on top of their
equivalent to an Irish stew type of thing. Yeah, just a bit of a bit of carbohydrate to eat with
you with your image. Yeah, never had a dumpling on television to the United Kingdom pub.
The swan and something, something, something inevitably. They used to go for a walk and then
have our lunch there and then come home. Okay, yes. Yeah. Good stuff, good stuff. More recipes,
please. I'm more, more discussion shows like them, like them. I do. Indeed.
Following day, CRVS. Yes, there was one comment to the show and I know that because I wrote it.
And that comment was, I am using this today. Thanks, a million in Bash.
Yes, well, thanks a million times. Trending towards a million.
Indeed. Indeed. So basically what it is for those who didn't listen to the show.
If you deal with Jason at all, you will know by now, no doubt, all JQ as a means of querying and
extracting stuff from that, which you can then pipe into Bash scripts and set up grep on it.
And if you're stuck with the poor man's markup file, YAML, you can poke Dave, poke Dave.
You can then convert it to a sane, foremost Jason. And all will be well. And in fact,
you can also convert it to XML, although why you would do that is beyond me. Yes, yes.
Well, I YAML is the oldest, I think probably of the three, is it? I certainly used YAML first.
Then there was no Jason. Then I used XML and hated it, but did the job get the job done.
And then Jason's really nice. And JQ, you pointed me in direction of JQ some years ago,
and I've been using it ever since. So yeah, yeah, it's a very cool thing.
Yeah, very nice.
Yeah, JQ should do more shows on that Sussi Owing himself or short.
It's the principles of it are fairly straightforward, but it's one of those things that the actual
nested structure of a piece of Jason can be really complex. And you know, to write generic stuff
that will get a specific piece out where you don't necessarily know the structure is an interesting
challenge. So knowing more about the cool aspect of it, because there's loads and loads of
functions in it, isn't that? Yeah. It would be a very helpful thing to have. I think
anybody wants to do that. Fine.
Anybody wants to beat me to it? That's also fine, because I'm just starting a assembling a
sort of page with cheat, you know, cheat sheet on JQ.
Enigma introduces one of his favorite Python modules, pandas. Who doesn't like pandas?
And this turns out to be a way to import CSV Excel and a SQL into Python.
Yes. Be easy comments saying, you info even for me.
Wow, pandas, I'm not indeed indeed.
Pandas are numpy for years and didn't know about np.select from your code example.
That's definitely going to come in handy. So I think that's the the ability to do SQL queries
out of it is not to grab the data. I had a wee look at it. And my son, I should say, is currently
doing a computer science, MSC, which involves artificial intelligence stuff. And he says they're
using pandas all the time to pull data in and reformate and do stats on it, because he got stats
capabilities and also then feed it to TensorFlow and all these other magic things that
they find in the world of AI. So so he gives it to many, many points out of a million.
Excellent. Marked on editor, retext. This is a Mr X show.
And I like this one as well, because it's, he's referring to the HPR website. And I don't know
what it is, but people can't seem to write HTML. I don't know why Dave,
and one of those people tends to be me. It's rather simple. But this might be the solution.
It's simple, but also it's got lots of nasty traps in it. You know, the the ordering of tags,
the one that that I see people doing is they want to put a pre tag around, pre tags around
a bit text, because they want it to be shown with the formatting they provide it. And they want
it to, they want to put code, put code tags around it as well. So you get the font that that comes
with with those tags. And they put me in the wrong order. It's got to be pre code, not code pre.
If you put code pre in that it gets it gets rejected by an HTML checker.
Browsers on the whole don't care because they're very forgiving, but if it ever goes through a filter
like uploading to the internet archive, it will be rejected. At least it was. I haven't actually
tested that lately, but they would throw away HTML that didn't conform one point. So yeah,
important stuff. For the stuff that we do, I think you know, if you use something like reflow,
it's fine. And then the HTML that it produces should be fine.
Retext, yeah. Yeah, yeah. No, it's good. Yeah, we had a wee chat about this, Mr X and I when we
did a, did a conversational show back in 18. Oh no, I don't know when it was, but we, we talked about
it. And yeah, and it's, it's, it's really good. It's a nice easy way again into markdown, indeed.
Right. So next one was a garage door part two by operator choose the season to be coughing
and doing some other stuff with us, a garage door, no columns on that. This garage door scared
me the first time and test them the second time. We all these springs, hellish, big springs with it
with a lot of energy stored in them. It did comment about what happens when one breaks,
and that really, that really does sound horrendous, but still I have to have to have to have them.
So did he resolve this problem? I can't remember whether he managed to fix it or not.
I believe he did, but it could be wrong. Anyway, very good.
So the next day we had an update from JWP about MS Teams COVID-19, Raspberry Pi 400, Raspberry Pi
for with it gig running centers. Yeah, very good. Nice to hear from JWP and he's very much
into Raspberry Pi these days, obviously. Yeah, they're actually quite, I've got one here next.
I had Raspberry Pi 3 next to my screen just to do some stuff as a second screen, you know, here.
But it's now Raspberry Pi 4 with 8 gigs of RAM, and I use it to, you know, to have my work calendar
and Citrix and stuff on there, but it's also running in next cloud instance locally on my personal
internet and other stuff, and it's two chin along, nearer problem. Yeah, quite good.
And I've got to do video conferences and stuff, I'll resolve this. Oh, wow.
I've not used one in that as a sort of desktop replacement or adjunct or whatever.
I've got one on the shelf above my head here with the running magic mirror.
Yeah, that's a 3A, remember the 3A? Yeah, the one with no Wi-Fi and stuff like that.
That just runs day in day out, and a bunch of other ones on the shelf above the shelf,
which I never touch, I just SSH into them, but yeah, yeah, yeah. I think beside me at the moment,
actually, it's a Raspberry Pi Pico, which we're looking forward to, you're sure on that, Dave.
I've just set up the cross compiler last night, so I can write an example thing on it.
I haven't done it yet. That's going to be later today, probably.
Excellent. I look forward to hearing that series.
Hopefully it will be loads of people who contribute to that.
Be good. Yeah.
Lack of diversity in Linux and other so open source communities. I consider some reasons
that there is a lack of diversity when it comes to open source communities.
First comment is by be easy. I can relate. Don't worry, you're not. The only black holes
on the HPR. I've got plenty of stories just like yours. I can relate to your experience.
Tony Hughes says, lack of diversity in Linux. I swept. I just wanted to say, thank you for your
show. It's always good to hear things from the perspective of the person who any community finds
hard to reach. I know this is not a simple issue, and there are many reasons why different
communities do not mix, but hearing your experience and thoughts on the issue was very refreshing.
Thank you for a very thoughtful episode, Tony Hughes. Thanks, Tony, for that.
Beezer says thoughts on diversity, high-swift, really enjoy your show.
If you look at the representation of the black community in the wider community of Linux and
false, then I think you are definitely on to something. However, there are a great number of
non-high contributors to false projects all over the world, particularly on the Indian subcontinent.
I would, I think it would, I think, be ashamed if anybody new to Linux and false felt that there
was any kind of biased against or any favor for any racial group, not that I think you are suggesting
that there is. Because communication between contributors on projects often takes place using
text-based messaging. For the most part, we probably have no idea what the people were
corresponding with look like or are like as people. Everyone is as good as their contributions,
which is just as it should be. You made the point that if you had not told the listeners of your
racial background, nobody would likely have known from your voice or accent. Absolutely right.
So it's entirely possible that could be the case with a number of other HPR contributors.
Women, though, have far more distinctive voices. So I think it's indisputable that of the 3000
plus HPR shows. The numbers submitted by women is pitiful. Diversity takes money
forms. So I think there is at least as big an issue with gender diversity in Linux
floss as there is in ethnicity. I think in terms of diversity problems hints as there've been
a conscious effort to attract or exclude certain groups. I honestly don't think that's the case
in the Linux floss world. But there can be no doubt that broadening its appeal as widely as
possible across society can only bring benefit at every level. I agree with all of that except
the last one. Here in HPR we are definitely making conscious efforts to attract
non-white people with beard. I am constantly doing my best any time I come across anything that
will be of interest to hackers. And unfortunately it's proving very difficult to do that.
Don't know why. But yeah, any help at all would be grateful if you can do your bit
you as a host by getting more people involved would be absolutely awesome.
And people are promised me shows. You know who you are and they have not sent them in. You know who
you are. So there you go. But we will wait the 10 years that is required for procrastination to
work its way through. Yes. Yes. Well I just my two pen of thumb this show I thought it was very
very good indeed. I was amazed at how well it was put together and the points were explained
and it it I guess I have a certain level of ignorance about what it's like if you are
in an ethnic group that somehow or other is not expected to be involved in this sort of stuff
seems ridiculous. It seems disgusting. It seems appalling but it exists and it was it was good
to for me to know a bit get a different point of view as somebody said get that sort of view.
Absolutely. And I thought it was brilliantly done.
Yeah. Okay. And thankfully there's another show on that coming up next month. So
give people more opportunity to come to.
Very good.
Linux Professional Institute and interview with Evan.
Evan from the LPI. I give up.
Liebervic. Yeah. Yes. Liebervic. I've actually heard that name many times.
Who was the last? Yeah. I did the last one. Come on.
You did you did Beezers. I get a nice short one. Kevin O'Brien says I love the show great show
and I'm promoting on my social media. And yeah. Cool. I was in I mean then LPI is quite an
impressive organization. I must admit to having very little knowledge about how it's constructed
and how it came to be and the sort of people behind it. So it was it was quite a revelation as
far as I'm concerned. And what I really liked about it was the fact that your
certifications don't expire. That they continue on. That's actually quite something that frustrates
me a lot about you know the certifications that you get for companies with their proprietary
products that they you know if one was to work really hard as a then oh that certifications
no good anymore because you need the blebba version two thing has just come out so all your
certifications from before is you know completely wasted. Great. Mm-hmm built in obsolescence is
alive and well. Next cloud is the next show the easy way by Archer 72 and I don't know if you
picked that because I had submitted a show which isn't out there yet but actually this works out
quite well because you get the installation. My show is called next cloud the hard way
and he did next challenge the easy way. You know I haven't actually spotted that. That is
very good yes yes so this is good this is actually good because it's a lot of the stuff that
I come across a my show if you follow through here it won't deviate too much and you'll it'll
it's really I'm really glad that this that Archer sent in the show it's also the pictures and all
sorts very good. He was he shows a challenge to me because my picture management
were broken by this because I'd written stuff which was fairly simplistic you know you know how
you do a little solve this immediate problem I'll worry about it when a bigger problem comes like
well this was the bigger problem no no no reflection on Archer 72 that was just because I'd done
a crap job and the fact that by definition a bigger problem was somebody must thinking like you do
do yeah yeah yeah I mean so yeah so I've written I've rewritten that code and it did
manage to do think about a better job than the original well the original would have failed
totally with this one so yeah yeah it was good it was a good challenge so I'm happy about that
and hopefully it turned out looking as he adoked so yeah cool free public domain creative
commons assets this part of the gimp and it's a hooker Kevin again given us some resources where
we can find creative commons stuff artwork actually images and fonts and even if you're not following
on along with the gimp app so this is one that you definitely should come across a lot of these sites
I have used for doing birthday party posters and stuff like that so it's always good
yeah it's it's it's very relevant I hadn't quite appreciated what a minefield this whole area was
and Kevin explains that and also gives some good pointers to how you can avoid the bitfalls
which is fantastic so there were two that was the shows for this month there were two other
commons and shows from previous months and this first one was from Mark Levell about on the show
the state of Linux audio apps in 2020 from Pat and Claudio jack and pulse audio jack can work
with pulse audio are used by default we want to studio provides all the required configurations
and tools to use jack with pulse audio along with a low level kernel and he provides a link
I'm not waiting for pipe wire and I tried to set up that Dave on a Chromebook and
beaten my head against the wall Dave until I discovered that my son card awesome working
so yes oh oh that is not good no no I think I just just to just a break in and say
Mark Laverley I think could he have an accent on his e which caused RSS feed to break
because you can't have accents on letters in titles in the way it's good yes I need to fix that
that's just between you and me really I just think people's names right is really important
unfortunately I have to take the accent off to make it work so yeah
so I probably have gotten people's names right when you know I'm going to put you to the
money mate Dave did you want to say more about this because I think I might have interrupted you
no I think good comment and just good to know that it should work it's depressing to know
that it doesn't work on my particular laptop this again is the story of my life Dave
everybody else follow the three-step tutorial click next next next 10 no 14 hours
yep yep these things happen so the other comment was from on a show by John Colp
from December cloning hard drive with clonezilla and Jesra commented on blaver hi John
it's been a while since any development work has been done on blaver the code base was
ported to newer versions of python gtk qt and pockets finks in 2017 unfortunately it would
appear that every Linux distro is missing something that is required for the new version
and my primary blather machine to have in 11 still runs the old version of blather with all
the old blip is installed it's a depressing situation her arm says that is sad yeah
the fact that cool things sort of deteriorate and become non-functional
do you know the fault of your own you know it's just he's got new versions ready it's just the
distros having called up so maybe there is hope here maybe it will few bugs
yep yep yeah hopefully hopefully anyway so i've often wanted to use blather and
so would yeah me too me too never quite got around to to install it and doing with it but
if it does come back to life again i would definitely use it so mailing list has been quite
quiet josh our kind provider host here in hpr and also provider of wonderful services on anonisthost.com
notify us that you need to move us to another githlab server and we're all moved over now
at this point yep we're using githee is it called?
yes it's called git ea which is not quite sure how to pronounce it but it's a perfectly fine
get for our world and yeah yeah so i think it doesn't have all the features that githlab does but
then we never use them anyway so it's probably probably cheaper to run from his point of view
i should quite like to install it on our as we find see how i get on with it actually i have my own
local repository which i crafted the the easy way i'm just putting files on on a on a shared machine
but yeah that'd be fun so do you want to give us an update on the tags then and some reason stuff
the community calendar by the way phos demis 67 isn't it so and it's all it's going to be i think
everybody has to record the talks so they're available very very quickly possibly simultaneously
with the presentation i'm not quite clear about that but it would be well worth tracking because
it looks like there's some great content there so i was looking at that today with the view to
latching on to some of the some of the talks remotely yeah sorry i'm no completely browsing the
phos dem website okay how do you do how do you do how do you do um might as well you work
might be an idea to have us to do a mumble server thing during the day of phos dem
wonder what people be interested in that just kind of follow along
we um when you were at phos dem last year and i was i didn't make it remotely um we we uh
i was watching some of the stuff remotely but i was also chatting with everybody over telegram
but yeah you were asking me you were asking me where to go for dinner and stuff as well
as if i could remember where where we went previously it was quite quite heartening that you
thought i could but well i had hoped you would go restaurants near phos dem
you don't make it harder yeah i always found a good one my memory which i found was
was pretty crappy so yeah you know what i do that's a leverage
so anyway tax and summary so if you finished uh yeah of course tax and summary we had three
coming from windigo again failed to to do any this month but so windigo was very kind and sent
in three updates so uh thank you windigo for that cool that's uh and they're now on the main page
yes oh yeah during that period we split the page where the the tags
live where the information about what needs to be done it lives but it also contained a
a big chunk of stuff about all the tags known to the system and which shows
use them and i've split that away to a separate page um which you can access from the main
main menu so and that's really good that so it seems to be working and set up i just update the
two simultaneously when i when i create the do an update with new tags and stuff so yeah also
should be fine it's fascinating uh browse and through here they looking at a topic that yeah bash
you expect that to be quite popular but i didn't think electronics will be as popular as it is
yeah yeah it's for the surprise description that diverse is quite you know that would be a hooker's
show he did a series sorry enough you can all browse this page in your own but this has actually
been very very useful for very useful for um if you are looking for something where did where did
that come up one of our um contributors to the tags said how do i know which tags to use and
i'm adding tags to it to a show how can i find out what tags have been used in the past so that prompted
me to create that that page so uh so i can't remember who it was um thanks for them anyway but
maybe i should find out for next next time round so i can say who it was the silence which will
have been truncated as me browsing down the website yeah there is there is something about
doing it's fascinating actually yeah yeah yeah i think did i put links in so you could jump back
to the top easily because it's an index yeah there's an index at the top so you can
find things beginning with letters at very least so yeah i'll put polymer electrolytic
capacitors in my bill who else good stuff yep just so you want to know about them that's where to go
Fandall Fandall Fandall Fandall Randall Schwartz is a tag fantastic Dave brilliant work
thanks windie go also anything else that we missed Dave in our quest i was thinking um about
about uh what JWP said in the show about freedom and that it was uh that it was i was thinking a lot
about it actually that was hard for him uh and i get to to deal with the lockdowns and stuff
what he was doing which is to be rewarded and then i was thinking with freedom comes duty and then
with duty comes freedom uh particularly in relation to this COVID thing i i think uh that was my
personal stance on it and especially when you see uh uh people uh in the other room my wife
was working in in the care sector and it's been a rough week there and uh as i go on my daily exercise
regardless of the time of day uh we live beside the graveyard and basically it seems to be there's
always a funeral going on at the moment um so it's maybe not visible to everybody but it is going on
and it i know it's hard but uh that's the element of duty uh coming out this is my
this is the views of me Ken Fallon not to be mistaken for Hacker Public Radio at all uh this
is just my personal views that that's uh and then i was thinking from my my my it
slight interest in in academic in academic my slight private interest in history that i can't
think of any quest for freedom that hasn't required somebody to get doing their duty in air courts
with a year degree with did you see it has been done or not there's another thing and then
then Dave i was going well where else do we use freedom in in in the whole free open source community
the whole freedom thing and if you take it from the point of view that you have freedom and then
you have to do duty this is why it's they giving back to the community thing that's the duty there Dave
uh-huh and when somebody doesn't respect that so you know somebody uh comes and starts strip mining
strip mining uh the uh the HBR are not the HBR community but the free and open source community
yes they're allowed to do that because that is the freedom that they've been given but
their duty is that you fulfill your duty for the freedom that you that has been given to you
does that make sense? an interesting angle i'm sure tattoo or somebody else would have
be able to do a more succinct and deep episode on that topic i expect a series of shows coming in
i i struggle to find the the words i have to say it's it's it's it's there's a responsibility
the word i guess i would use you know there's a there's a sort of morality and responsibility involved
with the open source stuff that you don't now it's open you can go and use it but you don't go and
wreck things as as a consequence and the um yeah lockdown things got that element too as well
it's a bit like the problem with typhoid Mary who was spreading typhoid and she had to be
constrained though she could have been taught to ask not to do the things that she did
but she refused and went ahead and and killed a lot of people as a consequence you know it's uh
it's which one are you are are you typhoid Mary or are you somebody who is uh who takes
responsibility and said okay i could have this horrible thing it's not bothering me but
i could have it and it could be spreading it so you know perhaps i should i should take steps so
that i don't um and that's the you know that message behaviors if you have the coronavirus is
what some some uh publicity is saying isn't it that's how probably how i see it but uh um yeah
yeah yeah yeah uh and if we don't get uh come on some this show Dave i will be very very disappointed
people and if you come and succeed they amount of uh if they get too long then far better to do a
show on the topic indeed indeed prove us wrong okay with that i'm going to go and see where my
dinner is because i've been looking forward to it all week i wish you i wish you in a few points
excellent good stuff good stuff i'll enjoy all right everybody uh remember to send us in some
shows let's see let's have a look at the uh the old q there which you can access on any page on
hbr by going pressing the upload button not looking too good there Dave not looking too good at all
plenty of free spots it far too much blue for my liking indeed indeed yeah yeah okay peeps if you've
got uh if you got shows great if you've got a whole series of shows pop them up there leave two weeks
in between try and fill out the spots uh let me give you the guidelines again the guidelines as
we're hr we're not uh going to dictate what you do the guidelines are you must well this one's
a bit of a rule to be honest you must have your audio recording ready to upload before you pick the
slot yeah otherwise you're gonna have the slot and it's going to be freed up always try and fill
any free slots that are available in the upcoming two weeks and if the q is filling up them please
consider leaving some free slots for contributors so that would mean for example week right on our 11
is is completely open so that would be a good place to dump in your show uh if you have a non-origin
show you can find an empty week and schedule out then and if you're uploading a series of shows
consider schedule one every two weeks yep and there are exceptions to all of these things but
they will typically go through a mail list and if you're not on the mail list you should join
for it is where we receive our commands Dave okay uh tune in tomorrow for another exciting
episode of hacker public radio okay bye bye
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever
thought of recording a podcast then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is
hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicant computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments attribution share
ordite.org license
