Episode: 3861
Title: HPR3861: How To find Things on your home Network
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3861/hpr3861.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:49:44

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3861 from Monday the 22nd of May 2023.
Today's show is entitled How to Find Things on Your Home Network.
It is hosted by JWP and is about 12 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is How to Find the Lost Raspberry Pi Zero on Your Home Network.
Good day.
My name is JWP and I'm a Hacker Public Radio host and it's really nice to talk to you
today.
What I wanted to do was I wanted to do a short podcast on how I find things on my network
at home.
What's going on there, how we get to them, how we access them, how we do this.
And so I had to show previously about my devices and so I have an old who I phone that
marries my work phone and I keep trying to keep the same software.
But in addition to that, I have a folder called network on there and I'm a Fritzbox guy
or an AVM guy.
And so I'm a phone.
I have my Fritzbox, a phone and a VLAN thing from the hoods.
And there's another app called Net Analyzer.
And so I used to run a very large orange PI Raspberry Pi device farm downstairs and it
just got too much during COVID and for whatever reason, a lot of those things stopped working
and so I stopped using it and so the network thing on my phone became less useful.
But let's go ahead and touch that app.
So you get that app open and you press scan and see, I have the Fritzbox, of course.
And then I have the phone that I'm using that's listed and there's something called
i.e. registry authority on 24, the Apple TV is on 25.
So I think that 24 is probably the Google TV.
So I have a Google TV and Apple TV, I think 24 is probably the Apple TV, then 29 is the
over-media server and I'm pretty sure that 34 says Intel corporate.
So that's my work PC that I'm talking to you from.
And then I told you before about the fidget to 900 terminal.
So he's really going good and I guess I don't really know what 24 is because it's saying
that 51 is the Chromecast.
The 53 is an Amazon technology and 56 is a Raspberry 0A 78 is a printer and my wife's iPhone
and iPod touch that we talked about, the Redmi Note 10s is also there and the iPad.
And for the elsewhere's network, I still use an Archer C2, the boy I sure want to get
a, another Fritzbox up here, so I can have a mesh, a mesh going there.
And like I said, I use the OpenMedia server at Christmas time, it was a huge upgrade
for this and I haven't done much with it except turn it back to what it was, it just serves
my movies, media, a second place to keep everything, everything going.
But the Fuji and the is going to really going to try to do a sort of kind of office and
kind of thing with own cloud or next cloud or something like this, whatever is the easiest
and whatever is the easiest and I've seen so many really good PR projects and of course
all of those orange PIs and Raspberry devices, I still have them all nicely stacked, one
of them is even an 8GB Raspberry 4 and that's probably another thing, how to start using
them or maybe I can start giving them a way or selling them or something, I don't know,
I was just proud of them and I most likely will go, but let's try to talk to my, to the
One Raspberry that has lived for years and years without its SD card going bad or for
whatever reason.
So let's open up, I'm on the Windows Work PC and so let's open up a go back and let's
open up a kitty, so kitty is a terminal terminal and so let's type in the IP address 680.78,
56 and let's load it up and see if I can get there, so I put the IP address in and
out for whatever reason, he's not working, not working, so I'm pretty sure I typed it
in 192, yeah, it's not going, not going, so let's see, let's see if I can ping him from
the command prompt, could be something from my work, work thing, so let's go back, get
the backspace, get the console going, okay, so let's ping him from the console, so 1,
1, number 2, okay, so he, so that was something with the kitty, because ping on the PC works
fine and let's close that and let's go directly to putty instead of kitty, kitty is more
for file sharing I think, it's been a while since I tried to copy files over SSH, but
let's see, so now we go to putty and putty comes up and let's try the same thing, and 50,
and let's open him up and type in the username and password, type in in the password again,
okay, so now it's up, and so uptime, and so his uptime is only 13 days, but I logged in two
weeks ago and I did update and rebooted him, and he was had gone 568 days without fail, okay,
and so what is it, what do I use this thing for, so I mostly use it to mess around with,
but I have used it in the past for doing YouTube DL, and if you haven't done YouTube DL,
it's a, it's truly a wonderful program that works with a P, so what is this YouTube DL, so
YouTube DL is a command program to download videos from YouTube and other sites, and other sites,
and so it for sure, for sure I have YouTube DL, I think, on this thing, so let's see, so if I type
YouTube on this DL, and I wait, it's in a wait, and I wait, and I wait some more, and it's a zero,
so it's a, so it's a contact YouTube DL, now I need to type YouTube DL, and minus minus how,
and see if it does anything with that, and again, it's pretty slow, it's pretty slow, but in any case,
what you do is you open it in a fast connection to your OpenMini server, and then you download,
you go when you download the thing, and I should probably do another show about that, but that's
what I primarily use this, this PI4 is, is to use it as a YouTube DL client, and if you get two or
three of them together, you can download a lot of different YouTube videos at the same time, and
of course, you know, there's all kinds of browser extensions and anything to do that, but I like doing
things on the command line, and it's useful to do it from the command line, I think I did a podcast
with the hacker public radio where I had all my office suite in a console one time, and I do have
a terminal downstairs that works just fine, just one second, my wife is bothering the hell out of me
in the moment, so my beautiful wife just bothered me, and my son who got very yesterday is coming,
coming in, and he is wanting to clean up, and so whenever you have an older child that wants to
clean up, that's fantastic, it's a joys event that he wants to clean up, so hey, that's really it,
so that's how you scan your network with your Android phone, open a putty client to your Raspberry,
do something with your Raspberry, and I'm sorry guys, I haven't posted very often, and now I've
done two shows in a day, in a day, but I saw the mail from Ken, and he did look a little desperate,
so I thought I would come in and try to help Ken a little bit, and I still have some
notes when Ken had me go to the networking thing as a hacker public radio media consultant,
so I got into the $1,200 a day conference for free, where my hacker public radio media
press credential thing, and so I might want to think about that as you know that if you know,
Ken can somehow get you into a Linux event that you would normally pay for, if you would walk around
and do some interviews in there, and take some notes, and stuff like that, then you would
help Ken and Dave a lot, and they're pursued to keep everything going just fine, and by the way,
I really like that Hachuka stuff in his RV, now that Hachuka's retired, that's fantastic,
just keep that whole thing going from me, it makes my whole day when I hear about your
retiree adventure. All right guys, take care, be safe, you need to reach me now, I'm JWP5 at
hotmail.com, enjoy the rest of your day. You have been listening to Hachuka Public Radio,
at Hachuka Public Radio, does work. Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself,
if you ever thought of recording a podcast, and click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sync.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released
on our creative commons, attribution 4.0 international license.
