Episode: 3456
Title: HPR3456: HPR Community News for October 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3456/hpr3456.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 23:50:11

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3456 for Mundi, the first of November 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, HPR Community News, for October 2021 and is part of the series HPR
Community News that is the 180th show of HPR Volunteers and is about 81 minutes long and
carries an explicit flag. The summary is, HPR Volunteers, talk about shows released in comments,
posted in October 2021. This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hi everybody, later on in the show, there are discussions about some
sensitive topics. These may not be suitable for airing in an open environment
or where young or vulnerable people can hear. So please take this into account when playing
out the show. Thank you. Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon. You're listening to another
episode of Hacker Public Radio. This time it's Community News for October 2021 and joining me this
evening is live from Scotland. All right, that one you mean. Yeah, that's me this Dave Morris.
Okay, now we're going into a problem because we're going to have to do it alphabetically
because I don't know where the other two guys are calling them. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's why I
hesitate to assume you're going to reach 72 first. I'm in the Chicago area. Live from Chicago,
it is. This is where you come in and go archers 72. Once me pronouncing somebody's name.
Okay, let's do it again. Take two people. Take two. Live from Chicago, it is archer 72.
Why do we even bother? How can I work with these people days? And finally we have
yeah, we're on from Baltimore live from his basement. Where what state is Baltimore in?
Baltimore is in Maryland. We're just I'm just north of DC about 60 miles. Okay, very good,
very good, excellent. I'm in the Netherlands in my basement, which is a lot nicer now than it was
about four months ago. But anyway, enough about my basement. This is Hacker Public Radio and this
is Hacker Public Radio Community News. Hacker Public Radio is a community service where our
podcasts are released by the people who listen to it. That is correct. You listening to this
very show could yourself become a podcaster with some very, very simple steps. Community news is
where the junters of the community of the network come together and talk about the stuff that's
been going on in the HPR community to make sure that everybody knows that their shows have been
loved and listened to. So as this traditional diva now welcome our new hosts. Yes, we do have a
new host this month or last month or whenever it was Hacker Defo, I think is the pronunciation.
So welcome, welcome on board. Sounds good to me. And the breakdown of this is that we go through
last month's shows, some of the comments, things on the mailing list, and other discussions,
events, and other, and the other business, which I think will feature heavily about the tagging
this month. So without further ado, let's go to hacking stories with redacted part five by operator.
And this was the fifth in his rambling about old pen testing stories and I think a lot of these
went down the street. I love these. These are amazing. It's really interesting to hear what people
do in their work and stuff. There's only a fast minute here about this. And yeah, I used to
try and talk my boss in to get in a pen test to interject things. I've never wanted to do it. I think
it was a scared thing. And that's what seemed to happen to operate. He found things that people
didn't want him to find. Hey, I cook or these have been great. And I have a feeling we should
probably be doing this at work. We've already had a couple of ransomware attacks against us.
So it probably could use a little bit of this penetration testing.
Yeah, I think the word couple of there does themselves very good. You would think one would be
sufficient. Yes, indeed. Wow. That's nasty. They hadn't invented that much when I was still working.
So yeah, you have my sympathy. Yeah, they came about for three years apart, four years apart.
We thought we had done better, but apparently not. Yeah, it's easy to fool in these holes, I'm sure.
So the following day, we had a community news for September 2021. And there was one
clarification I wanted to make on that one. And that was the last community news. I said that
we checked a show and found that it was of interest hackers. I should have said that we checked it,
and it was not spam. So stuff you need to know. This is from the website. And this is the
agree policy. Audio of your show will not be moderated. We do not vet. Ed is moderate. Or in any
way sense or any of the audio. You submit. We trust you to do that. Last part is also an
interesting part. We trust you to do that. Aside from checking snippets of audio quality for spam
checking, we have a policy where we don't listen to the shows before they are aired.
I've actually started the open number and audacity now following the discussion
of the mailing list to see what the levels are looking like to see if we can fix that. But more
about that and on. Teaser there. So the next day we had the HTML document format.
I'm sorry. Can you drop it out for me? I missed this last couple of sentences.
How am I? How am I? Did I drop out for anybody else? No. So I'm good to me.
We'll fix it in post. Don't worry. Any questions about that? Or did you hear?
By fix it in post, I mean absolutely no intention of editing at all. It was about the spam
checking that we don't spam check. Sorry, we do spam check. Absolutely. We do spam check.
But we don't edit or moderate the show. Yes. I can't have that. Yes. I agree.
And it's, I mean, it's only a matter of time before somebody twigs that they can send in spam
to HPR. And when they do, we will check it among the admins. And if there's any doubt,
we will go to the mail list. It's not as if we're going to start blocking stuff,
unless it's fairly obvious. Yes. So nobody panic.
Cool. Okay. Moving on. The HTML document format. Talking about my favorite document format.
And this was from Daniel Pearson's. Yeah. He likes HTML. Basically is what he's saying.
So it delivers, which is, which is a very valid thing to say. But he also says that back end
systems can create it. So, you know, he's sort of conceding the point that you don't necessarily
have to create it by hand. Absolutely. I don't think that XML itself, maybe I should do a
response show on this. And not just comment. I don't think my database can take another
show that I need to do. But anyway, I think XML in general is not necessarily a bad format. It's
just everybody has their own view on how it should be format. And that's kind of the issue.
Yeah. Yeah, I agree. I do. I have to say I have a soft spot for HTML too. That was sort of
one of the first big things I had to do. One of my first tech jobs was convert old Word
Perfect 5.1 reports into HTML. And you know, you grow fond of after you've manually inserted a lot
of tags. Yes. Yeah. I enjoy the fact that Vim, the plugins have got, let me select to learn
and stick tags either end of it or around a word or whatever. And it's just, you know,
there's so many potential places where you can mess up by, you know, hitting an extra character
or forgetting the slash or something, you know, to have something to mediate for you is
nicer, you know, it's like the difference between having a brace and a bit and an electric drill,
you know, do you really want to cut that hole with by hitting it with that with a rock?
That's what it feels like to me. Yeah. Yeah. I should probably do best practices HBR show.
Best practices when dealing with XML.
Anyway, shall we move on? 10 privacy-friendly Google search alternatives. And this is by our
new host, Hacker Diffle, you reckon. Some sites I'd never come across before in there, actually.
Some very, very cool ones which, which was a collodio. But, Lenny, what do you think? What do you
think, guys? Some cool stuff there, actually. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I think, I think DuckDuckGo
and maybe I'd run across Brave Search, but I think DuckDuckGo was really the only one that I'd ever
heard of before. I haven't been introduced to anyone. Yeah, yeah. I have start page as my default in,
I use a lot of browsers and I quite like Vivaldi and I'm using start page in there.
DuckDuckGo somewhere else. It's just useful to have multiple browsers. I shouldn't do this, I know,
but there you go. But yeah, but those are start pages and DuckDuckGo with the only ones I was really
aware of. I do use Brave, but not just to show people's show notes, actually, because it's easy
to fire up from the command line and I find easier than some, anyway. I think it's a changing
thing, but the time when I was writing the script to take some HTML I'd made from a show and
display it. I found that Brave was actually quite good at doing it. Do you want to read the
comments? Yes. ClaudioM says Mojique. Great episode. Nice to hear a few of the ones I've used
and known about mentioned as well as some of the others I've not known about. One that wasn't
mentioned that I recently came to discover is called Mojique, as soon as I say it. More information
about Mojique below, it gives a link and a Wikipedia entry and the SDF all-known public access
Unix system since 1987 has its own Hugo instance, which he gives a link to as well. Never heard of that.
And do you want to do the Linux 4 Secures you want? Me. What do you want me to do? Archer. Or Roan, do you
want to do the comments? Yeah, I'm trying to get to... Come on! I was trying to get down to the
comments. There's a link at the top of it to get you there. I know I struggle like this.
This is me. How did this guy pass the audition, David?
I've asked the audition. Now we're doing a show on how you participate in the community news.
Where is the link to the... Are you on episode 3, 4, 3, 4, 3, 8?
Ah, I know what's happening. So you top up each of the pages themselves.
Oh, that's what I do. And then you get the comments on the pages themselves.
And then we... What I normally do is press the next button, next button,
until I go too far and Dave says, oh, okay, and I think you're going into next month's show,
which is written into the script on page 7.
It's our standing room deal. Okay, I think I'm with the... I think I'm with the program now.
Excellent. So comment number two. And take 42. Go. Hello. Did I have my push to talk on while I
was trying to read that comment? You didn't. Okay, silence will have removed 10 seconds of silence there.
Comment number two. By Linux for security, browser. Fogueris or Fog UIS is a good one.
Okay, could you do that with more feelings and a bit of animation?
No, I want to be messing. I've never heard of that. Is that a browser? I want to search for it.
Is that a browser or is it a search? I have no idea. No, no, I mean either.
I did have a look. Yeah, it's a browser up on the Google Play. Okay. Okay, you're
turn off. I show it would be nice. Be ideal to have a little show about that. Why you like it?
What it brings as opposed to any other browser. It offers in-app purchases. Indeed.
Okay, the next show was Linux in-laws. This one with the BSTs.
How do these guys manage to line up so many people for so many interviews? It's absolutely
awesome. Yes, yes. I know. I know. The panel they had was pretty impressive and the
discussion was amazing. I thought I, BST, I've written down here. BST both sounds interesting as well as
the undesirable. Well, don't ask me to give you a compliment too.
That's my review and I'm sticking out. No, but it sounds great, but it feels like you're
sort of in a bit of a straight jacket if you're using it, but that was a message I've got.
Anyway, I've never used it in Ernest. So, all other than old Unixes, which were BST,
Akaram, which were BST now, but yeah, but it was fascinating to listen to, really good.
Yeah, I really enjoy that that particular talk and their shares in general, at least when I do
go for the knowledge, they do amazing job and get some really good guests on their show.
They do. Claudio M's has the best of BSTs, great episode gents. That was an awesome interview.
I could have listened for even longer if you do go the full three hours a little.
Definitely better guests for interview than I'd ever be.
Running joke, the one Claudio M on for a interview, I actually think that would be kind of cool,
given his history. Yeah, interesting guy.
If you want to take Zenflarter 2's, come to please.
I'll do Zenflarter 2, who says this show put me up a tree in being a squirrel.
I had to play this show about three times to get all the content out of it.
That's a good point, actually.
It's good and running, isn't it?
Good now, 3 on Open BST is extremely easy, as GDM does all work for you.
Sending up parts audio is probably the hardest part, most newbies have difficulty with.
But you know, this squirrel is second-tired of heavy dust tops.
I'm also getting second-tired of Intel AMD 64 platforms, plastic CPUs from L.
And along for the main frame days, where we just used a dumb terminal, I was happy then.
I have a few BSTs service to use for SSH, which satisfy this urge.
But I need to buy some dumb terminals and put Open BST on my Raspberry Pi 400 thingy.
We take two Chromebooks and just drown them both in a deep bathtub somewhere.
As long as it doesn't record the bathtub filling, that's okay.
There's no such thing, sorry, I shouldn't have been interjecting there.
There's no such thing as a perfect desktop.
I hate them all.
Those desktops always leave you feeling unsatisfied with, like, why do we even put up with desktops?
What drives Fedora to continue on with GNOME?
What are they going to get out of it?
What will IBM get out of it?
Everyone should run OpenBSD or NetBSD or Figuita or how about Geeks
with the herd instead of all this Linux stuff.
I want something different on the computer table.
Really, GNOME and SystemD is like slow creeping cancer.
And the boring cancer too, it limits fall off one at a time every three to four years.
He's not very clear about his love for SystemD there.
Does he still like it?
Yes, he's got some slightly negative vibes on the Linux front, but yeah.
I think, definitely, he's feeling the love there for SystemD.
I'm sure of it.
Yeah, yeah, SystemD.
Go on.
No, go on, SystemD is the thing.
I just want to say SystemD, I was up for following the hate, but I don't say anything to hate,
particularly. It's not bit me at all, but there you go.
That's just my experience.
Okay, the following day, we had lighten layer modes.
We continue to look at the layer modes in GIMP with lightened modes.
And this is a hookah's continuing series on working his way through the GIMP
as with all the show's excellent discussion.
Basically doing with the GIMP what he did with the LibreOffice episode.
And this time he has videos of various different topics into the show notes.
Always go, also, always go to his own website where there's full right up on this with images.
Yeah, I haven't done that this time. Let's pick the one.
It's a good, good reminder.
I need to go and look.
It does a wonderful job, yes.
Yeah, I always just keep a hookah in the back of my head whenever I'm using the GIMP
or open office, LibreOffice.
I just say, do I need some help?
I know where to go.
Exactly.
Yeah, good, yeah.
And the best part about the LibreOffice series for me has been,
has my son occasionally had stuff that he needs to submit in the graph or something,
and you actually happened four days ago or something where I was open to one o'clock
doing a logarithmic graph.
And the thing is because I've listened to a hookah's show, I know that LibreOffice can do it,
but I may have completely forgotten how, but at least, you know, it's not something you're
going to spend two hours researching and only to discover it's not possible.
So that really shortens the amount of pain.
So whether you go to his episode or whether you go just to stack overflow to find out
how to do it, at least you know it can be done, which is a brilliant start.
Cool, yeah.
Murphy Bench was operator's next show and DIY woodworking and hacking.
And this was a Murphy bed is a bed that folds away in tiny apartments.
I've never, I've only ever seen one on TV, but this is a bench that folds away.
And if you want to see this, there's an animated gift in the show notes.
Yeah, cool.
A great idea, a great idea.
Absolutely.
Would tell some nice tales of what he needs and some of the things falling off.
Falling into a bucket of water, you say at one point.
So yeah, good.
Yeah, I do like the idea.
I just, I'm just afraid knowing me, it would not ever be actually folded away,
which has become a permanent cable account in the wall.
Yeah, exactly, exactly, yes.
The next day we had, what is this thing called science?
Critical thinking is only part of the equation and here's the other part.
This is a tattoos response to HBR3414.
Critical thinking may make you critical of your coronavirus and there are several comments to that.
Brian and Ohio says, science, look at the show notes.
I wish science was as pure as you'd say it is, but where money is concerned, you can't deny
people have gotten wealthy because of COVID-19.
The science gets tainted.
Richard Feynman would often point out how difficult science experiments are to do,
especially in biological science, where control of variables is almost impossible.
Proof that science around COVID is modeled as any science can be seen when the scientist
decide to vaccinate the police or play a stable group in the study.
Yes, that's the whole URL, the big lung URL.
The decision was driven by opinion not facts.
Science is hard and flawed.
Trusting the experts can lead to things like system D when they say just trust us, it works.
Also, much of what we call science is actually engineering.
Development of risk architectures is probably done by engineers.
With goals are different than science.
Lastly, the famous scientist said, if you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough.
I actually agree with quite a lot of Brian's comments there.
Science is in fact hard, but just because it's hard doesn't necessarily mean it's wrong.
It means you can mess it up along the way.
But part of the process is that you say, oh hell, I messed that up.
Right, let's go and fix that and carry on.
You know, you're not reaching perfection ever.
No perfection is there at all, but you're striving towards it.
Do you want to do the next comment there, Dave?
Yes, we have a comment from EHFFFF.
I'm not sure how you're supposed to pronounce that.
So he's talking about Class II COVID and science.
Class II, the science endeavours us with our hypothesis that is lately given weight
by scrutiny from all known effecting factors.
You'll claim that COVID-19 dangers and effects are known and an accepted condition by
medicals is false as that stance presumes ethics and truths with part employment and statistics
gathered during the so-called COVID-19 pandemic.
It also presumes all medicals are on board COVID-19 agenda, which is totally incorrect.
If you didn't show to your mind or you only exposure sort of filtered social media by the way
not being offensive, he would know that it's commonplace for hospitals to place anyone with
symptoms of COVID-19 that includes influenza into an induced coma and then intubation and ventilators.
This makes attending hospital in this year with any cold or flu dangerous.
The ventilators are known to damage the lungs and should only be used in extreme situations
where no other option is available.
It's also common knowledge that hospitals around the world are refusing to use antiviral medications.
It's not part of the COVID-19 agenda to use them with early political demons demonization.
Hospitals are also sponsored for deaths and treatment of COVID-19 with money lump sums.
Therefore, the deaths and surviving patients reflect the malpractice
resulting in bad statistics used in your science assumption.
The COVID-19 vaccines, another field of corruption and dangerous anti-quotes the duck duck go URL on.
Okay, I'd like to see some evidence to support those statements.
Do you want to read the King Bull's please?
I can do that.
By King Bull's scientific methods, selectively apply based on feelings.
Your counterpoint is spot on and well said.
The analogy to CPU design and construction is well done.
There is a lot of chemistry and physics involved that even I have a hard time following.
As a chemist, I am defaulted by some of my colleagues for getting the scientific method
in single in COVID-19 vaccination as either unimportant or a conspiracy.
As compared to the dozens of other vaccines we all have taken,
I sure as a heck don't do not want to return to the good old days of polio, smallpox,
diphtheria, measles, tetanus, hepatitis A, such B, flu, HIB,
protecis, mumps, and I don't even get me started on chickenpox.
Matt Sweeney says, hats off to you.
Ksatu, a very elegant rebuttal, hats off to you for your measured
a thoughtful response and coolness in the face of such astonishing ignorance.
Dave, you get to do...
I've got Mr. E-H-E-H-H.
Quadroot left.
Would it be better in binary than one's if it was your normal?
Yeah, anyway, Mr. Hexadassimo, the pharmacist,
King Beowulf, polio was already being eradicated by a hygiene measures.
Also, polio disabilities are also the symptoms of other effects,
like radiation damage, which was a new technology of the era and people got exposed to high levels.
Polio epidemic was caused by many factors.
The polio vaccine is definitely not the cause out of that disease.
The modern spread of polio has been by polio vaccine.
Do the research.
Sorry, citation leader is behind that as well, please.
Absolutely.
Citation after every point, really.
Measles was never considered dangerous during it being common.
The people get natural immunity and creating a better scenario than current.
You've probably heard a Brady Bunch episode of having measles, a measles party.
Well, that was the go in that period.
The people got it and got over it.
Near to zero issues and resulted in better outcomes of being naturally immune.
Okay, do you want to carry on there, Dave?
Vaccines are in themselves a danger.
And of course, many new conditions like autism and SIDS never experienced by most before 80s
before the vaccine regime.
One in 54 birds are now autistic.
Autism in communities that don't vaccinate and need to zero.
Citation, please.
Okay, let's move on.
Excellent.
Neutron battery replacement.
Ron describes replacing the battery in his neutron EM41 electric lawnmower.
Gosh.
If there was only somebody here who could talk about this show,
it was refreshing to have a technical podcast this month, I must say.
But if he only knew how to set the recording voltage recorder better,
I...
Yeah, but at least he is open to feedback.
And because of that,
yeah, we were in touch with Taj to see if we could get the better recordings and
touch hits and tips which are now up on the website.
So you can get them there.
Have you had a chance to use that application?
No, not yet.
And actually, I just posted another podcast today.
But unfortunately, I sort of have a little bit of a backlog with so you still have to hear some.
That's fine.
Some some perfect examples of less than ideal audio.
Yeah, Flack is best, we accept the rest.
So it's about content, not quality, although we are always striving to improve the audio.
And yeah, we're going to be doing some more of that, but we'll discuss that later.
So nobody is interested in rechargeable lawnmowers because nobody commented.
No, it was good.
It's very irritating that the company presumed he's newton.
And it's extremely hard to look at that word and not pronounce it newtron.
Because he just didn't say newtron, he just didn't say newtron.
And so it wrote himself.
So it's just a daft piece of marketing you think to come up with a name like that.
Maybe it's somebody's actual name, I don't know.
But it's an easy trap to fall into.
Well, I for one found it interesting.
Not that I have a lawn large enough to have an electric lawnmower,
but the process of replacing the batteries and stuff I do find interesting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I'm just in the process of removing lawns because I hate them.
So I'm about not to need such a thing.
Yes, I do.
So with us, well, I'm glad people were finding it interesting.
At least a quorum of two.
Exactly 100% of his pure audience believes it's an awesome show.
The following day, jealousy struck when what's the handle?
I think it's a nihilazo.
It was like the joining together of a nihil as a nihilism.
A-Zo, I assumed.
So nihilazo, perhaps.
Yes, the one who got the Sion series 5MX from you, Dave.
That's a person.
That guy, yes, yes indeed.
I'm so jealous and so jealous.
Brian and Ohio says, compliment, I loved the show.
Nice to hear about older hardware being used.
And Gumnos says, looking forward to this one,
I've long desire to room the 5MX.
Possibly running either Linux or NetVSD.
But I've never been able to justify the cost outlay to myself.
Looking forward to hearing about your adventures with it.
And Comet cycle said,
trip down memory lane.
Great to hear a show about a Sion PDA.
I still have a Raybo somewhere in need of repair.
Never got around to getting it working directly with Linux,
but used under a VM with Windows XP and Lotus Smart Suite.
Wow.
Dave, do you want to do your own show?
I'll do my own comment on it.
So I wrote to say, great show.
Hi, Neil Azoo.
Thanks so much for doing the show.
It was excellent.
Because we had a pat that he would do this show eventually.
It brought to my eye to hear the story of my old Sion being so well appreciated and cared for.
I worked for University IT department here in Edinburgh in my passport.
These devices for all of the managers in the department.
I use mine a lot of the years.
Occasionally, I'd record audio on it.
There's got little buttons on the outside.
You can use it as a recorder.
But more than often, I'd write notes in meetings or use its calendar and contact application.
I'm pretty certain that can I put documents to a printer using a built-in IR device.
I had them on the Chrome HP LaserJet in my office,
which would accept documents over IR.
It was really useful in this regard.
No idea how you do that these days.
So an IR device on a Raspberry Pi.
Hope to hear more about your adventures with the Sion
and anything else of interest to hackers in the future.
Excellent.
Lovely device.
Yeah, it was good.
Bit fragile.
But it had been used consistently for a number of years.
That bendy cable was bound to go eventually.
Yeah.
Very impressed and managed to get it fixed though.
The next day was another show.
You, true critical thinking, seems to be the key.
And this is also a counterpoint to 3, 4, 1, 4.
Okay, let's start from the top of the comments.
Iron Helix.
This is the way to handle misinformation.
I applied.
You both for addressing this with facts and patience.
I'm without dipping into any personal attacks well done and enjoyable listen.
Thank you both for challenging the other episode logically
and for bringing some sanity to the conversation.
Best wishes to you both.
So Aaron B says,
reasoning.
This is not a criticism for this podcast which is something
I come across once in a while.
I will hear people say,
I believe in this,
I don't believe in that because I reason.
Which it's nice when people can declare themselves a reasonable person.
It's different to others.
Others else use them that way.
Okay.
About that sentence, but yeah.
Okay.
And by E8HFFF common sense,
consider that COVID-19 dangers are the spike protein.
If the COVID-19 vaccine creates spike protein,
therefore, it's a question of scale of damage.
COVID-19 vaccine injections are inherently damaging.
Some getting anaphylactic shock and death from the injections.
Kevin O'Brien says,
bravo as a very good analysis that uses genuine critical thinking.
One thing I haven't seen anyone point out yet is that the original show
much is made of the idea that masks are not airtight.
Of course, there aren't.
If there were people wearing them would die.
Exclamation mark.
I've worked in several hospitals in my career and masks do a decent,
not perfect job of what they are intended to do.
If I were being prepared for surgery,
and my surgeon said he would not wear a mask,
air coats, because I don't believe in them air coats,
I would most certainly stop everything and get a better surgeon.
Brian and Ohio risk.
Good show.
One exception I'll take is that all Americans turn to Anthony Fauci
for our information is just not true.
The man is flawed and so is his wife.
The only thing lacking in both podcasts is discussion of risk analysis.
All people have different levels of risk they are willing to take.
Politicians and policymakers creating one-size-fits-all solutions,
like arbitrary social distancing dimensions,
lead many people to become suspicious and consider riskier behavior.
I do agree with the earlier comment about using
I feel or I believe language.
That tends to be a pinion.
A shell on risk analysis would be very beneficial,
just in general would be very beneficial,
because it's a tough thing to get your head round
and humans aren't incredibly bad at it.
Indeed.
So I replied to EHFF, comment number three,
where it made a point about the spike protein.
So I said, in general viruses break in in quotes to cells
in order to use the replication machinery to make more viruses.
In this case of SARS-CoV-2,
a spike protein is part of the virus that is used to break in.
It's not dangerous in itself.
It's part of the toolkit this virus uses to gain control of cells
and make more viruses.
In order for the human immune system to fight against the foreign chemical
or antigen, usually a protein of some kind,
since living things use proteins as building blocks,
it needs to be exposed to the antigen and build antibodies
and other immune responses.
Many of the vaccines use methods of delivering or generating
the spike protein in order to teach,
in quotes, the immune system what to be alert to.
Some use killed viruses instead,
but none of these are in use in the USA and Europe to my knowledge.
I think Russia and other parts of the world use that stuff.
So vaccines are not inherently damaging as you state.
They cause the immune system to react,
which is the point in this can result in soreness at the injection.
So fevers, eggs and similar symptoms, yes.
And a proactive shock can result from an allergic reaction
to the vaccine itself,
as it can from peanuts, eggs, insect bites,
seafood, for example.
In the UK, as I said in the show,
we are asked to wait for 15 minutes after our vaccination
in case such an allergic reaction is triggered
and there are medics nearby to deal with any such emergencies.
Oh, that's what that's all about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They do actually ask you if you have any allergies,
but I don't think the majority of the current virus vaccines
are contain things which are likely to trigger allergic reactions.
Unlike the flu virus, for example,
for the vaccine, I keep forgetting these words,
mixed, which is made in eggs
and therefore can trigger egg allergies.
Do you want to do the next one?
I'm not sure I do it.
I'm happy to do the next one, if you like.
Yeah, because probably against the pronounced words
like the very luck list in Muni Muni.
I'm not guaranteeing, I'm not guaranteeing.
Anyway, this is a response to Brian and Ohio
who made comment number five about risk.
From my point of view, Dr. Fauci is a skilled
virologist and immunologist.
I've heard him on virology podcasts long before COVID-19
and found him very impressive as a scientist
and as a human being.
You refer to risk analysis and you're right.
We didn't deal much with this subject in our show.
You write that the risk individuals are willing to take
and I often see this point being made.
The point made less often is the risk each person poses to others
unwillingness to avoid crowds to consider physical distancing
or to contesting the need for a mask
as stance is taken in relation to the objectors risk.
The risk to others seem to be disregarded
or given very low priority.
Okay, the next day we had operator with
I talk about converting Hitchpier audio to text and tagging.
Wow, this blew my mind.
Absolutely awesome because this would be very, very good
for doing the show notes, etc, etc, etc.
And operator had a comment there.
An example script I updated much script
which mostly works monkey farm names.
And he gives a link to the text.
I haven't actually looked at that.
I have to admit.
So yeah, just get me.
Yeah, because I'm sure it's on my list.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, me too, me too.
Oh, it's been on my list for a while actually for
what nearly 10 years to find some way of doing speech to text
for Hitchpier, which I imagine is doable.
But then he also does going to more valuable how
the show itself is definitely worth the listen
and if you're relatively short show,
but it's definitely worth the listen.
Like how useful is it to have 15,000 links
to the word they or and or, you know, stuff like that?
So yeah, I definitely enjoyed this show.
As a matter of fact, I've actually tried to use speech to text
to do my show notes or to get a transcription.
And I think that would be great.
That's the one thing that I've actually sort of slowed down
some of my shows in the past is I always wanted
this sort of perfect transcription to include.
And then, you know, trying to, I'm not going to just sit there
and transcribe my own, it's just too much.
But so it would be great if we could sort of start a project
maybe on the side to maybe work through that,
particularly with like you say the tagging,
but even just going back and getting old
transcription to shows.
Yeah, yep.
Improving the show notes in general.
I don't think it needs to be necessarily transcriptions
for a lot of shows.
For what works best for me is, you know,
just having bullet points of the topics
with a short summary and a link.
So I think Dave, you do a best with your shows
having a full transcription,
but then having the summary on the main page.
But we're not all Dave.
I just think in terms of notes,
notes are worrying my head and I want to write them down.
Even though they sort of a bit of a bludgeoned
for for people, I think sometimes it's just the way my brain works.
Now, I agree.
I don't think we really need transcriptions.
You can definitely tell if you look at my shows,
like which shows I wrote out and then just recorded from the notes
and then which shows with all the ums and odds
in them that I've, you know,
been part of.
Okay, the next show is Black Cornel's Journey
into Technology Episode Two,
where he struggles with Windows.
This was quite interesting.
Yes, he's doing a lovely job here.
I'm really impressed with his journey
and the way he's explaining it.
Yeah, early experience of that Windows XP
I wrote and he hates it.
I think his approach into computers in general
is a bit, is a bit unique.
I'm going to say odd, but I don't mean odd.
I mean, unique.
I think Platoon has has a new world order
where people write in about their way they can to Linux
and this is definitely combining our own
how you're going to detect with the emails coming in
to Platoon show.
This is definitely the most unique way of coming in,
like literally ones and zeros
for the assembly language.
Yeah, yeah, that's impressive, isn't it?
Yeah, I've been enjoying taking the journey with them.
Now, the following day, I was a show
about how would people know it's that role?
Wait, Geeks SD for System Disk?
How the hell do you get Geeks SD?
G-U-I-X.
Oh, yeah.
Let's see how you did that Geeks.
It is French.
I had to look it up and listen a couple times,
but it's a French distribution.
It was started originally.
I can't, I don't have the details off the top of my head,
but it is pronounced Geeks.
I've verified that multiple times.
And in this show, you go through what can only be described
as the trials and tribulations of installing and installing it on the Mac Mini.
And I really, really enjoy the show because I have
gone through this so many times with distributions.
And you look it up and then somebody goes,
yeah, you just installed this and I did this
and I installed it in 10 minutes later up and running.
Your experience installing stuff
is my default experience when I sit down in front of a computer.
And I have a Mac here that I got from work where I'm trying to install Linux
and it's exactly exactly the same pain torture and torment
that I've been going through.
But at least you had the tenacity to stay with it.
Well, we haven't quite mastered it,
but I'm glad that it was enjoyable and not triggering for you, Ken.
Not at all.
It was like great, there's somebody else out there who's going through this
and well, hopefully there'll be a successful follow-up story at some point in the future.
Two years from now.
Why geeks, why why this particular system run?
No doubt you'll cover that in another episode, Dave.
I could do that.
The brief answer is I've always liked
been intrigued by Guile, which is sort of what they base the language in the background
they're using, which is a scheme language.
And I like the idea of sort of the reproducible package builds and things like that.
So I've been trying to get into that more.
So it's just sort of a project that I was like, well, I need a project where I can
I can use it on a regular basis because like when I installed it in the VM, it went easily and I've
you know loaded a web browser and the desktop and I've played with it a little bit.
But like I haven't forced myself to either use it as my daily driver.
So I was just trying to look for a project I wanted to turn it into a backup server.
So then that would give me a reason to keep like learning more and how to do things with it more efficiently.
Yeah, yeah. Well, it certainly appreciate some shows on what you're finding about it.
I think Clackair has done some work in this area.
I remember him talking about it.
It was when I first came across the pronunciation as a skeeks.
So yeah, I don't remember exactly what he's done though.
And I think this show is a good example to people that we don't always want to hear about
the successes. Only hear about the failures. They're as useful.
Not saying that your show was a failure or anything, but
running into trouble, running into difficulty, that is as useful.
And that's arguably where we as hackers spend 90% of our time living in
failures, project failures and stuff. So let's hear about them.
Because if you get stuck at something, maybe somebody else knows something about that
and we have follow-up shows and the project actually gets finished.
All right, that's sort of my feeling for when I went ahead and
didn't just put that in the bin.
Yeah, cool.
The following day, we had Linux in laws, the Halloween documents.
And this is where monochromic and the guys go through a little bit of history of
Microsoft and school versus IBM, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Which is interesting to tell you.
You've been, I think I was aware of some of this, but just hearing a different take on it
is quite interesting.
Yeah, I'm always impressed with sort of their either direct knowledge of things or
what they sort of seem to be able to put together.
Yeah, the first, I think one of the earliest unixes that we installed at my work was
what was at that point called Coldeera, Coldeera, Coldeera Linux, right?
And that was, somebody was, yeah.
And then that became the Skow Unix, I think, didn't it?
Skow bought them out or something like that.
I don't remember, before there was much in the way of a good Linux system to install,
which we did as soon as it became available.
Yeah, it's fascinating what's been going on there,
and all the strange politics behind it.
And the next day, we had internal commands more about
dust, internal commands by Olga, an interesting walk down memory lane,
bit like the Linux and Marshall.
No comments on this.
It's really interesting.
I never used dust much.
We were not really able into PCs at my work as we had.
So minis and mainframes to play with.
So we were avoiding it for a number of years.
Then we had to fall into it big time.
I remember really used dust all that much.
It's quite interesting to hear.
I used it a lot.
Yeah.
So a lot of this brings a lot of, yeah, this, this series is definitely triggering me for sure.
The next day, we had brick link by operator, and I had
noted what this was going to be about until I heard it.
But an excellent little show, a nice one there for my,
anything that is of interest, tackers, muttle.
Yeah, yeah, it's very much a hackery thing, isn't it?
But you wouldn't automatically put that in the list, I guess,
if you were making a list of hacker-related things, but I know so many people who would be
very much into, who are very much into this, including me at various times.
So yeah, it was fascinating.
Yep, I enjoyed it myself, and I really loved the photo we included on the show note.
Yes, and now everybody who was listening to this has gone,
what the hell was that sure about?
Well, you're just going to have to download it and listen to it.
Yes, he threw me by sending a photo, but I was able to use my,
he's my script that I've written to handle it.
And it seems to work, okay, it's quite a big picture,
so you need to click on it to see it, it's full glory.
Now, if we were checking for somebody spanning the network,
it would be somebody who submitted three shows in the one month.
Who could that be?
That really wasn't my intention.
If there wasn't a call for shows.
There was a call for shows.
We were very low on shows.
We still are very low on shows, and could people please send in some shows?
Thank you.
But this is about the battery test for not the neuron, but the Newton battery test.
Yes, and this, this you can put in the success category.
Yes.
Very good.
Yes, it was good to hear.
Okay, let's move on to the next show by black kernel.
Rust 101, hello world, episode one.
This is a low world and where he does a hello world program in Rust
and discusses the program in general and macros and different functions.
I'm getting a lot from the series already, and we're only at episode one.
Yes, it's interesting to hear these sorts of analyses of programming languages.
Some of you wonder what the thinking was behind them.
You know, why is it ended up where it is?
But it's I'm sure that some of those answers will come to light in the future,
or it can be found elsewhere, but it's really good to get this sort of stuff I find.
And no comments on that one.
So the next day, we had a call for shows open, and I have a few of these knocking round,
was an engineering notation show, where we run through common engineering
notations used for ham radio.
Also, no comments.
But nicely done.
Yeah, it's good.
We need this sort of stuff.
It's so easy to forget what a pico is and stuff.
Yeah, it's stuff that you, if you don't know it, and you never took the time to learn it,
this is just an absolute basic minimum stuff that you need to know for ham radio.
So if you're ever considering, you also use it in daily life, but this is actually useful.
So what I want to do is, and other people, other ham radio people, please get involved here,
is I want to have these shows like the one that Platoon did with the NATO alphabet.
Stuff that you need to know, you just need to learn it.
There's no way around it.
If you read it over a few times, it'll come to you and just use it in your daily life,
and then you'll see it everywhere.
And if you're sitting down to do your exam, which will be different in every country,
there's some standardization in Europe, but when you're sitting down to do your exam,
you know that you've got at least 10 questions in the bag by the time we've done some of these
things. You love 10 questions already in the bag, and you can move on to the harder stuff then.
So the following day, we had podcast recommendation, IBM and Quantum Computing by Archer72.
If only he was available to talk about the show.
And I have another chance to listen to this, yes.
This one fell foul of our Creative Commons thing.
Unfortunately, the show itself is not Creative Commons, so we can't redistribute it.
I haven't had a chance to actually listen to the podcast he suggested, but I do appreciate
the heads up, and I did a nice job of summarizing what was going on in the podcast, and
definitely sounds like an interesting one to put into my pod catcher.
Exactly.
Yeah, same here.
And the notes are very impressive.
I was stunned by these notes as I was processing them.
There's some really good information there.
Speaking of Harm Radio, if you are doing Harm Radio stuff, all about Circuits.com will appear
in your searches sooner or later.
Carry on Dave, I'll cut you off.
No, no, it's fine, it's, I wasn't fully aware of how far quantum computing has got.
So it's quite surprising, but it's actually a thing that you can go and use on the on the net.
But yeah, I'm not really in this, I'm not really up to date with this sort of stuff,
but it's good to be laid into these sorts of things.
I shall download this one and listen to it next week when I'm on the
on the train now that I have to go back to work unless the change stay COVID rules again,
and I have to stay at home, but we'll see.
So there are 16 comments on seven previous shows. Can people stop please sending in comments
and start sending in shows? Good Lord, placky of all people placky.
No, it wasn't from placky, it was from, oh no, it was from placky.
About a show from placky.
Okay, I read the comment. The show was batch co proc the future 2009 is here by placky,
and the comment was placky responding to your comment Dave, real world use, thanks Dave.
Now go out, this is a quote, now go out and play with this and come back with an example of how
this is actually useful in the real world and submitted show. Dave Morris did so in HBR 3413
with a link, even though he concludes the features awkward compared to alternatives,
it's great to have a less contrived example.
I'm glad he enjoyed it. So next one is the show sent in by Daniel Person, who was,
did he actually send in the audio of the, I like that the boat is stuck, I can't remember.
He did, yes. So it was kind of funny because the links that we're using refer to the podcast,
and then I don't need the comment is from the person. So Daniel had done, I like that the
boat is stuck, he had read that. And that was another one that was that we had the creative
comments issue, wasn't creative comments when we started, but became creative comments as a result
of Daniel's show, which is awesome. It's a wonderful article, and so the comment from
Windigo, who we haven't heard from for a while, is amazing. Through various hardware and software
calamities, my podcast has been out of reach more than six months. Just recently, I've been
able to remedy it, and this was the first HBR episode in my queue that I was able to listen to.
Oh, how I've missed HBR. Thank you for the thoroughly enjoyable episode.
Excellent, excellent, excellent. Okay, so the comment is for episode 3414, critical thinking,
may make you critical of the COVID crisis. The comment is by E8HFF, comment sense.
How's the done an episode? Yes, let me just check that.
Don't believe so. Anyway, carry on and I'll get an answer when you're finished.
Okay, the comment by E8HFF, comment sense. This is a perfect example of common sense thrown out
the window, a bayonet the world today. You should never dispose of common sense and replace it
with mathematics. Mathematics and when used is statistical pursuit can only attempt to simulate
scenarios from data supplied or framed pictures of their very construction. Common sense is science.
That have observed commonalities and events, even as labeled as anecdotal setting conversation
and wise tales at set. Maths are not advantageous as you are complicating a situation of natural
body design. That of expelling toxins through the nose and hoping to breathe in cleaner air.
Maths can questionally increase viral bacterial load, therefore creating spreaders.
With the higher loads comes elevated depths and ailments, creating erroneous lethargy,
creating erroneous lethargy statistics for any said virus. That can result in political
overreach oversight as seen in COVID-19. The benefit of reducing virus particles with a mask
is outweighed by the damages they cause, common sense. No, you don't need a PubMed article to
comprehend that. Also, consider some people correctly breathe through their filtering nose
and other incorrectly through their mouth. Maths complicate breathing for those,
properly using nose and a spouse mouth use. On weather seasons have an effect on viruses and
contagion. You don't need to search for lab papers on cold weather and viruses' susceptibility
to disprove summer protections. Common sense should tell you that viruses are naturally
of the body via temperature. Therefore, summer can only assist in raising the body's heat
when infected, causing fast mitigation. This includes hot baths. You would also easily say
moisture assist in viruses' survivability in the environment, making cold moist weather
disadvantage health. Also, considering your stance is based on trust to politician and science
workers in industry, that is unquestionably a flawed stance. So, I wrote in response to that
a comment which I said, I assume you're commenting on show 3445, which is a response to this show 3414.
You are of the opinion that common sense outweighs the knowledge achieved through the scientific
method. History seems to disagree. The common sense prior to the discovery of germs and
quotes resulted in the death of many who would have survived if hand washing would be more common,
for example. There are huge numbers of similar examples. You make an assertion about masks,
which I disagree with. You assert that your view outweighs the research we cited in show 3445,
yet you're only support for this is that you stated this seems typical of the current trend
to put forward opinion, the superior to fact. You mistake trust in the scientific method and
the results of this method produces. In comparison to those who misrepresent this method and these
results, their own agendas and profits. Agreed that many politicians, industrialists and even some
dishonest scientists are known to do this. However, where human beings may sometimes be unreliable,
but properly conducted and peer-reviewed scientific method is not.
Yeah, and I think that supports Brian and Ohio's statement there that that is not about the
dishonest scientists and stuff. It's not always clear. Just because the scientists, it's not always
clear that when the scientific method is not followed, that doesn't mean the scientific method itself
is not valid. It is that it has not been followed correctly. You got to make sure that everything is
correctly peer-reviewed and that they, you know, you're not just all the other things that can go
around with sampling of methods of science, but it is double-blind tested that the group was
large enough that it was covered your statistical basis. So it's in itself adhering to the
scientific method is quite difficult and should always, that should always be challenged.
Anyway, Black Kernel says, rust 101 or no. I really need to redo this. Rust 101 Episode 0,
what is tarnishing by Black Kernel? Hunky Medoo had a comment, another fun way to learn rust,
and that is docs.rustlang.org, stable, rust by example.
And that has got the hello world program in there, which is types. Oh, yeah, that's kind of cool.
Oh, does that mean Hunky is a rust person? Does that mean Hunky could do some shows?
Oh, yes, absolutely. I'm sure that's the case. Go for it. So shall I do the next one?
Yep, you. Yep. So the next one is in response to living in the terminal by Black Kernel,
and it's from Gumnos, who talks of using C to pause in CMU's, not sure if you can understand,
but it's a music player, isn't it? The controls in CMUS are laid out like a traditional VCR
struck tape player from left to right in the bottom of the corner of a traditional Quarty keyboard,
and Z is previous X is play, C is pause, V is stop, and V is next, and these put rather nice
mini code symbols in there just to make it, to make it nice to to read. And I'm amazed that it
won't. I can't say it helps me remember much, but at least that's the reasoning behind the
non-minimonic keys. I didn't know this. That is excellent to know.
Now we just need little stickers to put on our keyboards. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that would be nice.
As available in the HBR shop. Okay, I will take the first of the next one.
So these are comments on episode 3433. A squirrel's thoughts about RMS by Zinfloor2.
Comment 1, 5DIN, Yikes. Moose to legalize pedophilia in Europe. Where did you hear of that from,
Breitbart? I live here. I should have heard about something like that. But so far,
everything goes in the opposite direction, towards more child protection, and there's even some
discussion about raising the age of consent. It's been 14 since the concept existed, which was
way before even you were around. As for cigarettes and beer on airplanes, your freedom stops were my
right to begin, and I feel I do have the right not to be covered in drug gunk and beer. Carbonated
drink don't work too well in low cabin pressure. I would also add that being able to get a gun
in your luggage at 12. It was a story. It was a story. For sure. Who's doing the next one?
Okay, good archer 72 says good call can. This was a good call putting the slammer on this episode.
There was about one minute in that there were facts about RMS, then dissolved. This was one in which
I could not finish as I am a parent like a lot of us in our little hacker space. I find the
subject of feed affiliate disgusting and tumult and I would imagine no appropriate here.
So Zen Flota comments, we're applying to Ben, who's comment one. Frames legalized pedophilia,
sea article. Frames becomes the latest EU nation to legalize pedophilia and it gives a link.
Frames follows a similar move in Germany to legalize pedophilia and age of consent to be 15 years
of age. Hey, four comment fours in Flota 2 reply to archer 72. I made the title of the show,
a squirrel's thoughts about RMS and the subject line reads RMS and the subject of freedom specifically
because I wanted to cover RMS's free speech rights being rejected by a community and wanted to
talk about that community, the actions and causing damage to Richard Matthew Stalman's person.
The show should you have listened to it all the way. It was not about pedophilia explicitly,
but rather about the violation of RMS's rights as a person under the law.
And I commented on this show and as you know, as you know, I tend not to comment politically on
shows, but this one I felt I had to because there was comment discussion in the background where
I was contacted and people were assuming my silence was approval on the show. So I placed this
comment into the show, which is disappointed with the show. I added a warning following a complaint
from a listener. Our guidelines are if you feel that your show will be considered in offense of
in every region of the world, then you can signal that when you upload the show. This was not done
in this case. Having now listened to the show myself, I want everyone to know that I personally
do not in any way endorse or support the opinions in the show. I am very disappointed with the show
and I'm sure Hitchbier would appreciate shows that covered these contentious and probably I
should have also included the word sensitive topics, provided they are handled with care,
compassion and without insulting anyone. So comment six is from Bob who
entitles it deliberately misleading. I thought HBL was dedicated to sharing knowledge in quotes.
So why is this host distorting the truth? And he includes a URL, factcheck.org with the
type of putting in front of Francis consent in issue into context. Question, did Francis pass a
law saying having sex with a child is okay? Answer no. Country already didn't have a legal
consent age. The new law makes it easy to file rate charges against adults who have sex with
those 15 or younger. Sorry. Comment seven, this is then floated or two. It's a reply to Ken Fallon.
Ken, I flagged the show using the supplied is flag as explicit switch which is provided on the
website. It seems I don't understand the difference in what you're requesting and this switch for
explicit content. Offences in the eyes of the beholder, frankly anyone can be offended by anything
Ken. The term offended is highly subjective and easily pooled. If you feel the show is too much
of a burden for you then by all means to lead the show. If however you want to keep the show to
use as an example to others then keep the show. Either way I promise you that I will not be offended,
not offended in any way. It's just the show Ken. Some kind of emergency I'm not quite sure of.
And Ben says in reply to number four, better late than ever I guess. The source you give is
question at best. As Bob pointed out France doesn't have an age of consent so the law actually added
one. Even though it is defined weaker than in the US. As for Germany as I said it already is 14
and won't change because 14 is also the start of the limited legal liability. The Germans generally
don't consider the idea of no sex until marriage and teenagers shouldn't have to go to jail for
trying themselves out and brackets rape is a different story because the lack of consent. There is
no recent move and no movement and the cited attorney doesn't even exist which should be a red flag
no matter of the story's content. Oh I don't know if I can read any of these comments guys.
COVID and science listen I'm just going to skip over them please please if you're interested in
this read them if you're not don't. There was an email possible calls and solution to subscriber
attrition which is an interesting thread which I want to devote some time to but if any of the
rest you feel we should read the comments about COVID feel free to jump in now. I think we can
just let people read through those comments themselves. Yep they're there and available so
that's the easiest way. Then and then I replied community news is putting you to sleep I think
that's interesting but so I find that use case a bit odd intro an outro being a bit loud is a
fair point we can fix the audio I can try fixing this on the community news which is this one
yeah and if people want to help out with the quality of audio on HBR there's a genuine request here
we have a few future feed on the syndication page where we post shows too so just as the as the
show comes in they will be posted to the future feed and then you can listen to the shows as they
come in so that's useful for people who want to hear shows straight away so it's possible that
after a backlog has built up or called for shows you might get 20 shows in one day and then
nothing for the next two weeks and and if you do that then the shows are officially posted to HBR
and then you can listen to them and that's when I do the quality control on the shows myself so that
I can listen to them then and if there's any issues with audio we at least have a fighting chance
of getting fixed before it hits the main feed so it's another replacement for the main feed it's
for tailpots so if people want to do that they can do it I don't personally think that they
people are unsubscribing because of the quality the audio cause traditionally the audio has been
crap has been spotty at best from the beginning but we should have a look at the theme after
doing tags on summary I can attest to that some of the sound quality has it's not the best
tis true tis true yeah great so somebody want to do summarized tattoos words and after reading out
a lot of those comments we've decided to do a separate show because we're short of shows
reading the comments on this discussion because it pertains to the intro and outro and it's
and the branding of HBR and a music list podcast so let's do that
so was there anything else in the comment thread no no so after this show if you have time Dave
or the rest then we can read the comments and submit it as another show coming out this month
or we'll do everybody's comments and give it the justice that it deserves yeah I don't have time
just now but we can pick another time sure no problem I would be interested in doing that with you
great great that would be awesome yep yep and we have the calendar of events and you want to do
the other business please so yes we on our aob the final bit first comment is that we're still
pumping shows older shows up to archive.org and I've managed to do 70 this month
which that should come up at the end but then might so then moving on to the tags and summaries
and this is a time for cheering and yes the two main players right here so we had 38 shows were done
in the last month and Archie 72 and Ron were the contributors didn't do any myself those
guys were just going at it like there was no tomorrow and it was amazing thank you so much
I'm having difficulties clapping and pressing push to talk at the one time so in search of
your own virtual clap there consider one hand clapping and a little bit so yeah I put the note
in here to say right there now more no more shows that need summaries or tags and we've had a bunch
of contributors to this project over the several years I don't actually know the number of years
we've been doing this but I prepared a list of all of the names that I have in my archive and I'll
just go through them very quickly a hooker Archie 72 of course BJB Cloud UM, CRVS, Daniel
Person, myself, Ken Fallon, Kirk Reiser, NY Bill, Ron, Tony Hughes and Windigo all contribute
to this project fantastic thank you so much for all of your help and there again you don't have
to contribute shows to contribute to this project it's an awesome job and I use this all the time
for looking at shows yes it's a it's a great thing to have I will be bringing taking down the tag
summary page so which currently says there's no more work to do and putting up something which
which is accessible for with all of the tags in alphabetical order which we have already but I'll
leave that in state well done okay so that was it thank you very much everybody for joining us
sorry it was such a mishmash of recording editing I apologize into myself mostly because I'm
going to have to edit and find more comments well it was fun joining the community news finally
and I'm hoping the audio for this sounds better than the last couple of my shows
the you sound great or mumble actually you should you should be recording your shows on mumble
I might have to give that a try yeah I've done that on occasion it does work as long as nobody else
comes in and says oh hello what are you doing excellent so tune in tomorrow and for another
exciting episode of hacker public radio radio show us now and share the software you'll be free
hacker you'll be free hacker join us now and share the software you'll be free hacker you
will be free that was a go-to-sleep version of course they want to have heard the discussion about
the show notes so they won't know what that means okay thank you very good bye
you've been listening to hacker public radio at hackerpublicradio.org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an hbr listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hacker public radio was founded by
the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is
released under creative comments attribution share-like 3.0 license
