Episode: 3001
Title: HPR3001: HPR Community News for January 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3001/hpr3001.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 14:43:31

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3,001 for Monday 3 February 2020.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for January 2020,
and as part of the series HPR Community News, it is hosted by HPR Volunteers
and is about 44 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is
HPR Volunteers, Dave and Ken talk about shows released and comments posted in January 2020.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio Community News.
This time for January 2020.
Joining me tonight is...
Hello, it's Dave, Boris, I'm an usual bad penny and all that sort of stuff.
And for those of you joining for the first time,
HPR's Community Podcastness, where the shows are contributed by people not only very much like you,
they are contributed by hosts exactly like you.
And this is a rundown show where once a month we go back and have a look at all the shows that have been posted.
And quite a lot of people I think are using that as a means to download,
to cherry pick the mixer match type thing for which shows they want to download in the coming month.
And we've had, unfortunately, no new host this month, Dave.
We have not, no, no, but there you go.
So, here it goes.
So, shall we start with the first show of the year?
It was by operator and it was a garage door.
And this one was about how to do maintenance and repair on a motorized garage door.
Not having a car.
This didn't really apply to me, but is I know a lot of people who do have garage doors to make it applied to them.
Yeah.
Ireland, at least back in the day, there wasn't that many automatic garage door openers, boss.
There are a few around these parts, but mostly the door, most popular door style is where it hinges up rather than rolls.
It's sort of multi panel that rolls up or, you know, you know what I mean.
So, I don't know, I don't know what type this was.
I would be fascinated to have had seen a picture because I like to know how these things work.
I always want to know.
And there were no comments on that one.
The following day, the John Colp was doing some bicycle free wheel maintenance,
a show which I listened to as I was leaving the airport.
And Dave commented, is that you Dave?
It is not.
No, it's a, it's a very such a rare name, you know.
Somebody impersonating you, Dave.
Yes.
Shall I read it?
Please do.
Dave says, like the show, I just wanted to say how much I like the episodes by Mr. Colp.
Yes.
Has to be all I think.
Yeah.
I like, you never know what he's going to come out with next, but it's always going to be enjoyable.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I have had the experience he was describing where the free wheel gets gummed up and stuff.
So, yeah.
So, it's very good.
And a picture.
Wow.
Yes.
John was good with the old book.
The following day was the interview Kevin and myself did on with Randle and Ern over there on possibly
5.
5.
3.
So, we redistributed this here.
Yeah.
I think that worked really well, actually.
I think you two did a fantastic job.
So, yeah.
I was great to have Kevin on.
There I was just focused on his pure, but he was more chilled out.
I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's chilled out sort of guy, I guess.
He is.
And he's also added to, I don't know if people know this.
Kevin submits.
Well, people know this.
Kevin submits shows on regular basis, does series, but when he submits the shows, he basically
does them all and then uploads the entire series and won't go.
So, so we're a party a little bit to at least knowing what's coming up.
And you can, too, if you go to the upload section of the HPR website, you'll be able to see what's coming down the line.
So, he's got some very interesting shows coming up in the future.
So, we had the HPR community news for December and we failed again.
Dave, we didn't say anything controversial.
No, no, we're losing our grip.
I guess it's going downhill to say something really, really unpleasant or rude or something.
Sing a song.
Oh, maybe people didn't want to say anything because of the topic of harassment.
Indeed.
Yes, yes.
So far, nobody has contacted me about this.
And I'm just wondering, should we email the previous hosts to ask them directly.
The last time I ever contacted them was, I know a lot of people didn't appreciate the fact that I did contact hosts.
But maybe this one would murder a firing off a quick email.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't know whether it's the sort of thing we should ask the mailing list for an opinion.
Absolutely.
That part of the community might have some interesting things to say, rather than us sort of making that decision out of the blue.
Yep, good.
Thank you, Dave.
And that their folks is exactly how we did an ideal with these sort of questions.
Do something comes up where it's clear, you know, the spam on the website.
Yeah, we delete it because there's no free speech involved there.
It's just we've agreed our policies and air quotes on the HDR website is we have been programmed to know what to do in that situation.
Whenever we hit something that we don't really know what to do, I will ping Dave and he will ping me and we'll have a look at what we've done in the past or what was up in on the mailing list before.
But when in doubt, we shout basically over to the HDR mail list and that everybody have pitching on the decision, including ourselves as HPR hosts, taking off the volunteer house and putting on our host as HPR members.
So that's it.
That's done.
We can get some excellent feedback, I think, from that sort of so it's a great, great way of doing things.
And it also gives you a feeling for different aspects that I wouldn't consider myself.
So you get different viewpoints.
Sometimes you go, what the hell?
I go to bed and I wake up in the following morning and go, you know, that's actually a very valid point.
So it's always good to wear 24 hours before we're applying to the mail that wisdom of crowds thing is it really does work.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Anywho.
Yeah, north to south, send a thingy out to the mailing list.
So the following day, the world of Commodore 2019 episode for bare metal Commodore 64 emulation on a Raspberry Pi.
This was another one by Paul Quirk.
And he, yeah, this one, this person had tried to get the apparently when you, you know, just give you a summary, when you do the emulation, it's very slow normally to boot up and you don't get the real Commodore 64 experience.
So this guy, Randy went back and, you know, programmed a bare metal emulation using Linux, but stripping it down to the bare metal.
It was fascinating to listen to.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's amazing what what people do.
Isn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
I was in all have to say.
Absolutely.
No comments on that one.
People are quiet this month, but no doubt.
And if you're for we will get comments on that one.
And the following day, jazz, jazz, Waltz is along.
And does the show that I've been planning for the last four years that doesn't tell me about it.
This folks what is what happens when you procrastinate somebody will do the show.
So best thing that you can possibly do is stop procrastinating and send in the show.
So thanks very much.
Jesper for that.
A lot more concise than my waffling would have been.
Well, yeah.
Jesper does get to the point very quickly and he's got got some really pithy things to say.
You know, it's some really good good stuff there.
I've just been discussing lineage lineage OS with my son who's still on his phone.
And I've got an older.
A sonnage and derivative.
But lineage is the obvious way to go.
So this thing to this was it was.
It's just a case of finding a time where you can do the stuff you need to do to your phone without.
You know, having a need for the phone as a phone and all that stuff.
But I will get it and get to it soon.
I have.
Yeah, I've been thinking about doing this episode, but it's more about.
Yeah, maybe when I'll do it.
Every time I go to do it, I think is there going to be use in it because every time I go back, I have done the.
So I go through a space where I need to install lineage updates on people's phones around here because I got.
You know, I have about six phones here in the house that run the need for the kids and then I have an old phone that I keep.
That's got Google services.
And so I download the APKs there.
And basically that turns on.
I do updates and then I copy the APKs for anything that they need for school work on to answer the other phones.
Not one to.
But every time I go through it, like I have this text file, then I'm updating with show notes.
And it changes every single time I cannot get consistency in this to do the show.
So I hit to like start doing the show and then people using this as a how to.
So really, it wouldn't be a how to show it would be more a.
This is the state of the art at this particular point in time.
Which I think was going to be a whole lot of use in six months time because things will have changed again.
So.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a rapidly moving thing.
Yeah, maybe it's a.
It's a show over.
Yeah, I should just do a warning show.
Okay, this is what's going to happen if.
If you open this kind of words.
Anyway, yes, yes, yes, yes, I could, I could wish on about this.
Oh, yeah.
Which were away.
No, just really to say, I only discovered term acts within the past six months or so.
And it's the most wonderful thing ever.
So it's really glad that.
Jesser was.
What's ex都ing.
She's there.
Yeah.
Fantastic.
And J. W. P. is now a red hedge.
She'll red hat.
She'll for.
For HP, which is great.
Congrats to him.
Couldn't happen to a nice guy actually.
And was going through red hat eight on a low end laptop.
Yeah, cool.
Never, never occurred to me that one would do that.
Of course, money though.
Isn't it?
Yeah, be the.
But it's supported by.
Red Hat, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, we we ran red had.
Enterprise Linux at work.
But that was a.
Still do, I think quite a lot.
At the time.
My work.
But yeah, so we used it a lot, but.
Not on a desktop or laptop machines in those days.
So though we did use red hat before it became enterprise Linux on everything.
But.
Those that those are into Linux.
Okay.
And the next day we had a firefox updates with some recent useful add-ons.
And this is by a hooker.
So they had the talking about the sharing between different accounts.
And also about Facebook containers that container is actually quite a good thing.
I use that quite a lot.
If you hit the plus button and keep it pressed, then you can have your own firewalls.
Tab for various different things.
So when I was on the open my own tablet.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I did put the Amazon.
I use firefox for Amazon.
And I've got it in a container.
But the tabs there permanently.
It's a pin tab.
So it's constantly in that container.
So I hadn't really explored containers other than that.
But we're certainly not Facebook.
I don't know anything to do with that, but.
Yeah.
It's very cool.
You can protect yourself from these horrible organizations.
It's a bit better these days.
It's a pity that you're after, but there you go.
Oh, it's surveillance capitalism.
It's the thing.
It's what we need to kill.
We need to kill the whole business of capitalism coming into our houses and.
Into our heads and into our bodies, probably in the future.
And use of Dave.
Do not necessarily refer to you.
So it's pure as a whole.
I don't have been watching the wrong YouTube videos.
I know because I have your browser history over.
Yes.
Yes.
Hmm.
An operator had a quick update about the only key, which is, which was interesting.
I've not heard of it before.
It was to, I think, to store your store and use your passwords.
So yeah, it's a physical hardware device that you can.
That you can keep your passwords secure.
Yeah.
It's quite good.
It kept saying you be key.
And I wasn't sure they were talking about you be key or only key, but.
Yeah.
I think there's quite a lot of similarity between the two from what I understood.
But I've not really delved into the details yet.
But yeah, it sounded like a good thing to have one or the other.
These are commenting system working.
Because nobody's commented.
Well, I've certainly approved a number of comments, but.
It's not been a lot.
So the next show was a presentation about new games coming to Commodore.
Commodore again from Paul Kirk.
And there were no comments on that one, which was interesting to see that new games are being developed still for Commodore 64.
It's amazing, actually.
Yes.
Yes.
It would have thought how many other machines of that era getting that that amount of work done.
It's quite every fun.
You're really, really interesting.
Yeah.
It'd be like seeing stuff with the BBC again.
It would be cool.
Yeah.
Oh, by the way, we've got seven comments in total.
But this, this one.
Okay.
Cool.
So I was just just a way looking.
Oh, yeah.
You were going to panic them there already.
It's probably just.
I don't know.
That's right.
So the following day, we had a tale of two hackers.
This is by Sigplub.
And there are some comments on this one.
Do you want to do the first place?
Claudio En says, welcome back.
So good to have you back on HPR.
Pretty neat story.
Do you have more like that?
I'm sure others would be interested in hearing stories like that.
Again, welcome back.
And unfortunately, I felt I needed to come up to offer my condolences on behalf of everybody at HPR.
Arasun, who we, who she, who she interviewed in episode 2592, took her own life, I think.
And that's passed away.
That was very sad news to hear.
Yeah.
I thought it'd go out.
It was absolutely.
To Sigplub.
And if anybody is, you know, in that sort of a zone.
Yeah.
There are friends here in HPR that.
We'd like a chat with you before you decide to take that sort of drastic option.
Indeed.
Yes.
Quite a bum show.
Yeah.
Anyway.
Well, moving on.
New Year's show, episode one.
Kevin wants in a panic to get these uploaded.
Yeah, the third off.
As with HPR, if you volunteer to do it, then it gets done.
So this was the first show where it was actually quite relaxed.
And weirdly enough, my kids were sitting outside listening to this live stream for hours.
I found it immensely bizarre, but apparently.
For half an hour, one of them was listening to it.
She says, yeah, it was great.
You could tune out.
It was like white noise.
Thank you.
Believe it.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
People witchering.
Yes.
I like that.
So however, the magic mirror, two things was absolutely awesome.
I've set that up here on one of the PCs without the magic mirror part because I can't get the glass.
It's very expensive.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
And it's not appropriate, but not the mirror just on the monitor sitting here telling me the news headlines so speak.
Yeah.
It's a really great thing.
And I'm really likely to be in Iran for so long.
So yeah, yeah, cool.
It kind of gives you your serious access to online APIs and stuff and, you know, you're kind of hacking on those and that's interesting and useful,
and a very useful sort of life skill to have.
sort of life skill to have in these days where everything's a microservice.
Yeah, yeah. Now, it's got great potential, I think.
So yeah, maybe maybe an HBR show, just to bring people up to speed might be
might be a good idea to know. Several years behind behind the curve, but still
might be might be worth talking about a little bit. So we have two comments.
One is by B and B, I am, beyond silence. Silence removal is not very kind to me.
I must it made for a good disjointed rambling though. So yes, yes, I think he's saying that
the silence, truncation attributes that were used to process the show,
were clipping some of the words a little bit. I did notice it to, you know, attach,
and it's really a difficult thing to get right. But I have a show in the works
where I'm actually going to explain what I did to try and improve my own work in that area.
So it's just waiting for the audio to be recorded. The second comment was from
somebody completely different called Brian. Exactly. He said, oops, there's a crack in my screen,
right where my name was misspelled in that comment. At least I'm laughing this morning.
I thought that was wonderful. I'd have fixed it if he'd asked, but it's actually much more fun
that he came back with a comment to explain that he ain't this touched his name.
I could just see it now in years to come when all these children will be called B and
where will the origin of that name come from?
That's a wonderful idea, yes. Although you want to be fairly desperate for names,
if you start picking them from the comment section, I'll pick you up. Yeah, sure enough.
So Daniel Pearson gave us a JDK 14 wrap-up session, which I thought was going to be immensely
boring to start off. Let's be honest. But I found myself, you know, at the last time,
oh, position over. So you asked him for making what is going to be a dry subject, very,
very interesting. Yeah, it's, I had not realized. I don't remember anything about Java, really,
other than it exists. It looks very verbose when you look at the code. But yeah, it's got so much
in it. It's a hell of a powerful thing. I think I said before my son is learning Java as part
of his computer science degree at the moment. And he's actually enjoying it quite a lot.
His first reaction was a year. I don't want to do this. And now he's really enjoying it. So,
you know, I think it's one of these barriers that you have to get past and then
realize it's actually a lot more powerful than you, than you perhaps thought.
I'm the user, a lot of Java at work, and I'm actually surprised at how much it's come off.
Since I use, I mean, people are using a lot of libraries now, so a lot less hairy.
So the following day, we had Bix, your fog machine, or save your fog machine, which was again by
operator, and he has fog machines for Halloween over there in the States, and ended up
rather than buying a new one, ended up getting two, and then using one of Spare's two cheapest.
Which is, so I commented on that, that big live on YouTube channel, which has taken a lot of
these apart for fun and entertainment. And he works in the, he's basically electrician,
that works in the AV industry, works up there in Scotland on the, on the, up to two.
Does indeed, yes, when there's a lot of fog machines. Although there's real fog as well,
I would imagine. But he's taking a few of these apart and will give you rundowns on what to do
and how to fix them, etc. It's basically a giant vape machine, I think, and that it's a thing that
heaps up a glycol, one of the glycols, I'm not sure which one, and makes it vaporizes it,
and spreads it over the place. So yeah, it's, it is a giant vape machine, I do believe. So the next
day we had the world of Commodore 2019, episode six, introduction to C64 or S. Yes, another one where
somebody is building a, a complete from the ground up operating system for a Commodore 64.
Wow. Yeah, it's, it's, it's very, very impressive, but what people are, I never quite understood
the enthusiasm for the Commodore. I guess it was pretty popular in the, in the UK, but, but the
BBC Micro, I think, grabbed a lot of its, its business. That was my impression anyway,
it was homegrown and all that sort of stuff, but yeah, it's extraordinary popular machine.
Yep. So the following day, we had a New Year's show in number two, and Tony and Paul,
Paul, we were on these ones, and a lot of the guys from the US podcast was off. It's pretty cool.
And the following day, we had wrestling, as you like it, so podcast by the dude,
a podcast on why he likes wrestling and how it works to join fans. And this is kind of cool,
it's the good guy in the back guy, or I don't think those are the terms he used. It's also
interesting that he's studying to be a sports journalist. Yeah, I hadn't appreciated that until
he mentioned it in this episode. That's, adds a different dimension to everything. Very cool.
Yeah, I like what he's doing here. It's quite, quite an interesting insight to all this stuff.
I also caught him saying the British wrestling is making a bit of a comeback these days,
which is Joe was not aware of, so that's quite interesting too. And you mentioned
female wrestling as well. He did, yes, yes indeed. Drawing more viewers than regular wrestling,
very impressive. So the following day, we had activity pub conference, where this was an
interesting summary by Ahuka, who wasn't there in person, but viewed the videos,
basically gave a rundown on some of the stuff that was going on there, which was
nice and interesting. I like his summaries from from shores like this. Yes, and lots of good links as
well. I started looking at actually the videos on Ahuka.org, so I started looking there.
Didn't have time to watch much, but to quick look at some of the information about the protocol
itself, it was good, so there's lots more to research if you're interested in this. It's quite
like to know more about activity pub. So then we had episode 2996 spider oak update.
That's correct, isn't it? It is, yeah. From operator, and some he basically runs through an
update to my cloud backup solution and some fixes that he has, and he's got a link in there to
command line reference for the spider oak script. Yeah, it's an interesting insight into how he uses
this. I've never never gone too far down this road, but it sounds like a pretty good choice to make
for a backup system. Oh yeah, you've got a lot of stuff. Yep, I have a show on the works about
that as well. I need to record it. Just promised. I almost saw the show. I hate that. So the
following day, another one from the Commodore World of Commodore 2019 episode seven, and this
was video playback and the pain involved in doing it on the Commodore and how you can
much better solution that they come up with in the end. Yeah, it's really really surprising that
a machine at this this vintage with a 6502 in it can do this type of thing. It's amazing,
if not what you can squeeze on a machine where we're wasted for processing power to be honest.
So the following day, we had episode three of the New Year show and discussion about ZDF, ZFS,
loads of links in there. Kevin did a really good job doing the show notes on this this year,
which I always think is the most difficult part to do. So, hats off to him. Yes, indeed, yeah.
He sent in some really good notes this year, and I've put them through Mark Dan to get
the link, proper links and stuff like that, but the content was always really good.
And there was a lot of people from other shows turned up and from the Linux
Text Show, Claudio M, Destination and Miniskai, Ubuntu UK podcast, people. So, cool. Have
a listen to that when you get a minute. So, the following day, we had SQRL, which I thought was
going to be a SQL read something or other, but it turns out to be a project by GRC,
which is from, he's on the Twitter, Steve Gibson. Steve Gibson, yep. Yes, the SQRL. SQRL,
it's a pronounce, which is sweet to like. And the logo is a SQRL too, which is kind of interesting
approach. Very interesting approach. Well, I remember I used to listen to that particular show,
though I haven't done so recently for a year or two stopwatch listening, but I remember Steve
talking about this idea, and it looked like it was going to be a massive undertaking. And I think
it has been, it's been five years or something he's been working on his end of things, but he seems
to have a really impressive team around him to develop stuff. And Daniel is a member of the team,
I think. Yeah, it's very impressive. Yeah, very impressive. I'd like to, I'd like to hear
a hooker's view of this, what the word from our own security guru would be. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes, I had, I opened up the documentation that's linked here just to start having, having
looked if I could understand it, but I've just not had the time to dig into it yet, but I think
it does look really impressive, actually, and so the quality of the documentation, I mean,
so hopefully that will help to clarify things. It could well be the way to go for the future.
It's interesting what the Wikipedia saying about the method just taught to be impervious to
brute force attacks or data breaches, goals or fighting words. I'd like to see what anything
security wise I'd like to, because it's attacking or it is improves on protocol,
such as all of the open ID, and I really would like to see some peer review of this before
I would trust is not to say that, yeah, it's just I know a lot more eyes are on all of the open
ID than they have been on this, because I just haven't been on my radar.
That said, I would think it would be a nice, nice addition. If it does what it says it does,
then it's very cool. It would be nice to have a like overview on the like a diagram
or what sequence diagram of how it works. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. It's
Daniel Matidl, a little bit of a verbal overview, but it sort of went straight over my head,
which is what made me wonder when I could have a look at the documentation and see if I could
understand his explanation. Yeah, cool. So finally, this month, was Episode 3,000, and I was at a
complete loss as to what to do, and Paul Korak stepped up to the plate with his hint on the verse
ratio and suggested that we do a feature some Frederick Chopin on this music as done by the
Kickstarter project organized by the news open project, newsopen.org, and I thought
when I heard this, yes, that is absolutely fitting for HDR and a very, very excellent
Episode 3,000. Yeah, what a, that's really quite a different episode. I know John Calp did some
stuff about the the other project, which was about piano music that was being made by
C.C. And I've lost the name. I've forgotten the name. I thought it would pop straight into my head
when I started talking, but it didn't, but yeah, but it's this one sounds amazing. I think it's
been going on for a while. 2014 was the the goal for completion, and I think it has a lot of
a lot of work. I don't show where three completed exactly, but it's certainly got a lot of
run-backing, and there's a lot of information, a lot of music available, and so on. It's going
to the website. I don't think we explained what they want to do is they, even though Frederick Chopin's
music is out of copyright, if an orchestra does it, then they have the copyright of that performance,
so therefore it's copyright. So what they wanted to do was take these open, take these public
domain works, and have them recorded by musicians who are paid or volunteer their services,
and then that performance gets released under a creative commons license, and C.C. by S.A.H.
And as a result, you never have to pay for it again, and you can put that music into your
videos or into your movie or whatever, because it's there for the use of it, so brilliant idea.
Let's do the entire backlog and get music in, get public domain music, because then,
yeah, people would have the idea that start questioning the whole thing about copyright.
Well, absolutely. Yes. I'm just looking up Kimiko Ishizaki.
That's the one. Thank you.
It was the person who's doing a Kickstarter for the Open Goldberg Variations, which was amazing.
Yeah, it's a very, very laudable thing, and I'm surprised that the whole concept had passed me
by, so thanks to Paul for allerting us to it, better release than never.
So that was the shows for January, and we had one additional comment, Dave. Do you want to do that?
We had one additional comment on a previous show. I'll happily do it. It came from
Pokey, and it was to show number 95, which was entitled, see, here's a backlog in this
clue. I'll tell you that. I think he certainly does.
Security, wow, was the name of the show, and it was by Rowan Golfer, who
any people will not be aware of, but he's been in quite a prolific contributor to
HBR in the days long gone. You know, I met him once at Alcamp, but anyway,
yeah, yeah, he was at E. Maybe that was not where you were there. He came to the HBR table to say
hello, and yeah, interesting fella. He lives in Scotland, and I think somewhere like Dundee,
or I can't remember exactly where the other one.
More of a project as well. Yeah, yeah, unfortunately, so I've been developed and
I didn't know that. Okay, okay. I remember a discussion about it, and it sounded amazing,
but yeah, I hadn't heard what had happened to it. Anyway, Pokey says, a long overdue thank you.
Thank you for this episode. He says, thank you. You'll take on podcast sponsorships
and the way this episode may be laugh. It's been the inspiration for many of my own recordings
for HBR, Dave Random, and now the You Random podcast. It's in more than 10 years, and I still
remember HBR 95 fondly, if not clearly, the commercial spoofs, which are very popular with my co-hosts,
and possibly even with our listener, and I do from time to time on to Random podcast info.
I'm just sitting well here. Just an attempt to share the silicone amusement I felt when I
heard Security Wow exclamation mark. I really enjoy what he does. The You Random podcast that
take off a go do an ad sponsorship in between. Is this real? And then it's really really well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't listen to You Random, I really must. Oh, you must.
Yes, they're only five of us over there. So, you know, we need the need every lesson.
It's another sort of, you know, pull up a chair and sit down and have a beer tight podcast, but it's
it's very funny. Just people chatting basically. Also, they still owe me the shows. You owe me,
where is the boot club thingies? Oh, yes, and Dave and Dave. Yes, they have like episodes that
it's not as if they're procrastinating about them. They've got the episodes recorded. They just
need to send them in. Give them to some of us. I think it might be one of the hardest in the freezer
or something. They're trying to get recording. And you're moving on. That was it for comments.
mailing list discussions basically centered centered around. We're going to fast them. And
after the new year, I start panicking. We only have a month left.
Desperate for people to send in some artwork. And loads of the lads sent in, loads of people sent in
fantastic submissions for the banner. And the banner is now printed right there,
sitting in the corner. And I also took the logo and got two and a half thousand stickers done.
Yeah, because the fast them, Dave, you were saying, oh, 500 pennies. I'm not sure anything less
than a few thousand. And yeah, so I registered a domain for what is it called?
freeculturepodcast.org. Much to silence from my wife.
I just need to buy a banner. Longer amounts of silence. And I'm getting some stickers.
Even longer amounts of silence. So yes, it'll be fine. It'll be fine. She's very excited.
I owe you some money, I think. I mean, this is my, this is, this is just a good idea to do.
It's, oh, it's, it's a, yeah, it's very good. We're not. We're going to fast them. And if we're
going as HBR, then just promoting HBR, anyway, that's not all we do when we go to UGAMP, we have
the HBR table there, but you know, you're as much promoting other podcasts as anything else. So
having going as HBR, who are a member of the freeculture podcast group, then yeah, that's better
because you can, you know, what's your interest? Well, I'm not interested in sitting
listening to tech podcasts. Here's the list, even when I was sitting down today at dinner,
I've shown the, the family, the, the bootless that's undo. Thanks very much for your help with
all of that. By the way, I welcome you. Thanks to everybody else who's just general thanks to
everybody who has helped me with not only the website, but with the banners and with the logos
and all sorts of stuff like that. So really awesome. And who else has submitted stuff? I can't,
I can't go through everybody because there's been loads of people who submitted banners and
or submitted artwork stuff to get me out of the article. So it's really cool. You know, you go,
this is the last week we were on a rant about, you know, who, but this is more the HBR sort of
community that I am familiar with. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, it's an amazing thing. It's a,
it's astonishing. You ask, ask a question, ask for some help and people are there and with
brilliant skills and suggestions and so on to help out, it's amazing. And yeah, just
maybe to explain to people who don't know, we're going to foster them. That's the,
the first step is a, the largest free open source conference in Europe, probably one of the
big ones in the world anyway. And it's absolutely massive. Dave and I have been there years before,
I'm JDWP and other HBR listeners. And this year we've applied for a table and this year we've got
a table to promote free culture podcasts on the Sunday over the, where the Debian people
hang out and the Python people. So, around there. So that'll be interesting. Yeah, yeah. We've got
a good, good position really. I thought we'd be at the back of one of the, the less-prequented
actually quite, quite a while-placed, I think. So, yeah, that's really good. But then again,
it's always busy at fostering. So, you know, that is just a completely different mind, you know,
mind-blowing sort of, sort of an event when you go. So, I've got the hotel, I've got the train,
got the banner, got the stickers. I don't have the print-house done yet, but we'll still do those.
And then we'll see how we go. Who else is coming, Klebe? And the Marshall who goes by Tim,
Timmy, he's driving over as he does. Yes, and it's no distance at all from where he is,
because he's right on the south coast. Okay. And Andrew McNallow is coming as along as well.
And yeah, I'm not sure who else. I've not heard of anybody else.
And JDWP, you mentioned already, yeah. So, nightwise we'll be there. Oh, good.
Yeah. He's offered to come and help us. Oh, that's really good.
Oh, great. I said, he asked when to go by so, and around lunchtime so we can go and get a sandwich.
So, that's actually practical. Yeah, yeah. I hope it's been a few years since we last
closed them. And the arrangement was that there were sort of food wagons down the central part of
the university, and more along the road outside the university. And now the numbers up,
it was about 5,000 delegates in those days. And now it's up to between 8 and 10. So,
I don't know what the queue is going to be like for the sandwiches. I think they just
changed the way they counted the numbers, but it was always higher, but they are now counting them
differently. So, yeah. But anyway, it's going to be a lot fun, I think. Looking forward to it.
You don't think I missed anything else is mostly that. There's a typo, and that's about it.
So, stuff that's coming up, pasta, that's about it there. How are the tags going, Dave?
Right, on the wrong tab. Yeah, we had some contributions from Windigo this past month,
which thank you very much. I mentioned his name in the summary here.
So, we managed to add nine tags in some recent nine shows, which is
which is gradually moving forward, moving the line forward. So,
to the good. Excellent. Okay, I think that's it. I'm going to go to my continuous ink supply system
printer, which is over here. I already did a show on that. And you can indeed tune in tomorrow
for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio!
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community
podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of
recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio
was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicant computer club and is part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
