Episode: 3936
Title: HPR3936: HPR Community News for August 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3936/hpr3936.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:40:18

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3936 from Monday the 4th of September 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for August 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 57 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in August 2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today it's Community News for August 2023.
And joining me this evening is...
Hello Dave Morris here.
Hi Dave, how are you doing?
I'm doing fine. Thank you. Yes, yes, it's good.
It's quite mild and warm and pleasant in Edinburgh for a change.
No more rain at the moment.
I must say I'm not feeling very well today so I would like to keep this short if possible.
So for those of you who don't know Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast
where the shows are contributed by people like you go to the about page for more information on HPR.
And this is Community News Show where we go over all the shows that have been posted in the last month.
So you can basically get an idea of what's been happening,
shows that you might have missed.
And we also discuss anything that's happening in the community.
So Dave, can you introduce the new hosts please?
Yes, we have one new host this month and it's Fred Black who we heard from
being talked to by his father. I think he was foxy last month.
So yeah, welcome, welcome on board. Very, very good.
So what we'll do now is go through the shows that have been aired.
And the first show we want to discuss is episode 3912 which was an emergency show
built on an Arroybus and this was Shane Shannon given us a taste of South Africa
with some local tea and jerky.
Very good. Yes, yes.
Roy Bus was all the rage in these parts at one point because
McCall Smith, the guy who wrote the
ladies number one detective agency from from Botswana
kept talking about it. So a lot of people in Edinburgh.
I think that was really over the world.
Reddy's books drink drank it. It's quite nice.
It's nice. I drink it exclusively now as my tea of choice
and because it doesn't contain any caffeine so it's a nice warm refreshing drink
and you can go to bed afterwards.
Yes, it's got quite a nice sort of fruity, fruity taste.
So it's very much alike.
So the following day we had lurking prions Q&A and this again was from the reserve queue
and basically I, you know, some background to lurking prion and I didn't know what an
M.M. was until I listened to the show.
Yeah.
Should we give them a spoiler, Dave?
When it does say in the notes.
It's not a penis. That's not a tropical or a penis.
That's for sure.
Well, there's a nice interesting background into
his start off in the Navy, etc.
That's a bit of a bit of a hint for anyone who didn't get it.
Yep.
It was most entertaining.
I was a bit surprised to hear his history.
It was good to know.
And again, we had another reserve show.
How to deal with blisters.
And this was a technique by D&T.
And oddly enough, I heard of this one many times before and I've used it once or twice
myself. So it does actually work.
I never heard this.
My mom was a nurse before I was born during the Second World War.
And her technique was to learn blister with a sterilized needle.
Just put it in a flame to sterilize it.
And then let the blister leak out and then put a plaster or bandage or whatever,
whatever the technology was at the time to just to keep the thing.
I mean, being a nurse, she was quite
infection,
conscious and concerned.
Conscious. That's the word.
Thank you.
So yeah, yeah.
But and I've used that technique.
I never heard of this one quite like this.
But certainly deflating them helps a lot.
I'm not taking the skin away also.
Yes.
Oh, yes.
No, don't do that.
And then the reason we've had so many emergency shows of late is that
what we've been doing is slight change of policy.
We're up until this point when there have been free slots available in the in the queue.
Some of our long-term hosts have been rushing to fill the slots.
So what we've decided to do now is rather than do that,
we're releasing shows from the reserve.
Well, what was the emergency queue into the reserve queue?
And there actually was a question about that.
And I completely forgot to forward it onto the mail list.
But I'll do that hopefully next week.
Before you hear this, hopefully.
So back to the point about the reserve queue.
The emergency queue now is called the reserve queue.
So when you upload your show, you have the option of scheduling a slot
or put it into the reserve queue.
When you put it into the reserve queue, Dave and I decide when to put it into the schedule.
So it could very well be that we tend to work from a first-come first-serve show,
but quite often some hosts will upload four or five episodes to the reserve queue.
And therefore, we like to spread it out if there's four slots like this.
Behind each other, we'll take the first show from one host,
then we'll skip over to the next first show from the next host, etc.
But basically, when you put it into the reserve queue,
we decide and you don't complain about it.
If you want to schedule us, if you do want to decide,
if you don't want us deciding for you, sorry, a bit fuzzy today,
if you don't want us deciding for you, then you schedule the show yourself.
We don't care.
Then you schedule the show yourself.
And if you follow the scheduling guidelines, that's absolutely fine as well.
Did I miss anything there, Dave?
I don't think so.
No, no, I think you've covered it.
And yeah, I think that's quite a nice workable way of achieving it.
As long as people are fully aware of what the reserve queue is for,
and how we're going to use it, which you just explained.
So that's great.
Yeah, exactly.
And I think this is kind of working already.
I've seen some people submit shows because we have
dipped into the emergency queue.
So we've had a few hosts coming back to us,
and we've had a few first-time hosts as well.
So I think it's making the issue more visible to people.
And added to that, we've also, I don't know if it's in the annual
of the business, Dave, but we also had a slight delay
on uploading one of the shows to the Internet Archive.
No, it isn't in the AOB.
I can be really forgot.
Okay, yeah.
So they are quite often under attack,
under DDoS attack now, and sometimes it's busier than others.
So we're leaving at least five episodes,
five to seven episodes in the future.
If there are slots in the upcoming week, we're filling them.
That's kind of our policy now, so that we have enough time to be able to deal
with shows not being posted.
We are currently totally reliant on the Internet Archive
for our media hosting.
We will be working on that in the future as well.
Indeed.
Okay, and Mr. X had a reserve show called Why the Hell is My Audio Clipping.
And Waffle It Maybe, but it was interesting to see how he was able
the different types of attenuation.
I personally couldn't tell the difference.
Were you able to?
No, no, I couldn't either.
And I think to be fair, Mr. X himself mentioned in an email I had with him.
Because we're meeting up soon to record a show that he couldn't tell himself.
Although when it was on his PC, it was quite clear,
but something happened along the way to make it less so.
Yeah, I think it goes through the HVOR conversion process.
So we convert everything out to the role PCM file and then put it back together again.
So yeah, Lyle is obviously baited and is heading us though all at this point.
Or is it into a sound expert?
So anyway, moving on.
Following day, we had the community news and there was one comment on that.
And that was from DNT, who commented a grandfather clock,
had a great laugh, a Ken's description of the popper environment,
which to enjoy one of Spoon's shows.
I think it's something about sitting in an armchair,
smoking a pipe in front of a ticking grandfather clock or something to that effect anyway.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
Needing to think about the shows was the idea.
Yeah, pondering in a show like Holmesian Way, perhaps.
And speak of the dull, one of Spoon's had a response to permission tickets,
which was the next show, hopefully a useful provocation in response to the recent
intriguing show by another HPR host.
And yeah, this is DNT show.
Sorry, DNT show.
You've been saying that's one of Spoon's stories.
In response to a lot of Spoon practice, thank you.
Do you want to do the comments?
Yes, and there gives a comment to the show.
He says, breaking the spell.
I look forward to including responses to some of the points you made into future episodes.
Taxation can compel efforts to satisfy state orders by exceeding to employment,
but the extent to which a private citizen can refuse legal tender is a measure of their freedom.
A lot of trigger words in there, of course, to avoid collapsing back into money talk for a while,
though, I aim to report on some accessible tools.
And DNT replied to that comment looking forward to it.
In the interim, I shall procure a grandfather clock.
Yes, yes, I need to do a show on it with it ticking.
And DNT had another show today.
EMAX Configuration Part 3, which is his last and his episodes of Let's Go
through every single package installed in his EMAX Confederation.
Over low comments on that one.
So no, I find it fascinating, not that I read the details of it,
but just hearing how it's all put together is rather intriguing.
So yeah, it's good to know how these things are made.
I found it most interesting.
Yeah, EMAX is a mystery to me, I must say.
Yeah, I've never delved that deeply.
I only got so many brains else, so I couldn't devote them to that one as well, as to Vib.
So the following day, 39-1-9, how I hacked my voice to Cauturator,
talks about what she's doing to change her voice.
And there's been quite a few comments on that.
First one was by One of Spoons.
Morphic Resonance is a title.
Some years ago, I met someone who had been smoothing the staccato out of their voice.
This is where you correct my pronunciation of that, Dave.
Staccato, is it?
Thank you.
Staccato, out of their voice.
I noticed how some people yank their emphasis around,
while others map layers of littering, meaning almost musical, but without singing.
I also noticed how speaking a different language presents an opportunity to shake out some vocal habits.
That's a very interesting comment, actually, I like that.
One thing I did notice when I moved to the Netherlands originally was
when talking to the school teachers in my kid's schools,
they would switch to English at the time I couldn't speak Dutch, so they'd switch to English.
And it was funny, you could go straight into an Australian accent, just like that,
or you could tell, oh yes, I was in Cambridge for 14 years learning my vocabulary.
I went back into their local Dutch accent, it was quite funny.
And now it's amazing.
And now all the kids just speak with the Californian accent.
Oh my god, oh yes, oh yes, that's a very common across the world, I would imagine,
in the English speaking areas.
YouTube has a lot to answer for, horror tiktok.
Anyway, you do take a tour of it all, yes.
Tiktoto's response, lilting.
That's a good advice, lilting voice.
A lilting comma, a voice that raises and falls, is often perceived more feminine and a steady one.
It doesn't change pitch that much.
Other slightly related terms is uptalk, where pitch raises slightly towards the end of a sentence,
making a statement sound more like a question.
Uptalk is often perceived feminine, although it's not exclusively feminine trait.
I know a lot of Australians do that, but every sentence has got that uptalk thing at the end.
Yeah, there's people on YouTube who do it.
I think they've probably been told, maybe you should stop doing that a little bit.
Because it's quite odd because there's no meaning in that raised part of the sentence,
it's just a habit, I think.
In your frame of reference, Steve.
In my frame of reference, exactly.
Oh, yes, because it does have meaning in the way some Europeans speak or English speakers speak,
don't they?
D&T Roof says, hacking your voice.
This was an amazing and completely unknown to me.
Also, thanks for sharing that YouTube channel.
Thanks.
And Tiktoto says, you're welcome.
You're welcome, D&T.
I'm glad you found this episode interesting.
That YouTube channel goes much deeper in the details.
There's a cool video where she's playing back voice samples from the past.
So yeah, cool.
And from hacking your voice to mosing around an RV trip in recreational vehicle trip in the
southeast USA, this of course is a hookah.
It's part of the travel series.
And this is where the toward the southwest,
southwest, US and visited some NASA facilities quite a long time ago that this was
paulsted.
Yep, yep.
The, um, this is in planning for that point in the history of it.
They'd know actually taking the trip yet.
But yeah, the planning to be interesting is there's a lot to think about.
Huge lot to think about.
So when you're you're towing a large vehicle like like that,
you know, some people, some healty can't climb, some bridges, you can't go under those types of things.
Yeah, that's fascinating stuff to think about, yeah.
That sounds like a song.
Some bridges, you can climb, some rivers, you can crawl.
Absolutely.
Oh, right.
Enough of this.
Follow me.
That's a hookah's theme song, obviously.
A hookah, the musical.
Uh, John Carter of Mars, which was the book and, and also was kind of cool.
They had the, uh, author or not the author, but the narrator from LibraVox on.
And that added a fantastic element to this whole thing.
It did, yeah, yeah.
Very, very interesting.
I wouldn't have expected the show to have turned out the way it did.
I found it quite riveting.
I have read maybe all of those books, you know, one in books.
I'm not a great audio book listener.
But, um, yeah, yeah, the analysis of them and the comments.
And also, Marx didn't get his last name.
Did he, Mark?
Mark the, the, the, the narrator.
We, his, his insights were very, very interesting indeed.
So, Kevin O'Brien comments, hearing 5150.
He was a pleasant surprise to hear 5150 again.
He was a good friend, even though I only saw him at conferences.
I miss him.
And did he say he had invited Tracy Holtz to join the book club?
Tracy is a good guy too.
I thought I had a reference to it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was obvious.
Oh, yes.
Oh, 50.
Oh, he's audio, so his, his, his, his, his network was so, uh,
that that was so, uh, brings back memories.
Oh, yeah.
The number of times he was, you know, suddenly cut off in mid-sentence and stuff.
All the things I listened to,
is to listen to him on, on several, uh, several podcasts.
And, uh, yeah, it was such, such a, such a shame for him.
And the following day, we had, uh,
episode 3922 by Trey,
and it was Silent Key.
And that's a brief history of the term Silent Key has applied to amateur radio.
Do you ever come across this one before, Dave?
I had never come across this before.
No, no, I do, do know a number of people who are into amateur radio,
but I've never, never heard, heard it.
Um, does he mention his, he's lost, recently lost his friend and mentor?
I think that's his, uh, his handle at the end, is it?
Yeah.
KV4ID, and that, and that's, and that's what we should really understand.
It was seven threes is, uh, is a greeting.
And VA is, I don't know what that abbreviation is,
and then EE means over and over.
Hmm, yeah.
Very sad, very sad.
It's, uh, yeah, it's a term that means the, uh,
the key is Silent, i.e. Morse code key, because the,
the person, uh, associated with it is past,
which is, which is very, very sad.
It's, um, within, as amateur radio has been going around for more than a hundred years,
it has more than any other community had to deal with this, uh, basically this issue,
uh, the inevitable death that awaits us all.
Um, and I, when I came into amateur radio first, I could not understand, you know,
he's turned ESK, SK, and, uh, in, in all of the magazines,
but the, the, the Dutch and the English ones, you have that, you know,
section of, uh, people who turned Silent key in the last month or so.
Oh, that's interesting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's, that's really, that's quite, uh, quite charming in, in, in its way.
You know, it's, it's, uh, sad, but it's also good that there's,
there's that sort of process of, uh, uh, yeah, in memory of, of people like that.
And quite often you'll have, uh, the widow of, you know,
handle who recently turned Silent key is selling off or selling off the equipment
to raise money for some hospice or other.
That's quite often.
You'll see that sort of thing going past.
And Tukator says, my condolences, I'm sorry for your loss.
Also interested in learning about Silent key.
I wasn't aware of that before.
Yep.
And, uh, um, lovebug, uh, who is, uh, also an amateur radio, um,
enthusiastic.
My condolences.
He says, I'm sorry to hear of Michael KV for why D is passing.
Everyone in the amateur radio community mourns his passing.
It's never nice to hear of new Silent keys.
Thank you for looking after the administration of his records.
7-3-DE-DEV-N7-TLB, which is James Hadel.
Okay, let's follow us with, uh, some guy in the internet,
chatting to Bumblebee about meal preparation.
And this was, you know, we're getting, we're getting the essence of HBR here,
changing the voice, meal preparation, Silent key, you know, this is,
this is HBR right here this month, I think.
Oh, yeah, a lot of these are very good tips.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
This is great.
I enjoyed this a lot.
This was, uh, the, the, the, the episodes of, I think we've said before many times,
episodes where people are discussing stuff and chatting to one another, um,
uh, some of the best.
And this, this was very good.
It was a very, very dynamic and interesting.
Lots of good tips and, uh, um, organizational advice and so forth.
So yeah, very, very good.
I enjoyed it a lot.
And as it happens, uh, we have decided to do something similar to this,
not a lot of the tips that Bumblebee has given we have already implemented over the years.
So, um, when we're trying out meal preparations just at the weekend and then
having them ready for the week for the entire family because we have, uh, days where we're
working from work and working from home and, uh, we should know there's no one on the trends.
So she's going to, uh, uh,
intermittent schedule.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
And having all that sort of stuff prepared ahead of time and, uh, just waiting to be, uh,
deprosted and, and heating up and stuff is, is, it's great.
Yeah.
Pop it into your bag and bring it into work and it's, uh, pulled out by the time you were ready to use it.
Yep, I've certainly done stuff like that, but, uh, I don't do that anymore because,
yeah, whatever reason.
Good, good, good.
Operator had a mass quick tips for August 2023.
Uh, he obviously wants to get through his huge database.
I might do something like this myself.
Uh, lots of great little tips in here.
Uh, some of which I've never heard of before and some I use a lot
already.
Yeah, it was a lot to come back to and, uh, and ponder.
But, uh, yeah, there was some, there was some, there was some real gems in there.
I haven't dug back in again, uh, but, uh, but I, I will because there's, there's things there
that I need following up as far as I'm concerned.
Now, some of them I would never, uh, I do, uh, he is written, uh,
streamed to text with keyboards.
I, some of them I had not seen before and the Yek text, uh, keyword extraction.
I think he already did a show on that.
So I've solved the same issue, but doing it a different way.
It's kind of what I'm trying to say.
Yeah, anyway, let's move on.
There were no comments on that as yet.
Uh, then we had Daniel Pearson's with uncommon tools and social media.
Uh, uh, Vmix to record his videos and then Premiere and then, uh, moved over to Ubuntu.
Yeah, largely about, uh, video editing and stuff.
He was talking and a bit about social media.
He's been off Facebook.
He said, but he's, uh, going to go back again.
He thinks because, uh, he's losing touch with friends by not being there, which, yeah,
you know, he's just sympathized with, yeah.
That sort of effect.
There you go.
Yep.
Yep, indeed.
Now the next day we had Karate do by HyperNike.
And there were two comments.
I don't know.
Is it your turn or mine?
Uh, I'll do this one, I'd be like, um, yeah, coming from Trey.
He says, thank you for sharing.
A long time ago, as a young adult, I studied, I studied Takewondo, TKD for many years.
Eventually earning my brown belt taught me discipline and forced me to develop a level
of physical precision.
I'd been lacking.
Sadly, life events intervened and I discontinued my training.
A couple of decades later, I tried Ishinuro Karate, but I struggled to unlearn
stances and techniques, which were ingrained in my muscle memory.
For fun, I tried to work through, tried to work through some of the TKD
forms or the equivalent of Kata, and I remember several of them.
Time to get those old bones moving again.
Thank you for sharing.
And HyperNike says, you're welcome.
Again.
So from the Reserve Q, we had an audacity update for 230702.
And this is one, actually, if I had spotted it, I would have recommended that
a hooker put it into the main Q because Reserve Q, we should be just for shows that
are not time-dependent.
So this is about the state of play and audacity from the July 2023, which wasn't too long ago,
but even so.
Yeah, interesting to hear it.
I wasn't aware of that.
I don't keep up to date with audacity that much.
I just use it when I need it.
So, yeah, I think it's been going through some funny times, isn't it?
Yeah.
In fact, I found a YouTube video where a guy was trying to analyse the situation of audacity,
in relation to what's the other one called.
The clone of it was names escaped at the moment, which I will recommend at some point.
Because it seemed to cover, it filled in gaps for me anyway.
Maybe it would be the same for others.
Okay, following day, some guy in the internet confuses everyone with some bash nonsense.
This was a fantastic episode just of some of his functions.
The way he approaches problems are becoming a lot less strange now that he has done so
much more shows.
Yeah, he's got some interesting approaches to things.
I just find it most interesting to see how different people solve problems.
If you go to solve things yourself, you're fixed in a rut of habit,
or something, previous experience.
See somebody else attack from an entirely different, maybe set them habits,
or just different mode of thought.
It's fascinating because it opens doors for you.
I certainly thought this show did that.
Yeah, fantastic.
Do you want to do Trae's comment?
Yep, Trae says, Good Heavens.
That must be copyright.
Thanks for sharing this awesome show.
Always good to see how different people approach similar tasks.
D&T goes, Good Heavens, lots of exclamation marks.
Several laugh out loud moments there with some guy on the internet here.
The one I would clip and attach to my friend, Fridge's,
see in open source we provide you with the tools that,
if you do not specifically say, do not download the entire internet, you will then download
the entire internet.
Thanks for setting up the automatic transcription challenge list.
You're welcome.
Yeah, classic episodes.
Absolutely, absolutely.
And it's true, isn't it?
It's true.
You know, it's, it's all about, it's like the old joke that I constantly try out,
you know, the, is it Laurel and Hardy?
When I nod my head, you hit it.
And if you say that to a computer, then you're definitely going to get clouted on the head.
Yeah, you know, because it will, it will go for the simplest analysis of that situation.
So yeah, it's, it's part, it's that type of thing, isn't it?
So the following day, we had some experiences with different
nought apps, and there's about apps to store and mark down by Lee.
And Lee was the one who submitted the show about the local talking newspapers back in
back in April 2022.
Yes, yes, I knew I encountered the name before in the HTML context, and I also looked it up.
Yeah, that was a very interesting show.
And this one, I was amazed how many note applications he found.
I really got to go and look at some of those.
But yeah, it's, it could be, it could be very useful in preparing HPR shows and that type of thing.
I thought also the reason for moving off them and to continuing on with them was also
quite interesting. It's just, yeah, very good synopsis of somebody's trail of thought journey.
Yep. Yep. Good show. Next one.
So the next day, we had a hooker playing civilization to test of time.
And yeah, going through the game.
Did, did you get odd audio on this show?
Because my, I didn't, my phone running, whatever it is, you run around, phone.
So I can't remember names today. I'm having problems recalling
and tenipod and tenipod. I wanted to call it audacity.
It would only play this audio when the screen was was on.
Oh, as soon as it timed out, it went into or dialic mode.
I wonder if somebody said there was some issue with the show with shows.
I'm maybe the copy I have was downloaded very soon after. It was uploaded.
I've got the futures futures feed on my phone. So I'm assuming that is the problem.
I'm actually trying to read down loading it to see what effect it has.
Does that ring bell to you?
Yes, we had an issue with audio and we fixed it by removing socks from the chain
and relying entirely on NFFM pick.
Okay. And a hooker show would have been one of the, you know, they're all posted
when advanced. So they may not have got that change as yet.
Yeah, yeah. So I should go and read down loading anything from that sort of era
and in terms of a hooker stuff, perhaps.
Yeah. Okay. Good. Okay. The next day was what instrument was played in HPR 3905.
And I was very glad to find out the answer to that question.
I answered the quiz that out to 72 posed on Matrix.
And I did, I did know it was a nickel harpa.
And like because I can't remember where I found out about it.
It might have been a Swedish person I'd been chatting to about musical instruments or something
you'd said, oh, yeah, our national instrument is this.
And it's related to the Hurley Goody, which is an instrument I particularly enjoy.
So yeah, yeah. But that was great. It's a weird, weird instrument.
And it's, yeah, it's good to hear somebody talking about it and playing it. It's excellent.
And I thought this was taking the, taking the Wikipedia article, which has been
creditors and reading it out, was a good way because it was supplemented.
As he was reading the article, he was supplementing it with his own knowledge
as somebody who wasn't playing it. So it was nice.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was fascinated by the fact that he was obviously holding his instrument there.
And occasionally you just heard sand finger against string.
And, you know, it's made it very, very real.
Yeah. So you don't get from Wikipedia.
Under C.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's a pretty amazing instrument.
Yeah, there's a YouTube channel I follow, a German lady who called herself Patti Goody,
who was trying to get back into using Goody Goody's for a sort of folk style or folk rock type
of type of music. She had one built and went, told us all about how it was made and now it worked
and everything. I found it absolutely fascinating. Not that everyone to play one, it looks really
quite challenging. It's a, yeah, a fascinating instrument. I should point to the YouTube video
at some point or other. I've just gone to the page now, right there. It seems very much up my street.
And the next day, Falky, give us a show on INXI, which is a command line system information too,
where he chastised us, Dave, our lack of knowledge. He called us noobs for not knowing about it.
You're so new. He did. I don't know why I did this show, really. I don't know.
I know. It's the end of your bonus, Dave.
Yeah, yeah, I felt well, well slapped about there and I told him to go and stand in the corner
and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. No, having maybe seen the show come up, I thought, well,
just in check there and install it. It's actually really nice. I like it a lot. It's not as pretty
as the one I used to use, but it's, it's packed with information. So yeah, definitely recommend it.
I don't know what I was doing the ironing and nearly burnt my shirts. Thank you very much, Falky.
Because it's a DNF install INXI away. So it's not installed by default, which is probably
why it's not coming up on the Fedora forums as such, as much. I don't know if it's installed
on Debian but default, but it was really nice just to be able to, I used it this afternoon to check
the status of my battery from the console. It's a very, very good. It's good to be added to my Ansible
install script. Yeah, yeah. It's definitely one that you'd want to use frequently. I would suggest.
So yeah, it's fascinating to see stuff telling you about. In a different way from other
other tools, but in a different level of detail too. Yeah. No, it's kind of cool. I've normally used
LSHW, this hardware, and another tool that isn't installed by default, but it produces a text file,
and then I just refer to the text file when I need to. But that's more static what my system is.
This is more tell me what my system is now. Very, very good. I should be using it a lot.
Indeed. Following day was planning for a planner. Some guy in the internet,
and Bumblebee discuss disbound planners, agendas, pens and more. And for those of you,
and I must say I was one of them thinking, well, I don't think I'm going to get a lot out of this show.
And at the end, I was going, what? You're cutting this in two. I need to wait for the next part.
To download the second part and listen to that straight away. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I suspected that I
would be rooted, and I was. It was really good. The disk band planners, nothing I've ever come across.
I'm not sure. I don't go looking at stationary sites as much as I used to. I don't go at
stationary shops as much as I used to. But yeah, I've never seen theme though. It's what I haven't
looked for, in particular. But it looks like a really nice design for a ring binding system,
a binding system, shall we say. And yeah, you can take the pages in and out quite easily,
and that type of thing. I see them before, but I didn't see them referred to as that.
No, no. The shape of the ring is such that it fits into a T-shaped slot on the paper,
which fascinates me. I don't know how many times you can move the paper in and out before
it gets a bit raggedy around the slot, but still, it's pretty good. So shall I do the coming up
from Trey? Thank you for sharing, says Trey. I love the way people like you all stay so organised.
I've struggled with organisation all my life, tried everything from cheap planners to Franklin
brackets expensive, with little success. I eventually converted my Franklin planner to keep
flight notes and check this from my general aviation days. The best I can do now is using Google
Calendar, Google Keep. Please keep the plane to the minimum, and good old stenopads for note-taking,
which I transcribe the important bits later. Thank you for sharing so much excellent advice. You both
rock. And my King's secret. I think so, yeah, so I take.
Interesting topic. I enjoyed this like Trey. I have not taken down at work, but realise again,
with this episode like Trey that note and planning for my personal life is lacking. I like the idea
of using a planner for both the planning and note-taking and mid-try that. There you go, Dave.
Yeah, it's great. I like this. It's, yeah, I could also learn stuff. I've certainly done this type
of thing at work. I think I designed my own sort of logbook page and then put it in a ring binder.
So, you know, you could put the date and the time and and priority level for things that you wrote
down about and stuff. But do we just bits of paper that's got stuck on a shelf and never got used?
But it felt like I was doing something useful. Yeah, but I've never done that sort of thing at home.
You've done that. When I first started working, I used to get from the stationery cupboard,
these banned notebooks, you know, like a four-size notebooks. And then every day I would write down
stuff about today, I installed Blar on here and today I screwed up totally and had to go and fix
what I had broken and stuff like that. So I forgot them. There's a pile about, I don't know, half a
meter tall of these books and this. I don't know quite why I did it. It just felt like a way of
concentrating my thoughts at the time. And maybe I learned something. I don't remember going back
to look at them very often. In case it was a mess, it was a case of, what did you do last Monday?
Yeah, and I could answer it, but yeah, it's a sort of write things down and get it in your
head type of thing, I think, for me. But yeah, fascinating.
So the following day, last show of the month, we had Crusader Kings 2, about a strategy game,
which Austin Old about Crusaders is about other empires that existed as well. And how basically
the work into the gameplay and how it works. Very interesting. That's about it. That's all I have
to say about that. Yeah. Yes, it's hard to understand in detail with, you know, you can't see it
and you can't experience it, but it sounded quite a challenging and complicated and they're
for entertaining thing. Yeah, my daughter's been telling me I should consider getting a games
machine, steam deck, nothing like that. I don't think I'd be playing Crusader Kings 2,
even if it's available, but something to do other than sit in a computer all day,
sit somewhere else with a computer, something like that. But I don't know, is there,
is there, maybe I should be my late stage of my life getting into games a bit more again,
to see if that can sort of take me away from reality for a little while.
She doesn't want you working on it, pure. It's a simple thing. She wants to give her the amount of
work that you do for it, pure. It's probably a good idea to get another hobby to be.
She was making me a list of, we should try this game in this game in this game. So not sure
that this type of game would actually be on the list, but there'd be a whole bunch of other ones.
I quite like the sci-fi ones if I can get into them. Yeah, it might do, might not, but I might do.
Okay, let's go through those all the shows with five comments from previous shows,
and this comment was on a hookah show playing the original civilization, and Tukutorot,
or says this was bringing back memories. I used to play civilization a lot, and was still,
and is still a very awesome game in my very first game. Things went horribly wrong,
and when I finally got around to having chariots, my neighbours just demolished them with their
tanks. I clearly have been focusing on the wrong things at the time. I'm thinking that we should
get our daughter to give it a try to an experience that one more turn behavior.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's good to think of your progeny getting into these things,
so if they have a happy enthusiasm to do so, fantastic. So the next comment was on
Claudio Miranda's show, which is that SSH or Open SSH escape sequences, and it's from Windigo,
who says, thanks for the episode. It feels like SSH escape sequences are secret commands,
and I feel cooler for knowing about them. Very much so, yes. And on paintings toy soldiers by
that too, where he started painting miniatures for war games, Tukutorotos says it's a great show.
I love listening to you explaining about painting toy soldiers. I wanted to add that if time
needed to paint a 28 millimeter figurine is too long, one can always try switching to a different
scale. I enjoyed the 10 millimeter engines because they're faster to paint and look quite nice
from arm's length, not from can. I don't think my eyesight would be able to handle any of that
without a microscope. Yeah, yeah, you'd need to get one of those sort of jewelers.
Yeah, yeah, it's the same here, really, same here. So we have a comment on Andrew Conway's show,
The Braux of Glenel. It sounds great. Yeah, it sounds like an incantation you say in the cellar,
somewhere other. By the Braux of Glenel, and it's from Windigo again, intriguing show topic,
he says, not only did I enjoy your episode, but I think the concept behind it is worth exploring.
We have HBR hosts across the globe, and surely each of us lives near something worth an episode,
which is a brilliant point. I do and do like that point. Yes, indeed.
Hello? Yep. Okay, cool. So let's do the male list discussions. The male list, by the way, is a
where the HBR community discusses forum and policy agenda, that sort of thing, or general inquiries
to the community. So can you do a microphone please? Yes, we have an email from Mike Ray,
who asks any Gaelic speakers on the list or Gallic, however you like to pronounce it. Hello,
public radio hackers. I sent this before, but I think to the wrong address. Are there any
Scottish Gallic speakers on the list? The word Scottish is redundant in that sentence, and is only
there, because some people think Irish can also be called Gaelic or Gallic. I've just started to
learn Gallic on Duolingo, and it has me addicted. We'd like to have the occasional chat with anybody
who speaks both English and Gallic online. There was one teacher chat from Lewis, I didn't spell it
right, but never mind, but I cannot remember his name. That would be heavy, of course. I started this
because of my love for Scotland, and there's a better use of my downtime than listening to endless
books on audible. And I reply, I'm interested to know why you would say Irish is not Gaelic, are
you perhaps thinking that Irish people speaking English language is the Irish language? And just
a side note here, that happens quite a lot in the Netherlands. And I give some links to the Irish
language Wikipedia website and the National Broadcasters programs in Gaelic, so you can listen to Irish,
the Irish language. To answer your question, I was fluent in Gaelic having first level in a
Gaelic school, which is the Irish language school. There we learned everything, including English
using the Irish language. That said, it's been decades since I used it, although I can still follow
Monster Irish, but Galway and Donegal Irish is tough. I've been able to get the gist of some BBC
Alba programs. Can you do Andrews? Yes, yes, yes, sorry, it takes me a moment to change.
No, bro, find the thing to click on and move. In Scotland, this is from Andrew Conway.
Scottish Gaelic is usually just called Gaelic, pronounced Gaelic, I see, is it phonemically,
an Irish Gaelic is pronounced Gaelic, but often prefixed with the word Irish. I understand in Ireland
it's not referred to as Gaelic amongst speakers of the language, but only the most erudite would
know that outside Ireland. In fact, my uncle who's mother with Irish calls it Irish Gaelic.
Yeah, that makes sense. Hi, Andrew, as I said to Ken, I don't pretend to know. I'm just repeating
what some grumpy cat told me on Facebook, not, and he also goes on to say, if I'm honest,
I'm only a regurgitation with somebody told me on Facebook, I don't pretend to know. I asked
some questions in local form and started a spat between the scat who told us she only remembered
enough Gaelic to fill in forms to get out of their direct calls. The other lady who, I guess,
was either Irish or just typical Facebook lurking morning mini. Interesting. I know a guy who came
to work as a contractor in a company in Ireland and specifically learned to speak Gaelic before,
Irish Gaelic before coming and then was shocked that nobody was able to speak it with him.
Yes, yes. They have a good ad on the TV, you know, Angie Racism ad where they have a guy
and on Irish Gaelic went into the pub and he's speaking Irish with the barman and some biggest
tells him to fuck off back to his own country. Sorry there. And then, you know, they're talking
I didn't get it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I could, that could be real, it could not be, be a real situation.
Okay, in the last topic in case of emergency, this is the discussion we had. I think it would
make us, we had Kingsay, Kings Hazy, Kingsay, Kingsay, Kingsay. Can you please do a show telling us
how to pronounce your handle? Thank you. I think you would make sense to share some other way of
contacting the individual, for example, by phone. This could be done informally among a couple
of people who somehow trust each other and it seems like a reasonable precaution to me.
Unfortunately, my understanding is the missing in action individual that helped bring up this
question already had their full number. So it's not foolproof. Correct.
Yep. So Dave, what else do we do? Well, we have a few jottings under any other business.
Go for it. So yeah, I just made some notes about how we're getting on with the site migration
process. So we've moved, obviously, moved the issue aside to the new location and we've been
implementing all of the features there during, during August and a little bit before.
And we've been updating links on documentation pages, which were, which were wrong. I think
there still are a few that need work, but I've not checked. Moving, we've moved our SSVs from
the dynamic part of the site to the static site. I think there's still some that haven't been moved,
but I'm not. No, we're absolutely sure. You've generated today. I've made them for you,
but yeah, they've not been, they've not been. Okay, I should have asked you first.
We've made the comment forms work the same as before. So you get different form depending on how old
or ahead of the current date the show is. When you go to the comment form, we've made tags, tags
clickable. But there's more work to be done there. There've been unique code problems.
If you've been mentioned before, and there were still some issues, which I think we've solved,
but seeing any evidence that they're not solved. Anyway, we've fixed small bugs like
got the calculation or the software got the calculation wrong as to when to put up the call for
shows message. So yeah, we've done that. There are a number of problems that are yet to be tackled,
and probably the most high priority one is making links to pictures and other supplementary files
work on shows that have them. And less important, perhaps, is making links in comments clickable.
We've had a number of helpful problem reports, but they've been mainly through the HBO channel on
Matrix, and just to say that you can raise issues on the GITI side, but you need to have a username
to authenticate first before you can do that. That's something that was implemented by Josh,
so quite reasonably. So yeah, anything you have to point out that's problematic, let us know,
and we'll add it to the queue and process it. Yeah, and to give you some idea of the time
where the update and the documentation links is, while you've been doing all the cool stuff,
fixing Unigode and all that, I've been doing the immensely boring task of checking all
old links, fixing them, converting them HGTBS, removing redundant page, consolidating everything
into the above page, and still not finished. So it's so destroying work. I'm getting through it.
So yeah, the links are been fixed as just taking a long time to do it.
Yeah, yeah, we did get a comment saying, oh, they're all wrong on this page, but I think it was
one of the pages that had been factually made redundant by consolidating everything into one page,
so if the page gets lost, there won't be anything to do. So yeah, so it's going to be a while
before those are fixed, hopefully before the next community news show. And what else on that?
Yeah, there's, even though I'm just currently taking the loose independent pages that we had
and putting them into one big about page with anchor references in it. So I still need to go through
that and fix up to date everything once I've done all that. So it's basically take the old site
and run, I put them into individual pages like we had them on the old site, but now we're consolidated
them into the above page and then I'll push that up first to fix all the links and then I'll go back
and at least the above page we can edit the text because all the documentation will be more
less than one page. Yeah, yeah, I'll make that a lot easier. Yeah, yeah, that'd be good,
be good. And north to everybody else, we will probably go and change the RSS links this month.
Keep an eye out for that. If you haven't received your HBO shows, then tell us about it.
And don't assume that we don't know about it, that would be great.
Problem reports would always be great. Thank you. Yep, absolutely.
Anything else, Dave? Nope, there's nothing else.
Okay, I'll sign off and ask you to chime in tune in tomorrow, don't know what chime in is,
but tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker. Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBO listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
broadcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive,
and our synced.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released on our creative comments,
attribution 4.0 International License.
