Episode: 3259
Title: HPR3259: Nextcloud - The easy way
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3259/hpr3259.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:47:07

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3259 for birthday 28th of January 2021.
Today's show is entitled Next Cloud, The Easy Way.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and in about 8 minutes long and carry a clean flag.
The summer is self-hosting on Next Cloud Instance.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org
Forward slash donate.
Hello Haka Public Radio, this episode has been inspired by a discussion we had on the
HPR News News Show.
It is a script I found online in an article about how to set up Next Cloud Pie, which is
an easy way to set up Next Cloud, obviously in a Raspberry Pi.
So first, what is Next Cloud?
Next Cloud is an open source project that allows you to control and upload documents, pictures,
and all files that you wish to own on your own personal computer at home from everywhere
using Next Cloud Web Interface or Clients.
And times were pretty much every big company tracks you down from everywhere is almost impossible
to escape them if you are using the Internet.
Next Cloud and a local computer are kind of fresh air of personal privacy.
The assumption before you start is that you either have a Raspberry Pi 3 or 4 preferably
a 4 because it will be a lot more reactive when you try to access it.
Also in the static IP, they say that they get it from your service provider but you can
use Duck DNS which is a dynamic DNS hosting service.
You will also need USB storage, you can get a one terabyte drive, a five Amazon for
under $50 but the more you can spare for extra storage, the better.
To add all that, I upgraded the system just to make sure that it was up to date for this
install with a pseudo-apt update, a double amp percent pseudo-apt-get upgrade.
After that you can start the Next Cloud on Raspberry Pi installation by executing the following
script and it's a curl script that I'll show and put in the show notes.
I would also put in the notes with the script and tails so you can check out before you
run it.
After some time it's about 20 to 30 minutes, the installation should finish.
At the end of the script there should be a clickable link to open up your new Next Cloud
install in a default browser.
You will get the usual, your connection is not private message and you'll have to ignore
it.
Go through the step to ignore it for this time around.
Now you come to a Next Cloud Pi activation screen.
It gives you a long password for the Next Cloud Pi install plus all your Next Cloud user
and I would suggest printing that and putting it in a safe place.
I mean, print it to a file.
When you're ready with the above you just activate and enter the NCP as the user plus the
password and you'll be graded by a Next Cloud configuration wizard.
You want to be careful at this point because if the storage you're using is already has
data on it, you don't want to format it.
But if you're using a first drive then go ahead and click format with ButterFS.
If you're ready for Next Cloud to be able to be accessed outside in your house then you
want to forward ports 80 and 4 for 3 to Raspberry Pi address.
The wizard will ask you if you want to do it manually or through the Next Cloud setup
and you'll want to choose, you do it manually.
Now is a good time to head over to duck DNS.org and select your DNS subdomain.
You'll be entering that into you'll be taking that URL and plugging it into the next go
into the Next Cloud Pi web panel and from there you'll be going to the trusted domain.
So you can enter the URL from duckdns.org which allows you to access your Next Cloud Pi from
the web with the same URL from duckdns it's time to generate a Let's Encrypt SSL certificate.
You need to apt install a certbot and a Python certbot for Apache.
That will install the certbot script which will help a lot with generating a free SSL certificate
from Let's Encrypt to start the script, execute this command, sudo certbot dash dash Apache.
You'll be entering your email address and agree to the Let's Encrypt Terms of Service,
press A and type Enter.
Select whether or not you want to share your email with the certbot and foundation and then
you enter the subdomain that you got from duckdns right there and select which version
you would like to choose.
Type 2 to redirect all traffic to HTTPS and then I'll start a bit.
You should have an SSL certificate saying congratulations, your certificate and chain have been
stored, saved at and it'll show where it saved up.
If everything went right you can type in your dynamic DNS and it'll go to your new Next
Loud Instance.
The next thing I did was install an app from the Disabled Apps which you can reach by the
drop down menu on the right hand corner of the install and I selected external storage
support which is really useful if you have say a lot of pictures that you want to be able
to access through this interface and another one that I liked was the dark support of
its app called Breeze Dark.
At this point I thought it was useful to shut down the pie and make a bit by bit back
up with Dd of the SD card and now it's not the most secure way to set up this but at
least it gave me a taste of what was what Next Cloud was like and I'm sure somebody else
will do an episode on how to harden and install of Next Cloud.
Thanks for listening, bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicom computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on
the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution,
share a like, 3.0 license.
