Episode: 3965
Title: HPR3965: I've taken the Conqueror Virtual Challenge
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3965/hpr3965.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:02:37

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,965 for Friday the 13th of October 2023.
Today's show is entitled, I've taken the Conqueror Virtual Challenge.
It is hosted by Daniel Persson, and is about five minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Daniel Persson talks about a service where you challenge yourself.
Hello, hackers, and welcome to another podcast with Daniel.
And I'm going to talk about a bunch of different subjects, and I'm doing like ShatGPT.
I'm really good at creating a bunch of words without any real knowledge behind them.
But the topics that I'm going to talk about are pretty random, and I'm going to split them up.
So in this recording, I wanted to talk about the Conqueror.
And it's an interesting web solution, or something where you can sign up and challenge yourself.
So they are, of course, taking your money, which most services use do.
In my case, I have sent them $50, so not that terribly much, but a decent amount.
And what do I get for this? Yeah, I get some tracking.
So when I'm out going using their web app and Google Fit, it will track how long I'm walking,
and how much I'm actually moving.
And the challenge here is that I want to move like, now it's European miles,
so it's like 10 kilometers per mile, so it's 40 miles, so that's 400 kilometers.
It's something that I want to move during a specific amount of time.
And their challenging system is set up in a way that you can do different challenges
that are themed for different things.
And in my case, I'm very into the Lord of the Rings, so of course, I wanted to walk to Mordor.
And the first thing that I walk is walking to Brie, and it's a long walk, of course,
like 440 kilometers or something like that, to walk into Brie.
So that's the third thing.
And if I get to Brie during my walk, they will send me some postcards in the app,
where it talks about different things that happened during Frodo's walk in the ring.
And I also get some notices on different happenings around this walk.
And I also can see other people that are taking the same challenge.
So I can, and then you can also walk together with other people,
so you can take the challenge together with other people, if you want.
Or you can do it by yourself and just have a competition between your friends.
And when you actually arrive at the endpoint, they will send you a little medal
with a ring in it and so on.
And you can walk five different distances in the Lord of the Rings series.
So if you want, you can do even more.
But I wanted to start it out with just the first challenge and see if it was fun.
So far, I'm really excited about it.
I've walked like a third of the way there, perhaps,
and got a bunch of interesting postcards.
And another thing they also do is that they plant a three tree for every 20% of the journey.
So if I take the full journey, they will have planted five trees for me.
You can also choose that they have another organization they work with that picks up plastic
from the bottom of the ocean. So it's, it's some kind of do a challenge, get more fit or at least
more healthy, get a small medal for your effort, make the world a little bit better by planting
some trees and also enjoy the lore of the Lord of the Rings.
So so far, I'm excited about it. I think it's interesting.
If you think it's interesting, I want to try it out.
Please tell me so I can see your journey and follow you along.
Would be really fun to have a challenge with you if anyone else want to join up and do this.
If not and if you think this is a really stupid idea, please comment about that as well.
I'm interested in all viewpoints about this subject and I will see you in the next recording.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcast, click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sims.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
