Episode: 3181
Title: HPR3181: RealVNC cloud offering
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3181/hpr3181.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:21:16

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3181 for Monday 12 October 2020. Today's show is entitled
Real VNC Cloud Offering. It is hosted by JWP
and is about four minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
JWP males in a show about using VNC while out and about.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared
hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15. Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair
at An Honesthost.com.
Good day Hacker Public Radio Community. My name is JWP and it's been a while since I had a
presentation for y'all or a podcast. I hope y'all are all safe and well in the COVID-19 times.
Hey, recently I started using real VNC and I'm not exactly sure what its
freedoms are or not. It appears that it's free and they sell services around it.
It uses the normal VNC server command, but I'm not exactly sure what the licensing is or anything,
but they came up with a sort of a cloud solution that I find pretty well and you sort of have
to have a pretty good password on it and stuff. So if you do use that, if you do decide to
give it a try, be sure you have a pretty good email address and that email address is
two-factor authenticated and you have a pretty good password. But the way it works is that you set up
this real VNC server and you connect it to the cloud and for home use you can have up to five
clients like this or five server instances like this and so for me it was really easy because
unfortunately I have an iTunes Windows server and a Windows tablet and then I downloaded
the latest version of the Ubuntu and I had an old Fujitsu thin client that had four gigabytes of
RAM in it and two either one socket with two threads or two one socket dual socket thing but
it's got two threads on it for two logical CPUs and so I set it up and of course it's not a
RAM thing but a CPU thing because it's pretty much all 100% CPU. But the great thing about this
little thin client was that it had a M2 slot and it had a way to have an internal 2.5 hard drive
and it had a one PCIX slot so I could put a USB3 connection in the back so there's lots of
connections you can do all kinds of fun stuff with it and what I was fond of was that I wanted to play
anywhere if I was on the road or at work or whatever and with this real VNC cloud connect thing
I'm able to without going through my router or touching any router settings or anything
I'm able to access that VNC connection at home to that server in my basement and if I have the
Windows tablet or or iTunes server on I have access to that as well and it's pretty simple to
install it's pretty simple to install unfortunately you have to sit at the box in order to really
get it to work because you have to go through the sign-in process with real VNC and they require
you to have graphical access so I tried around play around for a couple hours trying to get it to
work from the SSH connection from my living room to my basement and finally I had to go downstairs
and hook them on or her up and just do it that way all righty well it's about the four minutes in
and that's my real VNC story guys had been a while since I did anything and I hope y'all are
fine and well and I'm looking forward to hearing maybe Tony Hughes talk about something that he's
found or something that he's doing I haven't heard from Tony in quite some time all right be safe
take care of where your mouse can all that great stuff
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave
a comment on the website or record a follow up episode yourself unless otherwise status today
show is released under creative comments attribution share a light 3.0 license
