Episode: 3538
Title: HPR3538: Installing the Tenacity audio editor
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3538/hpr3538.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:06:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3538 for Wednesday the 23rd of February 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Installing the Tenacity Audio Editor, it is the 30th show of
Archer 72 and it's about 5 minutes long and carries a clean flag. The summary is
Installing Tenacity and the reasons behind the fog.
Hello, this is Archer 72. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio. As of this recording January 2022,
it's been at least six months since the tenacity
it came a fork of audacity. I'll leave a couple of links, one from Engaget and the other on from
Hacker Day relating to the change and also the Tenacity Project page.
From the GitHub page, their motivation is listed as our project initial started as a fork of
audacity as a result of multiple controversies and public relation crises, which you can find out
more here and there's links to privacy policy which may violate the original product's GPL
license, contributor license agreement, which may violate the same GPL license and attempts at
adding telemetry using Google services for data collection.
Nevertheless, the goal of this project is to pick up what the original developers of audacity,
the decades long work by the original creators of audacity and create an audio editor that is
fresh, more modern, convenient and practical to use with the help of the guidance and the guidance
of our users and our community. There are at least a few ways to get this project built.
One, which I'll leave is the flatpack nightly build from the GitHub page and I'll leave the
notes as to where to add the remote and install and update the flatpack to see if it works for you.
Myelage Mayvaria didn't work for me but it might work for you since I'm on a Prador system
and I don't know if that made the difference.
I left build instructions for using CMake just on GitHub.
I wish I could take credit for the CMake part of the instructions but I can't remember where I found it.
First clone tenacity from the GitHub page,
Git clone, HTTPS, colon, 4-slash, 4-slash, GitHub.com, 4-slash, tenacity team,
4-slash, tenacity and then CD to tenacity.
To configure tenacity using CMake, make der, build, ampersand, ampersand, CD, build,
and after the next line, CMake-g, quote, unix, make files, unquote,
space-d, u, s, e, underscore, ff, ampag equals loaded, space, period, period.
This only takes a few minutes to configure and then after that you make
dash j, backtick, n, p, r, o, c, backtick. This will take two to three minutes
and right after that you can pseudo make install and that's the end of the process.
Hope this helps. Thank you for listening and be sure to leave comments as
far as how it worked for you. Don't forget to use and support free software.
Until next time, goodbye.
Contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HDR is kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sync.net. Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released under a creative commons, attribution, share-like, 3.0 license.
