Episode: 3176
Title: HPR3176: HPR Community News for September 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3176/hpr3176.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:20:32

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3176 for Monday, 5 October 2020. Today's show is entitled
HPR Community News for September 2020
and is part of the series HPR Community News. It is the 170th show of HPR volunteers
and is about 70 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments
toasted in September 2020.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by
An Honest Host.com
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15
that's HPR15
Better web hosting that's honest and fair
at An Honest Host.com
Music
Music
Hello everybody my name is Ken Fallon
and you're listened to another episode of Hacker Public Radio Community News
this time, for September 2020.
Joining me this evening is Mr. Dave
Morris Starracking
Oh, it's an instrumentation, you don't have fun with that.
Hello, hi everybody.
And this is HPR, the tech podcast that's longest running tech podcast in the world, maybe
except for the leasing tech show, perhaps.
I guess.
I don't have no idea.
If they just stop broadcasting for a few a while then we could take over.
Yes.
Has number one.
Anyway, this show is a look back at the shows that have been posted and the news around
the HPR community for September 2020.
But before we do that, a little reminder that we are a community podcast in which the
shows are submitted to us from people very much like you.
And we were just discussing the state of the queue.
Do you want to give the required, why haven't you sent in the show speech?
Well, there are somewhere in the region of 260 slots per year.
So we've got 300 plus hosts on the book.
So we really could do it with people.
Anybody who has ever sent in the show sending one in per year, and anybody who's listening,
well, it's time to make your contribution because it's not that hard, you know, I hear
people say this, oh, I like HPR and you say, well, you're going to put in a show, oh,
yeah, yeah, I'll just need to think of what to do.
But it shouldn't be that hard because you just listen to what's on the network at the
moment because there's a lot of interesting things.
And I'm sure there's stuff that you know that you could share with the community.
Come on.
First thing that you should share is the fact that you exist and who you are and where
you're listening from and a little bit of background.
And then we will do their requisites by asking for more information on those shows and
then you're part of the team and just looking at the main page and we have just turned
15 years, Dave, 15 years old, this month, I hadn't realized, so there you go, just another
anniversary, just another day, good stuff, yeah, long my last, very good, long, very good,
long my continued.
Sonya and this show, what we do, Dave and myself are basically the people who post the
shows, but other than that, we're contributors just like everybody else.
The decisions around HPR are made on the mailing list and we bring them to your attention
here so that you can provide feedback if any to the mailing list silence for the most
part is considered to be agreement.
So shall we go through last month's shows beginning with my pocket knives, Dave, which
was a show contributed by yourself.
It was indeed, excuse me, my cat is yelling in the background asking to go out, but she
doesn't realize it's bucketing down with rain there, so I just ignore it.
Yes, I did, and there's no knives in the connection with the cat, but yes, I did a show
on pocket knives and there was one comment.
And that will be read by me and the comment was by Retro, link to the other knife podcast.
Hi, Dave.
Thank you for this podcast.
A nice knife is like a nice fountain pen way too lucky chances to use it while it is such
a nice product.
Thanks for your hint.
I listened to the podcast about OPINEL and it reminded me about mine somewhere in a box.
I was disappointed that it wasn't stainless steel.
I dug it out and learned that carbon steel is harder and you can get a patina, similar
to patina.
Thank you.
Two other metals.
Now I like this rusty knife because I understand smiley face, cheers, Retro.
That's a nice, yeah, yeah.
I made a reference to Shane Shannon's show from some time ago that he's talking about
like the heaven OPINEL, I think it's from Lance Knife, French Knife, but it's very popular
to carry in the pocket for cutting up, we get some cheese and all that sort of stuff.
Personally, I don't see the point of a knife myself.
I just have gone all on, says he, with a potato knife stuck on the magnet right here next
to him.
Okay, I take that back.
I was just going to go to my life, I never used a knife and then right here, right next
to be literally here, holding in my hand is a potato knife, that's a fierce handy.
Well, yeah, it's an interesting thing, I use my Swiss Army Knife fair bit because it's
got really, really sharp thin blades and it's great for cutting bits of wood and that sort
of stuff and it's got a saw in it and pair of scissors, like that one.
The French durol knife doesn't get a huge lot of use, it's actually quite useful if
you're out and about and you want to eat something that is good to cut up in like an apple
or something, you like cutting apples and the one I just bought, rocks on, it's been opening
Amazon packages most of the time, it's really useful to have a tub that you can pull,
not always know, very often it's a box of lots and lots and lots of tape on it and then lots
and lots of bits of brown paper, scrunched up inside and stuff like that, so yeah, it's
useful for cutting through the tape.
Okay, the following day we had a show from myself, fixing e-books with calibrate and PDF
crop, yeah, horrible PDFs are genuinely horrible, but PDF crop was nice that you can crop
the margins from PDF to put them on too, if you're forced to read them on a new reader
that's what you can do.
Yeah, PDF is not a nice format, is it?
It would be lovely if you could sort of convert it into a more usable format easily and work
with that like e-book or one of those, e-pub is what I'm talking about, isn't it?
Yeah, e-pub is nicer because it tends to format itself better.
Yeah, this was a book that contained heavy amount of graphics, so the solution was in the
end to buy the two books physically on paper.
Yeah, that's a good, okay, following interesting show I should say, yes, it's one of these
that I doubt is going to be a whole lot of interest or use to anybody, but hopefully
somebody will come across it someday and go, hey, thanks, that's it, indeed.
Yeah, it's one that I hope nobody will ever use, but if they do, at least, they won't
be in as much pain as I was doing.
Following day, we have Paul Quark, who convinced me to install NextCloud, which kicked off
a whole series of things, which involved SSDs and, okay, all the rest of it, but only
if I'm a good show.
Yeah, I knew NextCloud existed, I knew it had some things I wanted, I knew at one point
I wanted to install it, but I didn't know it had so many features, Paul gave a really
good summary of all the goodies that it contains, and I really got it again, so I've organized
to install it.
I've got such a queue of things I need to be installing, but let's do one on that list.
Do you want to do Windigle's comment?
So, yeah, Windigle says, NextCloud and Self-hosting, thanks for the overview of NextCloud.
I run my own instance and half of the apps you mentioned were used to me.
It's become an essential part of my network and I'm still finding more uses for it.
That's very cool.
That is excellent.
One thing on that if people are into own cloud, et cetera, is there a backup solution
for Android phones somewhere.
That's a general call out.
I've been baiting my head against a wall for the last, I think, four years trying to
come up with the definitive backup solution for Android phones, specifically not really
that interested in the applications because I get everything from Android, but more for
the data.
I had hoped that there was something, you know, the magic that you can plug in to your
Android phone to connect to NextCloud, so anybody has any information on that, please
record a show and send it in.
Thank you.
That would be most interesting.
So as the following day, we had LastPass Security Dashboard, which was shown by a hooker
in his Privacy and Security series, not his, but in the Privacy and Security series.
So I must say I don't use LastPass because I use KeyPass XC with browser integration
and that works out swimmingly for me, but I can imagine that this might be something
that you would be into.
If you, he gave a very good rundown of it and it might be a solution for many people,
I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm sure LastPass is fine.
I don't think I have the need for it, personally.
I also use KeyPass XC, I use KeyPass and realize that it turned into KeyPass XC, which is
a lot nicer, but I don't see the need for LastPass, but that's because I pretty much
stay in one place all the time, don't worry about that.
Exactly.
I ran much, I think LastPass would allow me to move about more easily and have access to
my passwords.
And we don't have to pay money, which I don't want to do, particularly in here.
Oh, yes.
Insoctural and Scotch Steelcure.
Well, you know, why pay money when you don't have to, you know?
Exactly.
I'm a foreign believer in that.
The HPR community news from August, we obviously didn't say anything controversial, because
there were no comments, did, and did.
How and why one should compost, but let's do.
And I really enjoyed this one because I was, we have been composting, and essentially
there's, here, there's a green bin that you get, there's packaging bin that you get
for plastics and that sort of thing.
There is a black bin for all other waste products, a paper bin, yeah, and the green bin then
for organic stuff.
But since we use the compost tape, we don't use the green bin at all, pretty much ever.
Everything goes on.
And there was a big dip in the garden this year, because we moved some plants, and then
I just emptied the compost tape onto it, and it was awesome, really, all the life that's
around.
Yeah, composting is good if you're into gardening big time, I think.
Yeah.
I mean, I was brought up with my father, where we lived, had a big garden, and grew lots
of stuff in it, because, you know, post-war, everybody was growing their own, and compost
was a big part of that.
I've actually had a worm bin, I've got compost bin, and also I had a worm bin for a few
years.
You have to order the worms and put them in it, and that little bit cat is so noisy,
didn't it?
Yeah.
She's scratching at something.
She sleeps about 90% of the day, but just now she's decided, you know, this is a time
to get up and do tap dancing and stuff.
Anyway, yeah, the worm bin is an interesting thing, because you get a sort of liquid compost
out of the bottom of it.
And you can tune in to Dave's episode on worm bins coming off soon, to a podcast.
And, yeah, there's a little girl down the road who was very, very keen on anything to
do with animals, and she used a friend, a sister of my daughter's friend, and she used
to come around every so often and say, can I have a look in your worm bin, because you
could see all the worms in there, and she thought that was really cool, so there you go.
So many things you can do with compost.
And that's a perfect example of a little show out of the ordinary accent.
Thank you.
Glad to.
Yes indeed.
Yes, thank you.
Glad to hear you.
Excellent stuff.
Cedric de Varu, Froy sent in a fingersprint access control law about how to physically
penetrate a building.
There are two comments first one, which I'll read, actually, I should have picked the
second one.
Okay, Lisa, we need the need for meta procedures.
High Cedric, there's a fascinating episode.
It seems amazing that a company, which is sufficiently concerned about security to hire
a pen testing team, did not have a procedure in place to ensure access control system
server was protected with something better than admin slash admin.
My guess is that they did have such procedures, but they were insufficiently monitored.
You can have the types of standards and procedures in the world, but there is no checking for
the compliance.
But if there is no checking for compliance, they are worthless.
Yeah, yeah, good point, good point.
It's, yeah, so it's an excellent show.
I do enjoy listening to this.
There's the real stuff, right?
A hookah says fantastic show, love this show, and I hope he does more war stories for us.
Indeed.
The following day, as part of our songs considered, Paul Krick took advantage of the power
of the Creative Commons license to treat us to the values for seasons.
One of my favorite pieces, I must say, and I thoroughly enjoyed this.
Quite a treat, actually.
Yeah, yeah, I wasn't expecting anything like that.
I find that I do things to HMER shows that don't tend to be against music like this, like
speeding it up, for example.
Yes, it's a good idea.
It's a problem.
Yes, that's right.
I was doing both.
And I had to go back and get the original to listen to it probably, but it's really nice,
though.
I had the advantage that I was posting it, so I knew what was coming, so I already had
to copy them off.
Yes, I sort of knew, but the pressure of the things I've forgotten, but yeah, it was really
good.
I think without these four seasons was the first CD I ever bought, you know, having been
to the vinyl, then cassettes, then being able to afford a CD player, and then, you know,
and listen to it, and CD was wonderful, because it seemed to be a lot more clear, I'm not
sure if that was actually true, but in my mind it was, but yeah, great music.
My brother did after he finished college, he spent two years in Japan, and he brought
home a digital alarm clock for my parents at the time, and the wake-up sound was the
Valdez Four-Season that did to it, did it, did it, did it.
Oh nice.
And, yeah, exactly.
And it was that alarm clock that introduced me to classical music.
And also the fact that on cassette tapes, which I bought, it was a lot cheaper to guess,
classical music that it was to buy here, to buy any other type of music, so I would have to save
off for a few weeks to buy a cassette tape of anything popular, but you could go to the bargain bin
and take out something for 50p in the classical range. I did the same thing. In the days when I
discovered this, I'd been given for Christmas a record player, the sort that you carried around with
a handgun, they didn't wind it up, but it was electric, but it was a lot of old. I had one of those
as well. A lot of presents at the top, but it was, yeah, the same sort of thing. I couldn't afford a
lot of the music, and I found in shops that it was possible to buy LPs of stuff, and I bought them,
and I was listening to them and learnt stuff like War of Jack's New World and Beethoven's
fifth and all. I listened to him over and over and over and over and over again. I don't really like
this very much. Well, I'm actually liking this now. No, I love this. You know, you listen to it,
you haven't done it. You start to enjoy it more. As I just started hearing it in modern
music, they've just completely ripped off. This whole song is nothing more than a little
of a part of this. Yes, yes. And you, in adverts and films and everything. Yeah, exactly.
The following day, the GIMP Transform Tools by Oka in this GIMP series, and this one was
taken image, stretches, rotated, crop, and so forth. So this is again, an excellent series.
And you know what you should do, actually, with this is the, you know, your opensource.com,
where you, where you happened announced to the world, by the way, that you and
be easy and thought to put your aux series up there as a downloadable PDF for everybody,
which I put into the developers channel in work for those poor people suffering from Oka fatigue.
So, and that's excellent, excellent shout out to everybody for doing that. That was an excellent move
and congrats on that. And congrats to be easier and 30 years old.
Yes, it's, it seems to be really popular. And I'm according to the message I got from Clatude
just a day or so ago, it's number number three in the download charts for, for the current month,
I think. It's pretty popular. So that's, yeah, some excellent work all around.
And this is something that I really think who could have done for his
liberal office series and might consider doing for the gimbal. Yes, indeed. Yes. Yeah.
It would be great. It would be a great place to go and read these things. So,
hello, a hooker's own website contains a really good version of these, of these shows.
Yes. So most of these notes are, so you should follow, follow the links there. Exactly. And
that's all under Creative Commons. So again, no, no, just Clatude, wouldn't go in.
So, the following day we had how to manage my podcast and let me just give a spoiler here
that I expected the word database to be included in the solution and I was not disappointed.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, database is a cool, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Well, this is what I do. It seems
to work. It is. It is. It is. And Rachel had a comment. Sansa MP3 player. Hi, Dave. I just
like you. I just like you. I have a Sansa MP3 player clip sport and clip zip. They are awesome.
Something like 48 gigs play several hours if you treat them well and last several years. Mine
six years old. Og is not their strength, but they play most files. For this reason, I always
subscribe to MP3. I also like at least, I also like at least basic ID3 tags. The album is an
important tag and only IDV3 works well on the Sansa firmware. Unfortunately, the zip
as someday it got stuck at refreshing your media, I read that you could open and flash
rockbox or try to access that for your serial, but the housing is very tight almost zero gap.
I plan to listen to your rockbox flash podcast. I think there was a hint hint there.
I replied rockbox and Sansa players. Hi, Rachel. I found that if the players lock up in some way,
a very long press on the on-off button can reset them. It's worth a try anyway.
Installing rockbox is not difficult. All you need to do is download the installer,
there's a link, follow the instructions on the site. So, yes, since I've done it, but I remember
it was very straightforward at the time. You don't need to dismantle the player in any way.
I found the original standard software was very poor, but rockbox, in fact, I wrote to them and
said, you're sort of junk, not quite like that, but why doesn't it sort properly? Why does it?
Why can't you do that? They said, oh, yeah, yeah, it doesn't do that, yeah. It's sort of
effectively go away sort of. It's never any point right into these people, but I'd do it anyway.
But yeah, I said the software is very poor, but rockbox has provided all the features I need
or many years. Two comments on that. One, I don't know if the sport and the Clipzip are.
I don't know if it is possible to put rockbox on them. Clipzip, yes. I have one here and it's got
rockbox on. I'm not so sure about the, some of the later ones, not so sure about it. I think not.
Okay, and the second thing is you still have the original firmware on there that you can get to.
So it's not an all one deal. And about the refreshing media thing, I found that even if the
long press doesn't work and you plug in a, what was this? You charge it or you discharge it fully.
Then you will eventually come back and reset itself.
Yes, I've also experienced that. Yeah, sometimes it's the firmware has got itself in a loop of
some sort and sometimes just plugging something into it will wake you up. Or as you say, you let it
let it die by running to the battery's flat and then charging. Yeah, good, next one.
Kevin O'Brien says, my rockbox sons experience, my favorite combo was a sons at Clip Plus with
Rockbox. Sadly, Sandist stopped making them. Yes, agreed. And there are now as expensive as a cheap
Android form. So that's why I switched to cheap Android forms. Yes, yes. I said in reply to that,
no more Sansa Clip Plus. Hiahooka. Yes, I was very sad to see the trend away from
Sandist Sansa players that could run Rockbox and then their disappearance. I did manage to buy
some new refurbished and second-hand players before prices became ridiculous and have survived
on them for many years when they have all stopped working. I don't know what I'll do.
Okay, Introduction Townsville, Clatu yet again, up markets my Introduction Town was full
absolute, but fine, I'm not bitter. I had it all annoying that the episode is so good,
fine, Clatu. Be a professional podcaster, see if I care. Yes, not really a lot, I can add to that,
but if you are wondering what Ansible is, give the show a listen. It will not waste your time.
That's all I'll say. No, it's very good. The query I'd have would be he was talking about writing
YAML and how many spaces to put in various points. That is definitely an issue. You can easily
fall over that. Obviously, I use Vib because I've talked about it so many times, but I would think
many other editors will know the formatting of YAML and will provide the indentation for you,
just hit the tab key or some equivalent to get the right indentation. I've never had any particular
problem with YAML formatting. I just think that for some people, the tabs
is a thing in their head. Case has little lines, like gray lines, that tells you where the tabs are,
but sometimes the tabs do get a little bit ridiculous with YAML. I don't like YAML at all,
as a formatting. I don't see any of the advantages and see nothing but disadvantages in using it.
Yes, I know it. I think I might have said this before, but I did write several tools
for my team to help them to manage mailman mailing list. We ran the mailman service for
university. In order to do things, you needed to put stuff into a YAML file. They were constantly
getting it wrong because of the indentation thing. I came to regret using YAML for this purpose.
For that particular time, there weren't many other choices. It was going to be XML or something else,
which would have been even more unpleasant for them, I think. The other thing is, I just write in
a note to myself here, but I'll share it. I wrote, why do I accept YAML with all this weird
indentation, but hate Python's indentation so much. It's something wrong in my brain, but let's
me accept one or not the other. I don't understand it, but it's real. I'd really dislike Python for
doing that. Anywho, the following day, road to communism and freedom are heroes,
discuss their legacy and how they arrived at open source software and communism, and
slightly better audio in this one, which is always good. I got better towards the end, I thought,
further down the thing, whether they'd read some of the comments and were boosting things, I don't
know. But yeah, yeah, it was quite interesting. Chris's PhD sounds quite interesting, you know,
that sort of thing. Yeah, good. Okay, following day, I'm learning Spanish, how I'm using a variety of
tools to learn Spanish. And yeah, a hookah, good, solid episode with lots of links, and yeah,
I did the same learning touch. Good. Yeah, it's very cool. I hadn't quite appreciated the
difference between Spanish and Latin American Spanish. I'd love to know more about that, not
not that hookah should tell me, but we'll just find out a little bit more about it. It's a bit like
presumably, but like British English and American English. Yeah. And the following day was the
second part of that of that show. And then we moved on to the second part of the Ansible to
Mergett repo, which was quite interesting. Yes, and it's quite useful. Yes, it's, I was listening to
without fully absorbing the details of it, obviously. But definitely something I want to get
in, I want to learn to do, I really need to get into Ansible, and that sounds like a good reason
for doing so. Okay, and no comments on these episodes. So a ramble with the Pentland Squares.
Are you officially Squares Dave? Are you? Are you attempting to climb up the social ladder there?
Oh, absolutely. Yeah, yeah. It's in titles that you're not entitled to.
I think it just means a landowner actually. And I'd say it's a little teeny, teeny bit, but
yeah, I think it's that's its traditional meaning. But Pentland Squares also a type of potato.
It's just tonight's apprentice, Dave. Yeah. But a village leader or Lord of the Manor might
be called Squire. Still later time the term members of the Landed Gentry, which contemporary
American use, the Squire is a title given to justices of the piece or similar local dignitaries.
It's a, when I grew up in the outskirts of London, and it was quite common to people say,
oh, I'm Squire, are you all right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, so, so, I've obviously been
a Squire ever since I was six. Yeah, you've been knighted by, uh, by the Londoner Spine. Yeah.
But it was a, it's an orange. It's a very, very, very feeble joke.
Oh, God, I need to be early. I need to be.
Anywho, I'll do the two comments and then you can do your reply. How about that?
Okay. Aaron says, nice conversation. Thanks for sharing it. I've only recently, oh,
Aaron are now we know of listener who has yet not submitted the show.
Nice conversation. Thanks for sharing it. I have only recently discovered HPR. I'm enjoying
the various topics and host. Thanks for a great resource. And you know what would make
it better, Aaron, is if you recorded the show and told us about yourself, where you're from,
what made you listen to HPR in the first place?
Zen Floser 2 says, squirrels love local chit chat. I'm sure they do. I especially enjoy
local chit chat conversations. I really should do more shows. They really should be more shows
like these. Yeah, couldn't agree more. So I said, thanks for the feedback. Aaron Zen Flota 2,
glad you're enjoying HPR and our chit chat shows. They're quite fun to do. We'll probably make more
when we can. Yeah, excellent. The following day, Norst, I had free BSD Jails and IO Cage,
which led to free BSD Jails, by the way, is kind of the forerunner to docker images, I guess,
or allows users to own multiple isolated instances of free BSD and a single server.
And IO Cage simplifies the management of free BSD Jails. And the comments were,
how would I do that? 0xf10e. Is the e-suprefrost? We've always puzzled over that particular hand.
Yes, I would love that to be, or it should be that like, should I be reading that like,
oxford. Oxfloey. Oxfloey.
What do you know? Not the first time we've asked this, either, if I recall, Dave.
Yeah, I believe so too, yes. Okay, shall I do this one? Okay, if you want. Yeah.
Why an additional disk Z-pool, high-lost? Why do you recommend the second disk with the new pool
to use for IO Cage, using IO Cage on the whole route FS pool works just fine.
If I had a spare disk or even a cheap storage for a VPS, I would rather use it to mirror my system,
including the IO Cage data set, regards 0xf10e. Oxfloey.
To which Norrist applies, second disk for IO Cage.
A second disk is not an absolute requirement if you are already using ZFS on route.
I made the recommendation for a second disk, because some VPS providers still report
to UFS for the route partition. Thanks to 0xf10e for the feedback.
Yes, interesting. More ZFS shows will be appreciated as well, by the way,
more VST shows in general, since VST talk stopped.
And Polkwork did it again, a collection of audio for our listening pleasure, again, from
OpenNews.org, Beethoven, Chopin, and more Beethoven.
Yes, it was nice. It was really good. I don't listen to that sort of music much these days.
I don't really know why, so it really got me interested in getting back into more of this sort of stuff.
Yeah, exactly. And also, I was looking for zone music, and then classical is excellent,
get in the zone music just as, by the way. Yes, I do have some in my music folder,
bought off Magnetune or whatever, or copied off CDs from long ago. But yeah, I just
got out of the habit of listening to that type of thing. I started using Spotify, my son's got
a Spotify account, which he let me use, but not keen on Spotify, because it just keeps serving you up
with stuff a bit like what you just listen to, and you can't actually listen to an entire
piece of music very easily, you know, a whole chunk of classical music in one go seems to.
Yeah, as soon as it's a replacement for a radio station, I think.
Yeah, yeah. And also, I don't like it because I can't write, click, and go,
here, listen to this, and know that I'm not tying somebody into, somebody who can financially afford it,
or that later on when somebody can find, somebody can financially afford it, later on,
will be able to financially afford it. I just really like the ease of which you can point
somebody to some Creative Commons music and just go, here it is, you can download it, and it's yours.
Yep, yep, and if you want to pay, good and well.
And the quality of music in that whole Creative Commons area is, there was a time when there was
a bit dodgy, but now the quality of music is equal, or in some cases, better than mainstream stuff.
Yes, there's some really excellent stuff. I listened to the Bugcast,
for some of the stuff, and there's some really wonderful stuff on there.
So yeah, it was to prove, although there was one show of six shows ago where every single song was
terrible. Yes, bad song after another, but that was entirely my preference. My preferences
are then occasionally yet one where it's excellent song after, excellent song after,
excellent song, but I'm sure Dave and Caroline consider all their songs to be excellent,
so that's good enough in all the same.
Color tools, changing color and brightness in your image, the GIM series, and again, as Dave said
earlier, more substantial shunals are available on a hookah's website.
Yeah, this is great. I enjoyed this, and I keep thinking, oh, I really must go and look
in more detail at this. I do use GIM from time to time, and just in a very superficial way,
this would be good to be able to be more adept at its use based on some of the information here.
And as with the Libra Office episodes, I know, I don't think there's anything he's,
I don't think he's got to a level yet where he's talking about stuff that I wasn't aware of in the
GIM because I've been using it for a while, but with Libra Office episodes, he got to a point where
he was introducing topics where I was like, oh, okay, and then two years later,
I came across the kids asked me to do something, and then I at least know that Libra Office supports
it. So, you know, you're you're asked an advantage right there, and then it's a matter of finding
out which show that he was talking about that particular topic. I'm tracking down this website,
notes, and then you're good to go. Yeah, you look like the hero. Speaking of heroes,
lost in Bronx, taking one for the team, silent, a week in solums,
lost in Bronx, trying to eat anything but silent, so you don't have to.
Excellent. What do you think of this? This is great. This is great. I did, I was listening to this,
and just so making a few, if you notes about it, and my first thing was to say,
but why? Why? Soil and at all. My daughter was in the room and she said, what are you doing,
dad? And I said, I'm listening to this. And so she got really interested in the whole subject being
a recent biology, graduate, and stuff. And the fact that lost in Bronx had had had diarrhea
as consequence of eating it, she said, oh, that's because his gut floor must have hated it.
So eating something like that will mess up, you know, after you've been eating a particular
range of foods will cause your gut floor to have a really bad time, you know. So,
yeah, but then sometimes if you're your gut floor adapts to the food you're eating, so if you're
eating, you're basically if you have a bad diet, you're eating and you want to switch to a different
type of diet, switching to silent might be, well, not switching to healthier stuff, you'll run into
the same issues that your gut floor has to adapt. I think it's part of that thing. If you ever
go abroad, somewhere where the food is very different, there's a sort of seasoning, so-called
seasoning time, when you get in use to the local food, maybe the different bacterial
floor that you're taking in and stuff like that, that the locals don't notice. And then you get
stable, stabilizes, then you go back home and you go through the same process. And that's all about
a seasoning thing. And also gut floor just being a master and somewhat. So, yeah, it's a pretty
sensitive thing, I think, that's only recently become understood a bit more. But yeah,
I heard some paper where it has the ability to change pathways in your brain.
Some signals to your brain. You're good for it, really. You have more to what's going on in the
world, no to what's there. I've heard a few discussions about this in the context of your
when bacteria in your gut produce particular hormones in some cases, then the pathway from
the lining of your gut to the vagus nerve, which is the one that looks after the whole digestive system,
to your brain is actually pretty short. So, you know, things like whether you're depressed or not,
and those sorts of things can be controlled by diet and bacteria. This is the two, I think.
Yeah, strange. There's a lot of stuff there that's going to take many years to understand
completely, but starting to happen. Anybody just on this topic who's shouting down the microphone
at us, shouting down their audio player at us, yeah, press record on that device and send in your
show. I'm sure there are people who know more about this stuff than I do, at least. Please do.
It would be fascinating to hear more about it, but I don't just going back to the
soreland. I don't quite see the point of it, unless you hate it. He was saying eating so much.
I think he was a programmer and he just didn't like to come out of the zone and was thinking
if we had what if I just bypassed the whole eating thing and for emergency situations,
it would be cheaper as well, just to each stay rather than having to eat all this food just by
the cheaper compounds, and then it would be a cheaper way to live.
Yeah, I know that sort of argument has been common in science fiction in my time of reading
that sort of stuff. The ideal future is that we don't eat food anymore, we just have a pill,
and everything is fine, but look where that sort of thinking has got us right now, you know.
Well, this is why the International Space Station this send up meals, because
they originally started with that sort of rehydration. Well, you have to rehydrate the meals,
but they try to make things tasty. That stuff, because it is fundamental, it's a fundamental thing
people need. So see, bluffing this way. Okay, second part of your chat with Mr. X was the
following day. More episodes on 3D printing would be appreciated. I still haven't got my
pine phone. This was to be here in August, I must chase them about that. It says it's in the
in a warehouse in the UK somewhere, but yes, it's, it's an interesting subject potentially.
So I'm intrigued to hear more about that personally. Mozilla, with Vida, with Abba.
No, the last one was mine, managing your raspberry pie fleet with Ansel, which was a collaboration
with OpenSource.com. And that was the tattoo just something was the second most popular
article this month, which is kind of nice. Well, I thought it was brilliant actually. I did,
I just listened to it today, because it takes me a while to catch up with everything.
And I was, it's nice to be able to read the text, the content as, as you go in.
And yeah, really, yeah, I thought it was, it was very, very helpful and quite a revelation in terms
of what, what you can do with Ansible. So yeah, it's, it's, it's really full of stuff that I,
I want to get into. Yeah, there's the really is, if you're doing anything over and over again,
if you're, if you're talking about. Okay. No, I'm not going to edit that out, because I'm not
a professional podcaster, especially after 15 years. And because we rebuild all these pies,
so often this, it's just a life saver, because you have a little script, and you don't even need to,
you just say, I want this pie to do this thing, to reboot this pie, or any other machine,
it's just rather than having to trips around, finding all of them, I can just run one script,
and it updates all the pies, all the laptops, all the desktops, everything in the house,
and then we're done. It's awesome. Well, quite, yeah, I, I had the experience in the past
a couple of days of my magic mirror monitor thingy coming up and saying that it needed an update.
So I, I went to manually update it, you know, get pool and an NPM install and stuff, and it blew up,
and the edges to, I think I missed a step, I think, you know, I think that was a possibly a
prime example of the human going in and doing stuff, not being fully aware of what they're doing,
and if it had been automated in some form, a good chance to come at the other end, do everything good,
you know, so I was particularly appropriate to be listening to stuff about Ansible thinking,
yeah, well, I should really be using that instead in some form or other.
Yeah, it just simplifies things because even if you, you can take the SD card and just
blow it away and then put another one in, today I was, I've been doing this so often, actually,
that I'm thinking of setting up an Ansible script that if it sees this MAC address,
that it will assign the IP address that I have in my host file to it in an Ansible script. So
generate the Ansible script on the fly to assign the IP addresses. Why not use DHCP on the server
cause, or on the router? Cause I don't like that, that's not back up, and routers, WiFi routers that
you get tend to be proprietary in nature. Oh sure, sure. Yeah, so all of your machines have fixed
IPs, yeah, yeah, you know, me too, me too, which makes me feel a lot more comfortable.
I know what a thing is when I go and look at IPs floating about and stuff.
Yeah, just seem to make a lot more sense. So that was that for the shores, Dave.
Does, yeah, yeah, sometimes of comments, we only have one that we didn't cover, and it was your
comment that you typed while we were recording last, the last show, I think. So we actually have
covered it, Dave. You said what you'd send. So yeah, that was to operate to show
3146, and yeah, you actually said that didn't you know, so there's nothing really to
else to say about the comments. So in the mailing list, HBR, you were all doing weird things,
which is essentially if you put parameters at the end, like Facebook click equals blah,
then the HBR website doesn't accept that. This led to a thread on HBR where I basically explained
Facebook is adding parameters to someone else's website URL. Please ask Facebook not to send
additional query parameters. All right, that's a bit smirmy fine. But I've taken the approach with
the website that I know what it's supposed to accept. So nobody else should be sending me anything
else other than what I'm supposed to accept. But apparently it's a thing now that Facebook and
Google and things like Slack add their own query parameters to track you.
Which I believe bypasses the at least bypasses people's privacy. And I was surprised that more
people working commenting on that people seemed happy enough that I remove it. So we now support
this feature. Even though it goes against my personal feelings on the matter, I think it's
bad practice to be tracking people and tracking people without their consent.
But we know, parse them off. And in future, this won't be an issue because it'll be a flat hitch,
won't be PHP size anyway, so you can send whatever you want. But that's pretty much the discussion.
But there was a time here in HBR Dave that people would have objected to that change.
Well, yeah, there's a listenership changing or what?
Yeah, people punch drunk from all the crap that's ongoing all the time.
It's yeah, to me this is a complete obscenity. It annoys me intensely. But
and I would just drop the whole bloody thing and not respond to. But it's a little bit extreme,
I agree. But Facebook is one of the most evil companies in the world. And it's destroying
many countries, democracy. It's part of what is undermining democracy across the world
and causing all these obscene dictator fascists to come into being. So, you
of Dave Morris do not necessarily reflect those. It's a silly answer, it's a sort of problem.
So I have further. I have heard of this from feeling hard about this. You might have
happened. So, which I don't normally voice, but yeah, it is, I mean, it's not only that they're
facilitating these sorts of movements and getting involved in politics at level, which is very,
very evil. But they're just bloody monitoring us in order to make money from this. And that
doesn't get me beyond the unbelievable. Yeah, but that's what you're getting, Dave. Here,
few years ago, people were paying, well, I was at five cents or something for every SMS message
just that now we're getting that for free. So, where where is money unless you're paying for
something, somebody's making a book of it. And they're making a book of that. So, that to me
is entirely reasonable. There are some of the things that Facebook are doing.
I consider that fine. That is what they're doing. But when this one particularly,
I find a bit egregious because if you're on the Facebook site and you paste in the link,
then I, as somebody who has no relationship with you whatsoever, now has a means to track you
on a completely independent site and GDPR-wise, the privacy law. I have no relationship with you.
I have no reason to be collecting this information. And yet, I do have this information. And I
can pass it back to whoever I like and they can pass it back to whoever they like. And now we can
track this person. That seems, that seems rather egregious to me, just on the whole. And also,
the fact that you have a website and you're dictating what somebody else's website now needs,
somebody else's website is now no longer going to work because of a decision you have taken.
Oh, but that's okay because the majority of people are using that. That, that doesn't
sit well with me. No, no. I mean, should we read the comments or what? It's quite a, quite a lot.
Anyway, at the end of the day, I caved and yeah, we support this. Well, insofar as we don't
lug us, we just get rid of it on the ingress. But I think it's sad, sad day. We ignore it,
effectively. Don't we? Yeah, it's being filtered out. But the alternative being to block it.
So I guess it's, it's, it's one of those the, be a little bit less than
extreme in your response to these things. Well, there's a reason I'm extreme is because we are under
attack constantly. And I know the, the Cedric put in one of those comments, if I'm checking this
and if I'm checking something else, then we should be okay. But the fact of the matter is,
I already know at the, at the end of my driveway, if somebody is a scumbag. So why should I let them
come the whole way up to my front door to be knocking on all my doors in my house to see can they
get in if I can stop them on the driveway? Yeah. Oh, yeah. Does it make sense? You know, I see a
scumbag coming in and they go, oh, that's fine. Come on in. And then they come up to your front door
and they go, oh, I've got this thing in here. I've got this thing in. This is allowed. So let me
in the front. Oh, that's grand. Come on in. Oh, what are you doing there? Oh, I'm breaking
the windows and stealing all your stuff. Sure, that's grand. But because you got, you've got this ticket
that lets you in. No, I know your, I know you've been trying to break into my house from the
driveway. So I'm keeping you down there and worse than that, I'm going to delay every request you
make so that everybody else gets in before you because I know your hostile. Yeah. Well, I'm not
the only one in that there are several other websites out there that do implement this.
And for the amount of traffic that we get from Facebook, anyway, because, you know, a few
hundred links in all that time in the 15 years that we were here, but fine. Fair enough.
It is what it is. It's a done deal. It's a compromise and sometimes compromises.
Unnecessary, I guess. But, oh, well, it's they, it was discussed on the mailing list.
They, the agreement on the mailing list was that we need to support it and we now support it.
I don't have to like what I have to implement. But yeah, that is what we've done.
This is HPR at work. But I can't bitch about it, Dave. I can't. Oh, yeah, yeah, please do.
Anywho, the full discussion on that is actually quite interesting and have a read of it.
RPG club. Oh, this is an interesting one. So you know the book club.
Klaatu wants to do a similar thing with the with RPG club, which would be too long,
didn't read. Where is it? Subscribe to my gaming mailing list to get updates on when I'm going to
hold an online RPG session that you can join. And basically the games they're going to try is
Shatteron, swords and sorcery, Pathfinder 1 to Starfinder, Castles and Crusades, Death Earth,
sorry, Dead Earth, Mystic D6, Open D6, Mythos and Madness, D&D 2, Dragonless specifically, D&D 5,
John Generators, Merger Hobels, Iron Swords, D4 Core to name, but a few. And then they're going to
basically play that for a month and then do a at the end of each month, I'd like to record an
episode reviewing the game system we just played. Yes, and it's inspired by the club.
Sounds great. Yeah, my son has been banned from that much to his. Well, he said himself,
he would love to do it, but he doesn't have the time at school.
Yeah, yeah, there is that. And, yeah, they do not tell you during the summer,
Klatu put on a special game for my kids, basically. Yes, I did mention something about your son
being particularly keen on it. Yeah, he's on the Wednesday Thursday game, but Klatu also put on a
game for him and my daughters and one of their friends. And it was the nicest thing ever,
who's just just a they all got into it and a really, really, really nice guy is Klatu
for those who didn't know. That's wonderful. Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
And then there was the community new stuff. Anything else that we missed?
We've had a few tags and thingies. Cool.
Scrolls, scroll. Yes, we had.
Good old window. Window go contributed seven updates. So he's just going through old shows
when the when the mood takes him, I think. And if he spots stuff without tags and
somebody's then he sends them in, which is, which is absolutely excellent. Yeah, I know. I always
dropped him a quick note by email to say, oh, thanks very much. They're all, they've been added,
blah, blah, blah. We have a little chat about all sorts of things. But, yeah, it's great. I'm
also going to do some myself, but I just not had it had a chance to get to anything. But, yeah,
so we're gradually, gradually moving forward. Yeah, should actually have a feed
Dave of, so see, making work for himself, a feed of shows that don't have tags. That should be
easy enough to do. Well, it wouldn't be that hard. I mean, the page that gives you the list of,
I mean, the idea was that there would be a thing you could go to in terms of a web page and say,
well, I'm just interesting. I'll listen to that and then send in some tags. That was the,
that was the intention. Yeah, we could do, uh, could do that. All right. Yeah. That said, they
remember last month I was going to do something and then that led to me trying to get a pie gone
and then that led to me that whole chain of events of knock-on events leading to knock-on events
are still not finished. Yes, I have, I have a number of projects here which I should have been
started and then other things have distracted me or been asked to do something else. Yes, so yes,
I had a conversation with my son this past week where I was saying, oh, yeah, I've been doing some
work in that area and he said, oh, that sounds interesting. Can I see? And I suddenly realized that
it's in one of the stack of boxes that I've got available here. I don't even know which one
it was in. In order to show you what an ESP32 looked like or whatever. Ah, I think, I think I have
a problem here. Yeah. I'm taking on things that I can't finish which is, you know, finished stuff
before taking on anything else. Oh yeah, there's a project. Oh yeah, I must definitely do that.
Oh god, where are we going?
Anything else coming up? Oh yeah, Fostem is online this year. Did I mention that?
He said it to me, yeah, but we didn't, I think we mentioned it on here. Not that I recall anyway,
so that would be very good. When's it going to be? It's going to be February, late January, February?
Yes, it might last, yeah. So no change for you, it'll be the same as last year.
I'll not be going, I'll be looking at it from a distance.
The script? Yeah. Well, you got to attend more episodes than we did or more talks than we did.
Yeah, it's good. I enjoyed it. Right, Tim, those are very political show I must say now.
Strong views held. If we don't get any comments from this one, I would be hugely surprised.
Yeah, yeah. Well, we tried. We tried. We must try and, you know, script it better next time.
Yeah, I don't comment. I know you really, really put that whole Facebook in there quite well.
You know, you did that quite well. Yeah. And I know you're on Facebook the whole time.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yes. You can contact me on Facebook at my tracking ID is 402.
Yes. So I don't ever see that, I think it's a bulge, Mad, where somebody goes into the bakery
and then all go people come up to him and put posted notes on.
And they, and they, um, the baker asked them for his name and asked people for their name and
address and contact information, male or female, just asked them to take the terms and service.
No, that sounds horrific. It was a, it was a, um, there's a joke on the whole, you know,
online purchasing tracking thing is quite, quite funny. Well, there was a time there was, um,
they, they more or less disappeared now, but the radio, shack, Tandy company that, that's,
I don't know, I'm still big in the States. Is it still existing in the States? No, I think there
they gone, gone completely, but there were a number of shops in, in the UK where there was one in
Edinburgh and it was quite a reasonable source for electronics bits. And I remember going in there
that, where they, when they had adopted a new scheme, if you ever bought anything, they wanted you
to fill in your name, your address and all sorts of other stuff. And, uh, yeah, I was Michelle Suri
for years and years. Oh, thank you, Mrs Suri. So, yeah, yeah. And then just, people just did that.
And that was part of that, the rot setting in, I think. But I think it's good, actually, the
Geoho GDPR now, because here, you don't, why do you need that information? Yeah, well, we need
that information. No, you don't, you don't need it for the direct processing of this task.
You only need the basic information and you should not be collecting any more because it's a
low in every country in the Europe. Very, but soon you'll be free from all that, dude. Only
about two more months. Oh, yeah. So, in pretzel shackles, it would be wonderful. Yes, yes, yes,
we'll be able to, we'll be dancing in the street and everything. Yeah, be wonderful. Can't wait.
That's enough. That's enough politics. We've got to post the show and I'll, I'll give you
an update. Students tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker, public radio,
send in your Halloween shows, by the way, people, if you're a, we are kind of low on shows.
So if you're doing anything for Halloween, anyway, send in your shows, send in your shows,
how you deal with lockdown. We're back in super lockdown mode here, ish, almost nearly stay at home,
maybe sort of in the size of Dutch government sort of lockdown. Is it a lockdown? Is it not?
Yes. Scotland is doing quite well as far as COVID-19 cases were concerned, but in the first round,
but second round, wow, it's got really bad glass goes astonishingly bad. So yeah, it's, oh,
it's, it's locking down right left and centre here. We're, uh, breaking records every day,
you, you virus hitting and we appear to be the only country in the world who doesn't think that
wearing first masks is a good thing. So weird, so weird. I know it's, it's, uh, why, why this
should be a controversial thing, I don't know, but, well, there are scientists in there to support it,
but I've read articles myself, which says it, it does, but they're, they're saying, uh, that
for every 200,000, you, people wearing a face mask, the number of people is, who gets contaminated,
it is down by one, but that doesn't seem to rhyme, but the other data that I, or the other
studies that I've seen, really weird. But it is, as you say, that there's not been any real,
really good studies. I've got another show coming out next month where I chatted with Andrew,
Andrew Conway, McNallow, where we got onto this, this subject and, and uh, okay, listen to that so,
so yeah, yeah, it's, uh, okay, the historians are going to have such a such fun digging to this
nonsense. Yeah, exactly, and ours will be the only record because we're an archive.org,
and that will survive. Hello, my alien brothers.
All right, all right, now I have not had anything to drink. I think it's time I do
what you need today. Same here. Okay, see you later. Tera, post the show. Oh, and by the way,
I got the hardest. Whoops. I got, why is an external hard disk more expensive than an internal hard
disk? It's half the price. And I'm got an adapter for the internal hard disk, which is coming from
somewhere. So it's half the price for internal hard disk within adapter. So I'll see what the benefits
are. Oh, I guess that is going on to the pie four, which is going on my rack of pies.
Maybe I'll do a show on that. And that's where I want to move, uh, Marvin, who, who does the
transcoding of the shows? Oh, and people, listen, yes, I know we did the traditional sing-out,
so this is an extra material at the end. I had an idea that we could check into Gaze,
a SQL file with all the information about the shows. Check it out, populate an SQL
light database, go through all the processing of posting the shows, adding a new show from a
Gaze profile, posting it into the SQL like database, push that back to Gaze, and then push that
out to the internet so that the whole HPR thing is replicated in Gaze. Is that
a sane concept? Right, yeah. Better yet, uh, record a show and send that in.
More information available on the mailing list if you want it.
If you ask for it actually. Okay, that's it. Tune it tomorrow for another
exciting episode. I hope you're probably ready. We already done that. Talk to you later,
leave teacher. Okay, I'm just going to stop now. Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum
computer club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on
today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up
episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a light, free.or license.
