Episode: 3134
Title: HPR3134: Tomorrowland 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3134/hpr3134.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:32:41

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3134 for Thursday, 6 August 2020. Today's show is entitled
to Moro Land 2020. It is hosted by Daniel Persson,
and is about 10 minutes long, and carries a clean flag. The summary is
explaining the experience of the first virtual music festival.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
Hello hackers, and welcome to this little bit of an experience review of
Tomorrow Land. For you who doesn't know Tomorrow Land is this music festival
that goes every year in Belgium, and it has grown over the years.
It started somewhere in 2005 with a few artists, Aaron Van Buren for instance,
and the next year David Guetta was on the main stage,
and a lot of different artists has been there.
Some of the sweetest artists are Axwell and Engrosso, and Avisia of course,
and this year Katy Perry even joined with the cost of all the artists that was there.
Usually this large festival is two whole weeks, and both of the weeks there are
200,000 people in the same area, an area of about 120 football fields or soccer
fields, and that's a lot of people in a very small area.
So of course with this large pandemic that we have, they couldn't really
have a festival in that huge area anymore.
So what did they do?
Well, they cancelled the event, so there were no events where you could go,
but they opened up a virtual event.
And this virtual event has eight different stages.
It has also a lot of things around where you can buy merch,
and you can go in and learn more about the event and so on.
But these different stages, the main stage, the atmosphere, the core,
the cave, the wall, the elixir, the freedom, and the most bar are different
places where different artists are sharing their music, and usually it's new music.
It's pretty much the things that will be played on radio later on, and it's house,
and it's dance music, and it's just a joyful fest with a lot of love.
And I'm a little bit in a bus at the moment because I've just watched the last show
where mountain garricks were playing.
I really like this kind of music.
I have never gone to Tomorrowland.
I was about to go to White, which is a dance festival where everybody wears white.
I had tickets and were about to go, talked to my parents, and they didn't think that I should go on it.
I'm not that kind of a person that goes to a festival, dances for three whole days, non-stop.
I'm more of a person that sits at home, listen to great music, and do some evening coding, as I've done today.
But a virtual event isn't like the real thing, of course.
There is no crowds, there is no shares, there is no applause, there is no vibe.
So how could this virtual event be as impactful as I feel now?
Well, they did this virtual event in Unity.
They had a lot of developers that worked on this day and night, since January, to create these stages
where you had some virtual events going on.
So you were seeing the full stage that had built up with a lot of different elements like houses,
and there were fireworks, and everything like that.
And they also emulated crowds.
And the crowds were not super great if you looked at them closely.
There were a lot of copies of the same person, of course.
But the crowd was interacting with the music.
So if the DJ was saying, clap your hands, the crowd would clap their hands.
If they were playing something that was known to the public, or it was something really good,
the crowd shared, the crowds sang along to the new known songs.
The crowd were sharing in different tones and so on.
So really got the mood and the changes in the crowds.
And also in Dimitra Vegas and Leichmark's performance, as they knew what the software was capable of,
they were asking the crowd to light the bracelets on the right side, on the middle and on the left side,
and it followed through, and they also did some kind of a wave with the lights and so on.
So you can really see how the crowd interacted to what the DJ was saying.
So this was a really interesting experience for me.
As I haven't been there, I have watched a lot of the YouTube videos.
They release all the content on YouTube from all the shows.
So you can watch them later on YouTube.
And I have a long list of play, and I have a long playlist on YouTube where I listen to all this music.
And it's such a good way to get into the flow when you are programming and to be able to focus on a problem when you listen to good music.
And usually this kind of dance trans, this kind of a dance house music is euphoric for me.
I really like this kind of music.
So if you like different kind of music, we are all different.
But I think it's important now where everything is going around in the world that we take some time in our day,
put on some good music, whatever that is to you, listen to it, enjoy, have a good cry, have a good, get all those feelings that that music that you listen to during a specific time can give you.
For instance, I have a hard time listening to a vicious music because that was a real strategy for me.
But I really like his music and I really like this kind of a scene.
So this was what I wanted to cover today.
It was a really interesting experience to do this virtually, and I was able to be a part of it for the first time.
I hope that you found this interesting and if you have had a similar experience with music, please leave a comment, I will read those.
And to the next time, happy coding and I hope you are doing well.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dog Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at BingRef.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLike, Free.O license.
