Episode: 3468
Title: HPR3468: Distro upgrade intervals on my Raspberry Pi
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3468/hpr3468.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:00:36

---

This is Haka Public Radio Episode 3468 for Wednesday the 17th of November 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Distro Up Grade Intervals on My Raspberry Pi.
It is hosted by MrX, and is about 13 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, in this episode, I discuss Demi and Distro Up Grade Intervals for My Raspberry Pi.
Hello and welcome Haka Public Radio audience. Welcome to this podcast.
As usual, I'd like to start by thanking the people at HPR for making the service available to us all.
HPR is an invaluable service on these here in the troops.
HPR is a community-led podcast provided by the community for the community.
That means you can contribute to, so why don't you pick up a microphone, a mobile phone, a tablet,
MP3 player, computer, if you've got one, hit record and send something in.
It's really pretty straightforward. They've really gone to a lot of effort to try and make the process quite straightforward.
As we've done, I think when you're first to, once you get into it, it's quite enjoyable.
If I can do it, so can you. I'm sure you must all have something you want to send in.
If we're all contributed, we'd have more shows and we'd know what to do with.
Well, now.
It's been a wee while since I've sent a show, and I feel rather rusty to try the truth.
Looks like the last time I sent in a show was back in July, actually, so yeah, I've been very,
very busy, and actually, if you're looking for a concise, well thought out, well planned,
show lots of thought behind it, something like that. If you produce, for example, something like
that, then you'd better just go off and skip this one. This is just some thoughts I was having,
because in it came from the point of view that I'm a bit short on time,
and it all came about when I came across a file on my computer. But before I go into that,
talking about being short of time, I was trying to start recording this show and opened up
Audacity, I'm using Ubuntu, who can't correct me what version it is. It's an LTS version anyway.
It just shows you, I don't get a chance to play with the computer that much these days, so
I can't even remember what version of this show. I'm using it on the PC, but I was looking at the
recording levels and I thought, ah, just a wee bit of hot. In fact, I just saw a wee bit clipping
going on there just now, just so yeah, it's wee bit of hot and recording levels. So apologies,
to anybody if you pick up a little bit of clipping. And I tried to adjust the recording level,
and in the past I would just click on the speaker icon at the top right hand corner on Ubuntu,
and you got the volume setting and the recording setting, and I couldn't, and I wasn't
I'm in a hurry to get recording because I've only got to set my time, and I tried to,
and of course the recording level isn't there anymore, it's disappeared,
so I went into settings, I couldn't see it there. I think I typed audio into the search
thing, and I saw Pulse Audio Mixer, I think it was, I thought that would be a good idea to do that,
did that, but it was very sensitive, the volume, the recording level didn't just touch, it was too low,
and then I found it, it took over from Audacity, and I had to close it and reopen it again,
and faff about it, I mean I, probably spent 10 minutes doing that, so why did somebody
thought it was, you know, it was confused, confused, the poor user having a volume setting
and the recording setting, and one screen would be on me, it's hardly difficult to,
I think it's a drive to simplify things, isn't it, but it didn't simplify things for me,
I was right, I'll get back to the show, the real reason for recording this show was,
again, to do with shortness of time, and I was, I just happened to come across a file, as I
were saying, on a spreadsheet, which I actually created last year, and that was kind of,
Christmas time when I had it, or when I had a bit more time man's, and I was kind of reviewing
the status of my various devices I've gotten, what districts they're running, what distribution
they're running, and all that, you know what, actually according to my spreadsheet here,
the PC I'm running now, I'm running Ubuntu 1804, 1804 0.5 LTS, and it's due to expire in 2023,
so that's fine, so I kind of color coded the different devices, so I could see whether they were
going out of date or whatever, and that is that me creating two shows, one about upgrading my Samsung
laptop, one upgrade my Pi 13, the Pi 13 was running Raspberry 8 Gese, and it expired in the 30th
of June 2020, got my spreadsheet here, although we're still able to upgrade it to
Raspberry, to stretch in December 2020, so it's still able to do that, I've just got an
time before it, I don't know for how much longer I would have been able to upgrade it, but anyway,
I did that, I was a whole host of Hasselon, they'll kind of enjoy it, I guess I'll be a spare time
and whatnot, unusually, and I kind of had it in my mind that, oh well, that's fine, I've
upgraded all my things, and I've nothing to worry about for a few years, and when I came across
this spreadsheet again, just completely by accident, I noticed that my Pi 13 now running Raspberry
9 stretch is due to expire in June 2022, so that means that really, I need to upgrade it
again, this Christmas, when I hope we'll have a bit of time, or I could maybe leave it two years
perhaps and do it Christmas and do it just before, even though it's gone out to date, but I don't
really want to do that, and obviously, I've been to, it has, I have Anderson, I've worked with LTSs,
and there's a number of years between them, and you've got an LTS release, and you've got a normal
a number of normal releases, and then an LTS, I told you I haven't researched this, but you've
got a gap between them basically, so they don't come every single year, so you can jump from LTS to
LTS, so it means you don't need to upgrade Swaffen, that's the idea behind it, so not really putting
any much thought into it really, and it seems like Debian doesn't do that, so the LTS is supported for
five years, but every, I think, and I assume they can correct me, every version
end up falling into LTS after setting them out of time, but what that means is that if you let the
LTS laps until the point where it needs to get done, then unless you jump through the hoop
several times to get up to the very latest version, then you're going to have to update every year,
so although you've initially got that five years after that, you've got to do it every single
year, so I don't quite, I was kind of surprised at that, I guess on the other hand, and it totally,
I think, upgrades on Debian may be a bit more robust, let's say, than, sort of,
from LTS, LTS, maybe, perhaps, in Debian, then it would be for Ubuntu, because you're going from
year to year, you're not jumping several versions sort of thing, again, I could be talking rubbish here,
but I'm just thinking, oh, this means I'm going to have to do that, well, I've got three options
I could do nothing, let my Raspberry Pi just go out of date completely, and, you know, over time,
I've become less secure and all the rest of it, I could do that, I could do the intermediate step,
and just upgrade to the next LTS, which, so Raspberry and Stretch, the next one is, what's the stretch?
It goes, I've just got this down here, Stretch goes, so Debian Stretch 9, the Debian 9 Stretch,
it goes to Debian 10 Buster, so I could go to Buster, but then the next year after that,
I have the same problem again, and the current latest one is Debian Bullseye, so really to get
a bang up to date, I need to go from 9 to 10 to 11, so that's two updates, basically,
and each time it's a light pain, so my biggest problem is I've got, I've got an add-on board,
which I find very handy to, and it runs, it's got a bit of software, which allows the add-on board
to work, and I suspect if I upgrade to a nice clean version of them, say 10 or 11, I should say,
Debian 11 Bullseye, then that would be no longer supported, that would kind of break, I suspect,
also, I have get eye player, which I sometimes use, I might cause an issue as well,
but I'm more concerned about this add-on board, so I don't know how,
if we're else deals with upgrades, and I wonder if anyone has experienced upgrading Debian,
do you do it every year? If you don't do it every year, then you fall to the end of the LTS release,
and then you have to do it every year, either that, or you ignore it and just let it go out of date,
it seems a bit strange, I'm not sure what I'm going to do, I guess I need to wait and see what
happens, come Christmas time and see how much time I have on my hands, I'm not necessarily expecting
anyone to reply to this, and I mean, I won't mean I have a lot of time to answer comments,
anyway, if people do supply lots of comments on the show, it's kind of a receive, obviously,
if people do, I'm not also very good at sometimes picking up on these comments,
but maybe we'd encourage others to send in a show and to explain how they deal with upgrades,
be it Ubuntu or Debian or whatever, I don't know, that might be an idea,
because I enjoyed it when I had more time on my hands, but when you're short on time,
I'm not sure how to deal with this, as I say, because up until last
year, the pipe has been sitting for years, just because it's supported for five years,
but yeah, I'm a bit confused about the LTS releases on Debian and what I should do,
so yeah, if anyone wants to send in a show and give them their thoughts on how they deal with this
sort of thing, I'd be interested in listening to it, so I hope I haven't bored you all to
years, I don't think I've got much else to say, and sorry again for the lack of coherence and
and what not, and I'll try and pull some notes together because I've written nothing down
for this show at all, anyway, thanks very much for listening and as always, and if you want to
contact me, you can contact me at MrX at hpr at googlemail.com, that's MRX AT HPR
the at symbol googlemail.com, so until next time, thank you and goodbye.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by an hpr listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hosting for hpr is kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our sync.net, unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under
creative comments, attribution, share like 3.0 license.
