Episode: 3894
Title: HPR3894: The Page 42 Show: Ugly News Week, Show's Epoch!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3894/hpr3894.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:38:30

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3894 for Thursday the 6th of July 2023.
Today's show is entitled.
The page 42 show Ugly News Week shows epic.
It is the first show by Newhost Gage Hopper, and is about 38 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is an hour of news and commentary of software development and the overall
fast space.
Hello and welcome to my HPR show.
The title of this show is page 42, and it will also be available after its broadcast on
HPR, eventually on its own website.
My name is Gage Hopper.
I am a, well, no sense of the words, minus black at a hacker, but I primarily like to
program.
I'm more or less a software engineer without the degree.
I have been wanting to do something like this for a very long time.
I initially had the concept for this a while ago and I wanted to have co-hosts and that
did not work out.
It's been a couple years, but I'm here.
I didn't just find out about HPR, but I didn't really understand it as a concept until maybe
about a week ago at Southeast Linux Fest, where Mordancy explained it to me.
I'm one of the revolving contributors of the Linux loadcast and now I'm here on HPR.
So plans for page 42, just a little bit of housekeeping here.
I intend to set up a limit and a matrix for it as well as a cast-apod for archiving
previous shows.
Again, my name is Gage Hopper.
I started with computers and I was about six.
My uncle built the first computer that I ever used and the computer that I'm using right
now to record this was built by myself.
I'm a little bit proud of that fact.
But today, this is more of like a proto show.
I don't have how I'm going to do this going forward completely planned out, but I plan
to put out something about an hour long each week starting from here.
So I'm going to get into our news topics for this week.
I have some other plans other than news to do, but we'll get to that in a bit.
So starting with the news, Rust being destroyed by Foundation ADSE.
As I put in my show notes, there's really no way to be nice about this.
I think the YouTube video that I linked to, let's get Rusty's commentary on this is
a really, really, really good source.
I just, when I found out about their keynote speaker being dropped by the Foundation,
I just got to be honest, my mind was blown like, this is the second time question mark
in the last three or four months that something this stupid has come out about the Rust Foundation.
At this point, I don't know if Rust, as in the project, needs the Foundation because
at this point, it's a hindrance.
I understand wanting to protect your, you know, your IPs and stuff, but they're doing
it wrong and the community sees this.
It's embarrassing.
Like, there are people who have spent years trying to get jobs with, you know, by learning
Rust, by going through and actually learning this somewhat steep learning curve of a programming
language.
And to sit here and say that, you know, stuff like, oh, we have the Rust trademark.
So you can't use the word Rust in your project's name or alternatively.
You can't use this version of the spelling of the word Rust in your project's name,
in your project's marketing materials.
If you go to a conference and speak, you can't use it there because it's our trademark.
At least that's my understanding of the document that they put out.
To be fair, both times, the Rust project leadership has come out and tried to get in front
of this.
But the fact that Jean Hyde, Jean Hyde, I don't know how to pronounce his name, but the
fact that he was offered an invitation as a keynote speaker and then just all of a sudden
out and decided to, or not him, but the Rust Foundation just all out and decided to be
like, yeah, no, we know we sent you a keynote invitation, but you, you're not a keynote
speaker at RustConf.
Like, what, how are you going to tell someone they're a keynote speaker and then turn
around and then be like, oh, yeah, this is just a regular presentation.
Like bro, that's not how this shit works.
It's just not.
I just, I'm kind of sad because I really, really like Rust as a language.
I've defended it pretty, pretty harshly in the past.
I think it's not really good after Mitchell Baker effectively fired the people working
on Rust, the people working on Servo, you know, all that stuff several years ago.
I don't think it's, it's good for this project's main sponsor to drop it and then turn
around, start fresh and have problems like this.
Like, it's just, it's not a good look.
It doesn't bode well for the future.
Um, the fact that there's been two of these incidents now leads me to believe that unless
there's some, uh, some new leadership installed at the top of the Rust Foundation, I genuinely
don't believe that problems like this are going to stop.
Um, so, uh, if anyone from the Rust Foundation or anyone in leadership at the Rust Project
is listening to this, there's some people at the top that got to go.
They just, they got to go.
All right, moving on, uh, see here from beta news, opera one AI powered browsing tab,
scenes and windows or, sorry, Linux, the, uh, link here is actually for all three, but
the headliner here is Linux because since when Linux first class for anything, um, well,
I guess you could say ever we still have GIMP because they won't put Photoshop on Linux.
That tells you anything.
It's 2023, um, that's neither here nor there, uh, you could get into an entire free software
debate on that.
I'm not going to.
But opera introduces the first browser with its own proper AI, if you don't include Cortana,
um, the AI's name is Araya, Araya, and it's linked to open AI's chat GPT.
Um, and according to my notes here, an interesting consequence of this is that Araya knows opera's
knowledge base really well as it's been fed the entire knowledge base.
So I find this, uh, not necessarily surprising that the, uh, opera team brought this over.
Um, I think one of the only mainstream things that Linux has consistently gotten since I started
dailying it in 2015 has been a browser, um, and it's been all the browsers.
I mean, even Microsoft edges on Linux.
You might not like it, but it's, it's here.
Um, I personally use brave, um, and we're going to get into that here in a second.
Um, this, uh, this AI is based on chat GPT.
And so, I mean, chat GPT has been in the news for a lot of stuff.
The most recent thing I've seen from it up until now was actually a professor who had the brilliant
idea to basically can have his class because he ran all of their essays through, uh, apparently
open AI, open AI has a tool if I could talk today. Open AI has a tool that will allegedly let you
run an essay through it and it will tell you the likelihood or something to that effect that
it was generated by chat GPT. Um, the fact that they've even tried to invent a tool like this
is, it's funny. Um, it's, it's kind of a circus show to me. Uh, I, I believe that chat GPT
doesn't always pass the turing test, but in the case of being fed a trove of information
and then being asked to write a cohesive essay on the topic, it passes the turing test, right?
You cannot, uh, and I, I know this because I've done it. Um, specifically for Russ, by the way,
Russ was when back in January, uh, no, December. When I first got on open AI and went in there and
actually fooled around with it back in December of last year, one of the things that I noticed was
that it can really, really output documentation well. And I got it to spit some stuff out
about Russ that I could not find anywhere else. Um, it was honestly very helpful in answering
questions. It was a really, really nice experience. Um, I, uh, I don't have any complaints, but these
professors do. And so circling back to the topic of, you know, college essays, uh, this guy
really tried to can half his entire class because this tool put out by open AI decided to tell him
that, you know, half those essays were generated by Chad GPT. Um, there was a lot of cussing. Uh, he
had like arrogant emails that he sent out to students. I personally believe that even if he was
tenured, they should have let him go. Um, but also I, I have a track record of being very against
university. And so this, uh, this is not too shocking that this happened, but I mean when your
entire curriculum is here, read chapters four, five and seven out of a textbook, then write a
fucking essay about it, which I've been to college twice. This is how it works. They don't have
anything original to have you do. So they just tell you to write essays. And now that a tool has come
out that passes the Turing test to be able to write an essay like a human given the same information
that a human would have access to on the internet. Um, I think it's time to get good, bro. As the
kids would say, uh, get good universities. You got up your game. You've been doing the same lazy
shit for how long now? Longer than I've been alive. That's for damn sure. But, um, circling back to,
opera's use of chat GPT. This requires an opera account to use. Um, I find it, uh, unfortunate
that it is GPT based. I really wish it had been something simpler or something that runs locally.
I'm not going to use it. Um, I, I use brave, um, eventually, I'm going to start using TOR
because I want to experiment with it and, uh, having a browser that is going to send every single
thing that I do back to potentially somewhere like open AI or opera servers or really anywhere else.
I just, I don't want that in my browser. Um, okay. Moving on. Oh, this is a fun one.
Amazon retaliates against Lewis. So while I was itself, a very interesting event occurred.
Of course, none of us were paying attention to the news cycle because we were off this, uh, insanely
awesome Linux event. Um, seriously, at a great time. I will definitely be grabbing a plane ticket
out there next year. Um, but Lewis Rossman, um, he is a YouTuber and before he was a YouTuber,
he ran and still continues to run Rossman repair group. He employs about seven people if I remember
correctly, um, to, you know, repair iPhones, Macs, all, all types of things. But Lewis is a very
prominent figure in the right to repair community. Um, I'm, I'm sure most people listening to Hacker
Public Radio are aware of his existence, but I, I needed to explain this so that just in case anyone
else listening doesn't know who he is, um, dude's a legend. But, um, back, oh, uh, the week that I
went to self, um, the week that self happened sometime during that time, uh, a software engineer
at Microsoft got locked out of all of his Amazon stuff, his entire smart home, all the shit that he,
you know, bought with his own money as a legal adult in the United States, uh, as a homeowner,
presumably in the United States. Um, I just on, on the one hand, there's a lot of people who are like,
oh, yeah, man, I, I said from the start, don't use these smart devices. But as, as he explained in
his comment, you know, he would be bringing his work home with him, right? He's, he's already a
software engineer at Microsoft. He doesn't want to do all the deployment stuff, you know, that would
be required to, to go and actually set something like that up, you know, for a lot of us, it's fun,
but I would also probably not have the motivation to do stuff like that or, uh, home assistant or,
oh, it was before home assistant. There was another project that, uh, my understanding is that they
ran out of funnier like Mibo or something. I don't, I don't quite remember. But, um, basically the
gist is that consumer bought these products and because of the consumer saying something that
the company that made the products and like, he was basically, uh, gated out of his own home.
Right? Uh, he talked about how he couldn't use any of his echo devices. He couldn't use any of his
cameras or any of the shit that he had connected to Amazon services at the time. Now, let's get into
why this guy, this Microsoft engineer had all his stuff locked up. Um, so what had happened was,
cannot believe this. He had a, I don't remember the exact brand name. I think it was like youfear
something, um, equivalent of a ring doorbell. It wasn't a ring doorbell, but it was, uh, you know,
the sort of generic equivalent of that that still hooks up to Amazon or whatever, uh, smart home
system you're using, whatever ecosystem you're and the thing that happened was an Amazon driver came
up to his door, put the package on the porch and the youfear doorbell said something along the lines
of thank you have a nice day and the guy apparently thought it was a racial slur, you know, despite the
fact that it's on literally every one of these doorbells that's made and I just get, sorry, cats in
place, cats shouldn't be. Um, the, the guy thought the doorbell said something racist and reported
it to Amazon. Sorry, I'm having a bit of an ADHD stroke over here. Um, I was kind of left speechless
by this. I'm not going to lie. Um, the fact that a company can accuse you of doing something that
you very, very clearly did not fucking do and then said company will proceed to lock you out of
all the smart devices that you've purchased and connected to their service infrastructure. By the
way, that's what this is. This is your home's infrastructure. They've taken it down because of a
false report made against you. That's what this, this Amazon guy or not Amazon guy, uh, Microsoft guy
had happened to him. And Lewis Rossman posted a video calling out Amazon on their bullshit,
which is what this is bullshit. And so, uh, I'm, I'm kind of just amazed at this because
the, uh, the story keeps going, right? So Lewis had Amazon affiliate links on his website for,
for a good, good amount of years. I think you said like eight to 10 years or something like that
or 12 years or some really, really long amount of time. And Amazon sent him an email
after his video went up last week or two weeks ago. Um, about the, uh, Amazon driver and the
Microsoft engineer, they sent him an email and basically said, yeah, you're not an affiliate
anymore because, uh, you were trying to sell soldering equipment to your close friends and family,
you know, because that's, that's real likely. Um, I think Amazon has been left unchecked on a lot
of fronts for far, far too long. Um, I think Amazon needs to be regulated and potentially broken up
and same with Google. Um, I mean, the only time in, I don't want to say the only time in history
we've seen it, but I'm the only time that I can think of off the top of my head that one of these
tech companies has been broken up is still the fucking baby bells. And that was a, for a lot of,
a lot of listeners probably probably doesn't feel like a long time ago, but I'm 25 and that,
all that stuff happened like over a decade before I was born. So, um, the, uh, the videos are out there,
uh, at, at the very least it is entertainment, but it's not something that, uh, I would take
lightly as far as where we're headed. Um, I don't have smart home stuff. I don't plan to have
smart home stuff. I'm not going to lie. Uh, if I, if I did, it would have to be intranet only,
no internet. Um, I just, I don't have that level of trust and shit like this is exactly the reason
why, you know. Um, but they, uh, I also want to point out, Amazon never released an apology.
They never admitted wrongdoing. They just know accountability. Uh, so I, I guess I'll leave this
one off with, uh, let's regulate Amazon. All right, moving on down the list. Uh, from, uh,
Tom's hardware. Um, ah, yes. So Mesa just got a, uh, here it is. 23.2. Uh, 23.2 just released for Mesa.
Um, and with it comes a massive boost to Intel's arc driver stack. Um, I have a couple of quotes here.
First quote, Intel open source Linux graphics driver engineer Francisco Jerez.
Discussed the Intel slash GFX 12.5 code change on GitLab. According to Jerez,
some performance features were expected to be enabled by default have been accidentally disabled
by the kernel. Okay. So I, I actually did, I don't have any, uh, any arc stuff. Um, I run a media
server called pigeon bastard. And, uh, once it's, uh, set back up because I'm rebasing on devian
from Ubuntu because I don't like the direction canonical is taken. Um, but the server or the
physical machine that I use as the server for pigeon bastard will eventually have an art card in
it because I want the, uh, the nice AV1 encoding that comes with that. And so in order to get it,
you could probably do it in software. It probably take an eon, but the art card as of, at least from
what I can tell is at least on launch, the only one that had hardware level AV1 encoding. So
onto Linux gaming. Um, I'm actually pretty curious about arc. And I might actually pop it into
my main machine, the arc a seven, whatever that I get. Um, there's a good chance that I'm going to
plug this into my main machine and run a bunch of, uh, benchmarks, excuse me, a bunch of benchmarks
on it because I, uh, I really want to see how this thing handles compared to my 1060 that's
aging poorly in my main rig right now. But, um, that's neither here nor there. Uh, the next quote is
confounding code detectives, the compressible partial right merge enable coherent partial
right merge enable and cross tile partial right merge enable. But it's all appeared to be enabled
when a query was run on an idle system. Nevertheless, these L3 partial right merging features were
getting clobbered during 3D context initialization by an i915 workaround and causing a series performance
bottleneck. Um, and the last quote from this is it is expected that the mace of 23.2 code improvements
will get to stable Linux OS distros sometime around late August or September. Um, first thing to
note here, I've never heard of an i915 architecture before. Um, I didn't know they were still making
those like the ixxx whatever for different x86 variants. Um, I guess that just shows how much I
know. But, um, the fact that they were able to find this with the amount of sleuthing they had to
do is actually pretty impressive. Um, a lot of this stuff is over my head. I know just enough to
understand the, the, the gist of it, which is these were, okay, so we have performance stuff. Okay,
we know we have performance stuff. It's been disabled inside the kernel. We didn't know is disabled
by the kernel. So now we're enabling it and pushing that out and the next release. The gist, you know,
so that is happening. I really, really, really cannot wait to benchmark an arch card. I, I am
very, very ready for that. It's, it's a project that I want to do. I want to, you know, run some
virtualization on there as well. Um, see, you know, how well it works compared to both my 1060.
I believe some are down here. I also have an rx580, but don't quote me on that. Um, but that's, uh,
that's, that's it for, uh, Intel arc news, I guess. And I'm actually going to skip around in
the show notes here. Next source is from hack a day. Um, I actually really like hack a day is a
source. Hack a day is, is, uh, entertaining sometimes. So is the register. I don't have any
register sources on here. But so I just got to say what the hell, Red Hat, um, Red Hat acquired
Cintos back in 2014. Cintos stream was announced in 2020. And as of this week,
rel packages are no longer published to the Cintos get repo. This is, uh, not news that I'm
particularly happy about because I was already planning on getting off of Red Hat for the machines
that I still have on it. Um, I'm not currently using rel, but I am using an instance of rocky
somewhere. Um, I got to be honest, I, for me personally, all my server stuff, all my projects
are probably going to be switching to Debian. And I mean, just like straight up Debian for all of
its drawbacks and its flaws. Mainline Debian is not plagued with the issues that some of these
enterprise companies like canonical and Red Hat are. Um, but something that I read in this article
that I did not read in other articles was the commentary on the GPL. And I know a lot of people
are talking about it, but up until I read this article, a lot of other articles are saying,
oh, well, because, you know, the source code is being distributed to people who pay for the
commercial software. It should be fine. Um, this article actually kind of disputes that, which
I find interesting. Um, it's definitely worth a read. I believe that that, uh, that the article
said it was section six in the GPL. Um, I would have to go back and reread that paragraph. But,
um, Red Hat potentially violated the GPL. And if it's found that they did, I think, I think
IBM deserves to be sued into oblivion. Um, but I mean, at the very least, if it's not a direct
violation, it is a spiritual violation. Um, it goes against the spirit of GPL code, which is pretty,
pretty unfortunate. Um, I, uh, I've been disappointed in Red Hat for the last six months,
according to my show notes. Um, that is true. Uh, so I met Ben Cotton at Ohio Linux Fest
back last year, last December, like the first week of last December. Um, I had never been to a Linux
Fest before up until then. Um, and I mean, Ben was, was really nice to me. I think I stood at his
table. He was doing a book signing and I stood, I had to have stood at his table for at least an hour
and a half. Um, the guy was really, really nice to me. He, uh, you know, he kind of dove into
Core OS is like a concept. Um, and I actually did check it back out when I got back, um, about
maybe two or three weeks before they laid him off. But Ben Cotton is no longer with Red Hat. Um,
he was doing a lot of work over there, if I remember correctly. Um, and this, uh, uh, the, the,
the firing of Ben Cotton was the first in a list of things that really kind of irked me
all at the same time. I mean, we can get into Kickstart versus Ignition. Um, Red Hat doesn't seem
to have a cohesive strategy for its tooling when it comes to immutable distributions. I mean,
you've got regular Fedora using this thing called Kickstart. You've got Core OS using another
thing called Ignition. Now I am of the belief that Ignition is the future. They need to put Ignition
in mainline Fedora or if it's not ready, they need to get it ready and put it in Fedora.
The fact that there's two different systems for Silver Blue versus Core OS or the Silver Blue
like ones like Kinolyte and all those. Um, I don't know. I, I gave up dealing with Core OS
server side. Um, it was a real PITA to try to set up. Um, I was really hoping that wouldn't be the
outcome. I really wanted it to work because the, uh, the allure of reproducible Linux installs
is, it's pretty, pretty great from an IT perspective at the very least. And I, uh, just,
I know Nix exists. Um, I could go get the minimal image and try it again. Uh, I have not had
the greatest success with Nix. So I just, uh, I don't bother with it. Um, I followed the
instructions on their website to a T on my laptop when I first got it. Um, I booted up a live
image of Fedora, tried to install it to a brand new hard drive, brand new, uh, NVMe SSD came with
my laptop, right? And Nix just completely fails. Uh, something about a file store in Etsy or a
Nix store in Etsy, not being there after spent 25 minutes putting stuff in set Etsy directory,
you know, just stuff that should not happen on a properly functioning distribution.
Unfortunate, but it is what it is. But back to Red Hat slash Fedora. Um, I really, uh,
I really am not a fan of the direction that Red Hat has been headed the past maybe half a year.
They're still not as bad as canonical in my opinion, but they, they're definitely starting to
climb that rope. I hope that they stop. But I mean, between the media codec firestorm that they
were having to GPL violations to screwing over down, yeah, yeah, downstream communities like
Alma and Rocky. Um, just all this stuff that I've talked about, it's just dude, the things did not
used to be like this. What happened? Well, you got bought out by IBM, IBM's running Red Hat into
the ground. That's, um, I also think it's important to note silver blue and CoroS were at one point
both under the same project atomic banner. Um, they were, they're both cut from the same cloth.
It was what I'm trying to say. So the fact that they have two different configuration systems for
installation is just sort of ridiculous. And a bunch of probably, uh, duplicated work from the
engineering side of things, right? Like it's just, it's not a good look. Um, oh, uh, the notes here
also want me to mention the media server again. Um, I know I said it before, but it will be Debian
because of this. Um, I just don't trust Red Hat for any serious projects. I might still use
Fedora for workstation purposes, but even then like my laptops running pop, my main desktop is
pending a, uh, pending a move to Debian or something to that effect or pop. Um, I don't know,
just, uh, really not, not fun news, but, um, I really, uh, I really think the past week and a half
has had some, some news coming out in the, uh, the fast space that is, is very, uh, I don't like the,
I don't like fear mongering. I don't like saying concerning, but it is concerning. It's just
pointing out concerning trends in the industry. Um, the, uh, the whole red hat thing is really,
really something that hurts to see. They were built as a Linux juggernaut, and so as somebody who
loves Linux and wants to see it thrive, it's, it's very, uh, very disheartening for me to see
Red Hat take this sort of insolent path, I guess, for lack of a better word. Um,
um, but, um, time in my app. Oh, dude, it's a full episode. Um, I actually didn't think I'd get this
much out of five, five news articles, but here we are. Um, if I could get rid of the ums and all
the other nonsense that is, you know, part of my daily speech, if I could articulate my thoughts
a little bit better. Um, I might be, uh, a little bit better at podcasting and stuff like this,
but I also want to say that this is obviously the first show. I'll probably get better at this as
it goes on. Um, the last thing. So this is not really a, uh, a news article, but it is something
a little bit different that I, I want to do. I don't know if it's going to happen, but, um,
as of recently, despite being in the wake of rust and all that stuff, um, I'm actually working on a
series of portfolio projects to get myself a either dev ops or some sort of low tier software
engineering gig. I really want to prove myself in the field. I really, uh, am passionate about
software engineering and computer science. Um, my main website is mad comp c o m p scientist.com.
It's where effectively all of my documentation for the portfolio project is going,
but I would like to introduce Kotlin Corner here as a segment on the show. Um, it's not, uh,
there's nothing here yet, but it's something I'd really like to do is something I'm really interested
in doing. Um, you know, I don't like the doom and gloom news headlines like today, but it just
is what it is. As I start to diversify what content I put up here on page 42 and hacker public
radio, um, I'd like to see this show take a bit of a, uh, creative direction compared to previous
endeavors of my own. Um, but I, I would like to cover, you know, when I enter, when I discover
concepts that are really unique or interesting in Kotlin, when I put interesting things together
that I wouldn't have thought otherwise with Kotlin, I'd really like to showcase this here. Um,
I learned Ruby a couple years ago after working with C for so long. Um, I kind of looked at programming
differently after that. And I kind of hope that this is the same kind of experience for me learning
a new language. Um, it might not be, I don't think Kotlin's going to be as easy as Ruby was to,
to pick up, but you know her now. And I say this not because Kotlin's a hard language to learn.
I say this because the, uh, the JVM web frameworks don't wipe your butt for you. Like Rails does. I
think Rails was a, uh, uh, very of its time thing. Um, and I know a lot of people say that.
I like the simplicity of it. I also am of the understanding that at a certain point that
simplicity comes back to bite you in the rear. And so that, I mean, yeah. So Kotlin, um, I think it's
a really, really cool language. I think JetBrains is a cool company. Um, I don't terribly care for Java
itself. Um, but Kotlin is like, as a concept, interesting to me partially because it has
turned itself from just like what you would normally associate, you know, like a programming language
with, you know, like how most programming languages drag the kitchen sink with them. Kotlin doesn't
do that. You know, it's got, it's effectively a language front end, if anything. Because not only
is it a JVM language, but it's an LLVM language, it can be transpiled to JavaScript, it can be
transpiled to TypeScript, it can be transpiled to literally anything at this point. Um, and they
market it this way, which is what I find really, really awesome about it. Um, a lot of languages,
even if they do stuff like this, they don't advertise it as much. Um, but that's just my two cents.
Um, we have gone on almost 45 minutes at this point. Um, I would prefer it to be a bit longer,
but this is the first episode, so I'll cut myself some slack. Um, any feedback, uh, I can be
found on Twitter at, ooh, what am I on? Oh, let's, let's go on an adventure here. I don't have a
master done. I won't be creating one of those until I have an answer myself, but I am at Hopper
underscore MCS on Twitter. That's DM me, um, at me. I don't care. Um, I'll try to respond, but
other than that, um, I hope you guys enjoyed and I will see you in the next one.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net. On the Sadois
stages, today's show is released on their creative commons, attribution, 4.0 international license.
