Episode: 3981
Title: HPR3981: HPR Community News for October 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3981/hpr3981.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:18:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3981 from Monday the 6th of November 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for October 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 51 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, can and Dave talk about shows released and comments posted in October 2023?
And why there is a call for shows?
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today it's Community News for October 2023 and joining me is...
Hello Dave Horace.
So for those of you new Hacker Public Radio's community podcast where the shows are contributed by people very much like yourself.
Dave and I are the janitors and every month or so we put down our brooms and come out and discuss what's been going on in the community.
So Dave, as always, the first topic of business is to introduce new hosts.
Yes and we have a new host and it's an uncontroversial name GemLog.
I think it's the correct pronunciation.
So welcome GemLog.
No, it's Jay Millog.
Oh, it's GemLog.
Oh no, sorry.
Thank you bro.
Yes and the ancient tradition here on HPR of Nusper announced in your names.
We will continue.
So first things, let's go through a last month's shows to make sure that everybody at least has got a nod.
And for those who subscribe to the feed for this show, know which episodes to go back and listen to.
So the first one on the ticket was the HPR Community News for September 2023.
And there were no comments on that episode Dave.
Indeed, no comments.
Nobody loves us Dave.
Nobody hates us probably.
That's probably more like it.
Okay, so the next day we had the all known news by some guy in the internet who also didn't get a mention.
Now we definitely know people love some guy in the internet.
So I wonder why not?
This was one of these episodes about in depth look at what a data breaches malware, payload, fishing, fishing, fishing risk management, vulnerability, tax services, et cetera, et cetera.
And as I said before, and I'll say it again, if somebody should be hiring some guy in the internet to go in and do human firewall type training for people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, very, very well done as always.
And as I always say, some brilliant, brilliant notes, tremendous resource there.
If you want to go in dig deeper.
This one I listened to while I was teaming up my shed and it was back packing in 1993 without technology.
Having never done the bike packet, sorry, bike packing, having never done bike packing myself.
This, this was interesting just from the point of view of how things have changed in the few years that have passed.
Yeah, I've never done that sort of long distance travel either.
So my son and his girlfriend have done quite a lot around Europe.
So they're the shows and they're not here anyway.
But yeah, I know the sort of basics of what you would need to do.
And you know, but it was really well described.
And from a time when you had to use those bits of paper with drawings on to tell you where you were and where to go and all that sort of business.
It, yeah, it's amazing how it's all changed so fast.
Exactly.
I, despite having satnav in my car and having OSM Android on my phone, not my car, but the wife's car.
We were dropping down, picking up actually the eldest from a party on New Year's Eve.
And we wanted to be back on time.
And the satnav, despite rooting us absolutely fine on the way down on the way back,
it bolted and decided to root us across the Rhine on a furry that had stopped working at 10 o'clock.
And we were down in the fucking boring, sorry for, for, we were down these borings, right?
And just could not get the thing.
Thankfully, there was an open street map.
There's a way to, you know, block this road.
So I blocked everything.
Eventually, we ended up rooting our way back to Rotterdam.
And then, you know, using motorways, the regular old road signs from there.
So I went out and got to, you know, it and the road maps for having in the car.
Just, just to guess it.
Yeah, I've been through that phase of still keeping maps around.
I don't have one now, but I have been caught out on a few occasions assuming that satnav would work
and finding that it didn't like when my phone died because the USB on the car somehow
decided it wouldn't give it any power.
Yeah, exactly.
I was driving Liverpool and I got one my way to Ogcap, which I did because I'd been Liverpool before.
But, you know, that sort of thing.
And I used to be a van driver for a year or so.
And, you know, driving around Manchester, Lancashire areas and stuff and into North Wales.
So, oh, and that was using paper maps.
So, oh, bad.
I could still do it at a pinch, but my god, my brain would have an overload.
Exactly.
There's a cool thing in OSM, Android, now, if you do a route and you display the track,
I do the route and then I can display the track and then I know to follow that track back.
But they also have a way to switch the route.
So, follow the same route back.
Brilliant.
Oh, that's nice.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, yeah, in my time, my parents and I'm a sister and I used to go on holiday.
And we would get an itinerary from one of the auto support companies,
A-A or R-A-C.
You'd say, I want to travel from here to here.
You'd get back this thing that said, turn left at Junction Blah and carry on for so many miles.
Those sort of things that you get on your phone these days on Satnav,
but in a piece, in a sort of little booklet that you could fill it up and read.
So, you didn't need to have a code driver really to give it to its best.
But yeah, yeah.
I've taken to just writing the wrong numbers down, A1, A5, N266, blah, blah, blah.
Okay.
I am.
Yeah.
It's a fascinating subject we could try this a lot of potential.
Oh, geez, he's talking about the old way of doing things.
Well, it's more about redundancy and fallback.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
I'm also amazed at how much stuff people put on their phones now.
Your public transport train tickets to get to work.
Your bank pass is now on there.
You know, people are going up to the counters with their phones and yeah,
you're just six hours of battery life away from completely isolated.
I know.
Don't know where you are.
I've got no money.
Yeah, exactly.
Don't know where you are.
Got no money.
Got no fault with the phone.
That's got no.
Yeah.
It's a sobering call that I thought.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anywho, the following day, we had download any HPR series with English follow names,
which creates, so this is a batch script written by Gemlock,
which writes it directly with a series of names where all the shows are renamed
with the show title.
MP3 inside it.
So instead of HPR one, HPR two, HPR three, that their shows have been renamed.
So,
excellent show.
Yeah.
It's always good to know what people are doing stuff and then I went,
oh yeah, that actually is a problem.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
It's quite fascinating actually.
Yeah.
I would not have approached it in that way personally, but you know,
that's because I'm me and it's just very very interesting to see how other people
do that type of thing.
This prompted me to do a follow-up show, so we'll be hitting that again
on the feed shortly.
Again, no comments.
So, the next day we had on the road at last, preparations are done and we start
out the road.
This is Oga, traveling with us, or we travel southeast U.S. of A.
Yeah.
I enjoy these enormously.
And yeah, this is them heading off after lots of false starts and problems
before they could head out, wasn't it?
And yeah, then heading off to interesting places, Alabama and Memphis and
places like that.
Yeah.
Cool.
And space with you.
Very good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
As always, there's good documentation in there and lovely photos,
living the curiously through Oga.
Okay, so the next day we had re, re how to make friends.
We're mugs and some guy in the internet had his friend mugs chat about
friends and women edition.
And there was one comment.
Caesar said, hello, hi mugs up.
So obviously a friend saying, I don't know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Fascinating.
It sounds like quite a community that Scotty lives in or meets up with on the internet.
So yeah, very good.
I love these things because they're very insightful and lots of opinions and
discussions and stuff about about things that you have your own viewer,
but it's wonderful to hear somebody else's look.
Absolutely.
So the next day we had, it's your data.
Ken shows a safer way to get episodes from HBO.
And by safer, that was my episode in response to Gemlocks.
In response, safer in the sense that your script is unlikely to break because
Ken or Dave change something on the main HBO site.
So this is a similar way to do it.
But instead of using the main site, we use the HBO feed and
you use the XML, which is a fixed format guarantee to be in that format,
never to change, never a strings.
So then they can download the XML from the feed and then parse it through XML starlet,
which is designed to pull out pieces and then it gets you the URL,
the extension and the title, and then it downloads it.
So good.
Good episode was done, but I wouldn't have done this episode because I wouldn't have known
people wanted to do this.
No, no, no, no, it's good.
And the way to do series RSS feeds is maybe not as obvious to some as we would hope it was.
It's maybe we should have a look at the frequently asked questions thing,
put that sort of dummy, dummy question, how do I get the feed?
Oh, you go there and do this and so on.
That might be a fun thing to add.
Yeah, I think people are possibly scared of XML, which there shouldn't be,
if you look at it, you know, I find far scarier to be honest.
You really don't do anything with it.
It depends what you're trying to process it with.
If you've tried to use regular expressions on it or something,
or you know, just plain grep or something, then you can easily dig yourself a deep deep hole.
But with tools like XML style, or the libraries in other scripting languages,
Python, et cetera, then, you know, it's pretty straightforward stuff.
Once you've got your head around the general concept.
Or it does take a while though.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I dabbled with XML very early on, I think, because there was a group in the university
who was using XML as their metadata for teaching delivery system.
So I thought I wasn't supporting.
I was just interested in how it worked.
An XML was pretty primitive in the early days, partly because the tools around it were very sparse, I think.
So yeah, scared me off a bit, I have to say.
So, yeah, yeah.
I did a lot of work with XML, but not recently, but then again, could that could change tomorrow, you never know.
Okay, next day, we have Storytelling games, three Storytelling based games
and some thoughts on role playing games by D&T inspired by a tattoo post.
And there's games where mentioned Rory Storycubes, Dark Colts and Once Upon a Time.
We have Storycubes who use them here for the kids parties and stuff.
Oh, okay. Oh, nice, nice.
Yeah, it's not a thing I know anything at all about, but I think my daughter would be able to tell me lots if I asked her.
But yeah, it's, it's, it sounds really cool, actually.
It sounds quite, quite a fun thing to get involved with.
And no comments on this.
So the next day, we had Hacker Public Radio at OLF, which was Ohio Linux Fest.
And there was a Hacker Public Radio meetup around the conference on the hallway track as we know for sure as best.
Yeah, this was, was intrigued to see that OLF might not mean Ohio Linux Fest anymore
because the Ohio linkage might not be a strong one.
I don't know. Open Libra Free was one.
It suggested it might actually send for, but it just confuses me.
But yeah, it was a great show.
It, one of those things, just a bunch of people at an event getting together and chatting,
that in the early days of my encounter with HPR, there were a lot of those.
And, and I sort of miss them a bit, you know, because there's something rather, rather fun about the dynamic of these things.
Yeah, it's lovely to hear. Enjoyed it very much.
As nice, nice to sit around and shoot the breeze, actually, for a while.
And it's also good to see that the OLF is back in whatever form.
Yeah, yeah, whatever the initial sound for, yeah, it sounds good.
So the next one is, I've taken the conquer virtual health challenge,
Daniel Pearson's, is trying to make his life better.
What do you think of this one?
This is quite, yeah, it's most intriguing.
It's a, a thing that, that incentivizes you to, to, to walk and, and keep track of your walks and,
and do things to, to just generally be more healthy.
And it sounds to me like a really, really good thing.
It's something that gives you a bit of structure, where you may not be very good at,
to being consistent with these things.
It has something to help you to be more consistent and, and so forth, is, is great.
I like it very much.
Yeah, I, I, I, I'm big into this,
but it drives me nuts, the reminder of applications, they, I, I just,
it turns me off, actually, doing the stuff, the gamification of a task,
and doing the task, because they enjoy it.
And it's, I don't know, it's just the way my brain is wired, sorry.
There is a mindset that says, if you are being, if there's a demand, a challenge,
or something like that, when somebody, or you are telling yourself to do a thing,
and you, you're going to, going to do anything to avoid doing it.
I think I might belong to that set of people, because, because, yeah,
in principle, it's great, but I need to be asked very politely, or to,
to have some sort of ritual, because I, I'm driven by habits and rituals.
If I have a ritual that says, oh, it's 10 o'clock time to do blood, then I will do it.
But somebody says, oh, you should really be doing, oh, right, well, I'm not going to do it then.
It says my brain, not me.
It's not my conscious self.
It doesn't say, no, I'm not going to do it, because I know that I should be doing it.
But my brain somehow says, well, there's something more important over there.
You know, you need to go and do that instead.
So, yeah.
So, I don't know, I have to actually use the thing that this is to know if it was good.
But I can imagine that many people would find it so, and all kind of to them.
There was one common third, do you want to read that?
I'll do that, yes, so I was.
Do the thing.
Keith Murray, Katie Murray says,
hello, TR challenge.
I'm very interested, Daniel.
I'm always on the lookout for more reasons or self-bribery.
Help me get to move more.
For anyone else who's interested,
I've included the link below.
And there's a link to the conqueror events.
Cool.
Very, very cool.
And some guy in the internet did VIM hints 006.
Sort class.
007.
006.
Almost as good as Bond.
Licensed to thrill.
Licensed to sumpon on VIM.
Licensed to VIM.
Hmm, okay, it'll work.
I had to, I was reading this in a boss coming back from Ireland somehow.
I don't know how that happened.
And I had to scroll on the screen,
because he mentions in the episode a lot of things that he assumes
that people understand.
And I had no idea,
some of these things set to confirm display confirmation dialogue
when closing on so file, et cetera.
So I went and read all of them,
but a great episode.
Amazing what you can do with them.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
No, I set him offline.
Thank you very much for resurrecting the VIM series that I'd started
and failed to continue years ago.
So it's good to see it up and up and running again,
because there's a lot of enthusiasm for VIM,
you know, on the HPR matrix channel, particularly.
And in the world in general, of course.
So yes, there's a lot of things to learn here.
The suggestion was made, we should all be throwing a config files
into the ring to join in with this thing.
Mine is a nightmare, so I'm not going to do it,
but I might be the incentive to make it clean it up
and then share bits of it or something like that.
Cool, very indeed.
I normally don't bother with the VIM config
until it started with that mouse thing.
And I were set no mouse, something or other.
And then I became very interested in my VIM config,
when the default was so super annoying.
Yeah, I know.
I've fiddled with my VIM config a lot.
I've been using VIM for a very, very long time,
since the early 90s probably.
And so where it was by then, of course,
but jumped on VIM as soon as it became a good thing to do.
And so yeah, but there's a lot of junk in there,
a lot of junk.
There's a lot of things that said, tried this,
didn't work.
I'll leave it in here just in case.
And it doesn't pass.
Not all that useful.
It's like inside of my house, you know.
I might use that kind of broad box later on.
10 years later.
I started to start.
Yeah, yeah.
I do occasionally his thing, right?
Just to look when I go.
My son's girlfriend, Natasha,
was making a bottle top, got milk bottle,
getting delivered milk in glass bottles.
So for free, you know, to be a good planet advocate.
But how do you close a milk bottle?
They don't come with lids.
They come with a tinful thing, but you can't re-close it.
So she 3D printed a lid for it.
And they put it on.
It's fine.
It's how she can measure it all right and it's beautiful.
But it doesn't, doesn't hold on nice and tight.
And there was me going, oh, I've got a piece of inner tube here.
Just wash it and cut a piece off that length and stick it on.
And it was brilliant work.
Absolutely perfectly.
Who knew?
So it's a good thing I've got a piece of inner tube
learning my desk here, isn't it?
No, but you know how it is.
The day when you think, oh, yes,
all of my incredibly untidy,
forming tongs of crap in my throat.
Yes.
Tongs of crap in my throat.
Yes.
Tongs of crap in my throat.
Yes.
Tongs of crap in my throat.
Oh, God.
Oh.
Right.
Tongs of crap in my throat.
Tongs of crap in my throat.
Is it my turn to do the comment?
We have a comment from Windy Colts.
Well, please do yes.
It's all relative, he says.
Thank you for the configuration for relative line numbering.
That was immediately added to my VMRC.
I might have to come through the episode of the second time
to make sure I didn't miss any gems.
Much appreciated.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, that was Windy Colts.
Yeah, it was nice to hear from Windy Colts.
We don't hear enough.
I find it.
I know.
I just realized I was hinting then.
Very good.
Very good.
The next one we had unsolisted thoughts
on running open source software projects.
And this is by D&T Man talking to himself on his drive home.
And it was part of the reserve queue.
And comparing password stores and stuff like fancy forged
like get hold, etc.
It was a nice episode, actually.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I quite like these sort of meandering, pondering type subjects.
And yeah, it's some interesting points there.
I didn't come away with a sort of hit list.
But I certainly came away with the feeling
that I'd listen to something well worth further consideration.
So it's worth going back and having to listen in my case.
I think further listen, I should say.
So the argument here actually was that if somebody,
if somebody he was subscribing to patches on a male list and stuff
and that people were wondering, why don't weist my patch accepted?
And it was contemplating the old style of, you know,
you send in a patch, great.
Well, don't you?
You know, versus the, versus the GitHub.
Yeah, I sent in a patch and I need you to release it
and update all downstream systems.
Basically, they, I think the idea while or the thought discussion
which had me thinking about it was, do you have a right
to just because you submitted a patch
that somebody else who's maintaining the project,
do they have to maintain your patch?
You know, there's interesting thoughts actually.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I can see that.
I've not had direct experience of it.
I mean, I have been the person nagging the,
the originators of the software,
but not sending PIs, more to say,
this doesn't work, can you fix it?
So yeah, but there is, there is a tendency
to say, my needs are not being met by your free software.
So you need to sort it out sort of thing.
And many people will say, oh, I meant it to do that.
So I will fix it.
Yes, as soon as I can and they do in my experience.
But there are, there are pressures here
that could be rather unpleasant on the receiving end, I guess.
Yeah, I just think he was pondering the old days
where there was no assumption that you would guess
your patch accepted.
It might not.
And now we get hope, you know, I released a patch
and it's a branch.
It does a git or a commit.
So please commit it.
No, don't want that.
Can I make it?
It's a basket.
Run your own version.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Good episode.
I advise to listen to it.
That's kind of the point of why we do this show
is to, you know, you might listen to the five-minute episode
from the reserve queue, but it's well worth the listen.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, absolutely.
I always listen closely to the N.T. stuff.
He's got some interesting thoughts on matters.
And the ritual we apologies for changing the time last month
or was it the month before that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry about that scheduling issues on my side as usual.
So we had this was also from the reserve queue
about USB imager part one of two.
And I had not known about this application,
but it is one that's very interesting.
Runs on Windows OS X and Linux.
So kind of.
Yeah, cool.
Yeah.
I also knew nothing of it.
And I used a DD,
you know,
Belina etcher in the past.
And I didn't know about this tool.
So I installed it.
It's very, very basic.
But that's all to the good, really.
So yeah, I haven't actually had a chance to use it.
Or need to use it.
So that will be the thing I use when I next need to write an SD card, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'll give it a try on you.
I think that's my horizon shortly.
So the next day we had game sales,
which was a show by a hooker again from the reserve queue.
And it was basically tips on how to look for bargains in games.
So essentially make a list of stuff that you want to buy at some point.
And some tips and tricks on what to subscribe to and keep an eye out for when they're doing bundles
or when they're offering steam is offering a discount on some products.
Mm hmm.
Nice good.
Good.
I hadn't realized there was so many cut price games out there.
So yeah, something I want to get into a dinner.
And the next day we had a hooker again.
The reason for that is because the previous shows were from the emergency queue.
Just a little bit of background on that.
Dave and I are with the way the internet archive is at the minute.
We need to post the shows for the upcoming week, the week beforehand.
So the next five days need to be filled, slots need to be filled.
And I think we've got two submissions of shows this month.
And the rest were filled from the emergency queue, which is down to six shows at the moment.
And we still need to post shows for slots that are missing next week.
So I don't know what's going on really, but there is.
We're not getting the shows from people.
We're getting shows from regular folks.
And I'm sure I can I can call tattoo or I can call one some guy in the internet or after 72 or whoever.
And say guys can send us in some shows.
But if you're listening to this, it's a your listener pick up a recording and send us a show.
And if you don't know what to record, drop us an email here on HPR.
Admin at HPR, hackerpublicradio.org.
And we'll talk to you and get.
I have no problem coming up with a list of topics that would be of interest.
I'm kind of serious about this because I don't know how to get shows out of people.
It's.
Help.
Yeah.
Send us in some shows.
Thanks. That'll be great.
Yep.
Okay.
Okay. Anyway, but this is about playing Alpha Centurri.
And I hope it puts these shows in sometime in the in the inputs in about a year's shows ahead of time.
And so this one was a lovely summer's day and I was sanding the door of the shed while I was listening to it.
So there you go. Happy memories.
And yeah, I don't play games that much of it.
I think I lost so much time playing lemmings as a youth that I realized that would would be a very dangerous thing to continue doing.
So I, but it's really nice to hear this.
You know, an explanation of games that I've heard of and what wasn't really into your thoughts.
Yeah.
Yeah, I agree.
I agree.
It doesn't sound like a game I'd want to play particularly, but listening to the talks of games and stuff makes me realize that the times when I did play games were back in
1980s on BBC Micro mostly was quite fun.
I quite like to get back into it and have a bit more force myself a bit more leisure time to do that sort of stuff.
So yeah, it's an interesting message really that's coming through this for me anyway.
So yeah, enjoying.
And the next show is re re re how to make friends where some guy in the internet and mugs chat with other friends on the internet and Katie Murray says great series really enjoying the series.
So I'm going into this.
I appreciate that you've got to go into the trouble together, people together to try and expand the number of voices on this topic and all the uncillary things as well.
Like the role of the internet in how people think about their offline relationships.
Yeah, it's actually quite a deep look at the whole subject.
It's documentary level almost.
There's some interesting thoughts going around here and experiences and so forth.
It made me rethink things somewhat so excellent stuff very much so I might not necessarily agree with everything.
But then again, that's perspective from from the states. So yeah, great.
But let me let me have a little think it.
And they in the LinkedIn transcripts are linked in the show notes, which are available on the website.
Okay, the next one was also from the reserve queue.
We've had, as I said, a lot from the reserve queue and this was creating an equalizer presets for your episodes and HPR.
Have you jumped?
Jumped in episode 372.
I did, I did, I did thunderbird inbox filtering, keeping a clean and orderly inbox again, some guy in the internet.
And again, posting it because of the reserve posting two shows from the same host within 10 days is not their fault.
It's me posting their reserve episodes into the queue.
I understand you use thunderbird for filtering, I don't.
I do, yes, yes, yes.
My view of email was set in the early 90s, I guess, when UK University suddenly switched over to using internet protocols IP and SMTP and all these other jolly things.
From the UK University standard called colored books protocols.
So I got into email at that point, finding it very strange compared to what we had had before, but realized that it was much more powerful.
Although it was wide open to attack, much more so than what we'd come from.
That was my first really experience of running an email server was to have it absolutely knocked to the ground and stamped on by people who were looking for things that could be wrecked on the internet.
But yeah, the whole business of having email arriving on your desktop machine or whatever was something that fascinated me.
But the volume of it, because I signed up for mailing lists to quite a large extent.
And it was quite a lot of information to be got on mailing lists in those days, you know, in the technical end of things.
It meant that filtering was absolutely vital. No way could you have gigabits of stuff all in one folder.
They had to be in sensible places and you needed to do something about, again, rid of stuff which got beyond a certain age and all that sort of thing.
I ended up writing pull scripts to to do that for the mail that I was I was running in those days.
So yeah, so I've come from from that time thinking nothing you should have nothing in your inbox or very, very little.
And everything should have been filed away into sensible places just like you'd get this a paper and stick them in filing cabinet draws in in folders or something.
And, you know, so that that's the way to go. And also there should be some sort of clean out mechanism.
And it sounds to me like Scotty has pretty much the same viewpoint on this, which is, which is amazing and really heartening.
Yep, I do keep them to him, doc, but yeah.
It's either spam gets totally deleted or it gets filed away.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I wish Thunderbirds filters were more sophisticated.
But you have to do things like filter everything that fits certain category into somewhere and then do another filter on that to do to separate out stuff.
You can't do an or or a Boolean type of full Boolean logical expression to say that if this message is just got back, but not this and such and such.
Do do certain thing with it, which I was able to do with the system had before.
So I miss miss that, but even so it's it's pretty pretty good.
You can do some pretty intensive and intelligent clever and there's there's add-ons that have been able to do other things with messages as well, which is, which is very cool.
You'll probably need to send in some more episodes before I am totally convinced because the search within the search within Thunderbird is terrible.
And then when you yeah, I won't go I'll do an episode and not maybe sometime.
Anyway, creating and equalizing presets for your episodes in HBO again, a reserve show from D&T and basically if you record the premises, if you record your show in the same place, use the same setup the whole time.
Then you can use presets which are kind of cool, so I learned a lot.
Yeah, yeah, it was nicely explained and demonstrated in the notes.
That was that was very useful. I have tinkered with this, but I haven't taken it to quite the level that he has.
So there's things to learn here for sure.
Well, the next one was the second part again from the reserve queue USB Imager from the retail and this time we go into actually setting it up and running it.
So kind of cool.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I tried this useful and as I said, I've got it installed and I'm waiting to use it when I can.
I didn't have a problem with the access to stuff that he talked about, but maybe it's because I've hacked this machine so much that it gives me access to things by default.
Yeah, true enough, there are a few groups that I'm by default in anyway.
Yeah, we've had a machine long enough then this is 10 years old, this one is.
So it's, yeah, it's going to be such a shock when I install a brand new Debian on my next machine.
So why doesn't this work?
I haven't hacked it yet.
Exactly, exactly.
Next day we had a hookah with the messa Verde.
This was where they were on the way up to Colorado and they stopped in at the original habitat site of the pebble bolion people.
At least that's what the Spanish call them.
I think everybody seen the pictures of a cliff with houses on it.
So they thought it was a fascinating, I found this one excellent.
Yeah, I haven't looked at who the pictures yet, just a bit remiss of me because I bet they're going to be amazing.
But yeah, I do know the area, quite blue and people of the names and messa Verde, which are not sure what the green aspect is, but anyway.
Yeah, it sounds like an amazing place.
I would love to go there myself at some point, but it's very interesting to hear who goes telling of the tale of the visit.
It tends to be very practical as all about what you can and can't do.
Very, what accessibility is like and choices they made to stay longer or not, etc. etc. which is always good.
I like that, I like that very much.
It's a sort of level of detail of the fascinating.
So Keith Murray sent us in one of the few shows this month and it was the evolution of the windows snipping to.
So we don't have that much windows tooling stuff here and it was actually quite good because I needed to take some screenshots for work.
And this was a useful strident episode that I could use, but also was great to see the history associated with it, which was nice.
Yes, the historical aspect of it was very interesting, I found.
I had no idea, I've not really used windows enough to appreciate all the nuances.
But yeah, it's good to do it more of that type of thing, I think.
The historical roots of things is always fascinating.
And then I believe the last show of the month was Creative Commons Search Engine by Huca.
Openverse.org.
And that calls the bug to be open on our website, Steve, because we need to make sure that our content gets in there somehow.
So I opened a ticket to make sure that that happens.
Didn't see it, I'm afraid.
I don't get notified when things get put up.
Probably not.
Yeah, I had a look at it.
It's quite interesting.
I tried a few search terms and got some fun pictures.
Presumably it's got a way to go to get to get more fully populated.
It seems to be a little bit sparse in the areas I load.
Probably because I looked at dark things, but anyway.
I was very disappointed that I hadn't found out about this one earlier,
because I was looking for a search engine for Creative Commons images not two weeks before for the upcoming show, which I still need to do.
Yeah, it's going to be a good good resource.
I'm sure for all manner of things.
I shall certainly go and look there again.
Okay, so that was that for the show, Steve.
Are the comments from previous episodes?
Should we do two comments on operators ones?
So the interview with your self-cursor.
And D&T says, this is a great interview.
Thank you for this.
It was a great listen.
I used a brief cure key for.
Used to brew Kaffir.
Kaffir used to brew Kaffir.
Thank you for my...
I would love to start doing so again.
At one of my former jobs, there were a few people who made Kaffir.
So we would get each other first grains all the time,
but without a local group, it can be hard.
That's very cool, actually.
Never thought of making Kaffir.
I do buy it occasionally.
It's good for gut health and stuff.
Anyway, next comment was,
Windigo, great conversation, he says.
I thoroughly enjoyed this episode.
The comedian you discussed is Hannah Gadsby.
She's an autistic Australian comedian,
and her story is about misreading social situations
of one of my favorite bits of her comedy specials.
As for Rato's views on climate change,
the global scientific consensus seems to disagree with you.
They may not have checked up for extra green,
and how heavy CO2 is,
but you might want to give scientists the heads up
before they waste any more time.
And then we had archived a comment on Steve Sinner's show,
Archiving Floppy Disks,
and Brian and Ohio give some feedback.
Really liked the show,
entertaining and informative.
That's what we like from our show Steve.
Then we have the large language models,
and I don't have any common sense show by Hobbes,
commented on by Mr. Young.
LLMs are great if you use them right.
Great show he says.
I've been using LLMs for work list lately,
and they're great at certain activities as long as you don't expect them to act
like humans with common sense.
There are certain NLP tasks like document Q&A
that were near impossible before LLMs
that are a few lines of code now,
for a layperson, interacting with bar chat,
GPT, etc.
I recommend following sites for understanding how to ask LLMs,
good prompts,
and he gives a couple of three websites.
So yeah, quite cool.
Not looked at them myself,
but they definitely should.
And let's see,
four comments on this much show,
anything on the mail list?
Let me check.
And I thought there was a call for shows.
Did that knock off?
I saw you sending,
you sent stuff to the admin list, I think, did you?
Oh, that's a good answer.
I get confused.
Yeah.
Well, I take it back.
Me completely.
Why did nobody send them anything when I did a call for shows?
Because you're a moron, Ken.
That's why.
Yeah, I noted,
oh, that's hard.
And by completely forgotten.
Hey, Ken.
Ken, what are you doing?
I don't know, Dave.
I know.
I know.
It's been a bad month for
doing general thinking, I think.
So,
any other business?
Yes, there's, yes, yes.
So we just send one of those to the HBO list.
Yes, let's do that.
Yes.
Any other business?
I just got two things here.
One was that there's been some work done on the site,
the static site,
I keep calling it site migration,
but it's migrated already.
And the code that computes the number of days
to the next free slot is finally resolved.
So, is it really ridiculous?
Well, what was the first?
I know, I know.
I blame myself, really.
There's, Ron had written it using a sequel query,
set of sequel queries,
but there was a very logical at the time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
There was a small floor in the,
if you were,
if the last show was on Friday,
and the next free slot was on a Monday,
it failed to add the two days necessary for the weekend.
So I thought, oh, I can solve that.
So I rewrote, so I hacked the query,
and I still didn't work.
So I rewrote the query,
and it still didn't work.
So I said, oh, bugger it.
What's that effect?
And wrote it in the,
the templating language,
which is much simpler,
and more understandable,
and as far as I'm aware,
it works every time.
So, yeah, I think there's a moral there,
doing data basery,
which is amazingly powerful and wonderful,
but doing simple computations,
like saying,
here's a date,
and there's a date,
how many days in between,
which is, to some extent,
what we're doing.
As is,
you should try and find an easier way,
than exactly,
hugely complicated queries, I think.
So, yeah, there's a message to me anyway,
it's just saying,
don't do that again.
And then there was a,
a point about the internet archive,
I do make occasional contributions
of donations to the internet archive.
So, I'm on their list,
and I got a message from them saying,
there's currently,
there's currently a gift matching campaign,
which can double the impact of your donations.
So, it's,
there's a link there,
if you would like to go and do that.
And we also put something up on the homepage,
the index page,
on the site as well.
So, yeah,
internet archive,
we use a lot.
They host a lot of HDR content.
So,
if you could feel that you could contribute to it,
I think it would be a very, very good thing.
Absolutely.
And if you're looking for
fast and reliable hosting,
then I recommend an honesthose.com,
who also provides
our last one service,
Thai Hiker World Radio,
indeed, indeed.
So, Dave,
I'm going to be over
to Edinburgh,
and next month.
So, if anybody is around,
we're having
we're going to go out,
or something, are we?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't know if I officially told you this yet.
By the way, I'm coming to Scott's next month.
It's not next month anymore.
This is November.
Oh, it's this month.
Oh, my.
It says you to book stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, yes.
Indeed, we all need to book stuff
if we're going to try and meet up
in a place that needs booking.
But, yeah.
We need to talk about this offline.
Yeah.
Do we even know the day?
We don't know for sure
how we're going to organise
who's going to meet and when,
and where,
and start.
I will send a message on the mail list,
the right one this time.
And then anybody who's around can,
or actually best tell us beforehand
then we can book a restaurant
for that number of people.
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool.
Anything else, Dave?
Can we call this?
Yeah.
I think we're done.
All right.
June and tomorrow for another exciting episode
of Hacker.
Public.
Radio.
Radio.
Radio.
Radio.
You have been listening
to Hacker Public Radio
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by
a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording
podcast, you click on our
contribute link to find out how easy
it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly
provided by an onsthost.com,
Internet Archive, and our
things.net.
On this otherwise status,
today's show is released on
their creative comments,
attribution 4.0
international license.
