Episode: 3669
Title: HPR3669: My First Podcast: My Journey into the Computer World
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3669/hpr3669.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 03:19:24

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3669 for Thursday, the 25th of August 2022.
Today's show is entitled, My first podcast, My Journey Into the Computer World.
It is part of the series how I got into tech.
It is the first show by new host hyper-neiky, and is about 20 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, how I was introduced to computers Linux, robotics, programming, cyber security,
and more.
This episode I'm going to talk about how I came to this computer world.
First I used Windows in my family's computer, in a school.
I also learned about Windows Office Street, World Powerpoint Excel.
I also remember playing some games in Windows, all like games, and also catching some viruses.
I remember I've been always curious, and I wanted to know how things work, especially electronic things.
Electric and electronic things.
I had the fortune to have a relative who was an electrical engineer,
and who showed me this amazing world.
It gave me some electronic and electric components, LEDs, transistors, other components.
I also remember reading some books and was quite interesting in the matter.
In the school, I also remember learning about Scratch, the programming language from the MIT.
I think, yeah, from the MIT.
I remember learning about creating games, about some programming concepts.
I remember creating my own games and following tutorials on the internet, and also creating kind of a phone simulator.
However, I remember I couldn't make the phone battery of the phone worked.
Also, I remember learning programming in the Khan Academy website.
I learned about JavaScript, some more in the programming concepts.
Animation growing shapes with the processing JS library.
Also, I remember using this programming language to draw things in my computer to draw and create animations with mouse, the keyboard, etc.
I remember also, I have a relative giving an Arduino, which is a small board that has a microprocessor and other components.
You can use to create electronic projects and robotic projects.
I remember learning Arduino, which was great because it combined two things.
I love robotic, well, electronics and programming, so I learned about C++, I think it's Arduino programming language.
I also learned about electronics.
As time passed, I also learned some other new programming languages, like Java, I think.
I used Visual Studio code to program and remember also learning about Git, with Visual Studio code.
Thank you, with some configurations, colors, menus.
Also, I was introduced to the common line, I think it was through Git, through comments.
So, I learned about batch scripts and also BVS scripts, which is the scripting language called Visual Basic Script from Windows.
I remember creating some programs, manipulating files, I learned about an oriented object programming, about the registry, window registry.
Creating programs like USB-RoverDockey, or not a USB-RoverDockey, but a program that wrote text in the screen.
As I worked with Windows, I always had problems with slowness.
Windows was slow in my computer, it was due to the fact that it was a mechanical hard drive.
But I didn't knew that and I thought it was due to insufficient ground.
So, I tried creating larger pages, page-paging files, also cleaning the system and doing some kind of that things.
However, it didn't work.
So, I learned about a discover Linux, I heard it was a fast operating system, which was very customizable.
And I wanted to try it, I thought of installing it in my computer, however I wasn't sure.
So, discovered there was a way of creating that USB-Rived device.
So, well, the first distribution I used was hailed.
That's weird, why would you learn Linux with security-oriented distribution?
Well, I tried installing Ubuntu and other distributions first.
However, when I went to the boot menu of my BIOS, I didn't find USB, I didn't recognize it.
So, I thought it was due to an error.
So, I finally ended writing with the Rufus program, Tails, and then I found out boot from Tails.
So, that was my first experience with Linux.
I remembered that I thought Linux was difficult and was strange.
I thought it was like you couldn't use a desktop environment, you had to use a command line interface.
And it was interesting because I had contact for the first time with NOM.
And also, I found how Linux was very fast, how fast was Linux.
I also learned about partition layouts with Tails, because you had to install it into a USB.
So, I learned about partition layouts, I learned about some security features it has like.
The secure tour network, also about how you can disconnect USB from the computer and the program that remained in the RAM, erased all of its contents,
preventing cold boot attacks, and other concepts about security.
Also, how to set up a persistent partition with logs, encrypted with logs, Linux unified, I forget it.
Well, yeah, with logs. Well, after learning about Linux and some of its concepts, I decided to install it on my computer.
I installed Linux Mint, yeah, Linux Mint, but I didn't feel comfortable with it.
To be sincere, I installed after a couple of minutes, I didn't like, not being stable of the distribution, but I read about devian and how it was very stable.
I didn't receive many updates, so I didn't feel comfortable with many updates from Linux Mint.
So, at the end, I ended up using devian and installing devian, and that's how I also became learning about Linux, app, pseudo, and other concepts.
I also remember reading a book about hacking hardware, learning about how to see boost boss, yeah.
Also about the Raspberry Pi, and it was interesting how it worked, and the fact that you can install a Linux operating system on it.
So, I thought it was a Raspberry Pi module 3, and I installed a Raspberry Pi, I think nowadays it's called Raspberry POS, I think.
And I also learned about a Sage BNC, like Remote Dex, Dex, the protocol, how to create a Necessite Tunnel for the BNC protocol,
and also about servers, HTTP servers, networking concepts, IP addresses, other concepts related, yeah.
And also another milestone in this journey was, I think, Pat laptop, it's a laptop, I think, Pat laptop from 2005, I think, so it's pretty old, relatively pretty old.
I remember cleaning it, while I installed it, it had windows installed on it, so I changed to Linux, I tried using model Linux, and Linux lied, I was amazed how you could still run a complete operating system in a burial machine.
And also I learned about encryption, it was also, yeah, like a maze that was amazed with how you can insert your life, USB device, see all the contents in this case of my Windows partition.
So I was surprised, so I learned about encryption, also about the ratio of data, recovery of data, also, well, I installed Alpine Linux in this computer, I think Alpine Linux is great, it's very fast, I think it's secure.
I don't think it's very stable, but it's fast and not like the way it works.
However, it has a great problem that is, there are a few packages, you have to install and build many from source, so I didn't like that, and I found that Davien has also an XR2 image, so I installed it.
And my laptop, I also learned with this laptop about getting a screen, other network configuration, especially with Alpine Linux, because you have to configure many things, it's kind of difficult.
Well, I also learned about EMAX, I think it's my best text reader, Doree's, available, I also learned about programming EC, also about some games, because it's an old computer, I had to run everything from the terminal,
also I learned about terminal games, and the terminal like NetHack, a very difficult game, which is quite interesting, and also other games like Open Adventure, that is based on Call of Southcafe Adventure, it's a game that it's very old, it was written in foreground,
and it's interesting because everything, the game is all in text, you give actions with text to the character, and also because it's the adventure you play in the video game is based on a cave in Kentucky,
and the author of the game was Will Prather, he's a rock climber, so that's interesting, I also learned about discover and learned about hacking and pen testing, I've read some books, also I had kind of background with encryption,
and turn network and other concepts, well then then I had the opportunity to help company with their computers, cleaning them, cleaning the computer and restoring them, also the operating system, also encrypting their devices,
so I learned from my guys and learned our stuff, I remember a time when I was cleaning a computer and I wanted to see the CPU in more detail how the pins were, so I removed it from the motherboard,
and when I put it back, some pins, I think they're LBA pins, I think that's the name, so they're in the motherboard and some of the pins bent, so I had to repair them with a needle,
but I ended up in broken a pin, however well I'm lucky because it worked, so I didn't have a big problem,
the last years I've learned about Python, other concepts, I want to get out Linux Plus certification, also I heard about the episode from BNRC and the hacker-public radio,
so right now I'm trying to use OpenBSD, I learned about it, I'm still struggling with learning how disk-label partitions and how other things work, but well I continue to learn it,
I also like the community and free software and open source, built around Linux and other operating systems and other tools, not only Linux, BSD,
what else can I say, yes that's the main journey I've taken into computers, this is my first episode, I want to continue to record some more episodes,
I thought of recording an episode about Alpine Linux and some of its concepts, I will be interested to hear from you about some ideas I can use for my episodes,
I prefer creating episodes in which I have not to execute or say comments to you, I prefer talking about distributions, even my opinions on free software and open source,
that are concepts, so I'll be interested in your opinions from me, if you have any suggestions, leave them in the comments and I'll read them, so thank you very much for hearing my first episode, bye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org, today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording podcasts,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is, hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
