Episode: 3738
Title: HPR3738: Intro to KMyMoney
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3738/hpr3738.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:48:38

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3738 for Wednesday the 30th of November 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Brief Intro on KDE.
It is the first show by Newhost Kinesi and is about three minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Brief Intro on KDE.
I thought I would dip my toes into recording for Hacker Public Radio by recording a short
episode on an app I have found useful, K My Money.
It technically comes with KDE, but I have used it on other Linux desktop environments
plus on the Windows.
I found the episode already discussing it, so I thought it would be useful to add to
the catalog.
So first what is this application?
From the website, they say, K My Money is a cross-platform personal finance manager built
on KDE Frameworks Technologies for your desktop and notebook environment.
It enables users to keep careful track of their personal finances by providing a broad
array of financial features and tools.
The principle goals of the application are ease of use.
K My Money strives to be the easiest open source personal finance manager to use, especially
for the non-technical user.
Familiarity.
K My Money already provides the most important features found in commercial available
personal finance managers, and we are constantly planning, testing and releasing new features
to fit every task you'll ever encounter.
Accuracy.
Using time tests to double entry accounting principles, K My Money can help ensure that
your finances are recorded as they should.
So how do I use this?
I use this in two ways.
One, I use this to balance my checkbook.
This is access to the bank and many bills electronic.
I found it easier to reconcile differences through an application rather than by paper.
And two, it helps me keep track of the regular bills.
So related to the bills, I wanted to briefly talk about the scheduled transactions, which
I find most helpful.
So from the website, again, the schedule view, you can create and manage scheduled transactions
in the schedule view.
Schedules are a very useful and time saving feature, creating a scheduled transaction
for a regularly recurring event like your rent or your bills will help you not forget
to pay them on time.
Schedules can even be configured to automatically enter a transaction into the ledger for you
if you want.
Schedule creating or editing transactions.
Schedule transactions can be bills, deposits, or transfers.
When a schedule transaction is created or edited, the transaction information is displayed
in a dialogue where you can enter or edit the transaction details.
So some examples of how I use a schedule transaction.
One, reminders on the bills that occur monthly.
These bills are the most typical, for instance, the monthly electric bill that occurs around
a typical day of the month.
Two, there is at least one bill that occurs quarterly and another that occurs annually
for a weekly paycheck that I have as a reminder to enter.
So in summary, both the balancing of the checkbook and using the schedule transactions
has helped reduce, mean being late on a bill, especially when I miss that last submit
on when there are several steps to actually pay a bill.
I hope at least some of you have found this episode useful.
Thanks.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy
it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive, and
our syncs.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
