Episode: 3103
Title: HPR3103: A warning about browser extensions and add-ons.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3103/hpr3103.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:47:31

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3103 for Wednesday, 24 June 2020. Today's show is entitled,
a warning about browser extensions and add-ons. It is hosted by Ken Farlon,
and is about two minutes long, and carries a clean flag. The summary is
a un-maintained extension lead to a pop-up storm.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Farlon, and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I was discussing this with Dave, and he said I should do a show about it, so therefore I'll do a show about it.
Over the last two days I've had a situation where I've been opening some tabs in Chromium,
and then as well as the domain that I'm trying to open up,
opening some adult sites also open in new tabs or as pop-ups, which was a bit concerning.
Reminiscents are back in the days with Internet Explorer 6, etc.
What's happening in Firefox? I cleared cash, and I thought it might be cash poisoning or something.
So today, it seemed to be just on Gmail sites, but today it's actually extended to any domain that I typed in.
After investigating, I thought that perhaps it might be a browser plugin.
So I turned off all the browser plugins, and the problem went away,
and then it was a matter of finding out which browser plugin it was,
and it turned out to be a browser plugin called AutoRefresh,
which has since disappeared from the App Store, and was happily continuing to work away on my PC.
So I've now disabled all the browser plugins that I've added,
except those that I know are maintained and updated,
and I guess I need to check those regularly, so a bit of a word of warning there for people.
June and tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website, or record a follow-up episode yourself,
unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
