Episode: 3917
Title: HPR3917: Response to "Permission Tickets" by oneofspoons
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3917/hpr3917.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:53:03

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,917 for Tuesday the 8th of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Response to Permission Tickets by Own of Spoons.
It is hosted by DNT, and is about seven minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, hopefully a useful provocation in response to a recent intriguing show by
another HPR host.
Hello and welcome to another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This here is a response to 3909 called Permission Tickets by Own of Spoons.
This was a really good show very well written, not too long, and one of Spoons says it's
preview show for some future self-referential tangle of cryptographic distraction, which
sounds great.
I just wanted to, I was typing a comment, and then it was kind of getting long, so I decided
to record a response show.
You may notice that I was on Hacker Public Radio just a couple days ago, and tomorrow or
something, I will be on it again, and that was because I had a scheduled show, and then
one show came out of the reserve queue, and then I'm posting this as a response show,
and I'll talk a little more about that later.
The show by Own of Spoons was very good, very interesting stuff, I really recommend
you listen to it, and it's very much in line with the previous shows by that host.
It's always been at this kind of standard, and I wanted to talk about just one part of
what he is talking about here, and that is, for example, at the end here, I'm looking
at the whisper transcription, it says, so as a disclaimer, if it wasn't clear at the
beginning, if you recognize that someone who exchanges a bunch of money for a bunch
of cryptographic tokens is essentially holding next to nothing at all, then you are halfway
to recognizing that someone who holds a bunch of money is holding next to nothing at all.
What they need is to convince somebody to exchange or to swap for the permission tickets
which they have acquired, end quote, that's very good, too many crypto fans don't recognize
even that, but I would like to point out here that there is actually one very important
difference between these cryptocurrencies and state-backed currencies, and that is that
within that state it is legal tender in one of the primary ways in which this manifests
is that the state accepts it for tax payment, so that's kind of the number one thing that
gives state-backed money its value, right?
It's not just that people will accept it, and this seems to be something that a lot of
the crypto fans don't seem to remember, so the thing about that is that we seem to, in
the 21st century, to be kind of in the habit of destroying things that we already had,
and then just rebuilding them in a less good form, and then we're just stuck with this
downgraded form of the thing that we actually already had.
We just didn't realize that we were just rebuilding the same thing, only not as good
as the one that we had before, right?
This happens, I think, I'm going to put in the show notes this episode of the Harper's
podcast where they discuss the riders' strike here in the United States, the Hollywood
and riders' strike, and they kind of touched on the idea that these streaming services,
they kind of destroyed the traditional TV industry in the US based in Hollywood, and they
really didn't actually make anything new, they were simply allowed by the state to destroy
the industry that already existed, and they just basically dominated it, and replaced
it with an industry that's just much less equitable, and according to the person that
was being interviewed on that podcast, this is now reflected in this strike.
So I think we should be wary of situations in which we make, we kind of fool ourselves
into thinking that we're innovating, we're building this new thing, but really we're
just replacing it with an inferior version of something that we already had.
Not because the thing that we already had was necessarily good, but just because we suffer
from a pretty overwhelming lack of imagination, all right?
So that was my comment on the show by One of Spoons, and before I posted this, I went
on Matrix on the Matrix channel, and I raised this idea because I already had shows on
the calendar, so we try to stick to only one show every two weeks so that nobody can kind
of dominate the main feed, but I kind of raised the idea that maybe response shows should
be exempt from that, because it's kind of nice for it to appear in the main feed pretty
close to the show you're responding to, and also maybe that's a good way to fill
slots, you know, to, we have the reserve queue when there's an unclaimed slot very close
to the date it's supposed to air, so maybe another decent way for hosts to fill slots is
to record a response show like the one I just did.
Also personally, I'm a fan of these conversations, and this can be kind of like a play by male
conversation where each participant in the conversation will only speak after several
days, so with this I invite One of Spoons to write, to post a comment on my comment, or
just post that upcoming show about the, the tangle of cryptographic something or other,
so that could also be a good way for a new host to post their first show, you know, if
you have some, if you have a comment about a show or thoughts about a show which undoubtedly
you do from time to time, maybe it can be kind of a simple way to post your first show
by sort of remixing or starting from somebody else's show, and what did you think about
that?
I think I would like to hear it, hopefully this was useful, thanks again to One of Spoons
for the show, I'm looking forward to more, that was very good, very well done, thank you,
and now please come back tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio, thank
you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, as Hacker Public Radio does work, today's
show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself, if you ever thought of recording
broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is, hosting
for HBR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On this otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution
4.0 International License.
