Episode: 3313
Title: HPR3313: Zoom Update
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3313/hpr3313.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:37:12

---

This is hacker public radio episode 3,313 for Wednesday, the 14th of April 2021.
Tid's show is entitled Zoom Update and is part of the series social media it is hosted by Toget
and is about two minutes long and carries an explicit flag. The summary is scripted Zoom
Update with history on Fedor. This episode of HBR is brought to you by an honest host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HBR15. That's HBR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Toget again. Hey, I've been using Zoom a lot lately and like many people and the one
problem I have with it on Linux is that there is no way of automatically updating it.
You have to download a new version from the site every time and then install it and it's
just a pain to constantly do that all the time and keep track of it. I like to have things automated
where I don't have to manage it. Well, since Zoom does not provide a standard Fedora repo for
updating, to a grid around it I wrote a little script that takes and it hits the Zoom site,
checks to see if there is an updated version, if so it'll download it and install it automatically
and then it'll take a keep version history so you can see all the different packages as it comes
down. I've got the code in my GitHub repo which the link is in the show notes so all you have to do
is you simply put the script in. It has to be run as a cron job under root or you can run it manually
if you want but I like the cron job because I don't have to worry about it and then let it just run.
It will download and with the cron job I have it set up, I have it check every night,
round midnight to see if it's current one and then download and put it in. What they have
it terminating the current running instance of Zoom every time before it installs it but I don't
start it back up and the reason I don't start it up is because then I don't have to deal with
checking whether I've got a logged in session and all this other stuff and figuring out which
user and which GUI interface to log it into. So it just terminates it, updates it if there's a change.
So when I log into my machine in the morning, if it's not running I just simply launch a Zoom
and I'll always have the latest version of it. So nice and simple, straightforward, give it a try,
let me know what you think, I'll have a link to the page with the instructions
and the get repo in the show notes. Thanks, bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out
how easy it really is, Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the
infonomicum computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have
comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or
record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under
creative comments, attribution, share a live 3.0 license.
