Episode: 3992
Title: HPR3992: Test recording on a wireless mic
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3992/hpr3992.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:22:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3992 for Tuesday the 21st of November 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Test Recording on a Wireless Microphone.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about four minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 tests out a wireless microphone with a USB-C receiver.
Hello, this is your host, Archer 72, for another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I am testing out a new microphone that I picked up from Amazon.
Brand is Mercado and I mostly picked it up because it had its own charging case and it would
make it convenient to record on the road.
This one to test it to see what the community would think of how it would sound.
I decided to use the Unix Wikipedia article as a test for it.
Unix is a family of multitasking, multi-user computer operating systems that derives, that
derived from the original AT&T Unix, whose development started in 1969 at the Bell Labs
Research Center by Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and others.
Initially intended for use inside the Bell System, AT&T licensed Unix to outside parties
in late 1970s, leading to a variety of both academic and commercial Unix variants from
vendors, including University of California, Berkeley, BSD, Microsoft, ZNX, Sun Microsystems,
Sun OS, Solaris, HP, HPE, and IBM.
In the early 1990s, AT&T sold its rights, sold its rights in Unix to Nobel, which then
sold its Unix trademark to the Open Group, an industry consortium founded in 1996.
The Open Group allows the use of the mark for certified operating systems that comply
with the single Unix specification.
Unix systems are characterized by a modular design that is sometimes called the Unix
philosophy.
According to this philosophy, the operating system should provide a set of simple tools,
each of which perform a limited well-defined function.
Unified in I know-based file system and an inter-process communication mechanism known
as pipes serve as the main means of communication, and shell scripting and command language
the Unix shell is used to combine the tools to perform complex workflows.
Unix distinguishes itself from its predecessor as the first portable operating system.
Once the entire operating system is written in the C programming language is written in
the C programming language, which allows Unix to operate on numerous platforms.
Well, that's it for the test, if you have comments, feel free to leave them.
Until next time, bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sync.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
