Episode: 3662
Title: HPR3662: 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3662/hpr3662.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 03:11:49

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3662 for Tuesday the 16th of August 2022.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Public Radio 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 1.
It is the 20th show of Han Kimagoo, and is about 186 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is, the HPR community comes together to chat.
Good morning, that matter. How are you, sir?
Oh, I'm getting by. I decided to drop in since it's been two years since I was able to do it.
It's already been two years before.
Yeah, but last year the old system didn't allow my mumble to hook up.
Right. Is it really interesting for Christmas?
Not really. No, very quiet. I'm going to be a busy year.
I've got to get this place hooked up to Surridge, or I won't be able to make next year's podcast.
So are you going to go for a loan now?
I'm going to see what I can do. Unfortunately, my property has become interesting to do it to a developer.
So his friends at the town hall are making me hook up to Surridge.
And so continuing to be grandfathered.
Right. The same people who help with home renovations are also the people who deal with developers.
A conflict of interest, which is probably very useful.
Probably, just not for you, unfortunately.
And well, if I wasn't disabled, I would have lost the house to when my mother went into the nursing home.
So at least I got a fighting chance sort of.
Right.
Of course, this situation is helping my clinical depression massively.
So long.
Sure.
And well, I've got a lawyer, but I don't think he's really willing to engage.
I got you.
So are you still into the decluttering process of the house?
Yes, although over Christmas, my depression has gotten ahead of me, but I'm just going to have to keep grinding on.
And getting rid of the most sensitive materials, of course.
Right.
You picked the fixed the network cables that were hanging down that frightened them.
No, I haven't. I've been working on other decluttering.
I removed one full size bed and have been hacking away at other cluttered spaces.
Now, a lot of the general cleanup hasn't been progressing or has regressed, but I have been getting a bunch of stuff out out the door.
Well, it's good.
You see your brother over the holidays?
Oh, no.
He won't come up here until it's time to cash the check on the road.
Oh, yeah.
He's on the road and he's got himself a nice lady.
Good morning.
Morning, Ken.
This is where I heard people talking.
Yeah, we're here, man.
Is the trouble we're hearing here.
That's the question.
Testing testing.
We hear you.
Excellent.
Very good, very good.
Very good.
Good morning, honky.
Hi, how are you?
Not too bad.
Do we have a etapod?
Yep.
I've both been able to you.
And I just put it here in the normal chat.
It's the shownotes.org guy that 9-001-P-H-P-R-M-Y-202-1.
I think the biggest group with that was the fact that I wasn't able to ever post to the mailing list.
And then when I posted it to social networks, I kind of had to cut it back the size of my posts.
So I left some of the details off here.
So I'm going to go up on the, uh, what's get posted to happen back here, public radio, that org.
I could talk this morning.
Just wait one second.
I'll see if the page is updated.
Two minutes to the first one going.
Yep.
We got us a need of that.
Excellent.
Excellent.
Now, we tested the audio stream at all.
Yeah.
The only weirdness is it doesn't play, um, Firefox with the ultra-play thing because of the HTTPS.
Got it.
Oh, yeah.
There.
Uh, yeah.
Fortunately, that's the way that one's going to be right now.
Sorry.
No, it's fine.
You did well to get it.
So running.
I mean, it'll work in BLC.
I know that.
Yeah.
That too.
And for some reason, FFM Pegg is having a problem, um, playing it.
So I updated the recordings from the stream thing.
So I have one of them running here and one running in Ireland.
So there is, uh, I updated the link and how to do it with command line BLC.
We're almost done to one minute.
And then play some people can get out of this back in a year.
Now, how was the audio levels with that?
I really didn't have much time to test it.
I got it.
No.
It was about like 11 o'clock last night.
I finally got it.
And, uh, ice cast in butt.
The big thing there being getting butt to work.
Because the hard ice cast, I got up no problem.
Hell, I had it on.
Yeah.
Um, uh, yeah.
Yeah.
Super easy.
So I tried to find a client to work.
Like, no, there's no client in a repo anywhere.
Ice cast is everywhere, but there's no clients in any repos anywhere.
So I had to compile things from source.
And I tried OBS.
I tried mix.
I tried, um, with dark eyes.
I tried getting dark eyes compiled.
I didn't get dark eyes compiled.
But I got butt to compile last night.
And butt is nice.
It's got this nice little, uh, uh, grass.
Should we do the intro?
Sure.
chat for afterwards because I have some sharing as well. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Go ahead
with your angel. Oh okay. Hi and welcome again to the Hack and Public Radio New Year's Eve show.
Today is December 31st 2021 and I wouldn't need which year is this for. I have the ninth
on my thing here but it's not the ninth is it. Well actually it's not it's the 20th it's the first
in January 2022 because we just welcomed in Christmas Island into the New Year. It is indeed for
those people in Christmas Island happy New Year. To the rest of us still waiting happy New Year's Eve.
We're here again talking having a good time for 26 hours or so. At least because it's falling
on the Saturday it will usually start falling on the Friday and then Saturday hopefully we'll pick up
some people people be willing to talk and come back on tomorrow so I'm expecting a full day tomorrow's
on. Yeah. So I actually when I heard that the stream wasn't available I also started
doing the configuration and I ran into the same thing as you. No problem just doing a DNF install
ice cast and for the people listening in order to get streaming working so you've got something
that's playing and you need to get it out to a streamer. So the streamer is ice cast and it's
simple up-get install ice cast but you don't have to make each other and tummaging first cousin
and that worked on Fedora and I've worked on Ubuntu no problem. So then you have mumble and you need
to get the sound out of the mumble and into into this ice cast server yeah. I'm saying this like
I'm an expert which I'm not because the only experience I have has been failures trying to get
it to work on subsequent age viewershills at New Year's Hills. So then you have this client thing
that sits in the middle that takes your audio from a sound card and then streams it I guess into
the streaming client and streams it into ice cast and ice cast then divis it up and streams it
is that kind of correct do you think? That seems about right. Yeah again like you were saying the
hardest part about that was trying to get a client to work right. Yeah exactly. And we were talking
before about setting up a what no device and audio device I didn't even have to do that I mean
I just set it up to whatever the default audio is and make sure mumble was set up to the same
audio and both are pumping out there but but it is nice. It has little settings that you
can go in and configure like a big settings button it's not a you know you don't have to configure
a config file and then hope for the best and then try to figure out what's wrong. I'm actually
recording right now and so we'll see how well that works too. I have it set up to start a new
recording every three hours or so so hopefully that should work great. So I'm both streaming and
recording on the same device and it's going to start a new recording every three hours automatically
so we'll see how well this works so far it seems to be working there is still audio coming out
about 11 o'clock last night is when I found me that this finished to work it well to be fair I
started really working on the first thing yesterday morning and then I had to stop because we did
my parents are up from Florida which is south of the United States and so we did my brothers up here
with me so we did a like a Christmas too with the kids and my parents so we did that yesterday
so I had all of that and then after everybody left we could put all the kids to bed I went
right back down here and started working on it. Yeah I was asked of them till 11 sorry one was
in the morning and because I only found out like get around about 10 in the evening and then
spent a few hours as I was in like dependency hell and then I downloaded the source code and for
some of these times like dark ISOs trying to get installed and then it didn't have the lame
libraries I installed all of those and then I got a CPP compatibility error with version 17
or something and the only solution to that is fix the code so I then tried it on an Ubuntu
machine and then they buy a certain work and I had a hard disk failure you know yourself so thankfully
you woke up this morning while I got up early this morning in order to allow myself time to set
up a streamer but thankfully you had it already working. Yeah and sorry about the show notes and
stuff. No that's fine because everything's working now. Yeah the important thing. Yeah I think
the first rating part was the fact that we couldn't I couldn't never post to the mailing list like
I've been getting rejected as spam so still. Yeah well I tried posting it again first thing this
morning and I got I get rejected as spam that's why I sent the I reposted the email that I tried
to send out to the mailing list you know back in November to just to you the first thing in the
morning because that had the the link to the show notes in it. Yeah all everything's now up on the
website so I think we're good to go. Awesome let's see what are we talking about. So yeah I'm filling
up the show notes because getting older people if they don't fill up the show notes makes your life
easier. Yeah I do appreciate it. Mumble goes to a client post goes to Ike ice cast.
So have you had a good year? Trying to think back or if you dropped off. No I'm doing this.
Don't you know it's a silence for you to go what the hell no what else has got to go.
No no I mean I'm just trying to back a last year. I want to say this year was probably better than
the last several. Very good very good. Well last year not 2020 my mother-in-law was having health
issues and she has heart problems where that just wasn't beating enough and stuff. You're before
that my father-in-law was in a car accident that put him in the hospital for a long period of time
oh and then we have all the problems with COVID and whatnot. This year was okay. Yeah we can do it
okay. We'll be happy with okay. Okay it's fine. I don't think there was any big health
stories this year. At least for me what made my family we've been pretty good this year. So what
the new was I'm across the how are things in Netherlands. Well we're in lockdown on
not the minute. Have been since the week before Christmas they brought it in all of a sudden
because they didn't want people rushing to the shops for stuff but it's it's taken over as the
major variant but at the moment I mean we still have to wait for the delays before people
hit the hospitals and then again the delay before they hit the critical care but it seems to be
manageable so far. My father-in-law's ex-wife is working as a nurse in the COVID
department and she says it's manageable that it's just become day-to-day now. This is this is their
life basically taking care of patients and tend to be full of the patients. She's saying anecdotically
that there's more people getting dementia. The result of it the same a lot more confused this time
around but don't know if anyone else has picked up enough. I haven't heard that no. Yeah my mother's
deventia was advanced by an infection so it doesn't surprise me that COVID is advancing
dementia as well you know hammers the system and this was a simple infection that eventually put
her into full-time care. How are you in that matter? Do you okay? I'm doing well I'm doing reasonably
well. I'll have to see when things come up and because of things well my emergency planning
has to be kind of private if I want to remain outside the hospital myself. Okay.
As a nurse, do you have a chat? I've been waiting for this for over over a year since the
server club last time. Cool. My son is looking forward to it. He gets to stay up all night and
talk to people and I think we're going the next time zone is going 15 minutes after the first one
which is in three minutes. It's the Chapman Islands in New Zealand which is interesting but he is
so looking forward to being able to talk without talk to people who are into the stuff he's into
which is good which is part point of hacker public radio trying to talk to like-minded people.
Well, Tucky is talking and trying to talk to other techies and stuff. People will come and
introduce. Oddly enough he's not a techie as such he's just into stuff that other people seem
to be into whether that's I don't mind craft or dungeons and dragons or Marvel universe or whatever
that sort of stuff. There's a lot of stuff here. Exactly. I just logged in to Facebook for the
first time in a year. I was able to copy and paste my last post change 2019 to 2021 to 2022. We're
good. I've been able to avoid Facebook successfully. The only reason I have it is for this for the show
and occasionally contacting and occasionally get a message through from cousin or somebody
abroad who's looking for something. My abroad would be your local. Well, that reminds me I have
some stuff to check on. I do most of my connections through YouTube. Really? To the chat or by posting
videos? Usually replying to videos. I don't chat much. Oh, replying to family videos,
isn't it? Well, family by choice mostly. Also, I have Ashburgers syndrome and it is a good
resource for that and for other artistic spectrum disorders and stuff. Yeah. Let's go.
Island New Zealand has gone. Happy New Year. Happy New Year to them. And then we have. I hope it's
still there, but happy New Year folks. We have another three hours before we have the next weird one.
So it's always a bit odd when you do the first one and then there's 15 minutes later. There's a
weird 15 thing. So did you find getting your diagnosis helpful or not? Well, it's got me an
income. Unfortunately, I ran across a toxic counselor and bailed out after over 15 years. That's
not good. Well, be very wary of a person with a PhD that did not go through a master's program.
This person because she had a PhD believe that she knew everything about life, the universe,
and everything. Did you have a tell with her at the same time? That's a question.
Well, someone who used trying to justify the unjustifiable as a logic experiment and triggered
my PhD sort of got me was a hint in surviving veteran mode. Well, I'm not a nice guy.
All right. I dropped for two minutes to grab a cup of coffee.
Let's get into it. I put on the positive area once. That too would be proud of me.
An interesting thing was my father who graduated from West Virginia,
small town West Virginia High School, and NAS Radio. Don't forget that. I mean,
look, we're dentials here. He believed that he knew how everybody should run their lives as well.
So he didn't need a PhD to have a perfect view of the universe.
Excellent. Well, that's good. I always feel happy. Well, for people who are so glued in,
it must be good knowing those. Probably good for them, nothing good for everybody else.
Well, I got my PTSD across the dinner table. Okay. Also, one of the aspects of Asperger is that we're
sort of like commander data. We tend to be literal and logical, focused, perceptive,
intense. Now, yeah, but I hear you rhyming off the the autism. Right. When I got diagnosed,
I wasn't looking at a lot of this stuff. I'm going, okay, that doesn't apply to me. That doesn't
apply to me. That doesn't apply to me. I can see how that might apply to me, but not in that context.
So I'm very reluctant to go. If those things apply to you, then let's find
go with it. But when I was looking at them, I was gone. Some of this stuff applies to me, but it's
in the wrong context. It's like if somebody's trying to describe somebody who has
through no fault of the wrong, because nobody can experience somebody else's experiences.
Somebody's trying to describe what I feel and is getting it wrong. But yeah, what can you do?
It's like that video where the guy is that the blind guy is talking about people trying to
explain what the color blue looks like. It's warm. It's cold. It's the color of ice. It's the color
of the sky. It's blue seas. It's, yeah. So that's kind of how... Actually, what was interesting
is that my condition was detected initially in my late teens or early 20s by a friend of mine
who was reading my body language, which with Asperger is absolutely non-standard. And he said,
you can't be meaning what your body is transmitting non-verbally. Yeah, okay, I get that, but I also
get that... I also notice the issue with air cold smear tipicles where they're saying something,
and their body language is saying something completely else, completely. Oh, it's so nice to see you
where the body language is. I hate being here because I actually want to be at home or something,
or oh, it's lovely this gift that I got. I can tell by your body language that it's not. Now,
I don't know if that's a, that's a new thing, but it seems to be in our house at least that some
of the people can can look at somebody and see a mismatch in body language. And is that so my
question has been, and this is just a question that's not, you know, fact or anything. My question has
been, well, is the change in body language because we perceive during the non-linear development
disorder that is Asperger's and us, and et cetera, is that's a learned behavior because you're
looking and you get confused by the behavior of others discuss while I get a cup of coffee back
and let's take a look. Well, I generally think that it's actually, I consider because of the Asperger's,
I think I'm tone deaf in the body language area, or rather, like a deaf person trying to speak.
Kill him a self-convince, and order to press the push to talk button. Yes, but that can be an
addition to autism because there are, there's separates where you can't read body language, but I'm,
I'm not sure that defines autism, because I definitely don't that. I get confused by people's
body language, but you can't, you can't necessarily know what somebody's saying or thinking,
without them being totally honesty. So the only answer you're going to get back, the honest answer
you're going to get back tends to be from another artist who will go, yes, I really don't want to be
here blah, blah, blah. I'm smiling because I just want to smile. Well, the, the thing about it is
that my particular flavor about it, it's sort of a spectrum, that's why they call it an autistic
spectrum is. Yeah, yeah, do that, do that. Or is that just a donut right where you go? Okay,
we go, we draw the circle, where all the normal people live, and then around that we'll draw a
circle for all the other boxes that we can put people in, the schizophrenics, the thingies,
the thingies, and then we'll draw another huge big circle around that for all the other people
who don't fit it. So you might have some sort of this and a little bit of that. I think that's
a good idea because I just think that is a nice, polite way of saying, you, I'm not saying you
want one, one is not fitting the mold, you're not fitting the mold, you're not doing stuff as
the rest of us do, but that doesn't necessarily mean that I will have the same traits as you,
but that's a more brutal way of putting it than the list. I think that's, that's one of the things
about why the, my particular flavor, which used to be called high-functioning autism or
what have you, Ashburgers was a particular set of symptoms that somebody,
that a German doctor discovered during World War II. So that's part of the reason why it was
slow percolating through the universe, but I- My wife has written a book on the autism as a result
of HPR and we're going, it's on the list to rewrite it. The history section of that is quite good
about where it comes from, about, uh, just, and, um, yeah. What are you on? Well, the, the deal is
that I also have some dyslexia and other sort of issues, but the deal is that it became a useful
why I still call myself an Ashbeat. By the way, if you want to hear another Ashbeat's on YouTube,
Eli, the computer guy is also an Ashbeat. He does, he, he started out doing tech. Now he's doing
more stuff that's based on, uh, the insanity going on of government shutting things down every
Tuesday, the analyte. And I'll give you a, um, I'll give you a link there to another channel,
which is Ashburgers from the inside. And it's from, um, Australian guy who, uh, yeah, basically talks
about, uh, autism and what, what feels like for him, some of the stuff I recognize, some of the
stuff I don't have. Yeah, well, one of the people that I follow or what the families that I follow
is, uh, the Morgan's on YouTube and they have a non-verbal artistic. So some of us can't stop talking
and some of us have not decided to start or can't start. Um, could you show package, package some
stuff up and email it to Honky, um, and then he can pass it on to me. He's got my private email.
Uh, what stuff? Uh, anything artistic related that you might. Sure, sure. It'll be in the show,
not posted into the chat right now. But yeah, I can, I can do that, I can work across stuff.
I can send you the, uh, the book which unfortunately still in Dutch. Uh, but we've had a little bit
of a, a little bit of a busy time over the last period. Oh, it's not. Sorry. Oh, I had many years
of German, but that's rusted away. You know, it's not too far, it's not too far off. I had this
really weird, really weird experience one time where I was, um, uh, learning Dutch and then, uh,
I was with, I was over the Christmas. I fell asleep in front of the TV and then I woke up, uh,
this coverage channel was on, and I woke up to here and understand the other after giving
a speech. Uh, okay. Now it's time for bed. Actually, I, my German sometimes
spoke through, uh, one of the, one of my, uh, best buddies in college was, was from higher, um,
the original do not accept any substitutes, Harlem. Mm-hmm. My daughter's, uh, doing her work experience
with the real company from there. First train line and the Netherlands apparently. So you
miss tracks coming in, but not listening or speaking. Strange. I really do need to follow
HPR a bit more, but I've got so many interests. It's not even funny. A lot of them are military based,
uh, um, basically from my background. You go, go up in a combative household and the military
stuff is almost, um, instinctive. Yeah, it seems to be a lot of people in the
middle of the US. Well, people I know. Well, both of my, uh, family and, uh, here. I tell you,
if, if I get everything set up, I'm going to set up a series of copy shops, veterans of domestic
wars, Starbucks, look out. Excellent. Cool. Well, I probably will never get around to it, at least
in this life, but I could, but if I thought it, it was a natural veterans, you know, veterans of
foreign wars for the military people, and then we have veterans of domestic wars for everybody else.
Which reminds me, um, just wanted to do a shout out for my brother who served in a person unit
in Germany during the, toward the end of the Cold War, which from what he's reported was not
exactly as cold as people thought. Okay. You know, this year I did actually manage to get my
ham radio licenses. So that's something. So what are you, are you in a new house or did you
redo the old house? Well, we had, um, when we moved here first, uh, long story, but then again,
we have 26 hours, so pull up a chair. Um, we had a, uh, it's an expensive part of the country.
So like we were right beside the media park where, um, yeah, all the rich people live basically.
So I was for the laugh on one of these property websites and going around two million,
one million, and blah, and then this house for affordable at the time that we came and had a look,
and by good standards, a nice big backyard and a place house itself was a mess, you know,
opened the back, the back window on the second floor, and the entire wooden facade falls down.
So, um, we had enough money to renovate the house. So, and that basically the entire thing was
got to accept the side wall of the side wall and that bit of the wall at the front. So we restored
the roof to water walls. We lowered the floor to give us more space on the second floor, and
that allowed us a kind of standing room in the attic. And then we basically ran out of the money
and, uh, for 20 years, we've been living here without that wall has been painted and stuff,
because we had kids and everything in between. So then, um, one thing and another now became the
right time to, um, to do the inside, because if we don't do it now, then we're never going to do
it. So we went basically a bit of a side patio, and we, uh, uh, it was originally a sort of a
dunny, uh, an outdoor toilet, and then that was covered over, and there was another toilet and
built on, and then built on to that was like a hubby room, and built on to that was a garden shed,
and we had knocked all of these together to make a room, but it was never widened off, and it was too
deep, and we tried it as a bedroom, it didn't work, we tried it as a playroom for the kids, it didn't
work, and I was working out there for a while, and it didn't work either. So we basically just
knocked that and then built a proper room at the back, and the basement we lowered by, by about
half a meter or so, so I can now stand out here, and its insulation has got floor heating and
regular heating, so it's nice actual rooms, nice place to work, and we, all the rooms we put in,
fitted board robes into, and then did all the floors, again, painted everything again,
so every room had something done on it, so therefore we moved to another house so that the
builders could just have a clean room on the other house, and that was, for three months,
it was only supposed to be for two, but turned out to be for three, and then we moved back,
they were still working on it for a month, and then there was, with the COVID situation,
the deliveries were delayed and stuff, and some of the contractors had to come back and
come back again because of timing and things have not been done, so yesterday the furniture arrived
for the, like we've been sitting in garden furniture in the living room, so yesterday the furniture
arrived, so that's a long story short, short story turned into a long story, you're welcome.
Well, congratulations, also on YouTube, there is a Belgian couple who were
refurbishing an old Belgian farm for housing, and that's amazing.
Very dangerous thing if you start because you have no idea what you're going to run into,
so right here we had, in the back garden, there was apparently a pond there at one stage,
and then they just filled it up with, like, rumble, what's rumble, rumble, and old bricks and
cargated iron, and God knows what sort of rubbish, so there was three guys for like a whole day
digging it out so that they could put in the foundations for the extension, so I was very dangerous.
Well, I've got a granite foundation, and we've had to put in a new waterline a couple
years ago now, I guess, but by sealing up around the waterline, it reduced a lot of my wet basement
issues. It's good to get some relief from that sort of stuff, to be honest, you know, when you're
building and you're looking at everything and you're making sure that everything's been painted
and everything that's underlaced is done, you're very focused on the details, like, I'll probably come
with from the autism's all, but very focused on looking at the details and that having to pull
myself back and go, no, have a look at the whole house, it's much improved, it's far better,
et cetera, et cetera. Yeah, if someone did that to my home farm up in Maine, it used to be my grandmother's
place. One of the problems with this house is my parents were adamant that while they were raising
kids in it, it was not our home because our name was not on the deep. Okay, very welcoming.
We could be held responsible for things, but we could not claim plank ownership of any kind.
Yeah, very interesting. My dad believed that he was the only one worth
that thing here because he got a paycheck and his wife, who was a housewife and his kids
did not get a paycheck, therefore they had no cash value, therefore they were an expense and should
kiss his boots. Not uncommon in the fifties, to be told. Well, it was interesting being raised
as a fifties kid in the sixties. Yeah, especially with my, I could observe that you could do your
own thing as long as it looked like the thing of the person sitting in front of you and the girl
but side you or in back if you're actually doing something different that could probably be declared
square and therefore beyond the pale. But then again, being here in the Boston area as a refugee from
two small towns where my folks were raised, you see my grandparents were very welcoming far more
than my parents. Were they from Boston? God no, my mother was from a small town in Maine and my dad
was from a small town in West Virginia and we were raised small town values hunting, you know,
my mother was a church-going woman. Well, inoculatory Christians, she went one hour a week which
gave her a step up above the heathens that she was living with. She's Protestant, but I believe that
it's not a denominational thing. I believe that there's probably righteous in all religions.
Particularly mine. I wouldn't. Yeah, I'm an Irish Catholic which means I'm Catholic when I go to
Ireland. It's just simpler than saying you're an atheist and so much of culture there's around the
church in fairness. Well, I'm from the Boston area and you know the shenanigans that they pulled
with, you know, priests were doing things that they shouldn't. Yeah, pretty much everywhere. Also,
a thriving parish was shut down in my town because it had a voice of the people chapter in it.
What's that? Uh, devout Catholics wanting a say in the running of their churches.
I would have known that. Yeah, that's not going to happen. Well, one of my,
one of the people, if you want to hear the good side of good bad and indifferent of the Catholic
church, read Andrew Greeley's works. No, I can take them and they can leave them and they choose
to leave them to be honest. Well, I'm a Protestant and he helped her store my faith in faith far
more than churchmen of my own denomination. Yeah, glad to hear. I wish I really do wish that it
did for me, but it doesn't. Well, his stuff is everything from science fiction to
analysis of the church and some of its spiritual, some of its, a lot of its mysteries.
I mean, he does a good Sherlock Holmes type thing. I'm just saying it's not just religious,
it's, it's good writing. Yeah, what's the, what's the link controls into the show?
Uh, Andrew Greeley author. I don't know if there is a link. Um, he just, he passed away recently.
And, but he was, he was a mercantile priest. Yes, and he's a father because he was also a statistic,
a statistician. And when he did some statistical work for the church, the, the answers didn't come
out the way that the hierarchy liked. Hmm, interesting. Like, uh, track some of the stuff down.
He also did some nonfiction stuff about the church and whatnot. Uh, also, uh, he, uh, what was
interesting that he said that there are basically two churches. There is the church of the parishes
and then there's the hierarchy. Yeah. And while the hierarchy would like them to enforce things like
the papal encyclical and birth control and whatnot. Yeah. The parishes don't do that because
they'd like to have more than three old ladies sitting in character on Sunday. Mm-hmm. I remember
that, uh, when parlance, uh, there was, there, the pill was about to be legalized and there was,
a missile central where everybody, well, the priests had to, were commanded to read out this
missile to everybody as part of the sermon. And, uh, I remember some very religious ladies who are,
some of whom are still with us and some who are, are no longer with us, saying if the Pope had
15 kids running around his legs over there in the Vatican, he would have another completely
different idea as to whether to allow the pill or not. And that was that pretty much
up and down the country. Um, yeah. There were people who didn't agree with us, but the old women
had spoken basically. Well, I find the, the papal response, you know, where you'll get all of the
church scholars together. You have them sitting in the Vatican, writing up support for, you know,
modern sexuality and birth control and whatnot back in the 60s. And the Pope just dismisses it and
says, well, sorry, but that's too much of a risk to my power. Well, yeah. Then in the West,
that the Pope did more to fracture the church by saying, welcome to 1848, um, then a lot of the
liberal stuff would have done. Yeah, you're probably not wrong there. Well, 1848 is when the Pope,
I, something like that is when the Pope declared himself infallible.
And trying to look up the microphone heart number here while I'm doing this. Yes, the church.
I can spend some time in the seminary myself as a, as a youth, not as basically renting rooms
there, but I was able to, I was, I have my meals with the kind of the priests. And well, I never
saw the point of the, they, I got the guys who were with the, with the, um, inedictance,
they took a vow of salvacy and poverty and obedience straight off for a year, for their entire
training and had to redo it every year. And those guys were more clued in to, you know, the
religious life you could imagine them being like a cad felt of the world, but the diocesan priests
should just be married really. And I thought that then, but now, after having kids myself,
you really need to be, you really need to experience that if you're going to be preaching about,
if you're going to be lecturing to somebody about it, you need to experience it helps at least.
One of the things that, that really put forward was, uh, that the, that the priesthood also should
consider an enlistment style, um, situation where, you know, someone can be a priest for so many
years and then decide to serve or get married or whatnot and not necessarily be locked in.
Yeah, but the old salivism, the only thing that's stopping somebody from marrying is the,
was the Jesuit requirement to, um, for celibacy. And that came from the university systems at the
time where if you wanted it to be a teacher or a professor in the university, you had to be
celibate. And in order to gain access to that, the, the, uh, the Jesuits enforce celibacy in their
members and then that became basically the doctrine. It also was very convenient for property
and all the rest of it, but there isn't basically no requirement in the entire history of the church.
It's only a relatively recent phenomenon that's a piece of priests have not been able to marry.
Here in that, in the Netherlands, there are, uh, priests are still allowed to be married.
So, well, it's, I think it's a failing of the church. It's, if you're going to be offering advice
to somebody, if you, if you were going to a mental counselor, right, and you wanted to talk about, uh,
child issues, and I see that when I'm going around to, non-mental counselor, say I'm going
around to, to somebody who's dealing with issues with, with kids, teachers basically say, teachers,
say you go to a teacher and you're talking about issues with the kids. The teachers who have kids
themselves are more clued in to your experiences than the teachers who are fresh out of the college
and basically have no kids. Not saying that everybody should have kids would be a terrible world
if we were all the same, but there are instances where help. Yes. Well, one of the interesting
science fiction books is a series, rather, which by a Polish person who was, um, he does it basically
connected Yankees in King Arthur's court, but he does it based around the muggle invasion of Poland
and somebody from modern Poland going back to ancient Poland, basically modernizing the country
to, and giving them some defense against the muggle hordes. How many other things? But the deal is,
sorry, what's this called? I'll look it up for a little show notes. Uh, for his name is Frankowski,
I think, um, it's a whole series high-tech night, radiant warrior. There's a whole bunch of them,
Lord Conrad's lady, or three off the top, but the deal, but the deal is that he, he goes back to
Poland in the time when, um, the, before the celipacy, um, edicts were, were in the Polish area,
where while the church was still busy rewriting history, like, ah, you're a married priest,
well, if we enforce these new regulations, you would never were married, proper, et cetera.
But it was, it was an interesting, um, take on history. Leo Franski. Lincoln the show notes.
Oh, you're reigniting now. We're five minutes away from New Zealand,
and tattoo is not joining us, apparently. Nor is McNally. All the regulars on the
Wednesday night, D&D thing. I'm not saying I'm angry. Just very, very disappointed.
Well, friends, for all Kiwis. Yes. Somebody had a little Kiwi sticker on a vehicle here,
and they were surprised that an American knew what, what that meant.
It's called a buzzer. It's not a microphone. It's a buzzer. What does that got to do with anything?
Well, I've been looking for the, I've got a little of the buzzers here, and I'm using,
this is an opportunity to sort out my components trays, pigeonhole boxes, you know, those things.
And I knew I had them somewhere, but I couldn't find them. But now I have them. There we go. Thanks.
Sorry to interrupt the flow. You were talking earlier. Is, is Dunee the same thing as a
mouthhouse, or is that the same thing as a bathroom? Dunee's the outhouse here. Okay. In Australian terms.
Right. One of the things that they modernized in my grandmother's home in Maine was putting it
in flesh toilets, any bathroom in the main part of the house. But the most interesting thing about
it was that there, there was a basically servants wing. The farmhouse was originally built for a
judge. And it was a pretty good size farm, but the, the outhouse that was the original bathroom,
including where the tub was, was out at the end of a, of a long wing. And it was a two level affair.
There was a, on the upper level was the outhouse for the main house. And down below, there was
a garage like thing that was served as a wood shed. And it had its own level of the outhouse.
So you don't want to be sitting at the bottom level, when somebody's at the top level?
Well, well, things were, were made to align, appropriate, misalign appropriately. But it was always
something that, that the family raised there was, you know, had a little fun with, oh, I'm sure.
But also it was, I mean, they had water piped in, but out in the, the door yard there was also a
pitcher pump that you had to prime and where water was gotten for the chickens and some of the
livestock that was down on the lower floor. I still dream about that place.
Yeah. Funny how pump and water and bringing it to far distant places where animals are.
Burn's old in your memory, speaking from experience here.
Well, they had a large dairy barn that, that was standing until a few years ago,
a wooden structure with a roof that isn't regularly repaired as, as a limited lifetime.
That's history. But as a kid, I was up there, you know, and I shoveled some manure and I
plugged hay. And it was an amazing experience because my mother's family's farm was a milk can
situation, milking into cans or into a big container that would be poured into a milk can, filtered
whatever. Well, my father's was at least back in the day when it was still a dairy.
It had bulk, it didn't have a milking parlor. I mean, it was still milking at the stalls in the
lower level of the barn, but it was a fairly modern affair with the, with bulk milk storage and
whatnot. And, you know, the silver truck coming to empty the bulk tank every so often.
Also, when my grandfather was alive, his farm was a loose hay operation. Some of the equipment there,
I've seen, including a loose hay, hay wane loader. There was an interesting piece of equipment
that I've seen in some amish video. When you say a loose hay enough build, you put it,
it's put straight into the hay shed just as hay. Put it into the wagon and say, yeah, forked on,
forked off, slagged. Put it into the hay mow using a big gas. Well, they call it a hay fork,
but hay fork, so I was going to say, yeah, two prong, awesome. Guess also, one, if you want to go
with the hello. And thankfully, we only did that a few times. We did it a few times when,
when I was really, really young, can remember, we were even doing it with a, a nasson cart at one
stage. And then I remember 20 diesel been used to bring it in that we borrowed from somebody.
Yeah, well, it being done with an old pickup truck at one time. And I remember somebody got the
bright idea to try to train an ox that they were at on the property for some reason. And they,
they put the oak on it and a rope. And somebody had a bit of a sleigh ride on the wet hay,
on the wet grass rather. When the ox decided it didn't like having this thing around its neck.
I was not trained to it. I don't think they started young enough to really break it in.
That's going to be a problem. There's a place, an open-air museum that we go to. They actually have
B&Bs, modern B&Bs disguised as old B&Bs, but it's kind of nice. And they have, they're training
to oxen from like, from calves, they'll will. So, and the guy is documenting us on Facebook as
well. See if I can, I can find it. Well, one of the interesting things up in Maine near, near where I
used to go is that they actually had some Scottish cattle, the long furred one. Oh, my grandfather's
was converted to Black Angus after they stopped derying.
Tracking on this link? Well, back along when I was a kid, I saw somebody with a horse and a
ground-driven sickle bar more. Round here, they use them for long hours.
Sickle bar more? What's that? The big, long one that folds down with the thing at the end?
Yeah, yeah, basically behaves like a huge hedge trimmer.
Yeah, I've changed blades and those things. Regular.
Rivets, take out the rivets, try and drill the rivets out, put the rivets back in, didn't have a
rivet. Talk to do it with a nail. Oh my god, yes. Well, some of those stuff that farmers do,
remember as a kid seeing a cousin who was famous for building these tractors out of
basically junk, he was drilling through Angle iron with a large egg-beater drill.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, his house was up on the hill and I don't believe that they had electricity
to it or at least they didn't have any access to the yard. He was one of those guys who everybody
sort of teased him about picking the dump, but when they needed a random part, they would
be like, oh, you know, farmers, you'll never try. We'll get stuff done in an amazing way.
There they are. Oh my god, they've grown. I'm looking at the bollocks, they're
oxen. They're on Facebook page, but I can't find it. Well, I've got to step away for a moment.
I'll be right back. Don't go. Don't leave me now, now, now. No, go. It's fine.
Isaac and James, that's it. Isaac and James, there we are. Okay, yes, they've got their own
websites or their own Facebook page. The lens that I go to, Humkey, to fill out your show notes.
I hope you appreciate this. I do indeed. All I got from that entire conversation was
two bollocks that were in the archon farming. That's how I got into IT. Anything is better than
farming. That was my personal view on the matter. That seems about right. Slavery, you know,
I'm a doming to degrade enslaved person, sir, but really you begin to get an understanding of
what it is like to be put into forced labor. Personally, I barely even like working in the yard.
Yeah, mowing is about my extent of what I like to do and my wife will take care of the garden
and stuff and she'll go out there and pull some weeds and go bless her because I hate it. I don't like
doing it at all. My wife loves gardening, but yeah, it's just farming. You need to be constantly,
constantly on the ball, constantly watching constantly every day, even though you're not doing a lot,
you need to be constantly on your guard. Yeah, as soon as you're if you're sick or anything,
the sense that animals try and take advantage of the animals, and then as far as everything
else is concerned, we should be so glad that we're living in the economies that we are that
you can go down to the store and just buy stuff. I'm going to grow your crap on them if there's
bad weather and you're screwed. Yep, I'll know. Yeah, enough about that. Yes. So when are you doing
your amateur radio exam? Never. Come on. Well, my thing is, I don't know who I'm going to talk to.
Yeah, it's not about talking to anybody. I've got my ticket now and I've not even pressed,
I don't own a radio while I do, but it's one of those both own things that have since been deemed
illegal. I've never talked to anybody to be honest of no interest in talking to anybody.
Don't see the point because you know, you can go on mumble here and talk to people all over the
world. What a juicy point in though is that from a hacking point of view, it was a huge big gap
in my in my knowledge that has been filled in. How does Wi-Fi work? How does that click on, click on,
work? How does your Bluetooth work? How's your headphones? If you if something's acting up,
is it is it the signal or is it something in your headphones? See what I mean? Yeah, and for me,
there's a lot of things like that. I mean, I need to sit down and go through a lot of
electrical types of and then soldering him and yeah, radio, the whole radio frequencies and waves
is very interesting as well. And the thing about it is, is that it's a standardized course more
or less around the world. I mean, what the horrific thing that we're doing on HPR, just did you
know about that? What, that the course is standardized? Yeah, there's on HPR, I'm doing a course.
So is this within Europe, does this harmonize European amateur radio exam thing? And
they final, they probably the US, what's this? It's the top level. So as an amateur, a full license
basically, that's called a full license. So it means that if I get a full license here in the Netherlands,
I could go to England and use my cold sound there for three months with a with a slash UK in front
of it or whatever. Cool. And they can operate here. But if you move between countries, then you can
just apply for a license and they recognize your harrick certificate. So each of the individual
countries have got a certificate and then if that's recognized by the harrick thing, then you can
just get a harrick certificate and then hand it to the other ones and then you can get a cold sign
over there as well. So I've ended up now with a UK cold sign and a Dutch cold sign and I could
basically because that's just the way I work out. But the US also signs up first. So if the US,
you can also study first. So the idea of the harrick exam is and my I'm interested on HQR is that
if you do it, then you're more or less covered for the past, whatever it is, exam that's going to be
in your local area. Yes, there are going to be things that you're going to need to know in your
local area that don't apply in somewhere else. So for example, in Ireland, inland waterways are
considered to be maritime operation. Whereas in the UK, inland waterways are considered to be just
mobile operations, you know, small social things like that and you will get examined on that. But
that's, you know, read the thing if you read the license conditions a few times and you should be
okay. But for all the other stuff what it does is if you've got an amateur radio ticket, it means
that the basis everybody has a basis level and electronics, a basis level in understanding a lot
of things like safety, like radio propagation, how to build a radio, how to house stuff works.
And that's quite high actually. It's interestingly high. You know, you wouldn't, you wouldn't be
shocked to describe somebody, you know, how an oscilloscope works or something like that because
you should have come across it in your exam. So it gives you a nice good foundation on various
different subjects, not all of which is max based. Quite a lot of it is just health and safety and
stuff. So it gives you a really good understanding of bits and pieces. It fills up an awful lot of
gaps for me that I had in my education. Cool. Yeah. Oh, I mean, back to the horrific thing. So they've
published a syllabus of stuff that you're supposed to know in order to, if you're doing an exam,
if you're a country ex, so I create a new country and I sign up for the hierarchy exam,
then it needs to cover all these things in order to be recognized and vice versa. So why not?
So then I'm using that as like a request for shows, that whole thing like resistors, what's a
resistor? It's this health and safety, how to put a ladder against a wall, that sort of stuff. So
all these topics for shows, it's an open series, anybody can help out. And that will be on the website
with all the various different topics. And then right beside that, we can have a link to all the
shows. So if you're studying for your exam, don't know about something, you can click in us and then
you'll get it. Very cool. Yes. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah, my dad always wanted to be a ham, but never
dropped the hammer. So in a weird way, me sorting out my buzzers here on the desk is related to that.
I need to go upstairs a to get coffee and be to check and see how my daughter is going to wait
for a few days, how she's getting back into this. All right. There's a fella I could chat with
until Valentine's Day at least. Yep. So we done anything with your pies? Not a heck of a lot. I
was more or less tunneling in into a couple of the worst cluttered rooms, saving the pie stuff
for later. And I may order a high quality drive to go with the desktop drive for my pie server.
Cool. Now, was your plans for the pie 400 to be like your client? Uh, pie 400 is going to be,
yes, Swiss Army knife. That's why it may run Android sometime. Have you checked out any of those
the Android things to try to get to do work? I'm told that under play on Linux, the
Windows client will run. Did you ever download that version of McCool Linux that had
had the ability to install Android APKs? I have not, but some stuff has just been slipping,
you know, Oh, I got you slipping under under everything, especially lately. Yeah, I need to,
my, I got a pie 4 or 4 gigabyte that I had that I was actually running a while ago as a way to
play video games on upstairs in the living room. And shortly after I got the thing set up,
I was able to, they called Steve Link. So I was able to play Steve games where the game originated
down here on one of the laptops and it would stream it up to the living room.
Um, um, shortly after I got it all set up, um, my time to be able to play games just got really
short. I don't know why, whatever reason, just, I had less time to, uh, the play games. So it
just set up there. And now I'm trying to figure out what to use the pie 4 for some not really
using it for that anymore. And now I got a nice streaming server for HBR.
No, well, that, that, one of my options was to, uh, try to get die a pie on there and then put,
and then use it as, uh, like a small desktop and put mumble on it and then, uh, use die a pie to
install. Cause, uh, die a pie will install, um, ice cast and dark ice. The problem is, uh,
I have dark guys set up on the other regular Raspberry Pi and I would have to get something
to the dark guys to get to, uh, to it. So I was like, all right, I'll just use the pie 4,
set up a, uh, small desktop on it, install mumble, uh, install, uh, the dark ice mumble and, uh,
ice cast and I'll have it all on the, uh, on the Raspberry Pi 4 and do that. And, um, I kept
then downloading an image from, uh, die a pie for the Raspberry Pi 4 and there was, I, I would have, uh,
used Etchered to put it on the SD card and I kept on getting an error. I had some error because
it would do, it would do the installation and then with that, Etchered does the installation and
then it does a, uh, uh, like a quality check on it. When I did the quality check it, this, uh,
kept on giving me an error and everything that came from die a pie kept on, uh, throwing up an error.
I don't know what the issue was with that, but, um, so I wasn't able to put it under there,
but I had a laptop which I had initially, uh, I had thrown a version of, uh,
Majaro KDE onto that I, the idea was to try to get it set up as the, the streaming server, but,
didn't and then it went back to being. So now I have, uh, Majaro KDE with, uh, mumble ice cast
but on, and it's working. Too, pretty good. But, uh, don't forget Raspberry Pi Imager.
Yes. I usually use Etchered or DD. Just saying that Raspberry Pi Imager will, will do most of
the stuff that Etchered will. Yeah, Etchered is basically just like a front end for DD.
And after 72, it says his next task was recording vinyl to, uh, Pi4.
There's supposed to be some good, uh, I mean, high quality tax available for the pie. So, uh,
if you want to go to Hatroot, you can, you can get some pretty good stuff.
Well, I went with the, uh, from a Pi4, I went with the, uh, fanless case where so it's the, uh,
all metal case so I didn't have to deal with a fan. So, uh, the hats would be hard to get on.
At least in its current form. The brand new Archers 72 is coming out with an episode soon about his,
uh, recording vinyl to a Pi4. Okay, how's that going, Michelle?
Well, I've got a bunch of vinyl here, but I'd never bought a turntable to take it off. Also,
some of my vinyl is, uh, is pretty beat up. Ripped a bunch of my DVDs a while back and I put it on my,
hard drive that I use for network storage and to be honest, I just don't listen to music as much as I
use to. Big bucks of vinyl from my, my father passed away, so I've all his, uh,
ECR cassettes and audio cassettes to digitize in the new year. That's on my list.
I think my house was purged of cassettes and VHS a while back.
Yeah, that's so mine and I got rid of all my kits to rebuild it again.
Well, I've got a couple of very good cassette player recorders, uh, these are components.
May, may have to see if I can get, uh, bring them into town and see if I can get any money for,
it's really press, fall save on the show notes. My, um, sister loves,
due over shortly to take my daughter away for the weekend, so I will be disappearing at that point.
Just a fly. All right. Sure, I got to get going in a few minutes.
Anyway, it's the kids are up and the kids are up and they're getting restless.
So get a fix a breakfast, get some more coffee in me. Yep. Coffee, coffee is ten.
Yeah, odd question. Do you guys, do you listen to the broadcast?
Yes, but I'm way behind. Okay, put it way behind. What do you have,
do you have any thoughts about the direction that the podcast is going?
Well, I'll get a whole lot of feedback. Like nobody really emails us anything,
so I'm just kind of throwing it out there. Anybody who may be listening. Yep.
I'll put that in the show notes. I'm not sure you do a HDR episode in that one,
because that's a good way to ask for feedback. Well, I see, ask for feedback and drone show.
We'll be a good way to get feedback.
Now that I mentioned, although that said, as I'm so far behind, I won't, probably won't hear
until I'm back working again. I lost so much podcast listening time due to my commute.
Amazing how not having to travel three hours a day,
cuts down your podcast listening experience. Yeah. Yeah. My commute hasn't changed,
but it's all of a sudden I just started to go back to some audio books and that kind of killed
like the whole month of December. Yeah, and there's a lot more people podcasting now.
See if I'm becoming your thing. I keep my podcast list is still pretty low,
personally. Yeah. It's pretty much, uh, uh, you random tilts,
meant cast, HBR, um, pond out stuff when, um,
broken podcast. I was just the, since, since we've been using Jitsi Live, I feel like some of
the conversation has been turning into discussing talking about what we see on Jitsi.
Yeah. Oh, you're in spoilers. No spoilers.
Well, we don't, we don't put out a video stream, but, uh, we're usually on Jitsi,
because, um, many set up a, uh, uh, Jitsi server. So,
we're all connected through Jitsi. We have it apart at the, uh, we do during the, the pre-show,
which then again gets lumped onto the end, uh, tilt style, uh, where we do, um, we pick a movie,
and we all watch the movie, because we all, we, every show we spend like a good time before
the show talking about, uh, different movies and shows that we've been watching recently. So,
Danny, come up with the idea of why don't we just create a giant list of tech-related movies,
and we pick a movie, uh, randomly pick a movie from the list, and we all watch it. And then the
next week, uh, during the pre-show, we talk about the, uh, the movie. Um, so we've started doing that.
And like I said, we, we've introduced Jitsi, so there's a lot of conversation. You know, we,
we can see a lot of each other, and I'm not sure how that affects the podcast itself. So, uh,
if you ever get around to it, I don't welcome any of you back.
Put, um, put that into the show notes. I need to, my guests have arrived, so I need to nip up.
So, I'll be quiet for a while. Talk to you later. I'll talk to you later. Uh, yeah. I gotta pop out and, uh,
I gotta get the kids from breakfast. I'll be right back.
I'll hold down the fort. Thank you, sir.
I'll pie in coffee. Breakfast the champions.
Just setting up the show notes on my machines.
You had trouble finding it? Not really. Once I got the HBR site.
And Happy New Year to Fiji, small regions of Russia, and set in more.
Hello, Tony. Hello, Ken. How are you? Can you hear me?
Uh, I don't know if Ken is here. I can hear you.
Oh, sorry. I thought you was Ken. Is that honky?
No, this is net minor. Oh, net minor. Hi, hi, net minor.
You can hear me. Okay, though. Yes. Now, ask where you're calling from. You have a lovely accent.
Uh, I'm from Blackpool in the UK. It's, uh, Tony, Tony H from the, uh, well,
ex-Minkast host and, uh, distrahoppers digest. I don't know whether you listen to any of those
shows. I'm really behind on my podcast, I must say.
Yeah, I just thought of Bobbina. Remember that it, uh, that it was on. I thought of Bobbina
and see what was happening. You're, you're up early because it's, uh, what is it? About
half a seven year time. Yep. Uh, um, did you say Blackpool? Blackpool in the UK on the west coast
of the UK, yeah. Um, I heard of it and say, uh, vacation, doesn't it? It is, yeah, it's, um,
yeah, it's been a vacation, uh, place for, uh, over a hundred years. It goes back to Victorian times.
Well, I'm south of Boston and there's lots of places like that, um,
including a place called Van Tasket where they used to have a roller coaster and carnival type set up.
Oh, yeah, we've got a lot here in Blackpool. Well, I think that's what reminded me of this,
of this area of Blackpool and some of your other coastal areas. Yeah. You're clicking a bit to
net minor. Don't know where, uh, where the, are you on push to talk? Yeah, I'm on push to talk, uh,
it's a key combination. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was just clipping. That was all. Okay. I just have to press
a little earlier and leave it a little longer, I guess. Yeah. So what's happening over there today?
Anything? Pretty quiet. No, no, so far to speak up. Uh, we've not had any of that yet.
In fact, it's very mild at the moment over here. Hi, everybody.
Russian's about to go away and she wants to wish everybody. Ah, hello. Happy year. Happy new year.
See you later, darling. We're back in the middle. All right. Cheers, guys.
As I've said before, there is a gentleman I could speak from now to Valentines.
He's a nice guy, Ken.
And I guess he has a lovely daughter. No, I don't. I've never, I've never met Ken,
never met his family or don't recall me in him anyway.
Well, I assume that a gentleman's daughter is lovely in that way.
Also, being on the other side of the pond is a safe distance, even for the most jealous
papa. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. So what are your plans for the day?
Well, I thought I'd bob in here for a little while. I've got a new PC that I got just before
Christmas. I'm going to do a bit more exploring with that and do a bit of modelling.
I restored diecast model cars, so I'll probably do a little bit of that later.
Well, that sounds like a bit of work. Some of them are pretty detailed.
Yeah, I tend to go for the smaller ones, the matchbox, the 164 scale.
I, I have got a few dinky and corkies that I'm going to have a go at them as well, but so far,
I've mainly done the smaller ones. Well, still, I had a bunch of matchbox as a kid and
restoring them and detailing them. That's fine work.
Yeah, I don't, I don't do an awful lot of detailing. I tend to go more with the way the factory
used to produce them. So if they didn't have a lot of detail on them in the first place, which
most of them didn't, I don't tend to put an awful lot of detail on them. I did a short
short series for HPR about it a while back. So what kind of work do you do on them?
Pull them apart, strip the paint off the metal parts, polish up, if they've got wind screens,
the plastic wind screens, if they're scratched and stuff, polish them up, clean all the plastics,
clean the wheels and the axles, and then reassemble them.
Like a sauer. Can't remember when it was. Let me have a look. It's a while ago.
Let's go to HPR. Welcome, Dave. Hello, everybody. Hi, Dave.
Thought it'd seen you getting there popping. I'll be just listening to the discussion.
You're hunting your episodes on HPR. Yeah, I'm just looking for where they've got to.
I can't remember whether it was last year or the year before.
You know, I can't remember either. Strange how these these years merge.
No, it was last year. It was last year. Yeah, episodes 3073 to, yeah, 3073 was the start of it.
And then 3088, 3098, 3109, 3124 and 3136.
Cool. You can. I know I was a naughty boy this year. I haven't done it in the episode.
It's been a good, it's been a fun year. I mean, everybody's been messed up in various ways, I think.
Yeah, I just got sidetracked with other podcasts and stuff. We've been cast and distra hoppers.
Oh, right. That's right. You said that. Have I heard your show yet? There's a show in the fight.
We did. Yeah, we did. Yeah, I've got a, I've got a show coming up on the 30th.
Is it fourth of January? Oh, I mentioned it in that.
See, I process your notes and I think you wrote everything in your notes that you're probably
going to say or a lot of it. Although I actually read that for a shame. I actually wrote
the notes after I recorded the show. Oh, no, that's good. That's good. Yeah.
The notes are a little bit more verbose than the actual show.
Yeah, I started on HBO by writing myself scripts and now I listen back to it and it was dreadful.
You know, you can tell this guy's reading it, you know, it's just be more natural.
I mean, some people can read naturally, of course, but I can't.
When I'm doing things like the matchbox ones, I do do a script for that because
obviously you're telling people how to do things. Yes, I now write a sort of bullet list of the
the main points and then just to work around those, you know, with a bit of picture.
Yeah, that's good. And you know, I used to work in a university where sometimes I had to give
presentations and the classic way was to make a slide deck that you then put up and there were
bullet points on it. And I found that I could just go through the bullet points and remember what
I was thinking when I wrote a bullet list and then say, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah about
whatever it was, you know, which seemed more interesting than just reading some notes anyway.
Well, in the upcoming show, I briefly mentioned my new computer, but I've managed to,
yeah, I got, I got a very, very first Linux computer, didn't have to pay the Windows tax.
That's wonderful. Yeah, absolutely. Not that normally pay it anyway, because normally most of my
kids sitting down, so it's already been paid by somewhere. But this is the first. I only want that
that'll twice, I think, once buying a triple EPC, I said to the people selling it to me that I wanted
the Windows discount. And that was when they would be installed with Linux on it. So they said,
well, there's no Windows tax anyway. So there you go. That was very early days to triple EPC, I think.
But yeah, I got the Acer. The other one was I won, I don't know if you were there, one
laptop, but I'll count. And that was, yeah, that was that was that was
that was going to buy me PC from entry where originally, but the one I wanted was out of stock.
So someone suggested going over and look at Juneau. Right. And I've got one of these little
micro PCs. Yeah, yeah, I saw you notes like I know I'm on my head of the game as far as this
so you bought over to Juneau another lot. I certainly did. Yeah, it's quite tempting. I have to say
so yeah, good point. So thank you very much. Yeah, but yeah, no, it's a cracking machine.
Didn't quite spec it out to the top spec because it would probably cost me another 1500 quid, but
but you know, one terabyte NVMe and 32 giga rams, probably ample for I use that.
That is pretty impressive. Yeah, yeah, it should be good. Yeah, it's quite a beast of the
machine from what I saw from your notes there. Yeah, yeah, they seem quite tempting. I have to say,
my I got to build your own machine I did in 2013 and I seven, but I sevens in lose days are a lot
more weeded than anything available these days. So yeah, Tom, well, I've gone from a generation
three. I said, so back nine years old, yeah, somewhat like that, to this and I tell you what,
it flies. Yeah, you think you're already on some decent kit, you think, and then suddenly you
walk great to the least. Yeah, it's so easy to slip behind, isn't it? And not realizing what
you're missing. So yeah, good, good for you. Yeah, but it's going to make audio editing for the
distra hoppers really easy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's that's quite an important factor, isn't it? Yeah,
it's so I used to think, well, I won't use the power in these things, but I try to use my
enterware laptop for a GTC meeting. We have a sort of thing called podcraw that I used to go to
physically where you go and meet up with other podcasts and people interested. We used to go to
Glasgow for that, but now we're doing virtual ones over GTC and by the time, yeah, yeah, you should
come along. It's there was one 18th of December, I think there's going to be another one in the
new year. Sometimes I'm not sure when exactly, but yeah, they're quite good things just to get
together and chat and whatever. But my i3 entryware looked at 12 people on this GTC called No Way,
Jim. It just wouldn't do it. No, it just wouldn't. It's a and I thought it was bandwidth or
something, but I've just had fiber installed here. So I should get, you know, on a good day,
I get a gig a bit. Wow. Yeah. Who you with for you? There's a company called City Fiber,
are they in your part of the world? I think they may be coming here, but they're not here yet.
They're going all over the country. I know they're in place like Newcastle or possibly Manchester,
I'm not sure, but yeah, Edinburgh was quite high on the list, so they were here digging trenches
a few. If it's not risen down, which do you have to pay for that? It's about 32 pounds a month.
What? For gig a bit. No, no, no, that doesn't give you gig a bit that I've went with the 300
mega bits deal. Right. But if it does, there's no contention, you can often check it and you're
getting a hundred, you know, you're getting the gig a bit. And you get the same speed up and down
a lot of the time, which is so. Wow. When you're into podcasting, you know, the days of whatever it
was on ADSL, like one and a half mega bits. Well, I get 10 up. I get 10 up. And when I used to
record Mintcast, when I was uploading the audio to drive, it could take up to 10 minutes.
But with that kind of speed, if you've got 300 up, it'd be there in a flash. Absolutely, absolutely.
I haven't actually done a show since I got it in. So I've got to do something quick so I can see
how fast it would, that's true, isn't it? Yeah. And you can, that would, that would trigger
Ken. Absolutely. Oh, he really comes doing a show. You will appear. Say that word set three times
looking in a mirror and you'll be, you'll be finished. Yeah. So yeah, so I'm looking forward to
trying high speed uploads. So yeah, so it's really good. I've got wireless six with it as well.
I've got a nice router. So the wireless in the house is now amazing compared to what it was on
crappy old, you know, ordinary high street style routers and stuff. So yeah, makes a big difference.
So what used to happen was my kids would arrive with multiple phones, laptops and iPads and stuff.
And then all of a sudden, wireless would go out because I think, you know, just the number of
connections was, was, was, was draining the, the TP link or whatever it was to, to its utmost,
which I do find surprising, but it seems to be the case. But this one, I've got the wireless six
ones that they reckon, you know, you're looking at 50 connections or something like that, you should
be able to get through it. Don't know the precise number, but certainly talk about quite a lot.
Arch is, Arch is left. It's, it's mobile inside. Yeah, yeah, the bobs in and out all the time.
So how you can, you can, I'm, I'm done, okay, yeah, yeah. You haven't been able to do it.
We've got any new restrictions there, because I know, yes, you're in lockdown.
You're in lockdown. Yeah, we're in lockdown for two weeks. We're already in lockdown for two weeks.
Oh, dear. Oh, I just wanted to bring this up, something that I heard on YouTube.
Our country has decided to reduce the required isolation times and quarantines for COVID,
if you're not symptomatic. Yeah, I think you've still got to wear a mask after the five days,
so yeah. So wearing a mask is a, is a fairly standard thing for a lot of stuff, a lot of
plate, a lot of businesses are requiring it. Yeah. And one of the things that worries me is our
public transportation requires it. And if your mask fails, you could be stranded. Here they,
public transport will give you a mask if you don't have one. Yeah, well, I do. I think my daughter
works as a training conductor. Training conductor, you see what I did there, Dave? I'm hilarious.
And they give up masks or they find you. They charge you, they charge you in Blackpool,
if you buy one on the tram, it costs you a quid. Yeah, that's probably normal.
Should do that. I think the people are up against us, we can find you or we can give you one.
Yeah. I walk around with about three or four of them, a pocket, actually, just.
Yeah, I do. In a plastic bag to keep them fairly, fairly good. Yeah, like a pack of
ten just so many in such a cause, because I always forget to bring them. Yeah, me too.
Got some in my car and everywhere, it's just, you know, there's always a mask nearby.
I was reading a Guardian article today saying that the general ones that most people wear aren't
that effective for preventing the virus though, and the ones we should be using the government
and not advising us to use when they should be. Yeah, they want to maintain supplies for your
sort of kind of get that. Yeah, I can understand that, but you can buy them.
And apparently, these plenty of capacity now, because they've ramped up with
I went on eBay today and I was having a look at these masks and you can buy them for a bet.
They are more expensive than the little floppy ones, but you can buy them for a bet, quid each.
They're mandatory now in Austria. The extra powerful, yeah. Yeah, the nine, five, nine or nine, five, four.
Yeah. Yeah. So as I said, he'd love them. To be honest, I've had enough of COVID
that it may thick off as far as I'm concerned.
Now that's so fast.
Here about the mayors, the regional good ones are saying, look dudes, we need a better plan.
We need to shorten the summer holidays and increase the Christmas holidays so that there's
going to be lockdown and winter and then in summer, it's open. So that's what we got to do.
Not sure. I'm particularly happy with that, but there you go. It is.
Living with lockdown, I believe they're common with them.
Yeah, you can work at home, though, can't you?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Although they had, there was a period where they were requiring us to come in
three days a week. Not sure how I felt about that. I was able to do a lot more podcasts.
I also got a three hour commute for the day. So yeah, that's a lot more time.
Wow. So could you live, don't you live in Amsterdam?
New, new, new, I live, I live outside of between Amsterdam and Utrecht.
Oh, right. Okay. If you'd all live between Amsterdam, Utrecht, and Amos Fort, that's kind of,
where a hill for some, it was marked on the dials of the old radio stations, close to the
rooms. Yeah, no, I noticed that on the map when I looked.
Yeah, yeah. I don't know if you've seen that on the old radio station thing on the old radio.
And the way that's why I'm here, because the first job I got was with the satellite broadcaster
who had their station 12 satellite links, and they were all based here because of the media
park. And the radio is based here because it's, and I'm doing massive air quotes here, high
elevation in the Netherlands, about 104 above sea level. No, not even that. It's like above sea
level. But it's central. So that's where the broadcast a lot of the media from. And then
there was a microwave tower system for emergency communications if ever a nuclear bomb hit.
And then one of those towers was where I worked for two or three years.
Right. Before switching to work in Amos Fort. So, you know, it was like trying to say the highest
point in Kansas. Yeah, very much. Yes, Kansas does have a feel similar, except when I went to
Kansas, Kansas. Kansas was the first place I went to visit in the state. Actually, it was a eye
opener in many ways. I've just realized a who could show today is the three and a half thousand
show. No, it's 3,700 sure. Yeah, do we? No, do we have someone to greet?
Yes, even. Sorry, because I can't add. Do we have someone to greet at the hour?
We do. Yes. And it's Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra, and Sevenmore. Welcome, Australia.
Not all of Australia? Good bit from Australia. And in a half an hour, more people are going.
No? Yeah, half an hour. Why? Why would they do that?
Best wish you the speeder 64. Indeed, I haven't heard from him in a while.
And by the way, give my best to your lovely family.
I'm presuming that's for everybody, not just me. Well, since you had the young lady,
so I figured that that would put you ahead of the game. Yeah, she's going off to her
to her aunt today. And so without the other two on, Patrick will more or less be hijacking this
in the night when everybody's asleep, so that's fine. Yeah, I'm just looking at a time,
time again. Yes, I will. And Sydney's just celebrating. And just throw this on speakers. Give me a
second. Somebody say something. Hi, hello. Hi. Hi. Hi. She requested me to Sydney watch them.
I thought that would be really funny.
Oh, Jan, they told me. And who's the last? And that's my tech friend. So
yeah, Posh Krovy on the whole night pretty much. Yeah, yeah. He's been looking forward to it all year.
And I've got mumble as well, so I can annoy him. The whole night stuff.
We need more of the diss staff, so you need more of us? Can we get over? We need more of the diss staff
side on the podcasting platforms. So you've we've recorded a show together, haven't we?
I still need to. Where is that show? Oh, yeah. What was that to promise me that you would listen to us in
the holidays? Make sure it was okay. Okay. Excellent. Thanks for reminding me about that. Yeah,
it's a good show actually. Just tell people what it is. It's about stations and what you can find
on them in the Netherlands. The tech around a station and how it works. And it's the how it works
part that we're a little bit nervous about because we don't want to be releasing any information
that wouldn't be public. I'm not using my future career. I'm jeopardizing my future career. Yes,
that's the words we're looking for. Yeah. Sometimes I forget that Dutch is not your native language.
I'm jeopardizing my future career. Right? Okay. So yes, that's it. I'm no project this evening.
Yeah, I'll be back. So you should be back. You will hear people shouting in the background and
him going, no, stop, stop. It'll be. It has to be you because it'll be a foreign morning.
Patrick, please go to sleep. Okay. I look forward to hearing.
We're doing with the eco pad. It seemed to be much added to it in the past few hours.
No, I was just looking at that actually. Yeah. It's, it's, Chris, otherwise for honky,
we'll have to listen back to everything and make his own notes as he goes. And he's got enough work
to prepare to turn this recording into shows as it is. Are you Zylining? Is Dave Zylining
for everybody else? Or is it just me? No. You're all the overall cop there for me. Did the breakup
for anybody else? It didn't break it for me. No, you're breaking off sort. It's on my side.
This is happening. Okay. Very stuttery. Yes, let me just check and see what the hell's going on.
So we recorded the community news yesterday. And for Ken, my audio went really, really bad. It was
very stuttery yesterday as well. Well, you were wrong. You were, you were in the background listening,
yeah. When I turned off the audio, it's, when it's turned off the recorder, it stopped being a problem.
All right. Oh, yeah. Strange. Hey, Tony Hicken. Hi, Joe. Hi, Joe. Hello, brother. Hey, net. How's it going?
It's going. I hope Miss Short is doing all right. Oh, yeah. She's still asleep.
I'm not surprised. What is it? 7 o'clock? You're, you're in. Yeah. I'm getting ready for work. Work?
Yeah. New easy even. You've got to work. To work Christmas Eve too. And my wife's at work today.
She works in the hospital. I think I had to work. Thanks for having too. I think I'm going to take
the next few holidays off. I was actually off today, but I've already done my work thing.
My son just got a new job in November. And he was shocked to find that he had to work over Christmas Eve
and New Year's Eve and all that stuff. So he's got no holiday allocation because he's, you know,
it's a pro writer thing. So he's working today. What does he do? He's got a job at net West Bank.
He's a AI. He did an MSC in computer science with specializing in AI. So he recruited him to write chat bots.
So one of these horrible things that you think might possibly be a human and then you realise it
definitely isn't. Cool. Yeah, yeah. But that's the future, isn't it? It is, unfortunately. Everybody
else having problems staying connected? No, I haven't dropped out. I've dropped out two times.
Yeah, he dropped out. So I could fix the xylon issue. No, mine mine so far. Fingers crossed. Touch. Wood.
Mine's been pretty stable. Yeah, same here. My internet's stable. It's hardwired DSL. Yeah, I'm on a
wide connection. I'm on a wired connection on this machine. I don't know why it's trying to. The
ping was pretty bad too at 126. Yeah, that's also kicked there by low ping and I'm on the wired fiber
connections. Now mine's not fiber, but it's still, you know, 300 mbps. That's pretty good. I'm on
old fashioned DSL and otherwise known as digital slow link. Hey everyone, can you hear me?
Yeah, hi, hello. I switched to my phone and see if I still have these problems. Okay, Joe. How's
everyone doing? I just got up myself. Well, I've been up for many hours because it's just
just past lunch time. It's 10 past one in the afternoon here in the UK and it's probably 10 past
two. Ken's time. Yeah, I forget as much. I'm like, Joe, I just got up about 10 minutes ago. Yeah.
I got to. It's about 2 p.m. and I was up at seven because of some on-call duty that was
needed to handle this morning, which was not far at all. Oh, dear. That's still better than
3 a.m. phone call. Yeah, the problem was that when I went to sleep yesterday at 1 at 30 a.m., I
realized the problem and I was too tired to do anything about it and I should have. So I feel a
lot guilty now this morning. Oh, dear. But I was up doing some research and so on and figuring
things out and then I went, oh, I need to go to bed now because I'm too tired to think and then
I just watched my look that my email I realized, okay, everything is bad. I can't do anything
now because I'm too tired. So it should not log in as an administrator and try to fix things
because I would screw things up. Just thinking about that, you can see that feeling of dread.
Claudio, hi. Hey, it's pretty fun. Where are you calling from, Claudio? I'm in the sunny city of Miami,
Florida. Cool. I'm in the bus. I wish it was cool. I'm tired of the
I'm in the Boston area. Yeah, I've been actually, I've been off last week and this week. So I
go back to work on Monday. So I work for the school system here. So we get the holidays off
just like the teachers do. So the back at school on Monday, really? Yeah, everybody goes back.
It's a public holiday here in the UK on Monday. Oh, well, that's enough of a reason for me to take
it off. There you go. You're back, Ken. I am. I'm having lots of zillion issues. Oh, dear.
Could it be an overload of the server or is it just connection issues? It could be a meeting.
It could be a meeting. I will check. No, no, no machine. Yeah, because I have a lot of
information as well. I'm pretty sure it's a server because I've already switched devices once
and still having some problems and getting the zylons. Where's the server base, Ken?
Still wouldn't the server. We switched over during the year. Where did you say it was?
Dylan Skyhiven. I don't know where it's based. All right. I was just wondering because like I say,
it's been stable so far for me. Yeah, so far I haven't had any issues. I haven't heard you
guys silenting at all. I'm wondering if it's an overload of the CPU issue, something like that
you can't really handle to send out audio through because some of us have problems, not all of us.
Is those dang internet tubes, I tell you? Oh, I just remembered my first
Unix experience. It was a BSD on a PT 1145. Do you remember which version BSD?
No, I don't know version. It was night TVs and the only mouse in the computer room had whiskers.
MIT system put put together from scrap. I guess the system drive was a
Hasic size 80 megabyte. Yeah, 80 megabyte.
Incidentally, I was playing with some BSD yesterday. I had a drive with FAPSD on it that had been
sitting in my shelf. I had pulled it from another PC about eight months ago and I was said to myself,
well, at some point I'm going to upgrade it to 13 and I said, well, today's the day that was
yesterday and I went ahead and did it. Everything went smoothly, upgraded to 13, upgraded all packages.
Only to find out that the Wi-Fi cars not supported. My only way to connect this through Ethernet.
Apparently, the driver for the AX200 chipset that I have on my Wi-Fi card is not supported and
may not be supported until 14. Incidentally, the OpenBSD project does support it, so I was having
a talk with one of the guys who works on the Intel wireless on Mastodon and he explained why
why the FBSD still doesn't support it yet. It was kind of bonkers the way they're doing it.
He says that it's the way they're doing it is similar to how and this wrapper used to work.
So when he mentioned that, I was like, oh, God, no. I was going to say, oh, I remember the days of
my knees and this wrapper. I was horrible. Yes, it was. I don't know why they're
implementing it that way, but who knows? They're better at this stuff than I am, so maybe it'll work.
I want to set up no man be as steel on something reasonably fast.
I'm going to give it a go in boxes at some stage. Now I've got this new PC. Boxes runs virtual
machines as if they're running on bare metal virtually. I think I'm going to have to check that out.
Well, you know Tony, you should record a short telling us about your new PC.
Yeah, it's in the works. It's in the works. I can't do it until after I've recorded distro hoppers
and talked about it on bare metal. I'd actually like to hear an episode about the BSD
and the experience running it on that PDP from NetMiner. Oh, that was back. That was back 80s.
I was using, I was on the internet, Arpenet at the time, using a primitive form of ethernet
called chaos net. There was a MIT only invention. Yeah, I'm a sucker for all the old stories
from back in the day. So, Ken, what do you think? It sounds like an awesome episode to listen to.
Let me see it. Let me just call up my artificial intelligence here. What do you think?
Yep, sounds like a good show. Well, I have very few memory from that, especially
they did have to remove some of the imagery from the screen savers and login screens, though
it was scanned in images from a gentleman's magazine.
And here, I thought it was because of some sort of burn in. I think it's a different kind of
burn in. Well, even when I went to the AI lab, they were touting their new 8086 video system and
they were showing off an interesting image. Actually, though, the standard image to test
image compression is a certain chunk of a scanned in Playboy image. It's a facial shot.
Interesting. We always use this image of a green frog to check for compression issues when we
compress images back then. Well, I understand that this image is a fairly universal standard
young lady wearing a hat. And again, it's not even a full face shot, but it was a standard that was
available to everyone, trying every new compression back in a days of gifts and all of that.
L-E-N-N-A link will be in Wikipedia. Link from Wikipedia will be in the show.
Actually, it was interesting working with the night TVs, which are basically
Herculee's multi-headed Herculee screens running on a PDP 11.
Kind of flows well with the theme I've had during this break. I've been watching a lot of retro
computing shows on YouTube and I actually was doing some stuff here with my old machines here at
home, trying to get everything set up. So it all fits well. Yeah, well, I've got a couple of
DOS boxes that I hope to get around to once I once the smoke clears with my getting this house
ready for a sewage hook up. Yeah, most of the stuff I have is Apple-based with the exception of
one computer, but it is actually a Mac. It's one of the Mac clones from the mid 90s. It's from
Motorola, the Starmax 4000. And that one I have running BOS Pro Edition 5.0.3. Well, that sounds
interesting. You may also want to keep track of the high-cooled project.
I actually do. I have high-cooled running on an EPC 900. EPC 900A and I did actually record an
HPR episode. So I can you can check that one off. Thank you. I already did before you spoke.
I was clearing my attic recently. There's been a flood up there because
UK houses support the tanks in their attics. And I have up there a deck station.
I'm not sure what model it is, but it's one of the old Bax hardware workstations that you
would keep on your desk or under your desk or whatever. Which I did use at one point. It was
I did development of a VMS software on it. I was allowed to take it home from work and then they
said I don't bother to bring it back. So it's sat there ever since. I had this idea of firing or
trying to fire it. I'll probably be allowed bang when I do, but it could be really quite entertaining
to try. Yeah, yeah. It's got stacks of discs. You know, these huge big discs in that you pile on
your desk. And each one is one gigabyte, I think, which was pretty impressive in those days.
So yeah, this was from the late 80s, maybe something like that. So this is still got a version
of VMS on it. I don't know. I'm sure it would be interesting to anybody who did a show on it,
but I don't know whether it's actually going to work. When I ran it, my electricity billed a massive
in comparison to it. So it's not a thing to be used lately. I definitely will agree with that.
Yeah, I know it's a project I have to get to groups with. It has actually been pulled out from
where it was and it's sort of stacked on the floor with cover over the top of it. And my god, it's
heavy. I had to get my daughter to lift one into the monitor. I lifted the other, my joy,
I'm fairly ancient, so I don't lift things as well as I used to, but it is a ridiculously heavy thing.
Yeah, definitely check it. I'm sure your attic is not as bad as where I had my 2GS stored,
which was in my dad's garage at the time. Yeah. And with the heat and the humidity from Miami,
it's just, I mean, it did okay. The only thing is that I noticed when I lifted the console off
the box it was sitting on, it leaked some fluid. So I think it's from the power supply because I
checked the logic board. Yeah, I checked the logic board and it seems to be fine, but I have it here now
in my apartment. And it's just sitting there. It's in a cool environment. So I haven't really done
much with it. I'm going to, at some point, have to open it up and see exactly what happened.
Yeah, yeah, that sounds like an interesting voyage. Maybe it's repairable.
My back station is still in reasonable order. The attic is enclosed. You don't see the
rafters and stuff. So it's got a floor and it's not a proper dwelling room level, but it's
it shouldn't be too bad. It probably has got loads of dust on it, but I think it's fairly good
in such far as the humidity is concerned, but only ripping it apart or switching it on and
hoping for the best. It's going to tell me that. Yeah, so long as you don't see the magic smoker
good. Yeah. I was worried about it. But the funny thing is that the Star Max actually was in that
same garage and it's done fairly well. So I mean, of course, the Star Max is a newer machine
compared to the 2GS. So I'm sure age also has a lot to do with it. The quality of the components
used at the time. Who knows? But yeah, I got to take a look at that. I don't even want to turn
around. It's just there is a pretty display model right now. Yeah, one of the things about
debt digital equipment corporation was that at that stage in their lives, they made some pretty
robust hardware. It's all very, very solid metal framed stuff and it's why it's heavy of course,
but it seems really built for lots of knocks and bangs and a rough sort of environment. So it
would be fascinating if it could actually be brought back to life. I'm thinking maybe I should
donate it to a computer museum. I think there is one somewhere in Scotland. But yeah,
there's one in England and I know it's a fair way away. Yeah, I mean, if you're not using it much
and I understand because of the power issues, you know, the consumption, that would be something.
Yeah, that would be something good to do. I'd quite like to just see what VMS look like because
it's been so long since I've used a VMS system now. I've been retired over 10 years now and I
did use the VMS before I retired because we had a deck alpha, which was used. It wasn't on
support or anything I used to have to take the boards out of it every softening and blow them
clean of crud. The boards sort of disengage themselves from the back plane from time to time.
But yeah, but I haven't used it for a long time in earnest. It'd be quite nice to
fire it up. Just do a sort of quick summary of what that operating system would offer in comparison
to what you get these days, you know. It was pretty good in all sorts of ways, but compared to
Unix and Linux, it was pretty thin in terms of text manipulation tools and stuff, you know.
And VMS kind of always interested me. I know there's the open VMS and I think just recently
they allowed, once again, to allow people to download it just for educational personal purposes.
Yes, yes. I actually signed up for a maybe a domestic license or something. I can't remember
where you could, yeah, you could download it from HP, you know, own it. I think it's still
supported to some extent. So, see references to people using it in very specific circumstances.
There were a lot of machines out there that were before deckline under. And the alpha range
was pretty good. It was quite, quite innovative hardware, as far as I understand.
Yeah, back in the day, the alphas, I even used, I was one at one.
Yeah, we got two, the place I was working, two quite big ones with a raid array with them.
And yeah, one ran VMS and one ran OSX, the deck Unix thing that was available at that time.
Oh, no, no, it was after old tricks. Old tricks was on the MIPS base machines.
There was another thing which I think was called OSXs that is the term that comes to mind,
but I'm not quite sure what it was called. My memory's failing me to say this.
Yes, X. No, no, it wasn't that. I'm probably confusing it with something else actually.
OSXs is generally Apple stuff.
Yeah, speaking of that, and I know you mentioned the weight of the machine that you have, Dave,
being all metal. Yeah, I kind of have a heavy machine here myself.
One of the old machines is a dual 1.8 gigahertz
PowerMak G5, which I have running an unsupported port of Debian.
So it's only on Sid. That's the only
source tree that they have. So yeah, there's a lot of breakage, but it runs and it works.
Okay, cool. Yeah, yeah, they don't make them likely used to.
I just looked up the Unix on Alphas, and it was called true 64 Unix.
I think I had a different name before, but there was a lot of renaming of stuff,
and that's maybe that was the year or when VMS became open, VMS, which was just
of course open was a cool thing to put in front of stuff. But true 64 Unix was the thing we ran
on our second Alpha. So yeah, we had, this is a university, so we had a lot of people who wanted
to get access to Unix machine and didn't have anything on the desk or whatever, and there was also
quite a lot of people who wanted the VMS service. So yeah, that was why we did that.
Oh, if you really want to go back, I did some work on a TU-58 based PDP 11 system.
What was that? Tell me more.
Cartridge tape used as floppy replacement, block replaceable cartridge tape,
over a 38.4 serial link. It had like an 8085 as the controller, and
it was using RT11. That's going back a bit. We put bad blocks at the end of each channel,
so it wouldn't a file never overwrapped over the end of it. It was a two channel tape,
and they didn't want to have to have the whole thing rewind to get to another jump.
Wow.
It was building a couple of touchstone interfaces for a, this was a company called Perception
Technology, which was producing touchstone voice response systems. You know, the press one
and get this and press two and get that back in the PDP, and then it would have a voice
voice response. There would be canned answers that it would give, and that's what it was on
the user side. On the computer side, we made it look like some random terminal or printer or
something. Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of that sort of things happened in those time.
And I was a student in Manchester, University. The computer unit there was a regional computer
centre funded by government, and so it had lots of resources which were used by Manchester and
other surrounding universities in the north of England. And they did things like they had an
ICL 1900 series machine with a paper tape punch, and they had another machine. I think it was a
cyber, one of the CDC machines, which was regarded as a giant mainframe in those days, and they
wanted to transfer data to it. So they made the paper tape interface talk to, I think, effectively
a paper tape reader on the other end. I never saw physically how they did it, but they were
pretending to write a paper tape on one end and pretending to read a paper tape on the other
end to shift data around. This was like mid-70s, I think. Yeah, well, I've worked with a big
big cyber machine. We were running either glass teletypes or 300-boddeck riders.
Oh, nice. Yeah, the deckriders were nice. They were the ones who did the matrix head, didn't they?
They would do that really neat thing that when you typed something, then the head would just move
to the side so you could see what you just typed in. Right, is that? Also, what was interesting,
two things. We also had ADM-3s, which were glass teletypes, and people learned how to take off
the little panel and set the ADM-3s to 1200-bodde, and we would sometimes steal, this was at UMass Boston,
we would sometimes steal the line printer port as a terminal port through the
terminal multiplexer, so you could get 1200-bodde glass teletypes. Yes, yes, yes,
what people did that sort of thing in those days, that sounds really cool. You should definitely do
do some shows on, there's a write it up or do something because these are gems. Also, there was a
the guide designed the deckrider LA120 or whatever it was. There was an interface port or an
accessory port on there that deck didn't use itself. Well, after deck, this was a 300-bodde basic
printing unit. Well, after he left deck, this guy founded a company that made inner boards that
you'd plug into that accessory port and it would give your deckrider 1200 capability.
Yeah, also, do you know the difference between a deck tape drive and an IBM 360 tape drive?
I've worked with deck tape drives quite a lot, but I've never come across an IBM, so I don't know
the answer to that. Well, we had in building 20, they had the original PDP 11, I mean, PDP 10
from the AI lab and it came with a bunch of true IBM tape drives. You drop a digital tape drive
off the back of a truck and you sweep it up. You drop an IBM tape drive off the back of a truck
and you patch the bottle it just created. I believe it, I believe it. Yes, if someone was shooting at me,
I would want to open the back of an IBM tape drive and hide. Yeah, yeah. I missed tape drives,
actually. I used to quite enjoy, I was the, I was a systems manager at the last job, so I got
to play with the tape decks because we had permanently hired operators to do some of that stuff,
but occasionally they were busy, so I would load tapes on the tape drives and stuff for them,
and the way that they worked is on a wax, the way that they handled tape always amazed me,
because you basically just wound the tape and dropped the end of it into sort of throat of the
mechanism, and then it did the rest because it sort of blew the tape and then spooled it,
then pulled it through the track and then brought it back around to the uptake spool and then wound
it around that as well by blowing air in interesting ways and off it went. Self-threading tape drives
are gift from heaven. Yep, the opposite of hell, a few hell. Well, when you get, when you get,
when the self-threading tape drives that work are gift from heaven. I have seen them not work,
yes, yes, where they slurp, but you hear the vacuum starting up, slurps the end of the tape,
then it ties it in the most wonderful knot, and that's you, if you've now got to go and cut that
tape back and pull the rest of it. One of the interesting books, books that I have around here
was a travel log done by somebody around 1991. He was hired by the ISO to convert
their standards to PDF format. Evidently, they were making their money by printing out huge numbers
of standards books that they would store in the basement and then they would sell about five copies
and then they would print next year's copies, which was quite lucrative for whoever the printer was.
They didn't really care because it was European Union or whatever stuff and they were taking
their money from the UN. Interesting thing, he posted these standards which should have been
something that the ISO was supposed to put worldwide on a sun server in Colorado and for a while
they were available by FTP or what have you on this sun server while he was going around the
world, but he went around the world about a year and the ISO people told him to shut down the
server because the wrong sort of people were getting the information, people in India and whatnot.
They were getting it for free instead of paying through the notes. Also, at this time, probably
the last time you could actually see where the different links of the internet went. So when he
went from California to Hawaii, he would go to the university where different links were tied in
and he went to Japan and he went to Singapore and Hong Kong. Hong Kong had some serious betting
power which is a bunch of PDP 11s and Vaxes because horse racing was very serious. It was like
the lottery today. Also, in some of those countries, they had DSL, not but they had what was it?
IDSN, sort of DSL, but the predecessor. Pay phones, you could just plug in. In Singapore,
they weren't charging because they had so much bandwidth that they had, they weren't really charging
for long distance or anything. You could go to somebody's place, grab the phone and just make
phone calls. He was talking about, you know, then there was the guy at Japan that was doing their
their networking and stuff and various countries were, were hooking up from anywhere from either
Teletip, bought out Teletip lines to occasional dial up to floppy net, all sorts of stuff.
A lot of the UCP protocols were really useful in places where the connections were really shitty.
Also, in Europe, there was a lot of stuff which had to use the ISO standard, it's X25
and company. And what everybody was doing was putting TCPIP in X25 packets and shipping
and using the TCPIP stack and just tunneling it through the X25 network that they had to use
for government reasons. This is before TCPIP just flooded the world. Yep, yep. Well, I was working
in universities in the UK from, I guess, the late 70s onwards. And during that the early time,
there was an inter-universities network which was based on the protocols on top of X25.
All the universities had come up with their own protocols for a file transfer and job transfer
interestingly and, you know, a mail, etc, etc. All the addresses were backwards compared to what we
do nowadays. And there were a few gateways, there was a gateway at King's College in London, I think,
where you could send it an email using the university's email protocol and request something
of the internet, of the arpanet, I guess it was. And then you'd get it back as a series of emails
with chunks in that you could glue that together again. So, yeah, but we, there was, they came
a time, I don't remember when it was, it must have been sort of mid 80s or something where
the whole of the academic community switched from these so-called colored protocols to the,
to TCPIP, etc., to the internet protocols. So, that was quite an interesting transition,
because we were very green as far as doing that sort of stuff we didn't understand how vulnerable
SMTP mail was going to be when we put it out there to the world, etc., etc. As many stories, I think.
Well, I've got books from the start of the arpanet. I mean, in my area was where, where the original
imps the interface message processors, what we would call a router today, but the way that they
worked is that you would have BrandX computer, somebody would make an interface to that, they would
talk to a Honeywell mini computer, and Honeywell mini computer would talk to the arpanet over
56k-bod synchronous line. That's actually quite similar to the way that the
University's network screw up. They started off as local ones, between just a few universities
in an area, and then spread out to the country where it became called Janet J-A-N-E-T,
Joint Academic Network, it became. But in the extra 25 days, every site that was connected to it had
an interface processor, and the way you just mentioned it, we call them NIPs NIP network interface
processors, and they were little standalone mini computers of their own, and then all of the
machines on site connected to it. Using, I think, HDLC, so I'm not sure we had, not sure how far
the X25 went, certainly HDLC was under X25, but anyway, I don't remember the details of it,
but yeah, and then you would have, as you say, different drivers, or hope you like to put it
per vendor. So we had ICL kit in one place, I worked, and then there was a boroughs machine that
had access to it, and then I worked with Vax, and I would VMS systems, which also had the
necessary to connect to this stuff, and yeah, that was the way we worked as well, and the interconnection
between the NIPs was dualized the N, I think, I think we have a cent and receive ISDN connection,
which we've provided, that this is in the days when the UK ran its university computing through
a Cranco Quays Eye Autonomous Government. Well, I forget what it stands for, but basically it's a subsection
of government that was looking after money for computing in universities, so that meant that you
got an alloc, you put forward a bid for an allocation, and you got N-million to buy whatever it is
you needed, and they wanted us to stand at those on specific equipment, etc., etc., then that
will win the window and it became a little more complicated. Well, the interesting thing after
the Arpanet got up is that somebody turned these little mini computers from just interfacing to
a mainframe or a larger computer or whatever, they turned them into terminal concentrators.
They were called the terminal interface processor, TIP, and some of the universities
ended up finding it cheaper to rent time through the Arpanet than to have their own private computer
centers. I think you could call it almost an early version of the cloud computing.
Yeah, that's quite interesting. Also, you need to go to Ann and Lynn Wheeler's site,
jarlick.com and read some of their postings. These people were doing virtual machines from
the 360 days, and these were experts that actually did shit, and the networking in IBM was virtually
all under the table, and it used the VM370 for its main core operating system, because
MBS just couldn't hack it. The fact that IBM was running its entire business on a basically
hacked network, I always found amusing. Some reason UK universities didn't like IBM very much. It
was very few IBM systems. I guess they didn't really fit in with the sort of student usage model
or something. We were certainly, we had IBM salesmen on site quite often in my last job,
but I was like the 80s, I think, before we bought the Vax cluster, and they were very, very, very
tricky to sell us an IBM machine. I got a flow now to Valencia in Spain, where they were
building that particular device. I can't remember what it was now. The thing about the IBM
is that they are and have continued to be incredibly rigid.
Yeah, I think that our user community really hated them. That was part of what we had access to
one in order to do evaluations of various offerings, and compared to what they'd been used to,
which was the ICL systems running, an operating system called George 3, which all the universities
were running for a while. Of course, ICL was a UK company. They found IBM was just so weird,
the sort of concept of virtual cards, card readers and card writers and all this stuff.
It was very much a batch environment, regardless of how they tried to put lipstick on the
pig making it interactive. I saw that too. I think we had access to an IBM machine remotely
at that point, and we had a couple of IBM workstation-e-type things, which looked amazing
compared to what we were used to in the mainframes we had access to, which were just glass
teletypes, and this had color and graphics on it and stuff. That's how there were several
university-written operating systems for IBM hardware. There was a Michigan time-sharing system
from the University of Michigan. There was a couple of others where people basically chucked most
of the IBM stuff and wrote what they needed to run under their systems. Also, just for your general
information, there is an early version of MVMS, or MVS 3.8, which is available for public use,
because it was largely funded by the government, and the later versions of MVS just
layered on proprietary editions. But it is also runs under an emulator, which runs under Windows
Linux called Hercules. Yes, yes. I think that's the one that we have a host on Hacker Public
Radio, who's been doing work in that area, and has done a show or two on the subject. I'm not wrong.
Yeah, I believe that they also have a, I believe they may have some bitnet stuff,
and I'm pretty sure they even have some decknet stuff in a obvious form available.
Hey, I have a question going back to those tape drives since you mentioned that if someone
were coming after you, that's where you'd hide. Is it bigger on the inside than it looks on the
outside? I'd have to throw out a lot of stuff to make room for myself, or just open the rear doors
and just stand there while the shots get absorbed by IBM logic. I think Dave Morris got my joke.
Oh, I did. Yes, I was with you there. He was making a Doctor Who reference.
Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Making of which that airs today, doesn't it? The Christmas special,
New Year special. Yeah, it's tomorrow. Oh, okay. I haven't watched it in so long. I think
they'll be alive. Is there anything left of Doctor Who after BBC got done with it?
A little bit. It's a funny thing. My daughter and I, I don't know why I haven't turned out that way,
but we both started watching the restart of Doctor Who. I'm old enough to remember the first
episode, but way back in the 60s. Anyway, yeah, when it restarted, when it restarted. I'm old
enough, but we didn't have a telly. We had black and white, of course. Yeah, and it was very,
very fuzzy, but yeah, we started watching it together and we both enjoyed it. She's not really a
sci-fi person, but we used to discuss it and chat about it and stuff, but that came a point. I think
I can't remember which Doctor we just had enough. It's not watched it since other of us,
so it's a shame because I'm sure there's still lots of good things in it, but I think you can
be over-saturated with it, maybe. Yeah, that's kind of what happened with me. I was with the,
that was it, Matt Smith, I think, and I've watched a few episodes of, well, I got quite into those,
and then I kind of dropped off because I just lost interest and I haven't watched it since.
Yeah, that's pretty much the same point we stopped watching as well, I think.
Well, I used to watch it through public television in the Boston area when I had broadcast.
Yeah, at least a lot of people watched a lot of Doctor over a public broadcast.
Back when I had... I do want to catch the old episodes. Yeah, back when I was a teenager and
couldn't sleep, because there was always on it like two in the morning or something.
Well, also, the Doctor wasn't too bad for what what is essentially a sci-fi soap opera.
They had the guy here, the showrunner who took over when it came back again. His name is
escaping me at the moment. I thought he did then. I'm sorry?
Off it? No, who was before, who was before him? He changed, changed him off it a bit.
You're too, after it had started up today. I can't hold on. You think you need to choose no?
No, no, I can't. Is he not coming back? The guy is taking over again, yeah.
Yeah, that's what I was just going to say. He's coming back showrunner and I've forgotten his name totally.
Russell T. Davies, isn't the BBC giving up control of Dr Who storyline? No idea, I'm afraid.
But I did enjoy his shows under his guidance, in some case written by him and stuff.
Those really appealed, I guess, for many years of not having anything good in the way of
British-based sci-fi on the television that just seemed to appeal to both my daughter and I.
My son hates it, but that my daughter liked it. Well, I still can picture that robot dog
in, of course, the Dardex. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Those were the source of great, great fear and
trepidation to young me in 1963. I can tell you. K-K-9 was great. Two different shows, two different
spin-off shows. We had Torchwood and you had the Sarah Jane adventures. I'm talking two specific
K-9 shows. There was the K-9 adventures, which was basically an early spin of Sarah Jane,
except like way back when she first left the show. And it was called K-9 Adventures. And then
there was an Australian show called I think the Adventures of K-9 or something like that.
Some of the K-9 stuff was actually very good. Some of it was very, very childish, I felt,
but when they got it, got it right, it was really good. It was quite a character.
Do we have someone to say hello to? Oh, we do. I've got it all clear. Oh, it's disappeared.
Queensland, we missed Queensland. Oh, this is Rowan saying hello. You guys were in the middle of
your doctorate chat, so I didn't want to interrupt. Hey, Rowan. Hey, okay. Hi, Rowan, how you doing?
Hi, Dave. Doing well. This is an interrupt-driven podcast.
Yeah, I miss out on Dr. Who probably in the years that would have really captured me. I've
only saw a few of it where we live. I don't ever remember running across it because I know
at the kid I definitely would have been captivated by it because I was big into Ultraman and
we got some of the, I guess the Japanese, like speed racer and stuff like that, but never found Dr. Who.
Dr. Who did your motto? Dr. Who really didn't run from like other than 1996 Dr. Who movie. I
think it was the, what, 1986 or something all the way up until 2005? They did a New Year special
for the millennium. Oh, in 2000? Yeah, on the New Year's Eve, I think it was.
The comedy special, what was it called? I don't think it was comedy. Where they did a whole
bunch of regenerations. No, I know they've done various ones for Red Nose Day, for the charity
telephone, but I don't think the millennium one was a comedy. And if we're doing British sci-fi,
of course, we have to have an honorable mention to Thunderbirds. I'm British, but that was American.
I always assumed it was British. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe a little bit, what's the name? Was that, was
that the year of what they called Super Mario Nation? It was Super Mario Nation and it was a
British show that was aimed at the American market, but unfortunately, didn't make it all the way
across the pond at least for long term. Yeah, I was quite, I certainly enjoyed that as a young
sorry, but when era was that out in? I wouldn't know. Most of the stuff that I've gotten is syndicated
or reruns or what have you. I didn't get a lot of this stuff when it was hot, although I can
picture Lady Padelope and her chauffeur right at this moment. The one I was thinking of was
Rowan Adkinson, the Curse of the Fatal Death. That looks like a charity telephone.
And on 12 March 1999. Yeah, there was also a doctor who night in 1999. That had various things in it.
Apparently Thunderbirds was from 1964. Yeah, it wouldn't have appealed to me. I would have been
$15,000. Yeah, the doctor who was 1999 New Year's Eve show was with Paul McGam. It was the only one he
ever did. Was that the movie? Yeah, it was it was an extended episode that they did for the Millennium.
Now I'm seeing one here with Tom Baker on 13 November 1999.
Hello everybody from across the pond. Good morning here at least.
Good morning. Good morning Delta Ray. I just put a link to that morning. That show in the notes.
They're gonna don't know. Well, yeah, the 1996 Doctor Who movie was actually a New Year's.
Thanks Tony for the links. By the way, I fixed my xyloning by going into mumble and setting the
quality to do something from this to worst. That stopped you dropping out. It took the pressure
also server, I guess. You'll still sound as crappy as ever, so. But that was you've done that
voluntarily that you selected crap mode about by your own choice. Yes, yes, did.
Yeah, the link you sent just talks about the 1996 Doctor Who movie and basically what time
you can start that that movie that you don't have it end at the ball drop or write it midnight.
All right, I thought that was a Millennium one. Millennium special one.
The movie was made in 1986, but I think it was set in 1999.
A little while since I watched it. Maybe the re-show did Millennium Eve and that's why I thought
it was a Millennium special. Yeah, I jump on a phone call for work. I'll be back. Okay.
I'm going to disobey it for a bit. I've got some stuff today. I'll be back later.
Yeah, I'm going to work on some breakfast, so I'll be back.
Okay, it's lunch time here, so I think I might be going quite super. See you later.
Bye. See you later. Bye.
Nobody wants to talk to me. I'll be listening in. I might jump in here and there, but yeah, I got to eat.
I was looking back through the show notes. I noticed that HPR's inaugural episode was on New
Years Eve 2007, so happy birthday HPR. Nope. Well, HPR's was the first episode of Today with a
Techie, which was the rename before that was let me just check. So if you go to stats.php.
So 16 years, three months, 17 days ago. So in 2005, September the 19th was the first show,
and it was renamed on 2007. That midnight lasted first day of 2008, and we've done a total of
4,061 shows, according to this. How is that possible? Show is still in the game.
An impressive number of cats to herd in one direction. Just ask for shows that they come
and ask and ask. Yes, and continue to ask, we actually have a call for shows up at the moment.
So if people do want to drop off on record a show, that's absolutely fine. This doesn't count.
This show never counts.
And I was thinking that this morning, this week, it's been much busier than I planned. I
took the week off and I'm thinking, oh, I'll be able to do all sorts of things,
include recording shows, and this is the first time I've had to sit down.
I know that feeling. I noticed I haven't done a show since 10 years ago, so sorry.
That's fine. It's pressed the record button on the record. I never know what to talk about.
Oh, do you mean you never know about to talk about this? Let's see what you've done already.
Or I guess I'm afraid I'd ramble on aimlessly. Oh, I ramble all the time. Don't worry about that,
and people still listen. Well, you've got to remember. I mean, it's just a transparency. That was
very interesting show. You're first. We also remember our dear departed friend, 5150,
yes, show that was purely snoring. Yes, that's true. Good children. Yeah, he's still missed.
Him and Lord Dracan Bluth as well. I still remember him. I only had it. Got minor exposure to
the Lord, but he sounded like a quality guy too. Yeah, he was an awesome guy. I never got to
meet him in person, but I would talk to him all the time either through chat or sometimes we would
do a mumble thing or he's been on a number of podcasts that people are familiar with. Yeah,
I knew Lord D personally, and I'm sorry that he's gone. I miss him too. He and I worked together
about 10 years ago on the Indiana Lynx Fest. Oh, wow, a small world. Look at that. Good to meet you.
In fact, he probably, he might have gotten me into HPR. I remember he was doing a YouTube
show for a while on on Linux and stuff like that. I remember it's probably still there. I just
it's been ages. I just don't remember the name. Yeah, for a while after he passed his he had that
if this then that hooked up to his Facebook and Twitter accounts and they were still posting like
Linux news for I think a year or two afterwards. Yeah, I remember that. It was it was surreal to see
that after his passing, but also a good tribute to his dedication to the community.
He also had a podcast called the was a Timbuck review where he would review certain movies.
And the idea was if you could get the movie for 10 bucks or less, you could review it. That's
the way it was. Yeah. Hello. All right, can you hear me? Yep, coming in fine.
Gonna go silent for a bit as I'm making breakfast. I'll be back soon.
Enjoy the show notes with the updated time zones.
Yeah, I think I better go make breakfast too. So talk to you guys later.
Already. Can I have already spread the word I messed it on about the show? So maybe we'll
get some new listeners or chatters or talkers or stuff. Super much the enjoy messed it on a little
more than I thought it would. Yeah, it takes it takes a while and you kind of have to interact
to get the best out of it. Otherwise, you don't really see much come into your timeline.
All right, everything's working out fine. Yeah, show notes won't work for me.
Why is that? Uh, it's a little bit... I'll tend to see it. I'll tend to see the data
we see it could not be verified. That's probably because it's not on the SSL site.
Is there a kicky except thing? Yeah. Imagination is as we speak.
Cool. Good tip for everybody is Rekovik does not observe the allied settings time and it is at
UTC all the time. So if you get an Android phone and you want to have a UTC time zone,
pick Rekovik. Good to know. That's actually quite useful. Yes, I've had a... I've raised that
as a bug but gets rejected because theoretically it's not a time zone. It's a
standard. So blah, blah, blah, blah. People won't fix bugs because of the
impodantic about its use. Right now, I'm trying to get a UTC clock so that I can
know where we are in the note. Yeah, I have UTC GMT because I need to ring no
mother. NC because I need to tell... I need to know what time it is from Platoon
starts planning his games and then local time. Yeah. And speaking of the only correct format
I saw it six months ago, a bug that's been open and kitty for seven years is finally
getting some attention related to the fact that you can't change the underlying operating
system days in time format. And one thing that did happen this year was Firefox
or Thunderbird finally, finally allowed the editing of days in time as well. And it was only because
some developer drive-by developer came along. Again, another bug that was open for years and
couldn't be fixed because blah, blah, blah. But I've already rented about that last year. So if you
want to hear my rounds about days in time, feel free to go back and listen to that show.
How's it going? Amazing and many people don't say. How do you care? Tell us anyway. Yeah.
I feel like a fraud because I did that. I was here for the New Year's last year and I did
like the one show because you told me like I owed it to you and I just haven't like gotten the
time to listen to any like hardly any shows. You don't need to listen to them. You just need to
submit them. Trying to find a good topic. What's that? What do you mean you can't find a topic?
Oh, I just haven't thought of anything good. Speaking of topics. Ken, a question for you.
Has anyone else submitted an episode that's non-English? Because I've not known so far two
comments and they've been pretty, pretty happy with it. Yeah, sounds good. And we discuss that
in the New Year's show. Around the New Year's show is no good. On the community news which will
be released tomorrow. I was surprised at how much I actually followed. I think I followed at least
the general just. It was definitely pushing what my high school Spanish recollection could do.
So I don't know if that's going to be an interest to see the way it goes actually. If we remain
predominantly English but occasionally another somebody comes in with other shows. I imagine if
like somebody was releasing shows every once or every two weeks it might get a bit annoying.
But maybe every week, every other day a non-English show might get annoying but
the girls approach can come to it. It would be an interesting curiosity. That's pretty much it.
Especially it shows that I probably couldn't decide for just to listen to it just to listen to it.
Maybe not even under it. You know, regardless of whether I understand it or not.
Sorry, could you repeat that? Because I got silent.
I was just saying that even if I don't understand the language, it would still, at least to me,
it would still be interesting just to listen to it. I guess it's just languages sometimes just
fast naming just for the sake of being language. Yeah, Dave did mention that you would like to see
a transcript of the show. Maybe something that would be useful. You might want to put your
non-English, just file them under a different heading. Yeah, it depends on money we guess.
Well, I'm just saying, you know, I know you're usually trying to fill a time slot but you also could
be a bit more podcasty and make it so that maybe it's just mentioned in the mainstream or what
have. Yeah, it was mentioned somewhere in the mailing list about eventually if there were enough
submissions that maybe there might be a separate feed for that. But I mean, I guess for now,
most people could just skip it if they're not interested. I mean, that's what I do with a lot of
other episodes anyway. Yeah, definitely. It's one if it becomes a problem we'll do with
it. But having the occasional different language show and there's, yeah, it's as far into me,
as the Haskell episodes are if I'm not as completely zoned in and following up on it.
So they're going to get like a glass of wine or something to come to news?
Just going to drop off because there's massive silentling happening one second.
So what was that? Oh, I so don't I feel like any of you can really get it once it's almost
news and you get a glass of wine or something. I don't know if you can get it.
I'm in connection issues. Let me see if I can fix it somehow.
The number was being very tenicky today for me. Turn down the quality to absolutely zero
eight kilobits per second. Let's see if we can handle that.
Somebody want to talk? Talking? What's that? Anybody?
Well, we don't have as many problems with the server, but I'm here.
It's just thing working. Yes, we can hear you, bro. Thank you.
Is that better, Ken? No, I'm both doing this.
Yep. Thank you, Charlie. Charlie, come in over.
P is seven kilobits on November 20th. Yeah, anybody?
Sorry, I'm having trouble understanding you now.
We're here, and you can get very buzzed.
Yeah, I lost connection.
I'm not sure mine is all server. Sometimes my client, I lose the screen that shares the room
and stuff and I can't get it back. Yeah, um, it drops the ping.
The ping time gets to be too low and basically the connection resets on you.
Uh, okay. That's the server itself or connection, but I'm having the same problem,
so I'm assuming that it's the server. It's very intermittent.
I was playing around with the VPN earlier, so I figured maybe the VPN was just, you know,
taking too long to get where it needed to go. So now I'm just back on the street.
Oh, it's going to hop on. What hardware is using? I mean, it's running on like a pie or something,
then yeah, I could see where there would be a problem with this many people on.
So I'm just going to. Hello? Yep, we're here.
I guess we should have a backup recording film.
Hello. Welcome back in. Okay, uh, I think we need to chuck some people off that are not speaking
and, uh, have them just listen to the stream. What do we think about that?
Uh, yeah, I mean, if it's causing issues with the server, that's probably the best thing to do.
Also, no recording this time. I was going to comment that yeah, trying to put the recording together
would be rather fun. Yeah, we can hear you. Can you hear us coming in loud and clear, Ken?
Yeah, I can't hear anything. We heard. Yep, that seems a little weird.
Today's a nice slow day at work. Oh, that's good. I took the week off, so I'm just sitting here
relaxing. Well, this is the only day I'm working this week. That was basically just to give the
people that did work this week a chance to be off. Oh, that's nice. Yeah, luckily, uh, I'm in a small
enough company that I'm more or less the IT. So I'm the guy that writes the schedule, which is helpful.
I have so far I've only had to, uh, never have your certificates run out at the end of the year.
You didn't have to jump on in, uh, you know, update for the next year's a certificate for a couple
websites this week, but other than that, it's been pretty quiet. I haven't really even checked in
at all this week, which is a little odd for me. I ended up logging in a couple of times Christmas week
because some of my team got sick, but not a big deal. Pretty slow week all around. Yeah,
I just look at my email once or twice a day and then go back to sitting around or running around
as the case has been. Well, did you have any fallout from that log4j fun? No, luckily we haven't.
I mean, potentially it could because we do have some job of stuff running. I don't think we use it
directly, but, you know, who knows what in it. Uh, so we have been trying to keep up on that,
but it hasn't, it hasn't hit us. Yeah, well, we didn't have any security breaches with it or
anything, but, um, it was a fun couple of days trying to get everything updated. I'm sure,
and it just seems like every day there's a not yet another time to update. All right, I'm
cutting in and out again. Rowan, how's it going? It's going good, Archie. How many too? How are you?
Good. Let's have a slow morning. Apparently I'll get another show. Archie, can you just connect
that mobile connection, please? And listen on the stream on mobile. I want to see if we can,
if getting rid of some people's connections would improve the xyloning for the rest.
Is that better? That was so good. Well, yeah, I think we, I don't know.
Too many people on, but it's, uh, no, it didn't. It's, uh, conflicting as all. I just heard it
coming in there again. I mean, there's no reason for me to be here while for a bit. So I'm just
coming back to see what's that? I'm going to be silent for a bit. Yeah, I'm going to be silent
for a bit. So I'll go ahead and disconnect. Yeah, I think we'll do the same. It's going to
pretty quiet week for me. I mean, other than running around and doing visiting, it didn't do
your last show. What show was that? The fixing and noisy blower, man. That was just a little off
the cuff. I didn't know if it'd be interesting. Oh, yeah, it's always, always fun. I'm not
going to have a blower currently, but you know, it's always good to keep it in back your head.
I had no idea what I was getting into until I pulled it apart. I know that feeling.
But it was just after the previous year, it just started getting annoying. Only in the cool weather.
What I always kind of show is for the turntable I got,
interface to Raspberry Pi. Oh, nice. Yeah, now I can record the flag from, I did a Star Trek record.
I put it on my Google Drive if you're interested. I just couldn't put it on the archive.
Right. Yeah, I think I remember having, I think I at one point had, I think it was a record of
like the themes from the original Star Trek movie, from like 70, oh, that's 77, 78, something like
that, or that later, a little later. I don't know when the first one came out. What was that?
The 6th, the first one, what? The first Star Trek movie? No, Star Trek movie. The first Star Trek
episodes were, was 1963 or 1964. The first movies I don't think happened until much later in,
yeah, it was sometime. Yeah, I think it was like 70. I can't remember if it came out right before
or right after Star Wars, but I know it was like late 70. 1979. Go back to the motion picture.
Yeah, yeah, that would have been the same time frame as the Star Wars movies, I think 78.
Yeah, I think they, I remember seven, like the summer or something of that of 78, I think when
I saw Star Wars, but I don't quite remember, and then I do remember going to the theater to see
Star Trek the movie. But yeah, Archimony 2, it'd be interesting to listen to that, if for no other
reason, to see here how it sound like the transfer went. Yeah, there's about 30 seconds on either
side of both tracks, but if you don't mind that, just get over it. Cool.
Yeah, probably need to send the link to your email though, because I don't think it would be
good to put on here or on Matrix. Yep, that's fine. Do you have my email from the web page?
Yeah, I can find it. I have it even from our going back forth with the tags.
Yeah, right, right. That was a fun project. Yep, yeah, actually going back to talking about Lord
D, that's actually the first time I had heard any of his shows was going back and doing the tag
and stuff. Yeah, I heard about him, but I missed what they were talking about when I
came over how long ago he passed. Yeah, I don't, I don't remember off the top of my head either.
He surprised I didn't talk about 5150 yet. He was pretty an integral in the community too.
Yeah, I did mention him a little bit. I, he was another, I just recently started getting on to
like the chats and stuff, so I never got to interact with 5150 either, but I always enjoyed his
shows. Yeah, he also did the beat like he would do the beer, was it the beer of the week or the
beer of the month or something like that at one point? And he did an audiobook show as well.
Isn't there still a missing audiobook show? There's a couple that haven't been released yet.
I'm not sure who's doing the audio editing on those though. What's it been that minor two
years since 50 passed away? I'd say so. I was still awesome to have him to come out to Texas
Linux fest so I can meet him. I don't know if that was just the exact reason, but nice.
Okay, I need to sign off for a couple minutes. I just got a text message with my honey do list
for the next hour. I'm going to go take care of that and I'll be back in a little bit.
Ken, you still around? I'm just me and Joe. I don't see the Ken's logged in. Yeah, I just noticed
that. No, I was going to say the URL for the stream is seems to be incorrect because every time I
click on it, it wants to download the stream.m3U file from that other link and the redirect from
hackerpublicradio.org slash live goes to that particular link as well. If you take off the .m3U,
it loads on a player with that issue. At least that's the result I've gotten.
Happy New Year, Japan, South Korea, and nine more. Tokyo, Seoul,
Green Young Tang, Delhi, and I'm not even going to try the last one.
Happy New Year. Well, Jents, we have another shorty of 15 minutes from now or thereabouts. We have
Western Australia. By the way, gentlemen, there is a news group that many of you might want to
at least scan. It's all.cicadmin.recovery. For those of you who have had a bad
day dealing with servers or similar problems. Net miners, is that net? Is that
news group also for admins that had problems recovering their backups?
Yeah, well, if you'd like your Cicadmin comedy, it's for anyone, yes.
Figured I'd go a little met on that. I know I don't mean Facebook.
No, what we're talking about is an entire news group from based on the principles of the Cicadmin
from hell. Right. Did you put that in the show notes? That way we can refer to it later, I guess,
because I may want to look into that just for out of curiosity.
Well, I just just started on my second cup of coffee breakfast is done, so I'm just going to chill here.
Western Australia. Happy New Year, and to all Cicadmin's old Cicadmin recovery has been noted.
It is Cicadmin humor, better than a 45, because that damn server.
Happy New Year, West Austria. Yes.
Welcome, C-R-D-S.
Any hundreds out here? No, I'm not. Much of my family is, but I just never,
never caught on with my little branch of it. Yeah, I'm more of a target or blinker myself
when I was legal for fire on. Well, then my dad's happy to let anybody come up and take out
some deer on his property, so there's a whole bunch of them there.
Yes, I know if they're not controlled, they can be real nuisance.
I just actually was up there a couple days ago and saw a flock of turkeys, too. I think there
were like 11 or 12 of them. Actually, when I was going to my Shuriken Brookline, I saw a bunch
of wild turkeys. Yeah, I was just thinking of a story my dad told me about the time that he
coughed up a deer. He coughed up one. Yeah, he was going through it, you know, just going,
going along through this area up in well-domain, and he was hacking and coughing and whatnot,
and his book decided to see who was invading his territory. Oh, wow.
Well, my dad came out on top on that one, I think.
And I think actually a particular buck, if he came up on it, it could be potentially a bad
outcome for you. Well, he wanted to know which male had invaded his territory and he found out
the hard way. Now, my brother is a peaceful sort. The last time he got a deer, it was with a semi-truck.
Yeah, and I haven't seen a whole lot of them, but I do see a number of them going back and forth
along the sides of the road. Yeah, well, my brother is like that old
joining cash sum. I've been everywhere. I mean, he doesn't do the northeast anymore, but he bounces
from Washington state to Florida. Yeah, I'm like, he has gotten to see a good bit of the U.S. then.
Yeah, and occasionally he has to serve time in California. Hello. Hey, Matt Sweeney.
It's back to the turkeys. It was kind of interesting seeing them, but it's been a while since I'd
seen them back close. I mean, we were still probably 50 yards off or so, but they do,
a girl's were with me. They look like peacocks kind of when they're walking without their tails
spread out. Actually, when I was doing security work, south of Boston here in the condo complex,
we had a fessant come through. And I think you're starting to see that sort of things,
you know, areas get squashed. You start seeing more of the so-called wildlife partaking in
a more urban areas. Well, around this area was an old night site. So there was some woods.
The real two pieces of inciting while the wildlife were the shrunks that tended to like to
patrol the parking area. I don't know if you've actually seen a skunk. I definitely
have smelled them when they haven't made it across the roads before. Well, when I was patrolling
the parking area, I would often have to alter my patrol route to avoid the black and white
residents. Yeah, that might put a damper on your evening if that kind of confrontation.
Yeah, also would make getting a cab a little difficult.
True. Now, the other animal that attempted to short in my life was a small opossum. I was walking
through a dimly lit concrete deck around the condo complex and this little opossum goes racing by
I made my hair stand up on it. Yeah, they do can be like kind of scary looking when they're like
growling or I guess growling. I don't know if that's the right term for an opossum, but
protect pointy little teeth. Yeah, they tend to hiss at you when they're upset.
Yeah, this fall we had to evict a tenant in our chimney. We were all sitting out back. We
had a small gathering in our backyard and our neighbor, Cotztrikas, I think you have a raccoon
in your kidney and we all looked up and he was sort of sticking his head out and then he
disappeared down in and then over the next couple days like the cats would be sitting,
looking, staring at the chimney from on the inside and then you could hear scrabbling noises
so he had to have somebody come out and they put like a cap with a one-way door on it and then
I can't remember what he, I think if some kind of scent or smell they sort of sprayed up to sort
of, or then maybe we just waited. I can't remember. I know we had to wait for like a week to make
sure that, you know, because they did just sort of come and go, but once they went out it couldn't
get back in and then we had to get a better, a new cap put on the chimney to keep raccoons
and other, we have a lot of squirrels around here too that like to run across the roots.
Well, we had a groundhog living under a small tube-maker shop that used to be in our backyard.
Somebody was working on our chimney and he says is that a pet? And I said no it's more like a tenant.
Now this animal was not fenced in at the time our yard was not fenced very much.
The guy working on the chimney sort of was weak on the concept of wild and she had a bunch of
babies and they lived in our, in our firewood pile so they must have been wood trucks.
Yeah, our area we have a mix. I mean like I said it's all the raccoon squirrels and then we have
a lot of bunnies in our yard. We actually had a little this summer mother had put a couple of her
like three of her pups. I guess they're pups I'm sure what baby bunnies are called but in a little
she dug a little like indent or in our yard and so that was fun because we've got
cats and a dog so we had to sort of cover it up with a piece of furniture so they couldn't get
down to get to them and then waited about a week until they were finally old enough to move.
Yeah, I've seen a bunny here even a neighbor has fenced a sliver of land along the stream here
but the bunny went under it. Well, I have a neighbor who, well I'm thinking of crowdfunding his
wake. Well, renting the local stadium is going to cost, cost a bit of money. I don't take a
popular neighbor. Yeah, he was, you know, let's say I'd use his picture if I needed to patch
my hair to look at any dark board. I see. And the monkey so far. Well, he's a nice guy. I believe
he should get a COVID shot but it's hard to get live COVID these days.
Yeah, you wanted to fence my backyard on a line that he decided on so that he could use it
for parking. He did not negotiate. He sent my lawyer a map saying here's the property that I
will take. No money exchanged of course. Yeah, yeah. The old saying what does a good fence
has made good neighbors is just making sure the fence is where it needs to be is the problem.
Well, he suddenly discovered that he had a chunk that there was an abandoned chunk of property,
a little sliver that was forming my side yard and he wanted to trade my backyard for the
herringer on here. I really have trouble parking a car in the stream. It's not recommended.
Well, the problem was that the boundary line was from back in the days before that area of land
was land. It was mostly streamed back in 1917. I said like what it's sort of based on the stream
or the old boundary was based on the stream and whatnot. Yeah, streams for the short term may
make good boundary lines but the even a relatively geologically short time doesn't that's not
always the best. Well, also back in the day they didn't worry about filling streams in like they
do today. I know that it's true. No, I've got to get this house cleaned up so that I can get it
get sewage hooked up. Unfortunately, my property has come under interest to a developer and certain
of their friends at the town hall or suddenly inspecting the place and saying, well, you know,
you're not up to code. Yeah, that's a place I've lived that's already been resolved for a number of
years but I've had friends that have run into similar situations. Well, they say, why don't you
just walk away? You know, the developer will give you a pile of money and you'll have a pile of
money in no house and you can clearly rent something. Yeah, that's the fun. They always like to say
that but they never really want to pay you what I mean, if it's worth that much to them, you know,
they don't want to pay what it's really technically going to be worth now, you know what I mean.
Well, we recently had commuter rail come into this area of town so property values have
for Yuppies have grown up considerably. Yeah, and I know now with sort of the remote,
you know, work going on a lot of people that's, you know, all places sounds like yours are places,
oh, let's go live way out and I can just commute to work now or fellow work. So you're going to
definitely get more interest than you probably want. Well, the town was talking about if they
hook up the surage, they might not get their money back from the zero interest loan. Now,
with the increase in property values here, well, let's say a small cape property was rumored to go
for half a million in my neighborhood, putting in surage and whatever would not come close to
any of the real investment that they'd put into what to say in people that do the homeowner's
refurbishment loans also interface with developers and they're a little upset that I didn't
just take the money and run. Yeah, but the sort of similar to where my parents live, there was an
area in just a few years, like, well, maybe a decade ago, they were trying to get people to, you know,
renovate their houses and they were given all sorts of loans out and then, you know, about five
years ago, a developer decided, oh, this will be great because there's like right off of an exit
of the interstate. So then they wanted to go through and try to buy out all the houses, well,
you know, not all these people are like, you know, and they barely wanted to give them what,
you know, well, it was going to cost to pay back the loans they took out. And so that's just been
an ongoing thing with, you know, some people were in this position to take the money, but other people
were like, where am I going to go? You're not going to get, you're not offering me enough money
to, you know, buy out what I have, plus get me something comparable. Well, I don't drive. So
my options are rather limited because I'm rather nearly edge of reasonable public transportation
in this region. Yeah, I feel that makes it tough when you've got, you know, you've got to make
sure you can live, you know, in the area that you can get around in. Well, you know, I mean,
also, you know, I've lived in this house since the early 60s, and now they're suddenly saying,
well, it's too cluttered, it's too this, it's the wiring's not up to code. You know, we've got to
replace all the windows, we've got to replace the siding, and we've got to spend all this money,
and we don't think we're going to get it back. So they expanded a simple sewer hook up to
stripping the house to the walls, and, you know, removing lead paint and everything like that. So,
you know, if you add enough bells and whistles, you know, you can make a, a you go into a Cadillac.
Yep. Then they said, well, we don't know whether we really want to invest the money in doing your
entire place over. They were a little upset that I got upset at them for, you know, blowing this
thing up like this. That's because, you know, it's, but their calculations are based on everybody just
assuming, you know, they're going to want the money and walk away, and then making it easy for them
to just do the least common denominator, which is probably level everything and start new.
Well, the interesting thing was they called me October 15th, and they said that we want you hooked
up to Surridge by the end of the year. That makes no sense. I mean, even if, even if you, you know,
got right on it, getting that sounds like that's not going to happen that quickly.
And then when it came down to actually making any kind of decisions, they said, well, we've got to
consider rewiring, and we've got to consider this, and we've got to consider whether it's worth
our investment. Now, they're taking a lean against the House. The property is according to
my taxes. Well, a couple hundred thousand dollars, shall we say. You can't get it. I mean, and
we're talking a twenty thousand dollar sewer hookup, maybe. Excuse me, you're not going to get
your money back in five or ten years. You know, also, if I don't have a home, I may have a
fat bank account, but, you know, I can't around here, the studio apartment goes for like two grand
a month. Right. Yeah. Now, I mean, and things are just going to go up. I mean, the more it gets
developed, then, you know, even the Brennan prices, that's sort of my area. The Brennan is insane.
Also, well, I can't really say much more, but if I don't have a home, being homeless in this
environment in New England is what you call a sub-optimal choice. Well, yeah, it's pretty sub-optimal
anywhere, but in particularly at this time of year, yes, I would not want to be in that position
up there. And under those conditions, well, I can't really say that much more if I want to remain
an independent individual. I really want to avoid the jacket with all sleeves.
I hear you. Well, I hope things work out. I don't know. Unfortunately, it sounds like, I mean,
and I don't know how easy that is or money-wise, but it's time this is where, like,
unfortunately, you tend to, like, you need lawyers on your side, you know, to help guide you through
some of the landmines, the legal landmines, they're throwing your way. Yeah, well, I just got,
I have several generations of pack rats to my own stuff and a bunch of family stuff to try to
empty out through the trash system. And unfortunately, because we've gone to bin trash, you can't
put out a bunch of barrels or whatnot anymore. You can only get bins from the town hall at their rates
and they don't allow you to rent a bin for a short term. If I were to get some extra bins,
I would have to pay for them regardless of whether I needed them afterwards or not.
I see. Do they have a bulk trash or a place where you can take? I mean, I know that means arranging
somebody to pick it up or something. I did haul it someplace. Well, they do have furniture pickup
and I am going to try to get some furniture out of here just to get some space.
I have a bunch of beds that are no use to me and are generally just collecting stuff,
but that's not necessarily all. And when my friends say, well, why don't you get somebody come in
here and go through your stuff? And well, there's some material that I just don't want,
there's some of my stuff that I want to, you know, I want to burn and... Right, there's stuff you
want to make sure you've looked at and decided and done with before you want just people coming
through your... and going through things. Well, yeah. I mean, there's... I have a wood stove and
there's a certain amount of litter books that I just want to burn as trash.
Not to change the subject, but is it next... next one coming up? I think it's China Philippines.
Yes, China Philippines and 10 more Beijing and whatnot.
All right. But sure, I know I've listened to these before. I've never participated.
Is there a... I don't know if we do a countdown. I don't have seconds on my clock showing.
Well, I think if we're within a couple of minutes, it's okay. This is not exactly what you call a
precision outfit. Well, according to my clock, it's now a happy new year to... what do we just say,
China in the Philippines? Beijing, Hong Kong, Manila, Singapore.
Welcome to 2022. I am going to go silent for a couple minutes. I need to go refresh my coffee.
Well, thanks for being another skeleton in the group.
I think I'm going to refresh my coffee as well, going for number three and my final coffee.
I also just posted some... I posted the information about the show on my blog,
which is cladiomeranda.wordpress.com if you want to check it out. All the plugs, all the plugs.
Get them in. Well, put your... put your blog in the show notes. Yeah, I'll do that right after I
get my coffee. Sounds like a plan.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker...
