Episode: 3344
Title: HPR3344: Infosec Podcasts Part 3 - Infosec Career and Personal Development
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3344/hpr3344.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:10:29

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3344 Thursday, 27th of May 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Infosic Podcasts Part 3, Infosic Career and Personal Development,
and is part of the series podcast recommendations it is hosted by Trey,
and is about six minutes long, and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, presenting my favorite podcasts, related to information security
careers and growth.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello, this is Trey, and this is part three of my favorite information security podcasts.
Part three focuses on Infosic Career and Personal Development podcasts.
Why am I recording this series?
Well, when I first started recording for Hacker Public Radio, I looked at the list of
recommended topics to record on, and one of the items there was what podcasts you listen to.
I listened to lots of information security podcasts. I'm passionate about information security.
I've been involved in the field for a long time, and we desperately need people to fill
information security jobs across many different specialties. It's a rapidly changing field,
and it's important to stay current.
Like I said, I listened to tons of Infosic related podcasts.
Because there are so many podcasts that I really, really enjoy,
I chose to break this down into six different episodes based on the topics.
I recorded part one several weeks ago. You can go back and listen to it,
Hacker Public Radio Episode 3324, and it's news and news and current events
podcasts related to information security. Part two is general information security podcasts.
You can listen to it, Hacker Public Radio Episode 3334.
This episode is part three, Career and Personal Development podcasts.
It will be followed by part four, social engineering podcasts, part five, which will combine
hacking and attacking podcasts, technical information and learning podcasts,
and information security communities, social and history podcasts.
Then we'll wrap up the whole series with part six, information security leadership podcasts.
Let's get started with part three.
So, for Career and Personal Development podcasts, one of my favorites has been Getting Into Infosic
by Aiman Alswa, and I'm sorry if I butchered the name awful with names.
This was a monthly podcast related to Getting Into Infosic,
but as I did research for recording this episode, I noticed that the last episode I was able
to find had been recorded in February of 2021. I'm not sure if they're taking a break,
or if they've decided to stop recording the podcast. In any event,
you can go back through the backlog and it does have some good information
with stories on how Infosecond Security Professionals got their jobs in the field.
It's designed to be inspirational and motivational and help educate you on your journey if you choose
to get into IT or Cybersecurity. You can access the episode by googling Getting Into Infosic
podcast or click on the link in the show notes. The next podcast I wanted to highlight here
is the Infosek Career podcast hosted by Jason Wood. Now, sadly, I'm starting to see a trend
because this podcast was also discontinued back in March of 2020, but it does have a great
backlog of interviews with Infosek Professionals discussing their career journeys.
You can access it by googling Infosek Career podcast or clicking on the link in the show notes.
Now, a current episode, I mean a really, really current series that I did check and they are
current is Cybersecurity Interviews by Douglas Brush. This is a weekly interview-based podcast
with top security professionals and they discuss how they got into Infosek what their perspectives
are on the industry and other things like that. Great podcast, you can access it by googling
Cybersecurity Interviews or by clicking the link in the show notes. Next, I wanted to talk about
the Humans of Infosek podcast and this is hosted by Carolyn Wong. This is a very down-to-earth
podcast that is less about technology and really more about the people, how people got into it.
People of diverse backgrounds. Infosek has tended to be a club of white males for a very
long time. It's getting better, it continues to get better and as we focus on the challenges
of diversity in Infosek, it's going to get even better and this podcast talks to a lot of people
from a lot of diverse backgrounds on how they got into Infosek and really, really good podcast
I recommend Humans of Infosek or click on the link in the show notes.
Next is Hacker Valley Studio, Chris Cochrane and Ron Addings. This is a very interesting
series and at the beginning it touched on some things that might have been a little more
technical and working on your soft skills but really they've expanded it to discuss personal
growth and maturity. How can you can bring out the best you whether you're in Infosek or in
IT or just generally in life. It's a good self-improvement podcast. So Hacker Valley Studio, Google Hacker
Valley Studio or click on the link in the show notes. Finally, the last one in this week's list
is We Hacker Purple hosted by Tanya Janka. Tanya comes from an application security background
and is just a really energetic and fun podcast host. This past season has been focused on
getting into Infosek, discussing various different Infosek careers with a wide variety of guests
and even asking them the cheese question. Now I'm not going to tell you what the cheese question is.
You're just going to have to figure that out yourself by listening to the podcast but I do
encourage you to. It is my favorite of the list that I'm giving this week. Again, you can access
it by googling We Hacker Purple or clicking on the link in the show notes. If you listen to any of
these podcasts or have some of your favorites that you would like to share or tell me about,
comment on the show or record your own podcast. And thank you for listening. Have a great day.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the
binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated,
today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
