Episode: 3044
Title: HPR3044: mocp snooze tip
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3044/hpr3044.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:37:42

---

This is HACCO Public Radio Episode 3,044 for Thursday 2 April 2020. Today's show is entitled MOCP's News Tip.
It is hosted by Mr. X
and is about seven minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
a quick snooze tip when using MOCP.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge
by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello and welcome HACCO Public Radio audience. My name is Mr. X
and welcome to this podcast. As usual, I'd like to start by thanking the people at HPR
for making this service available to us. It's truly an invaluable service on these
here intertubes. We've gone to great deal of effort to slimline the process
and it's really quite easy to record something.
Just pick up a microphone, a tablet, your phone, PC,
pick the phone, anything you've got that can record. If I can do it, I'm sure you can do it.
HPR is a community lead podcast provided by the community for the community.
That means you can contribute to why not give it a go.
Well that speech sounded like it was a bit confused and a bit conferbled.
I think I've forgotten what you used to say. It's not long since recorded something.
So no, I'm not going to all slickly set out and written down
and I don't just record a bit and put it in.
It should have a template and put it in Junta.
It should be organized.
So we ad hoc a podcast. It's just a small thing, really.
We tip and it's probably something that's almost nothing really.
As I've said before in my podcast, I use mock p to listen to my podcasts
and audio books and such like.
Occasionally, not often, but occasionally from time to time,
I might listen to a wee bit just before it goes to bed sort of thing.
I generally don't do that, but occasionally do.
And I find this quite useful. So what I basically do is,
I'll switch on my EPC and it boots up pretty quickly.
And it logs into the touchscreen session running on my pie,
which is running all the time.
And it's usually got two playlists loaded into mock p simultaneously,
one being my podcast and one being my audio books.
So if I want to listen to mock p for 10 minutes before it goes to bed,
because I'm nice and cozy and can't bug it up out of my bed,
what I'll do is I'll start the mock p playing just from the interface,
just a spacious space bar or whatever.
And then I'll go to another window and I'll do control R,
just recalls commands.
And if I just type something like sleep, it generally brings up the command
that I want it at or just took it slightly.
So the one I use quite a lot, I'll say something like sleep,
space, 10m for 10 minutes, space, ampersand, ampersand.
So if that is successful, then it goes on to do the next command,
which is mock p dash g.
And mock p dash g is just toggle.
So it toggles state.
So if it's playing, it stops or it pauses, I should say.
It toggles between playing pause.
So again, sleep, space, 10 minutes, space, ampersand, ampersand,
space, mock p, space, dash, capital g.
I don't know if I said capital g before.
Another one I do, because I've got module books sometimes I do it for that.
So that would be sleep, space, 10m for 10 minutes, space, ampersand, ampersand,
space, mock p, space, dash m.
So that's another, what do they want to aim for?
It's basically another, another for your second playlist,
I've got to set up.
And I tell it that all that's stored in, I've got tilde,
my home directory, dot mock, forward slash, dot mock, forward slash,
audio books, and in space, dash, capital g.
So that'll toggle the module books playing.
So for example, if I did control R and just typed audio,
that would probably, or just a bit of that, I would find that command probably.
And I would just maybe change the sleep time interval from 10 to 15, or however I feel.
I also use iPlayer, get iPlayer from 10 to 10 to download stuff,
sort of complete.
And so again, I might say, well, I'll do it in midnight.
You know, I've got, I've got fibres.
It's not doing this unit. Downloads that quick.
But it's handy.
So I'll do sleep, space, five h, five hours, space, ampersand, ampersand, space.
Well, I've got a text field called iPlayer.url,
which lists all the URLs and stuff that I'm going to download.
So that's a thing I do there.
So that's a quick handy way of delaying things.
I find the sleep command handy from 10 to 10.
Of course, I'm sure there's other ways of doing this.
But it's a way I do it, and I find it convenient.
Anyway, I think that's enough.
That's all I've got to say for this short episode.
If you want to contact me, you can contact me at MrX,
at hpr, at googlemail.com.
That's MRX, 80.
What is MRX, 80?
I forgot my email addresses.
MrX, yes, MRX, 80,
hpr, the at symbol, googlemail.com.
So until next time, hopefully a bit sooner anyway.
Thank you, and goodbye.
Thank you.
Thank you.
