Episode: 3826
Title: HPR3826: HPR Community News for March 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3826/hpr3826.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:07:51

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3826 from Monday the 3rd of April 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News from March 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers and is about 85 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in March 2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today, it's Community News from March 2023 and joining me this evening is...
... from Baltimore, Maryland in the US.
Dave is having connectivity issues and may join us during the course of the show.
I am calling from the Netherlands, I guess.
Should I say Holland?
The Netherlands is fine.
That works.
Okay, HPR Community News is the look,
as the behind-the-scenes of what's been going on in the project that is HPR,
which is Hacker Public Radio, which is a shared podcast where we all come together
and submit shows of a technical nature that might be interested in hackers,
two hackers, usually of a technical nature, and they are released every week day,
Monday through Friday, and is there anything else we need to say about that?
Nope, just that this podcast is a sort of a view of the previous month.
Yep, exactly.
And we do need people to send in shows because without shows, this project grinds to a halt.
And we're also kind of enforcing the two-week rule for anybody,
guideline, for anybody submitting a show so that if you submit shows
and leave 10 days before posting the next one, and that spreads out the load,
so that we all can contribute, and that's what it's all about.
It's a barcamp style podcast, and if you haven't submitted a show and you've been listening
to podcasts, you've got more than three podcasts there on your player, then you should really
just get involved in the community by recording a quick show and uploading it.
It doesn't have to be anything spectacular, it can be just high, my name is Bla,
and I've been listening to these podcasts, and this is who I am, and I listen to the show,
and I thought it's a mission show. And if you want to continue on, telling us about your history
and the tech, feel free to do that, that's always a good show. And then we have more contributors,
more contributors we have, the more likely people are to send in one show a year,
and that would be awesome. And this, as you pointed out, is the community news,
where we, as janitors, go around and comment on all the shows that's been posted in the last
month, given people who subscribe to this show, an opportunity to go back and download those,
and also gives you an idea of anything that we've been doing in the background to make
improvements. So traditionally, Dave does this, but I think seeing as Dave isn't here,
you should introduce the new hosts for the month. And for this last month, there were no new hosts.
No, why? Why do the new hosts come here every three months through? Why?
It's a sad, sad state of affairs. It is. Seriously, people, make your life, make your life
looking for new hosts. Anybody that you know is kind of technical, might be into podcasts,
might be interested in recording a show, get, either get an interview from them, or get them to
submit to show themselves. Be that your goal. Supposed to show, we have a show for one day,
guess a new host, we have loads of shows coming in all the time. I fully concur.
Okay, we'll have further ado. Let's do the first show of last month, which was D&T,
Chatbot, Hallucinations, which was 3-8-03 released on Wednesday, the first of March.
And there was one comment on that by Mickey or Trump. The inverted rabbit, the show itself was
about a chat GPD script was being asked to do an episode of HPR and the Shenanigans that released,
Mickey or Trump says, an inverted rabbit. This sounds to me like chat GPD is
plotting to serve humanity in the benevolent, anti-o-throws sense, and what a macabre username it
choose. Did you listen to this one? I did. It was fun. It definitely went down the rabbit hole.
What happens when you choose wisely or unwisely with what they call it, I guess, your inputs to
chat GTP? Yeah, and I think chat GPD is similar to a bit an awful lot about it, and I find it
very similar to any other tool. You can use it for good or you can use it for evil. You can also
drive it in a particular direction quite easily. But at the end of the day, whatever produces
you're responsible for it. So that's kind of the way it is. So great if it reduces something
that you're comfortable with, not so great if you're legally on the line for what it did produce
because you posted it with your name. So the following day, we had the second new year show,
and I'm really enjoying these, and I'm enjoying all the links that are associated with them,
track down. Some guy in the 2000 HP Lovecraft did a fantastic job with these episodes.
Yeah, the show notes are amazing. I have to admit, I have to be in the right mood to listen to
the new news because there's so long. So I haven't really, I sort of skipped here and there
through them. I hadn't listened to them fully, but I do the links are amazing. I love just going
and browsing and going, oh, wait, I forgot about that. Or, oh, wow, this is, you know,
I really want to check up on that. And I've gone into work and I've quite a long commute,
so I listen to them on that. But sometimes, you know, you stop in the middle and then my
player resets, and I don't know where I am, but the show notes really help because you can just
skip through to, oh yeah, they were there. So that's about two courses away. So it really,
really helps. It's, there was a lot of the guys from Dylan's Logcast on as well. So that,
sometimes I think it was just a Linux Logcast for your show, but yeah, I was very good, very good.
I enjoyed it. So the next day we had Document File formats from Wikipedia, RG72, giving us
Document File formats from Wikipedia, what says on the tin. And no comments on this, but it was
actually, again, a good reminder of the various different types that are available out there. So
yeah, now I'm enjoying is going over these different like formats in the the various episodes
like this. So the day after that was of course the community news, and there was a comment,
yes, we were controversial. Let's see what the comment was, RG72, karaoke. Oh, do you want to do
this one? Sure, karaoke. I do keep the project that I work on, including the karaoke machine.
What I don't do is use it for the intended function. So it is used for the tape and a track portion
of the device. At least one of the microphone inputs work as that is how I recorded to the cassette
tape. I don't know, I kind of think I want to, now I want an episode of it being used in its
intended purpose. Yeah, exactly. This was related to certain comments that were made on the
on the new show about that. Yeah. So the next day we had Brian in Ohio with P-Paul builds a
computer. So P-Paul is grounded Brian, I guess. And Mechiotronic says, good to see someone else
doing Arduino stuff. However, your code is not sketch code and will not compile on an Arduino
IDE. You mentioned fourth. What software are you using to compile? Then comment two is from Mechiotronic
again. He looks like he posts just the link to the source forage flash four. Note and let's
that was yeah. And then Brian and I are set. Yeah. Yeah, Brian didn't Brian and Hi replies.
Fourth shows you could listen to HPR 3477 and HPR 3537. They explain running fourth on our
Dreno boards. I'm using flash fourth as an explanation on this excellent implementation of this
fourth can be found at flashforth.com. This is not a sketch. It is a fourth that runs on the
board and allows interactive control of the micro controller. A little hardcore. Yes.
Yes. You're working right there on the metal. Yes. The ones and zeros. Yes.
Hello. Anybody dead? You're here at last. We're saving. I had to re-boot this thing, throw a
holy water on it or something to get it to work. But yes, I am here. Welcome. Welcome. Thank you.
We're at episode 3806 Funquale, a social media platform to enjoy and share music.
Can interviews Kieran Ainsworth about Funquale and let's you listen and share music and audio.
So Dave, as you're late, you can read out the first comment.
I was going to make my own comment first. That was actually really good. I hadn't realized that
Kieran was on the new year show. He was on quite a long time. So he was quite an interesting
guy to listen to. This show was really good. I enjoyed this very much and now I will read a
comment. First, I will find a comment. While you were talking about that, I didn't know either
until I heard this show this month and then it became obvious. Oh, that's who he is.
And after the show, we had another about an hour of a conversation where we were just
shooting the breeze and I should have recorded all of that. He's got tons of interesting
things to say. He's done a lot of good stuff and knows a lot. So yeah, fascinating guy.
So first comment, D&T on Funquale says great interview. Thanks for this. I followed the tip
about downloading the Funquale app for Android and doing anonymous authentication on open audio.
Pretty nice. Using the radios, you can get some nice tunes. I've tried to install Funquale
a long time ago, but failed. In the end, I'd just set up MPD and listen through the HTTP
output. This show definitely renews my interest. I also enjoyed your brief discussion about
copyright, which you said you should continue over a pint sensibly. Yes, I would have a comment
on that, but it would be too long for this. So it may come in another form.
Actually, if there's somebody who wants to join with me about ports of
uncopyright doing a show or doing a series, record your thoughts on copyright and send it in.
That would be awesome. So Windigo says, picked interest. Thanks for the great interview.
I've never heard of this offer before, but it sounds very appealing, looking forward to investigating
further. Me too, actually, I'd quite like to check this out when I get a moment.
Yeah, I've been thinking about it too. I definitely have some CDs and stuff floating around here
that I've ripped at various times, but I think maybe time to redo it again and have a nice
server to get to them from. Quite a collection of the best of CC hits, studness. That would be
just perfect for having out on the interwebs just as a radio station. Yeah, yeah, that would be great.
Yeah, that would be super. Yeah, I'd really like to do this. I've gone through a whole bunch of
music players under KDE. I think it's called Strawberry or something. Now, the latest one I'm using,
I can't remember, but yeah, this sounds like a better solution to that type of thing.
So the following day, we had the available post-apocalyptic podcast player built a $3 MP3 player
in one hour, and be sure to be stopped by the TSA as you travel to the airport control.
Okay, the last bit was another, but really, this is exactly why I like having
on the network for this sort of stuff. Yes, this is, this is amazing. I've often thought we're
doing this. In fact, I was just listening to a, I was just following a thing on the Rockbox list
where people are saying, can we not run Rockbox on an ESP32? And they were saying, oh no,
but you could run it on a Pi0, but I think Makatonix done better than that.
So what he has done is cobbled together and I feel cobbled together will be the correct word
various different components and duct take them literally together to make an MP3 player from
an Arduino and various different bits and pieces. It'll be very good.
Whose turn is it to do the comment? First comment will be
the first comment. So the first comment is by some guy on the internet.
The Normies wouldn't like it. Do you leave home with this device? If so, are you arrested for
having that device? I imagine myself being arrested if I walked around with something like this.
Thank you for providing this show. Yes. Great comment. I'll do Makatonix.
Next, Captions, he says. Picture 1 shows the slit in the lid where the SD card resides.
SD card and slot are protected from being bumped by the strategically placed glued lid.
Picture 2 shows charging. Yes. Micro SB chord is coming in from the bottom LED on charging
board illuminates brightly. Picture 3 shows both boards glued to bottom lid with the top lid off.
Great. Good stuff. We should send that in with the show.
It was a little bit sparse without those explanations. Maybe we should add them into the show,
would you think? Yeah, add that to the list third if.
Norris says premium HPR content. This is a very cool project. More like this, please.
Couldn't agree more. And Makatonix in reply. Some guy on the internet, check your local regulations
smiley face. This reminds me of traveling to the US with a server
was in the hold and then all the hard disks, the slotting hard disks were in a box that I carried on
board. And I had to explain what they were. I had a picture of some
hardware magazine and I was able to point it. Look, they're this. And then I got on. But
since then they're not so lazy fair with letting people on the plane.
Anyway, Clifton, which apparently is in Arizona and not over in Galway, Ireland.
And this is Ahuka. Tok, Tok, the RV over to there. And loads of pictures about different
various different minds and stuff. And Zen Flutter, I think it's my turn, said upstays.
Ah, the famous silver mine, silver bell mines. And where a few squirrels go as there are no trees
other than cactus. Yep, yep. Follow that. I was talking to Ahuka about that
with the mastodon on mastodon. I feel like we're missing commons on mastodon, but
but just are we allowed to take commons from mastodon or not? That would be a thing. Because they
do get annoyed if you archive commons and stuff or interactions with people.
Oh, the mastodon project itself. No, on the HBR social media is where I post HBR post a
over to Twitter, but we're also supposed to mastodon or the Fediverse with a comment every time
that every day there's a show poster. We post a show. And then I tend to reply to that,
copying in the summary from us from the show and basically and then underneath put in the
hashtag today on HAKA Public Radio, HPR Loves Creative Commons. And then sometimes people
and I tried to tag the members of the community who were in the show, which brings up two topics
actually, three actually. In that and then quite often people will respond going, you know, it was
and in that one I said I didn't know Trifton was in Arizona and not in Goa and Ahuka and I were
in a discussion about it. So is it okay to put those posts into this show? That is a question number
one. And question number two, how will we do that? And question number three would be should we
also be gathering mastodon or Fediverse addresses from our holes so that we can include them in those
CC them and their projects in those social media polls? That did sort of bring up something I
thought about. I mean, I know generally and maybe we can should be in a different section of this,
but quickly was just maybe if people post in their profile their various things they are happy
to have publicly known then that's sort of the key to, you know, what we're allowed then to
quote from. Excellent. So for example, if we put in a new field on the host page and when
they upload a show and they fill in their mastodon ID we can have underneath their any comments
from this account to HBR or to the project will be included in the show notes. Yeah, fair enough.
Yeah, a fair number of people have done that I think. Certainly noticed Twitter and LinkedIn
and stuff in people's profile. So yeah, sounds reasonable to me. And there was one more thing
I wanted to say about that social media stuff, yes, that we would like you when you're putting
in the summary in to make it a turn person past tense if that's a thing for that very reason
that makes it easier. I have recorded the show about Acme Products Bla is then I need to go in and
change it to Ken has recorded the show about Acme Products. It just makes life easier if you do
it in the third person. Would this just be in the description or in the show notes itself?
Summary. So on the on the show that we're looking at next is Make Five Four and Names Pipes is the
title and the summary is have you ever named a pipe? If not, this is the absolute you'd be
waiting for. And you can imagine underneath that today on Hacker Public Radio. I see. So I
reply to what goes out on let me bring it up here from Friday. So Tweet Deck HPR, which is also
mastered on HPR asked bots in space, posts every day based on a script and they post on Friday. New
post. Hacker Public Radio 3H25, creating a natural aquarium and then via Hacker Public Radio,
hashtag HPR and I link to the show March 31st blah blah blah blah. And then there's a link to that.
So what they posted is basically the title creating a natural aquarium. But I replied to that using
my own personal account and I say at HPR setting up your first and then I used they I used a
a summary field as my common. So setting up your first natural, sustained, fresh aquarium,
today on Hacker Public Radio Community Podcast, hashtags all over the show. HPR loves
Creative Commons also to hashtags. So that makes those tags come up and it makes
an opportunity. So then if I had if Minix had an account I could then go CC Minix on that and then
they could respond just as by the way. Okay we're way off track here. So the next day there was two
comments on that show almost by Dave Morris who will do it in the voice of Dave Morris.
I think you've rushed ahead there. Have you not? Have a lot? We're still on make fee.
No are we not? Oh yeah we are. We're just too sure about yeah because I went sorry
have you ever named a pipe and this is about named pipes. I'm basically asking the question
would you use them? Why would you use them? Good show actually. Yeah I liked it.
I've seen them. I mean it's something you bump into occasionally if you've used Unix long
enough but never really seen why I want to use them. That's pretty much Class 2's conclusion as
well. It's not as if you can use it like you can throw stuff in it and say you know you guys
over there can come and read this whenever you feel like it. You've got to you've got to prepare
all the connections before you can really use it. So it's a way of broadcasting a thing to a bunch
of people I guess. If you have multiple processes reading which you can do but I don't know
my use of Linux is not as advanced as that so I don't know. Yeah I love Class 2's like fine
like because it's something like the MK make FIFO I'd seen before it never really understood it.
Of course in a now I do the funny thing is it's like one of those things where you know you see
something or you like get a new car or you get a new something and now all of a sudden you see
them everywhere like just the other day I was looking to do something on work and the example said
you can do this with a temporary file or you can use named pipes. It had an example. I don't
remember seeing anything like that in like the last year or two and now all of a sudden it like
showed up. I could see this like in a script if you like we're making a tent file that you were
you know creating and erasing and creating and erasing from like a loop of things so maybe
you just use the name pipe where you know that it's only going to be used you know when it's
going to be used there's not going to be something else coming in and not all of a sudden
using it at the you know in parallel to you or something. Yeah it's interesting maybe we should
do shows about how you would use name pipes or putting comments on the show because it's
interesting actually. I mean security wise it might be a thing where you could you know log in
on one terminal I have another terminal of just a dome terminal pumping up this information but
yeah okay yeah so there should be a competition for who can come up with the good use for
good use for open also absolutely completely totally impractical use for the whole speaker yeah yeah
anyway the following day if I may we are the next thing people's computer does nothing
and he's building a Z easy new op tester which is pretty cool as well. This is very
enjoying these shows. Yeah yeah the concept of using an Arduino as the as the thing that controls
the yes the Z80 is something I would not have thought of. I guess if you're into the fourth then
then that just sort of comes naturally or you could write it in assemblers or whatever I guess but
fourth must be must be easier to use but yeah it's it's really clever. It took me one to get my
head around it have to admit but yeah really really good stuff. So there are no comments to this one
as yes and the following day we welcomed a new podcast to the free culture podcast family and
that is post-markered OS podcast which I've subscribed to and we added a sample show from Hardly
Enough, Foste. It was interesting I definitely went and visited their site after listening
listening to the show. Well the post-market OS. I'd heard the name or come across the name
and thought what is this I don't know and sort of moved on but I mean this this this clarified a
lot I felt but the yeah I think the site probably needs explanation for numbers like me
so why would why you would want it what it is but yeah I got the just just of running on a
pine phone was one of the things being discussed wasn't it so sounded like it was was quite a
quite a useful thing to be able to do yeah. I think there are websites and this isn't just
their website could do with you know right there what it is what is it it's basically they're trying
to come up with an operating system for mobile phones that will continue to work after the
companies who've released them have ditched them and even they're doing any type of phone at all
so yeah yes yes I agree that supporting them forever. I gather that that was the thinking behind
the name which is quite clever and it isn't an amazing requirement that so many people would
make use of I think I hear more and more people saying well he's damned phones you know when
they reach a certain age in their junk but only because somebody says the junk not because they
really are and yeah and a solution fight back against that sort of capitalist nonsense is really
needed so yeah all careful stand back with your far far far left opinions come
the fact that we're all capitalist slaves is not is gradually dawning on people I think so I
won't be I'll be saying the viewers are entirely here's not really to hyper public reading and
many more actually many more but anyway yes I was I was a staunch union member so I'm definitely
on that side of things so anyway yeah yeah good show in very interesting very good and
where were we big run to the new year show episode number three that will be a good thing
oh there are four comments on this uh whose turn is it mine I don't seem to have done one for a while
should I start this one off yep for a okay stash AF says I need to speak up apparently I
need to speak up more because I got really cut off by the silence truncation I also wanted to make
sure the link to the ham clock software got put in and it gives a link to to that particular thing
so yeah and for comment number two some got from some guy on the internet I vote for push to talk
feature long format shows I've included this simple how-to video for mumble users it covers
toggle self mute and push to talk key bindings we should really have some kind of reminder during
these events to help with the frantic keyboard noise issues and then he has a link to a youtube
video and I've just sent that to myself try this to my to-do list to put that up I asked what
license that was under and he replied with a CC by a essay 4.0 and he's also included a shorter
video in the description and both are available so I'm going to add that to our website once I'm
get time I forgot to look at that that sounds really really useful because there was a lot of
background noise in that particular episode so that was all about wasn't it so
yeah cool cool next one was the unifvac uniscope the first terminal for with the video monitor this
was by delta ray x and show loved it very much and great links as well yes I did shy do the comment
please comment from mirror what mirror we second delete key like it points to the carriage return
hello love the show it's sometimes nice to remember where we came from to better appreciate what
we have now just one thought could the second delete key have been the carriage return key
lying feed and returning to the first character of a line or separate signals after all or at
least they were back then regards mirror we so me me next year delta ray says documentation on
keyboard layout I found this module in pdf there's a description of several of the keys on univac
terminals at the time and he gives a rather long link to it so yeah these these manuals are great
by the way they look like they've really been around the the block a few times and yeah been used
been used to steady desks or something along the way it it got me thinking actually this because
unicis univac became unicis and along the way boroughs computers was was absorbed so there's a
there's a company called unicis now which is the merger of many companies including univac
and boroughs and I when I when I first moved to Edinburgh in 81 I was in charge of a boroughs B
69 30 machine and it had some very very bizarre to me anyway equipment involved with it I
should maybe dig up some some of the stuff I have still with some references to it and do
something equivalent to this because it it it's a very very different way of seeing the world
of IT so yeah good very good show I enjoyed it so the next day we had post-it up
up pot elliptic 4s 5 battery pack and if you work and stop to the airport with the previous
mp3 file you were definitely going to get stuffed for this tough battery design worthy of a post
apocalyptic robotic database and he gives a wiring diagram and very dodgy layout of old crappy batteries
I can't imagine but they are heavily damaged by soldering them so much that's why I think they
recommend spot welding however this is the post apocalyptic world and you need to do what you need
to do yeah yeah it's pretty amazing I love this video I kind of want to try it but I love the part
where he says make sure I think it says make sure you have a was it tongs in an opening nearby
yeah yeah don't yeah don't try building building yeah I tried in the side yeah it's probably the
same way yeah yeah yeah I'd like to hear some of the harder hackers electronic guys electronic
engineers comments on this one particularly have a look at the photos and tell me what you think
so the next day we had oh no news by some guy on the internet which is a new series on
privacy and security I guess in the news and other things that he comes across this one was
recent data breaches trust finder team mobile the SEC
terraform issues and Ubuntu flavors packaging of defaults was covered in this show yeah I
really like this series and I think is it do we need to tweak something in the database to add
the series and I don't or did I just not see might not on the right page to see the series
information series are something that kind of happen we are either somebody requests it is usually
more than three three episodes make a series so quite often we will go back and retrofit
series is once they become a series because I have an inbox full of people telling me what series
they're going to be doing and then tumble another one another log an audio version of tumble we
going across it the screen is what inserts that image there in your head
it felt like we had reached oh no news three episodes but maybe I'm I'm just misremembering because
um some guy on the internet is is a very productive these days and his various shows I could just be
counting your options you're probably absolutely correct we get probably have reached three
episodes already but we often met the series yes it tends to be that we we suddenly realize oh
we need to do a series for somebody says could I have a series please for the show the five shows
I'm already done then and then we yeah we do it yeah so we're not exactly on the ball with it but
we get there and the question is is this one privacy and security yep yep good point good question
and you will have a think about it anyway this is Brian and Ohio with the no op test
redux because there was an issue and he fixed it and I followed along during the show and now
I'm not following along looking at the code never actually done only fourth programming at all
I tinkered a tiny amount on my BBC micro back in the day there was a fourth run that you could
you could get for it but um yeah it's it's you need something you need to use a lot I think to
really get and fourth is one of those that I've known about for a long time and like every time
it comes up I'm like oh that's really neat and I'll go read up on it again and look at some examples
but I've never you know like they've said it's just like I've never found a project where I've like
let me just where it made a lot of sense or was worth the the up you know ramping up time to
to do it so I've never actually worked with it but I'm you know I'm loving the way he's describing
it and um it's definitely becoming more appealing to want to find something to do
I had um I still have somewhere in the attic a a synthesizer which was driven by a BBC
micro 6502 machine which you plugged into the the tube port on it so called um and uh it was driven
by a programming language which they called ample which was derived from fourth so it was all
reverse Polish stuff and and things and and it was also asynchronous so you could have multiple
voices I think it had 16 voices or something I can't remember it wasn't massively expensive I've
got it a second hand but uh you could make some quite impressive sounds with it but um it's
probably probably rotted away in my attic by now but uh if I find it I shall try and resurrect it
but yeah yeah so ample was a strange strange language but it was quite an effective and it
was incredibly efficient so you know just a 6502 could manage to run the multiple threads that it
needed to to um to produce different different sounds out of this this device so yeah that was
the closest I've really been to fourth in in in in reality okay cool sorry just got distracted
there Dave I have a question for you after this okay it's actually about I have a variable
that contains a directory name which might be full relative but how do I convert a directory into
the full full relative path what's the one where it's the full path slash slash slash ohm slash
again slash glass slash glass slash glass what's up all again we three head to this discussion
absolute path yeah absolutely convert a path which might be relative to an absolute path
you don't know what it's what it's relative to and if you know what it's relative to that's
the bit you're missing yeah so that's not here yeah but it might be an absolute path another
relative path okay so recognizing whether it's absolute or relative yeah so I've got a variable
that's there could be dot slash path slash two slash file or it could be slash ohm slash
user slash path slash two slash file anyway that's uh something I'll think about from them not
recording the podcast that's a that's something I'll answer when we're not recording a
portrait if I can anyway exactly following Dave John Colpe from Lafayette Louisiana back with
another shot glad to hear it remapping most buttons with x bind keys and Linux this one I'm adding
to my uh list of useful stuff yeah same here same here I've got a mouse with with buttons along
the side of it it's a gaming mouse and these buttons do something weird like go back go backwards
in in a browser history which is pretty useless because I just hit max and usually but it would be
great to reprogramming it looks like I can so yeah yeah I'm definitely going to be following this
one up on a go moment that's the one thing I did wonder with these days with more uh keep you
people distributions going to wail and I mean I guess if you're using x wail and this would
still work but like if like maybe there's something different that needs to be done if you're on the
wail and uh server compass or compasses or mm-hmm yeah that's a really good point my my brain is steeped
in x since about since the old tricks and hpu x days which a long time ago um 80s maybe
so yeah I can't really think in anything other than x thingies so learning wail and I imagine
to be a bit of a bit of an uphill struggle for my old brain but um yeah it's it's definitely I
mean wail and it's going to be the could be much better to use I think so x is massive and huge
full of bugs and stuff but uh the getting getting there to be able to use all the features that
you may be used to in x windows is going to be a bit of a strange thing for people who've been
using it a long time I don't think a lot of that stuff is even going to be ever supported
but apparently what you can do is start up a next smaller x server and then
uh use those tools so hard to them it was quite quite common for people at the university I
worked out to to um run an x server against a physical server you know there was a big multi-user
machine and they would they would run x sessions on a pc from it although we discourage it of course
it was it wasn't fast enough to handle too much of that but um you know it was it's a fairly
fairly common thing for people to want to do oh and it's not in wail and is it you can't do that in
wail and no exactly but a show on wail and then the differences between wail and the benefits of us
on what we're going to lose based on x would be ideal sort of controversy shows that we would
love to have here in hgur absolutely yes also good to see john back absolutely yes i was about to
say the same thing it was uh good to hear him again he's off riding motorbikes he said he's learning
to ride a little bit good for him somehow some soundscape shows might be a call for there
following day we had ahuka introduction to gaming which is computer strategy games part of that
series hmm did we not just go and create another gaming no that's that is that is the very thing we
we created to be today yeah you weren't there at the time in in in in body in spirit or something
but yeah yeah that's what i did fantastic also uh if you put real path in in front of that command
it'll convert it to the full path that's a tool i use all the time to do the path okay okay yeah
yeah i've seen it never used it but yeah cool that fixed my issue and this was yeah uh actually
quite interesting because i've never uh never really been into games like civilization but
it was good to you know follow some of the else's appreciation of a game and why they were
into it and and various different versions and stuff so i did enjoy the show yeah yeah go on
sorry no problem i i i didn't try i played it a little bit i think when it came back i do remember
because i think um i think it was the civilization the the company is actually located um a little
north of me i'm pretty sure it was this this um whichever the company is i can't remember um
micropros is it now micropros um but i think it was like they were between civilization and
civilization two or maybe it was two and three and i was at university here and um i knew a professor
who was teaching human computer interactions at the time and he got a tour for a bunch of us to go
up there and saw their studios at this point they definitely had a little more money i think because
they actually had like a full on audio studio for the voiceover you know i think this is at the time
when they were adding you know it was like cd roms and adding the cutscenes and maybe and stuff
like that so and then we got to see where they did stuff it was pretty neat cool so we're getting
close to them to the month here and other ono news uh this time malware and security breaches
goddaddy issues um uh chick filler customers never heard of that company it's actually called
chickfulay but it's uh i always call it chickofilla but so i was loving the fact that you almost
pronounced it exactly how i do it in in just well this is something i'm guaranteed to bring bad
pronunciation here does it does it does it self fillet is some sort bonus chickens or something like
that it's the most bizarre name that i've ever seen in my life they're big on um chicken sandwiches so
yeah chicken breast sandwiches and then chicken nuggets it's it's pretty popular here at least on
the east coast um and uh yeah i don't have to go into it but yeah so it is if there will be a
number of us uh listeners who recognize the the brand i'm sure yeah yeah yeah i've heard the name
but but it but the the the actual spelling of it really really grinds my gears somewhat it's really
foul actually foul and that wasn't meant to be a pun but uh yeah it uh yeah i i i i i don't think
i should look if it ever eros on the on these shores i don't think i'll be running to uh to
some point we found ourselves the the nearest place to eat when we were in the outskirts of um
Los Angeles was uh an i-hop and that was the most disgusting place i've ever been to
oh house of pancakes absolutely just uh yuck really unpleasant i have to say uh
chicken fillet or chick fillet has uh some of the best lemonade that i you can find if you're
you're out and about i that is the one thing that always draws me back
yeah yeah well that's good it's uh it's i think we we uh we well my family trying to avoid all the
the chain um restaurants and that sort of thing as much as we possibly can so we we we may be
bit snobbish as far as that's concerned that uh yeah anyway so the following day which is getting
close bookworm and what did we miss did we miss a comment on that show yes uh shall i read it
having brought it to our attention tray says mastered on christian mark these new shorts are great
keep them up you mentioned your master on what username should we use to connect with you there
yeah and you replied with his handle yep tail of wonder angston will dissecting a
covid watch issued by the Hong Kong Department of Health this was interesting this is you know
just in general interesting how some how different countries uh tractors and stuff
is it much harder to do a uh comment or not did i take it i can take it i can take this one
yep uh so a comment from when to go wrist device i've worked with some GPS tracking hardware
and they're usually much bulkier and require much larger batteries than uh 2050 cell
if i had to guess i would say your wrist device had one purpose to make sure your wrist was
inside it your phone app probably took care of any and all tracking required that wrist
device simply detected when you cut through that copper band breaking the circuit and alerted your
phone via bluetooth your phone has all the record requisite tracking hardware but it's not physically
connected to you leave it behind and you'd be out of quarantine but not if they had a device attached
to your body which could detect if its band had been disconnected yep yep that kind of makes sense
once there's some sort of tag on there that checked to see if it was on your body
whilst it was it was fixed and the only way to get it off was to cut it off I think
oh yeah yeah yeah yeah it's one of those like hospital wrist thingy exactly the baby things
that they have for keeping track yeah yeah so that kind of makes sense so that thing communicates
with your phone app and then yeah all the heavy lifting stone on the floor and this is why you do
answer questions by experts in the field yeah it's good great great comment
git pages for website hosting three examples using git labs cicd continuous integration
continuous deployment to generate a website how it works these were cool sponsor
about that but that totally motivated by the move to the static site basically
I reckon also for a lot of people doing my work for me yep yeah it's a great job that
and equation essentially I think partly inspired and we'll be in the later section ah some updates
to the static site um and related to this and some of the things when you're setting it up
So I'm just going to say it looks like a really good feature and I'm going to install
GITTY on my Raspberry Pi soon because I like to have a local repository here and I discovered
that it also has CICD capabilities. I don't know much about what it offers but I would
quite like to learn how to use it on GITTY so this was a good hit up.
So the last one for the month I think Dave is that's correct. One was a Thursday, two more
two more. New Year's show episode four is the last one that I listened to. What's this
on? It was excellent. It was loads of people talking loads of people having a good time
loads of people on exactly what we like to hear on the community news or on the New
Year show. Brilliant. Yeah, content was great. I thought yeah, a little bit of noise
is off and talking about one another but that's so hard not to do when there's delays and
whatever. So yeah, I thought it was a great episode. Time like people don't always do
it on purpose. It's you know, you get the, you know, just like where you were talking
about that we don't have the names of the people who were on the show. I do miss that
actually. Yeah, yeah. It suddenly occurred to me that yeah, it was, it was some spore
effort. Kiran who we spoke about earlier on who was, who was talking, saying some interesting
stuff on that show and I could not place his, his voice. I've never, don't think I've
ever met him. Though he's, you would go to Fosdemar really, but we probably never, never
bumped into him. But yeah, so it would have been really nice to know at least who was there
because I recognize some of the other voices from other contexts. So it would be nice to
have a list of who, who was in each section. We used to do that before but that was of course
everybody used the, the, the pad I think, wasn't it? People sort of logged into there and
then, then, then made comments at various points. So you knew that they were around at that
time. So I also, I also exported the mumble chassis, which I didn't do this year. Yeah, yeah.
I just, it was just a thing I thought would be nice. I don't really, if everybody else
feels the same, but it, it's, it's useful just to know who you're hearing, talking on these
things I find. Yeah, absolutely. I missed that because I can't even think of his name now.
He's on every year, he's from the UK and he's into Majara and there's promised me
that he's never done them. That's said, said, said, said, said, said, said, yes, yes, and I couldn't,
he's, he asked me, he came to the booth, a foster, just as we were packing up to leave and
he was challenging me to remember his name, which I completely remember, remember who I married to,
I love him off. He was on a newer shot.
It's a good guy. Yeah, yeah, I've sat and chatted with him a few times at
Old Campson and that type of thing. So yeah, in fact, he was sat beside me when I won that
blooming laptop at one of the Old Camps. So yeah, he'd never let me let me get away with that one.
It should have been me. I could have had that laptop. Very good, very good.
So one more show then, indeed. So this is, yeah, go ahead. Creating a natural aquarium
and I was, I'm chattering because I was the first comment on here because I just felt it needed,
needed a comment from somebody. And I said, great and fascinating show. Hi, Minix.
I found your show very interesting and great to listen to. I have a degree in zoology,
so I'm acquainted with some of the stuff you're talking about, but I've never kept fish myself.
So a lot was new to me. I'm not sure I have the resources to start now, but the idea of building
a complete ecosystem is very attractive. I hope you'll do more shows on this subject. Thanks, Dave.
And then Minix replied, thanks, Dave. Hi, Dave. Appreciate the feedback. I just finished editing a
video of me creating a natural aquarium. I'll post a link to it here in the comments once I publish it.
I mainly wanted to explain how this hobby is accessible to everyone and it's and that the closer
you get to how a natural system actually works, the healthier your aquarium will be as well as
lowering maintenance cheers. Yeah, I think it's a pending comment in the queue at the moment,
so it will appear later on today, but not there now. Yeah, I found this really fascinating too.
I've never really had an interest in having an aquarium, and the closest I've had is having
a bait of fish in a little bowl for about a year. But the whole idea of the natural aquarium,
particularly the part about, you know, if you can get it balanced, then you don't really have to do
anything except add a little more water to it every now and again. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's really
the thing, isn't it? Because it also, you need a really good understanding of what's going on in
that body of water and all the various organisms in there are doing and stuff. So it's quite,
you have to have a fairly good insight. It's only builds your understanding of the world and
environment at large, I think, by doing that type of thing. So I listened to this show and thought,
I should really do this. But I don't know, but I'd have the time to do the looking after. But
anyway, it would be fun to do. I really like the idea. I would like to have something similar for
an outdoor pool where we're looking up in an outdoor pool and our pond, outdoor pond. So that
would be awesome if somebody's experience of that as well. The idea would be the same. The biggest
is run off and rain, you know, changing the balance of things. Exactly. I've been doing dipping
my toe, boom, boom, into the topic a little bit, but if people have suggestions, then I would
love to hear sort of a cause where we're being asked to provide more locations for rain water.
And there's a requirement on each of the counts. This is a problem when you live under sea level.
There's a requirement on each of the counts to be able to absorb a quantity of either
spill off water from the rivers for a period of time and stuff. So that may be passed on to the
homeowners at some point. Plus, it's a good thing for your ecology in your neighborhood.
They say putting in a pond is one of the best things you can do for wildlife.
Anyway, comments on previous shows, Dave. There was a comment on 3, 4, 3, 4, which you all remember
as from 0 to 8 in 30 minutes by Clat 2, building a cluster. And that was where Clat 2. That's where
Clat 2 built Kubernetes cluster, run on a website and roof website to traffic. So basically,
good show, one which I'm also using as well. Note to self, Dave, we should also have on the
comments page and also you, Ron, I guess, underneath that, we should have a summary of the show as
well that would help one more giving feedback. You read in this comment and you forget what it
was about exactly to jump back to see it. Actually, that's your script, Dave. It is my script that
have created this wonderful thing that nobody sees, but I listed that interested. But yeah, it's
not going to be trivial, though, because I don't have summaries of shows. There are no summaries.
So how would you make them? There is a summary of the show. Well, there's a summary line, but
is that not necessarily a summary of the show? Yeah, well, it should be a summary of the show.
Well, yeah, okay. If you just want the summary itself, as well as the title, that's simple.
That's what I'd like to say. That is simple. And you can throw the tags in as well, Dave,
when you're at it. And also, my walking needs to be picked up for 4.30.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Did Janet's life as a hard one?
From time to time, you're busted.
Okay, anyway, the comments everybody is going, what are they all about? Build a cluster interact.
This is my great, who said, went back to this well-remembered show and used it to build an 8-mill cluster
of pi4s in a 4-U rack. One controller, seven nodes, great show, easy to follow.
This I have done because I need to get gripped with OpenShift for work. End of comment.
Excellent idea. Want to do exactly the same thing, although I don't know where Mike is getting
8 Raspberry pi4s at this point in time. He knows a man who knows a man, obviously.
I was just thinking the same thing.
And Delta Royce, comment, bye.
So, Delta Royce, Retro.
Comment, Reto, Retro, Reto. Is that, oh, Reto is commented on noise towards the second choice.
I was wondering why people who do podcasting by sensitive condenser microphones to understand
it is recommended to watch five seconds of this video. The microphone in action,
when you spin it away from your mouth and then it gives a link to a YouTube video, I used a microphone
for Teams calls. Teams, I guess, has some noise canceling in the software as well. Well, I could
hardly understand the person speaking to me because of the lawnmower outside my window.
The mower was not heard by the other person. What's the difference between dynamic and
condenser microphones? And then he gives another link to a page. And this is for
and comment on it. HPR 3751. That's great. Actually, I was intrigued by the subject
I went hunting for. I've got condenser mic here. And I had to turn my wash machine,
otherwise you wouldn't hear me. And also the fan heater that came on at five o'clock.
So yeah, I can see that having a dynamic microphone would be preferable and I shall
look into buying one at some stage. But yeah, interesting point is there. Thank you.
So I'm going to show you the next one. Yes. Please, yes. It's show 37616 HPR Community News for
December 2022 is commented on by Kevin O'Brien who says travel journals. He says, I know this is
late, but I was traveling when it came out and I'm just catching up now. They've made a comment
that it sounded like I was reading from a journal when he commented on my show about Southern Arizona.
Indeed, that's mean my practice going back to a trip to San Francisco in 1979 or I got engaged
to my lovely wife. I think it's well worth the effort to keep your memories alive.
Now that I'm getting up in years, I've decided that I don't need more stuff. I just want more
memories. So I keep a journal on all of my trips and I plan to keep doing it. Wow, that's a t-shirt.
That's great. I don't need more stuff. I just want more memories. Awesome. Yeah, absolutely.
So yes, I had assumed that he was doing that. I have done that myself in the past for some
holidays, some long journeys of taking, but I've never known quite what to do with the journals
at the end of it. So they're just sort of in a drawer somewhere that, yeah, I should maybe take
a leaf out of a hooker's book here and turn them into something, type them up at very least.
So they, we've skipped over to the green one, obsolete audio device rules by John Culp
in relation to Arthur 72's show about retro karaoke machines restored. John says, what a beautiful
machine. So glad you got to work and recorded an episode about it. Love it. Now if you could only
source some vintage karaoke tips in both formats and sing along for demonstration.
I said in that opinion. Yeah, I'm sure. Arthur 72 is just waiting for that call.
So I can take this last one. So for episode 3802, Attack of Squish Melos by Ron,
we have a comment from Kevin O'Brien, impressive undertaking. I'm very impressed with this. You
should definitely feel a sense of accomplishment. I did. And it was definitely appreciated in
the family. That's for sure. I am very good. I did not know what a Squish Melo was. I went down a
rabbit hole finding out. Apparently they all have names too. Of course they do. And they're all
collectibles, et cetera, et cetera. Anyway, the shows were already an hour in and hour and 12.
So there are questions on the feed, or on the mail list, which is where the community,
the parliament of HPR, you might say. And Mark Rice had a question about the future feed,
and for those who don't know, the future feed is, we have the regular feed which releases
just shows every day, Monday to Friday, and we'll only release shows that I've come out
that day, whereas the future feed extends into all the shows in the future, or at least 10 of them.
And if you listen to that, you can do some airports proof reading, proof listening
onto the shows that are upcoming. And Mark says, hi, Ken, this is probably a me problem,
but when I play future shows from the RSS feed, they sound like the two, like my Bluetooth earbuds
are being hit by static. This is not so when I follow the link, I've done no org and download
the MP3 or the opus file. Like I mentioned, this is probably an isolated problem. Regardless,
would it be possible to add the MP3 feed to future shows? And do you want to do Jason Dodd's one, Dave?
Yes, Jason says, for what it's worth, I've been using the future feed for at least a year,
and I've had no issues with sound quality. And
Roll, then I was just on this day. I'm having problems or you can do daves in the soft
Jackson. I listen to the future feed. I'm hitting all the wrong links to get to
I'm doing the previous message by thread rather than the next message by thread. Not very
bright today. Anyway, yes, I said, hi, I've also listened to the future feed. I find it's the heart.
It's the best way to make sure that I've listened to all the shows in the month before the community
news recording. It's amazing. I'm using a tenor pod and all sounds just fine to me. I would have
thought that something like the following year old would get you future shows in MP3 format,
but it seems to start at the newest show and work backwards so you have to know how many to ask for.
And I give him the the the way that you can do the fancy the fancy queries
through the hbrss.php thingy stuff. Yeah, and I say it just so happens that there are 21
future shows at the moment. If you leave off the limit parameter, you get 10 counting backwards
from the highest number. Using your future feed, you get all 21 automatically, but they are
oh, smiley face. But that wasn't his question. And I have had this issue as well. I'm
going to continue to have it. So I will investigate it. I've just sent a note to myself to do more
investigation on this. Anyone else has got a problem like this. Also, please contact us. Thank you.
Then I sent out the following email, which is, hi, all is my pleasure to announce that
Ron has been recommended by the janitors to join their team. He has shown a long term dedication
to the project. I'm happy to report that he's been approved by the hosting team. We believe that
he is sufficiently trusted by the community to take up the official mob of office. But if anyone
has any objections, speak now or forever hold your peace. And I give some links there. So on the show,
if you're listening to Ron is say hi, Ron. Hello, hello. And then we will pass if nobody has
any objection, then the official mob of office will be mailed to him overnight express. I will look
forward to receiving it. So should we do some of the responses? Sure. I can take the next one
from Mark race responded. Congratulations, Ron. And Claudio. Claudio Miranda says congratulations,
Ron. Definitely in support of him joining the HBR janitors. D&T says great news. Thanks, Ron.
And Robert says I tried to put this in the common system, but it wouldn't take it. All you need
looks like you need a learning script. Download all MP3s if you want. This is related to HBR
episode three seven eight three common three. And he has a bash script for downloading all the
episodes, which was actually into a batch script for downloading all or is it a batch script?
Let me check. It's a bash script for downloading all the episodes. And it is gripping a PHP file or a
XML file that is never a good thing to do. Yep, yep. Need a new line in there and you're stuffed.
And I replied, what er, did you guess uploading to the comments feed? And then an Acrochor
or a Necky electronic? Or is that Necky electronic? Let's see, too hard. Just kidding, thanks. I thought
curl did downloads, not that I've ever used it beyond copying it into the terminal from instructions.
I never liked the looks of it. It is an aesthetically off-putting command curl. Yuck makes me want to
hurl. And almost as gross as Gnome with that giant foot on it, foot as a logo. What were they thinking?
I never heard of the area to see command. That one looks nice. I assume the script downloads all
36 inch worth of shows. What is the index of a file in that context? Well, on the summary, on the
get shows page and the advanced, there is a list of how you can download all the shows and
using curl commands and WBAC commands. So,
addition of a rune to the janitorial staff by one some guy on the internet. Hello, everyone.
This sounds like a great idea. Congratulations, Ron. When can you come over and fix my backup script?
I'm joking. Thank you for offering your time and energy towards
bettering our community. And then the last one was Dave and the community news.
Which we wouldn't read. Well, it would be a bit pointless. And also
two-eighths, suckers. But we should say that the community news is open to anybody. It's recorded
this Saturday before the first Monday of the month, which is really weird we have seen it.
And I noticed you had updated in there that it can randomly change because sometimes I forget
or we have audio issues. Yeah, yeah, forget it. Let's face it. And then, yeah, if we know
you're around, we can email you as well. But it's also nice if you have listened to all the shows
in the previous month before joining. That's the kind of helps. Or at least read the transcript.
Upcoming, there's a link in there to upcoming shows. Not a lot. From the LWA community calendar,
if you want to see what's happening next month. And we have some other business.
We do. And it's really your news. Can you play that?
So speaking of the future feed, I was listening to a show where some guy in the internet
at the end of the show asked his guest, Bumblebee, what she thought of the HBR website. And one of
the comments was that she couldn't find the play button and causes at the bottom. And it should be
at the top, which of course it should be. So we put it at the top. So we fix the problem even before
she mentioned us. Isn't that great? That's amazing. It'll be like magic. Exactly. And I opened up my
first pull request ever to to your static site role. So yes, well done. Thank you. I've accepted
your change and it is now merged in. So they should be showing up if not by Monday at the latest
those changes. And that actually inspired me to fix a couple of other things on the static site
that I hadn't gotten to yet. Yeah, there's so they static site now that you're
I'm going to wait for comments to the show. And then I'm going to update the shared
password file that we have to all the various different accounts and stuff send that out to you
as well as put new keys upon to the server and making them account here on various different
bits and bump places that we have around. One of the main things that I'd like to get done ASAP
is getting the static site being automatically generated to the development website that
or subdomain didn't I create that? I think you did. I don't know. Yeah, I created that. And then
what I want to do is that when we're finished either when we have done a comment or whether we have
done posted a show or finished posting our shows that we can go, okay, trigger a refresh of the site
at the end or wait and so that would be cool. But that's on the to-do list. Okay.
I do have so I did come up with my own little go for sort of a summary of where
where things were from the last time we mentioned the static site. So there have been a number of
like, you know, fixes and updates to get it closer to parity with the current PHP site. Our big
news is we now have two official contributors of code wise other than myself. We have Gordon's
and we have Ken Fallon, who have now both contributed and had their code merged in. So I'm very
happy about that. I'm like said, we're happy to take anyone's either like just, you know,
file an issue if you know you find something on the static site, which I think if you go to
HobbyPublicRadio. Is that an org? That's all of them. Yep. And or the hbr.horning.us. Those are
their current ones that are static, statically generated. Or Norris, I think he's running his
on a regular basis too. You can find all the warts, help us find all the warts. That would be great.
If you want to, you know, delve your hand to do fixing stuff, that'd be great also. So to that,
and that actually reply to Norris, his show, and I did update the site generator. So you can now
actually pass it a location of a configuration file. So it doesn't have to be in the same
directory that you ran the code from. And within the configuration file, there's now actually a
way to tell it where to look for templates and where to actually output the HTML. So you don't
have to, he could probably update his the configuration file and then just have the files generated
directly to the correct output directory instead of having to do a move afterwards. So thank you
for those inspirations. And thanks to Gordon's, the static sites, the images are now lazy loaded
using the browser's lazy loading attribute on an IMG. I think that's a relatively recent HTML5
attribute. So basically, they don't all automatically download it. The browser sort of says,
oh, I'm about to come up on an image. Let me pre-download it. So that will hopefully save people
some bandwidth and some loading time when they're browsing on either a slow network or a small
form factor device. Yeah, it seems like a good idea actually. And that's all I have for updates to
the site generator and the static website. Cool. Now, I have a question about non-English shows
during the, as part of the free culture podcast, what we say, and we have what I said to people
was, join free culture podcast and we can put your show out on Hacker Public Radio sample episode
because they're coming to the trouble of doing creative comments and we can spread the live.
So the question is, should we post non-English shows? And I know we've discussed this before and
people have said, yeah, the occasional show seems to be fine. So there's a French one coming out
and Whisper, which is an excellent tool which we can use for transcribing, has the ability
that you can translate to English from a given language. So I was able to point Whisper
or transproving tool to the French podcast that I'm talking about and it was able to generate
text-to-speech translations in English and in French, but in English, which when you're playing
the episode out, if you have the subtitle file, it will put the translations onto the web page
for you into your player as you're going along, which I think is just absolutely awesome.
So with that, what you could do is you could create a text-to-speech show.
So we could release the show with an introduction from me. There'll be an introduction from me
anyway about the show and then just play the show in French on edited as the host wanted it.
We could also play the show and then after the show we could do a text-to-speech
of the translated speech-to-text. So you would have the original French show and then at the end,
you would have the text-to-speech e-speak narrating the show for you. We could just post the text-to-speech
show, which I think is my least favorite option or get this right. In the left channel, you hear
the original show and in the right channel, you hear the text-to-speech in English. So what do you think?
I think the third option leads to madness. I don't know, I'm almost more for
we should maybe have a, like, they're sort of like the as is version as a new give your
introduction. We do the show, but we have the option then to listen to an English version that's
gone through speech-to-text with translation and then back again. I don't know.
I was thinking to the website and then you put that in. Yeah, just have that as an option on the
website as it works. And also the transcribe the transcribe and then the transcriptions. Yeah,
both. You can also divide both like English and yeah French. Good, good. Dave, what do you think?
I was just pondering this one. The thing that bothers me slow, apart from the the left and
right channels, because I'm more deaf in one ear than the other, so I'd have to determine
if I'm trying the other way. The second one, intro, the show, then text-to-speech translation.
The text-to-speech is wonderful, but gets so much wrong if you actually read the text. So if you
then turn that into speech, how much of it would you understand? I think that to me looks like a
good way to go, but not as part of the thing you download. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Something to pick
up separately. And then it might be better than I think that it will be, but yeah, I would be
more inclined to see how we go with the text-to-speech for a while. And then if everybody says, yeah,
that would be fine. I'd be happy with that then. You know, you can offer that as one of the options,
maybe after the show will stand alone. Yeah. So feeling here is, well, from the Polish one,
was the fourth option where you actually hear the original soundtrack, and then the translations
are done like whisper over your shoulder type thing. So that's how they do all the translation,
all they don't do subtitling, they do dubbing. It's not really dubbing, there's a special name for
where it's like having your uncle talk over your shoulder as the movie is playing. It's very,
very distracting, but they seem to get used to it. So, yes, that's our opinion. What do you think
columns to this episode please? Hmm, nice subject to be, yeah, be thinking about that. I never
thought we'd reach this state of things in my lifetime. So yeah, good stuff. Good stuff.
I didn't got anything else. Nope. Nope. I think we're good.
Okay, with that, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker. Public.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
At Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy
it really is. Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet
archive, and our sings.net. On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
