Episode: 3566
Title: HPR3566: HPR Community News for March 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3566/hpr3566.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:34:01

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3566 from Monday the 4th of April 2022.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News from March 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 91 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, Dave and Ken talk about shows released and comments posted in March 2022.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Falon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This week HPR Community News from March 2022.
Joining me this evening is...
Hello, it's Dave Morris from a sunny Edinburgh, would you believe.
It's a feckin' freezing here in the Netherlands just for your information.
Yeah, we've had that as well. We've had warnings of ice and snow and stuff but it's clear and bright just now.
Cool, we had a lovely week but last night it was absolutely freezing.
Definitely, I'd figure it totally.
Anyway, we're going to plot on. We've got a lot to cover today, completely nothing controversial whatsoever in the show.
Actually, that's not true. Stick to the end for more information on that.
But HPR Community News is where we discuss the goings-on in and around the HPR community.
And there are some policy changes possibly in the pipeline as a result of some stuff this month.
But as we always do, Dave, first of all, HPR is a community podcast network who is dedicated to sharing knowledge.
And we accept contributions from pretty much our listeners.
You, in fact, you don't even have to be our listeners to send us in the contribution.
So, there you go.
And, Dave, can you introduce the new horse, please?
Well, I can't do a sound effect of tumbleweed because that would be the right sound effect.
Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow.
Yes, yes. I think we've got some coming next month, so something to look forward to.
Excellent.
Okay, so what we do with this show is we make sure that every show that's repeating the word show,
we want to show people that their shows are being listened to.
So we go through every show in this show, starting with the worst car I ever had by Visa.
On an excellent, interesting concept that was.
Absolutely, yes, I love it.
Yeah, it was quite an interesting tale for a star and a great topic.
I'm really tempted to follow his lead and do.
I'm sure we've all had really horrible cars.
Exactly.
So that's if you got a horrible car, if you had an experience of your worst car,
it's out of listen to the show and you get the idea of I don't need to explain it to you,
but I think it's making a series for people.
The following day, we had idle thoughts on web browsers and a call for your own on the same.
This was an interesting idea by DNT and he put up a matrix channel that you could join
and leave a voice message.
It is still up.
Yes, yes, and he's had one contribution as far as I'm away.
But yeah, I looked at it and thought, ooh, I missed.
And then, of course, I didn't.
I want to show that contribution is coming up shortly.
So I'd like to have a listen to that and then perhaps I can also give some thoughts.
Not particularly of anything we're seeing about web browsers, but there you go.
No comments on either of those shows.
Now, this is an interesting, the next one, also no comments by Andrew,
where he went through his show, starting with the best mic that he had,
and working his way down to, oh my god, brutal microphone.
The last one was, if he had sent in the show with the last one,
I would have been going, does this fall under our, is it audible?
It's so bad.
Yeah, it's interesting he did that because I thought that might be a workable thing
to do in certain contexts, which sounds like it's not at all.
Well, that's the sort of one that I normally would take and send it off to be a pre-processed fuse.
And what was that place?
I have an account with, let me just see.
We'll do a truncate silence here, Dave.
Yeah.
All funny.
A-U-P-H-O-N-I-C.
And it's nearly there.
Yeah, it's called an audio phonic or something.
Yes, I'm glad you checked.
Yeah, so I have a few hours there that every year there's always one or two shows
that benefit from that treatment.
So don't worry about it, but more of the story, if you have a blue yet,
you use that, you know, which is because we accept any audio.
It doesn't mean we want your crap audio.
If you can do that, always try and send the best you have.
But actually, this is a good thing to do.
If you have a few mics at home, feel free to send in the show like this,
because even it will also give you an idea of what we get when we take it
through the HPR workflow.
Then you get a good idea as to, is that audio good enough?
Is it worth spending the extra $500?
And I'm not really seeing a huge big difference when it goes through our pipeline.
So a good show.
I think somebody else has a show in the queue as well about going through their microphones.
Yeah, it was great show.
It was a really good idea.
Thank you, Andrew.
Yes, the coffee heads are out.
Archer 72.
How I make coffee, making coffee podcast.
Yes, excellent.
I like the photos, actually, it helps.
Yeah, yeah, I'm a great advocate of photos.
Yeah, and these are certainly looking good.
Yeah, thumbnail is this one, isn't it?
Yeah, so you can click on it to see what it looks like in full glory.
Mike, bearing in mind that not all of us have the are lucky enough to have the ability to look at photos.
So when you are putting in your show, your show needs to be free standing independent as the show was.
And last month, yeah.
So the next show we have is the HPR community news for February 20, basically the show last month.
You get the idea.
So D&T says, do you want to do the comment or shall I?
I can do it.
Yeah, I just hesitating getting down to I was caught up in the show itself.
So D&T says, thank you, thank you for generously doing these shows.
It makes a difference to contributors to the extent that it confirms to us that we exist.
I look forward to listening.
Yeah, well, that's a very good point, very good point.
Yeah, very important.
Going sorry.
I think if you are a listener to HPR and you're recording a podcast is of no interest to you.
You can definitely help by, you know, just giving a thumbs up on some of these.
Just giving a comment on some of these shows just so that if you like to show,
take the two minutes to just type your name title on the comment send it in.
Yeah, absolutely.
No, it comes along with the comments.
It's a great deal, doesn't it?
Because if you've thrown something into the into the HPR queue and then it comes up and you think,
oh, I wonder if anybody, oh, nobody else commented on it.
And they must have hated it.
It's the only life of the conclusion there.
It's the natural.
Oh, absolutely.
It depends how paranoid you are.
Anyway, continuing with D&T's comment, he says, also it's important to hear feedback.
For example, after listening to this, I've cancelled plans to do to do to that Wikipedia article
with all the porridge linked under that monstrosity of a show about porridge.
I think he's making a comment about the porridge show.
Yeah.
What Clare2 has done in his own podcast, another list of interest to hackers.
Yes, that's a complicated sentence.
Well, it was in my mind.
Alas, it was going to cover a lot of slots onto something else then.
Oh, dude, dude, dude, dude.
That sense of humor is pretty good.
Excellent.
Following day, some guy on the internet, password managers, very, very, very good show.
Some guy on the internet pulls down interesting, interesting shows.
Very, very good.
Very different take on the whole world.
Yeah.
Like the idea of the keys that he has as well.
Hardware keys.
Yeah.
I claim to be a bit paranoid about security myself, but I haven't gone that far yet.
Maybe I should.
Well, yeah, I've often thought of it.
I've never done it.
And I don't really know why.
No, it's just inertia, I guess.
But yeah, that's a good prompt.
So also another show with no comments.
Yeah, make a custom git command.
And this was a tattoo one had to be.
And basically, you could have like a git.spaceHPR if you wanted.
And incorporate that into the git subsystems.
Very cool, actually.
Yeah.
No, I didn't.
No, I didn't realize that was quite that flexibility.
I've just got onto a groove where I use getting a particular way in that.
And the story as far as I'm concerned.
But it's good to have a heads up, say, there's better ways of doing it.
He's obviously doing loads of stuff we get on a daily basis.
So we'll have improved his perception of it all.
But yeah.
I'm also a bit religious with the guests.
And insofar as I go in and say the words, but I'm not really sure what they mean.
Well, precisely.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Same here.
Sometimes I need to go a little bit off that beaten track.
And then I get really worried that I'm going to screw something up.
And I have done a few times.
Yeah.
So it's because it is a fairly thorny process to get through.
But at least in my mind, it is.
But still, if you don't foray around a bit and discover what it can do,
then you'll never find out.
Well, yeah.
So.
No.
Good message, sir.
No good stuff.
Following day, somebody else using it and static site generators.
This was a requested show by the Linux in laws by me to the Linux in laws
about how they published their website.
And yeah, it's quite interesting.
So yeah, time to run through with what then again, I will get to it at some point.
TM.
Yeah, I have just listened, but not fully absorbed.
I have looked briefly at who you go in the past, but not for a while.
So it's a good prompt to go and have a look at how you would do things with it.
So yeah, excellent.
Really useful.
Yeah.
The thing about H4, it's kind of a backwards sort of.
It's not really a CMS we have because the CMS is already done by the host.
It's more an organization of these HTML pages that we want to integrate into our subsystem.
So do we even need a CMS?
Is it just sufficient to pop it into Git and then throw a web server at the front?
That's kind of where I am with this and I just need time to think about it.
So if your thoughts give us a shout, or if you don't know what I'm on about,
the point is we would like to get to a point where our entire, everything that's sent in is available in Git.
So anybody anywhere can check it out.
And you have access to the, at least all the metadata, the website, any information that's on the website,
any information from the show notes, and that you would have a link to a,
the internet archive or possibly some other peer-supported media.
The idea being that if the H4 website is only inaccessible for some reason,
that you have your own copy somewhere else that you can serve out for us.
I was listening to somebody who had done PhD thesis based with all of the dissertation in Git.
And she had said that because she had quite a lot of large files that get itself was not enough.
And you need something like Git and X to deal with it.
Yeah, there's loads of solutions for this.
Well, I mean, we have a hyperlink, so the hyperlink can go to like peer-tuber or the internet archive or somewhere else, and that's why.
And actually, we can point people to our think that Nash who are kindly hosting our stuff for us.
So you can pull it down from there and basically run a nursing job every day, and you get the media as well.
So Git, you know, have Git or Git loan or Git pool of a day, and then have a second job, second part of that,
that would have, what do they call them, a trigger.
Once you do that, that it would also pull down a nursing, run a nursing job, and pull down the actual media files.
So then you get the full Monty.
So that's the goal.
And then we would have a small database that controls the upload process more for the reservations tables so that we have a unique place for, you know, request initial and stuff.
But I don't know, get to that.
Following day, I look at with format, copy, disc, copy, and ex-copy.
Oh, man, ex-copy.
The amount of times they use that in the old days.
Yeah.
And now I can better to find, and I think, what was I doing?
Yes, yes.
This is why I don't want to go backwards with these things.
Yeah, that's why I struggle with it when I see people.
I appreciate it.
I get it.
It's an important role.
You know, they invented computers and stuff.
Well, the nostalgia for it.
No, no, we're done.
It's nice to be able to have that knowledge at some point, you know.
But it's all part of the context of where we are now.
So it's important to be aware of it and have, you know, a place where you go and refer to it and so on.
But, yeah, I wouldn't personally wish to go back and tinker about in that area.
Next day, you had a show called Bash Snippet, some possibly useful hints.
I don't know what you're doing there with your author.
You had two comments.
I'll do the first one because the second one is your response.
Some guy in the internet says, Bash, for the win.
Hello Dave, how are you?
I love the show.
Bash can be very simple and crazy complex, depending on your needs.
I have had used the Eval double-court Eval thing.
Yes, but now I have a reason to use it.
Piping text from a file into a script to create commands sounds fun and scary.
So I'll be experimenting on a Raspberry Pi.
So I don't end up the night crying while restoring from a backup.
Again, thanks for the show.
So I replied to that.
Hi, S-G-O-T-I.
See, it tends to be cool.
I appreciate the feedback.
You said, yes, Bash has a lot of power and can be used for many things.
You are right.
A Raspberry Pi is a great test bit.
I use them often.
Hope you found the show useful.
Let us know if you find better ways of doing these types of things.
Best wishes, Dave.
And the following day, we had unboxing the Pining Development Kiss,
where Rohan had a much better time with us with pine stuff than I did.
There's one comment from, again, from Sunguy and the Internet.
Development on Pining Time.
Are you developing apps on the Pining Time?
Are you planning any development apps or system resources from the Pining Time?
I like hearing about devices, but I don't know where to start.
If I purchased one.
And what's the end game?
It is supposed to be for development only.
Or can I one day replace my Apple Watch questions?
Good show.
I'd love to hear more about your work and the Pining Time.
Very good.
Yeah, yeah.
It was a very interesting show.
I didn't really know much about the Pining Time.
It looks like it's not going to be absolutely stuffed with features.
Although as development continues, maybe more and more stuff will arrive.
But be quite useful thing to have as a...
I would just buy the plane watch, which is about 25 pounds, I think.
Yeah.
Well, I look.
There's not massively expensive.
And...
Yeah, to tell the time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Having things to tell the time is often good.
Yeah.
So following there is some guy in the internet submitted the show.
And that was freedom of speech in open sports.
Is it free speech if you have to leave?
Examining the difference between freedom and free of cost.
So I'll do two of triggers.
Come on, shall I?
Great intro.
Love the animated voice intro.
And this one much easier to understand when listening at 1.5x speed.
And then triggers on to say important topic.
Some guy in the internet.
This is a very important topic.
It's challenging to balance freedom of expression among a diverse group of users
with different social and moral frameworks.
We often forget that in the United States, government supports freedom of public speech
also within certain guidelines.
But organizations may impose their own restrictions on the platforms they own and administer.
Their choices are then influenced by their customer's choices to continue to do business within or leave.
Thank you for sharing.
I look forward to your next amazing podcast.
Good, come in.
The Beezer says free speech.
Hi, some guy.
Great episode.
Yeah, we're going to have to shorten the name to some guy.
People in a matrix center.
I'm not sure if he uses S.U.T.I.
Scotty.
Yes, Scotty.
Anyway, he says a great episode raising excellent points.
But I feel the crux of the issues you raise is courtesy and dignity rather than free speech per se.
Free speech generally refers to the ideas you're expressing.
How you express them is where courtesy comes in.
There's a world of difference between if you look at the online manuals, you should find the information that will solve your problem and RTFM.
You'll probably be aware of a controversy about Rich's storm and suggestion from the FSF and subsequent readmission.
This was the result of his expressing what most people felt were distasteful ideas.
Very little, what followed was criticism of RMS's views based on rational level-headed argument.
It was all about personal insult and trying to shut RMS down, saying he shouldn't have expressed his views.
There was no respect of his right of free speech.
Much as I similarly rejected most of what RMS had said, the episode demonstrated to me that even in the world of free culture,
that we claim to support, the adherence to the right of true free speech is as tenuous and conditional as it is in wider society.
I've asked many questions on free software forums over the years and generally found nothing but help and courtesy.
However, every now and then I've come across respondents whose primary aim is to show how clever they are to belittle my relative lack of knowledge.
They are the people who give lots of bad image.
On the plus side though, in the same way as you, me and everyone else will come to realise that these jerks don't represent the majority.
I think most newbies will as well, provided they don't encounter one on their first ever request for help.
That is the hope, that is the hope.
My comment, my thoughts, I scutty, scutty.
Thanks for the talk, provoking show. I have a few observations if I may.
These are my personal comments, by the way, not those of HPR or the janitorial staff in general.
Okay, the show focused on the concept of free speech from a US centric perspective.
It's important to remember that other democratic countries have their own laws relating to freedom of speech and they give a link.
Having time to consider your points, I feel it fair to say that the Linux Foundation should be running Linux on their computers.
Would Steve Jobs be seen in front of a Windows computer or Bill Gates in front of the Mac?
It's just bad business to not be seen to be running your own products.
I'm correcting the spelling and grammar as I go here, by the way.
Furthermore, and this is important, I wanted to do a show about this, but it gets so worked up, I don't.
Furthermore, the Azure Mac is Unix.
Ideology is dangerous and can be shown to be damaging to the community by focusing people on convenience over moral values.
Despite the fact that so many Linux developers run MacBooks, it is still one of the most unsupported platforms out there.
I tried to get Linux to run on a MacBook that has the same specs and released it as my Dell laptop.
While there are many issues with Dell that have been fixed over the years, it's still not possible to get the MacBook to run Linux.
This is a direct call from the developer I asked for help, and I called.
I actually give up on Fedora on my backbook.
There are too many things broken, Wi-Fi, audio and webcam.
I also do not agree that we should welcome developers of closed or even open core applications.
This is akin to McDonald's expecting a warm welcome in a vegan club because they put lettuce on a big Mac.
Developers and their communities have a right to believe in free Libre and open source software.
The commons and related views.
It is valid that they should not be welcoming with open arms development that run against that belief.
Provided, of course, that is done with courtesy.
Wow, that was five words!
Indeed.
This is a good example of a show.
I hope I'm not being disrespectful to anybody with this, but this is a good example of producing a show that's top of rocking and encourages discussion.
Love it.
Very much love it.
I like all the commons so far into this, and I hope mine has an offended anybody.
I wouldn't say so personally, but there we go.
Jezra says the show.
The Linux Foundation is five or one C6 nonprofit trade association.
Their purpose is to help members use Linux to increase profits.
The most of desktop Linux is not a priority of the foundation.
The Steam Deck will use arch Linux because it's cheaper to use Linux than it is to pay licensing fees for a proprietary OS.
Using a high quality rolling release, Linux is also cheaper than writing one's own OS.
In this regard, Valve is standing on the shoulders of the devs who have put decades of work into making arch what it is today.
The arch community owes absolutely nothing to Valve, and without Linux Valve, wouldn't have a product to sell.
That's an interesting point indeed.
Yeah, a very interesting way of putting it.
I'd never quite thought of it in that way.
That's good.
I'd like to science technology section of BitShoot.
This is Metatronic.
I've butchered this handle on several occasions, so I'll continue in the fine tradition.
Dave, how do you pronounce that?
It's mechatroniac.
Mechatroniac.
That's cool. Mechatroniac.
Yeah, good. I've been thinking we need to push our shows up in BitShoot, actually.
Does this fight by?
Yeah, yeah.
It didn't know much about it. It was quite useful to hear.
Yeah, I know the EEV blog puts their stuff up there, as you mentioned in the show.
DMT says that motor, that banging motor thing, grassroots mechanic movement in your show notes,
was pretty great.
I've had never seen anything like that. Thanks for sharing.
Good.
So Popcorn Episode 1.
The fallacy of the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics in the ETC.
Back colonel tries and off the cough with mixed results.
Is this the one where he's...
This is the one that I requested him to do, isn't it?
We said, you forgot your show.
No, it's something to that fact.
Any chance of having some notes.
And he said he was...
The off the cuff was great, because they had the time to do it.
But he didn't have time to do the notes.
He's going to follow up with...
For this one and the second one, I think he meant.
So we'll hopefully get something to add to this show a bit later on.
Is that the question you were asking me, yeah?
Hello, I didn't have the push to talk about. What did you hear last?
Me talking, I think.
Okay. This, I think, is the one about the maths episode where he's commenting about...
He posted the comments about maths and programming.
And I got into a discussion with him and then got tired of it.
And said, post the SHOTHPR and never for a moment expecting him to actually do that.
He did it.
And now I end up having to do a show myself.
So that kind of backfire.
Yes, yes.
I, yeah, I was plundering a bit listening to this.
One of those I just need to listen to several times to absorb.
Yeah, good for him for doing it.
Oh, it's in place.
Yeah, let's have a...
I actually think, yeah, if you are having a debate on, you know, for a laugh,
and this is disability for a laugh, then why not have it on HPR as a platform for having it?
Get people talking and thinking about it.
Absolutely.
A tack of 751.
And I think it was a tack of who prompted me to do this text-to-speech thing.
It's not correct.
I don't know.
I don't recall, to be honest with you, but...
Yeah.
I need to think about it.
But anyway, they put together a few samples of the best speech.
And I think the recommendation is the one that we have now anyway.
So oddly enough, in a weird...
I had been working on updating the text-to-speech thing,
but I didn't want to do it until I had time to guess my wife to re-record the outro.
And as a result of that, when I got that, then I changed the script that I use for processing
the shows to set up or to use a Docker container to run the text-to-speech thing,
which is excellent, actually.
And oddly enough, this was the first show that I encoded using the new voices at the beginning.
So that's kind of cool.
Very good.
Yeah, it's much, much improved.
It's...
You remember back in the day, we used to do different spellings, people's names.
So that's...
Each speak would make a whole mess of them.
I don't know.
Does this... can we do the same with this?
Because...
Yeah.
There are a few glitches, I know.
Just...
No, no.
I mean, the voice itself is great, but taking people's handles and turning them into something meaningful
can be a bit of a struggle for these bits of software.
The thing about it is that I have taken the executive decision, Dave, not to...
When I notice that, I then going forward, change the database so that it won't get butchered.
But everybody will be guaranteed to have their first one butchered, and then I'll fix it.
I'm not...
Yes, I'm the model.
It's because I've already changed on that.
Because I had to change it for e-speak and the moment I went to Lynn festival, then I had to change them again.
And now with this text to speech, I need to change them yet again.
So...
Into the amount of a different way of approaching it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You need to actually have the thing available to you and feed it.
Yeah.
So butchers after you change the text.
Yeah.
Okay, now I understood.
Okay, short story about the novel and laptop batteries.
And this is by a forky who is an old horse from days of your.
Back with a very good tip about replacement batteries for the novel laptops.
Yeah, I didn't know anything about this sort of stuff.
I didn't realise that batteries were potentially quite sneaky things.
I was...
Yeah.
And I always get an immense amount of joy when somebody is able to get around this sort of stupid locking.
And really, my personal opinion, really find this apparent at many levels.
Not just the lack of the inability to recycle and reuse.
And put digital restrictions on physical devices.
I'm sorry.
I don't give a start.
It's an opportunity.
Yes, please.
Shall I do the comment?
Please do so.
From some guy on the internet.
Thank you, he says.
I've always heard great things about thinkpads and Linux.
No one I've heard ever shared a negative opinion about thinkpads.
Just the usual.
It's built like a tank.
Yes, it is.
Now that you've spoken the truth about the thinkpad.
Will you go into hiding?
I'm joking, but thank you for the truth that is difficult to tell.
Yes.
That's a great comment.
Very, very nice.
Tukutoro talks about how she's learning Haskell.
And this is a good episode, actually, because it's always good to get a kickoff point.
And I wasn't aware that she's so relatively new to Haskell.
When you hear her talking, you think, oh my god, this person has been born with a Haskell book.
And then the processor and the other.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, that sets it in context.
Because it's hard to judge your person's level of skill.
I guess you'd say just based on, you know, demonstration of the skills they have.
You think, wow, guru level.
And it's, she's already a guru level.
Can you imagine what this is going to be like when she knows the language?
Absolutely, absolutely.
No, it's quite impressive.
It's not for me.
I have tried the Learn You a Haskell book.
I've got a copy of it somewhere.
But I did not find that easy at all.
In fact, I gave up.
It's all about determination, I think.
And having an open mind.
I'm obviously not very determined.
Now that do I have an open mind.
Shall I do some guide on the internet?
Nicely done.
Thank you for the show.
I never used Haskell, but I have a book from Learn You a Haskell.
Great site.
Love the sun image.
So, so often podcasts would recommend something, but we'll not link to any resources.
You've given us so much additional information we can use.
To learn more about this language.
Thank you.
And please do more shows on Haskell.
Example.
Compiling code and testing debugging your code.
Reply from Tutoto.
Good idea.
Thanks for the idea.
I'm going into that.
I do have an episode about testing in Haskell.
There's a link to it.
Show 2948.
My debugging skills are non-existent.
It's basically either staring at the code with a stern expression.
I was sprinkling lots of prints all around the places I suspect might be faulty.
Really should learn some basic debugging skills, I think.
The following day, we had the Zig Frame project.
And this was another one where the Linux Outlaw, Linux in-laws,
made me look intelligent in work.
Where I was able to bring.
Where is it going to do this rust?
Have you considered Zig?
What the hell is Zig?
Well, what's it all about?
That's wonderful.
I like that.
Yes.
Yes.
The link to the shows.
So there should be at least a few people listening to this one from us.
Yeah.
Good.
No, it sounded interesting.
I had no real knowledge of it.
I looked at rust.
We've never heard of it before.
And cargo and stuff.
But I don't know anything about.
Yeah.
I don't know anything about this language.
Larables in the game.
CLCH component modes.
This is from a hooker.
It is about the game.
And this is about Larables.
It is well worth your pile.
Learning this as I said before and I'll say it again.
If you're using any graphical tool on any platform.
This is a useful series to be following.
Go back to episode one.
Download them all.
Read the accompanying show notes on his own blog.
Under hooker.com forward sash gimp.
And you get them all there.
Well worth a listen.
Absolutely.
Good stuff.
The next day was employment security.
Phone systems in the state of Illinois.
This was kind of a.
I was just.
Some skip, I guess, of a phone system where you need to ring up to get unemployment.
And all the menus you need to go through.
I found it interesting.
Maybe there was too much information in the in the speed system.
I guess it would be annoying if you had to pay for it.
It was a free phone number.
It would be exceptionally annoying.
But it was very long, long winded.
But it also, after listening to it, you had a good understanding of how unemployment works in the state of Illinois.
Yes.
Yes.
It's really, really depressing thought.
And I could wait through that awful pile of expletive deleted.
Yes.
I, it was around about the time I was trying to phone my local medical center.
And they're pretty good.
They come back.
They put you on hold.
You know, you click one to get an appointment.
And so I do that.
But then they played this music.
Which is gone and on and on.
And later on that day, I found my brain was actually playing back the music to me.
And I can't get it out.
My head is one of the.
Yes.
I mean, there should be a lorry answer.
It really should.
It was.
It wasn't.
And it was like classical or it was some horrible little tinkly bit tuned.
Yes.
I know that places deliberately put on annoying whole music to get people to hang up.
Yeah.
But literally that's that is the policy.
And what I find annoying is whether the loud music and then suddenly it goes quiet.
And then you hear like somebody rumbling for a mic and then it goes.
You call this important to us.
Please hold.
Yes.
It's not you.
Oh, it's not.
And then two seconds later.
No, it's not.
Yeah, they used to have that on the medical center thing.
I think somebody must have shared it at them a lot.
Several people shared it at them and said,
I don't do that.
And so you don't do that anymore.
But this is an assessment tune.
No.
There's a few websites here in the Netherlands that will give you that you can go to.
And they will give you the direct phone number for each of the, you know, the options.
So if you have to go to local council, you need to get to the driver's license section.
And you want to directly speak to a person.
They'll give you there.
You've called this number.
Two, four, eight, three, two, one, one, zero hash.
Did you get through?
So they have to do that for all the energy companies and anybody that you want to be talking to.
That's quite cool.
Yes.
Yes.
Well, absolutely.
Right.
The system.
I'll say it differently.
And another one from Tukitor.
Toll.
Haskell and Stack.
This is a cross-platform program for developing Haskell projects that features.
Installing GHC automatically installing packages building your project testing and benchmarking.
So it's quite.
I think following on from their.
From her.
How to get starters in Haskell.
So this is quite cool.
Yeah.
Some some practical advice on how you would start to project with an example project to play with.
Yeah.
Cool.
More on coffee roasting day of these coffee roasters are taken over our show.
This case.
It's D and T.
And as part on the series coffee roasting and Tukitor returns.
So it's very interesting.
This is very interesting to listen to.
So interesting actually that I'm wondering if it will be a good idea to try roasting at home.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Claudio M says.
Enjoy this episode.
Well, brewing my morning coffee smiley face.
It's a great and informative episode.
I was actually brewing my coffee that morning when listening in and learn quite a bit about the different roasting methods.
As of late, I do agree with you about dark roasts.
I used to like them but now I don't have a taste for them.
Just taste bitter and burned.
Yeah.
Great show actually.
I did enjoy this very much.
Yeah.
I was.
I didn't.
I'm not.
I don't particularly want to roast coffee myself.
But my son is very much into coffee.
And it might be a thing he wants.
I'm going to get him to listen to it.
See what he thinks because it's.
It is a thing more and more people are doing at home.
So it would be good if you enter that type of thing.
Yeah.
So the following day we had.
Also related to coffee because that's to see your coffee images are.
From.
Yeah.
That was.
Or rather the random coffee pots.
That was my random coffee pot.
Yes.
I don't know.
We were active.
There the removing.
Active data from images.
And then we used samples from coffee pots.
Go ahead or.
Yeah.
So I.
It was just to demonstrate what the orientation stuff is.
I suspect that my listeners.
I'm not quite as dense.
I am.
I needed.
I needed this to be spelled out.
This is what it looks like if you don't do the orientation.
Here's what happens when you do.
And here's what happens when you take it off.
So yeah.
I need things spelled out to me.
It's.
It's been hit with a hit with a brick when I was young.
Probably.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good parenting there.
I was thinking I've teachers actually.
Yeah.
So yeah.
But I thought it might be helpful if people don't quite.
And I didn't know what CW meant.
Rotate 90 CW.
And that caused some amusement.
That it stands for clockwise.
Yeah.
You suddenly dawned on me as I was.
Yeah.
As you were saying.
I was just.
How would that be?
Probably as clockwise.
There's a.
There's probably some guys.
I mean, some guy in the internet said much respect.
I never thought about the work that goes into managing show notes and images.
Other whole submits.
Wow.
Working to keep others anonymous is very admirable of you.
I show to education.
Everyone on managing your data.
Excellent work.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Welcome.
Welcome.
Claudia Emma says.
Thanks for the application reminder.
Big thanks for reminding me about this app.
I assume he means exit to actually use it yesterday to remove information from a picture.
I took for inclusion in a trouble ticket.
Great little tool.
So either exit to or it's GM.
I'm not sure which way.
Yeah.
And.
That you find it useful.
The graphics magic, by the way, is.
I told you, I think is where you heard it from this image magic has been deprecated.
But apparently they also are now.
The developers have.
Come back and started working on image magic.
So I'm not sure about which is the best option.
Graphics magic or dramatic.
No, it's been developed.
I actually did some research while I was doing this show and I've found.
Quite a number of maybe on the Wikipedia page saying that.
The it's buggy and slow image magic.
But where graphics magic was rewritten to to be better on the various.
In a room improve the failures of the other one.
But yeah, I didn't actually see that that maybe image magic is coming back to life again.
So yeah, whichever.
I'm happy.
Either way.
And the both are pretty much compatible except.
I do like that the graphic magic is more self-contained that the applications are constrained all over the place.
Mm hmm.
Yep.
Okay.
My trouble with EXIF.
We had people taking photos for profiles and work.
Microsoft shops or active director exchange, etc.
If you took a photo with your Apple device, it would always get the image sideways.
But Android would not.
It looks like Apple's handle the rotation differently.
For example, they save the image.
Whichever way would keep except data, but Android rotates the image to be up and saves it.
If you're using Windows, if from view has a command line.
Has command line commands for rotating and much, much more in the I underscore options that text file.
That is how we fix the issue.
Your front view is an excellent image editor on Windows.
I think I even may have done a show about it back.
In the day, I was using Windows which wasn't a daily yesterday.
Okay.
I was going back to the count.
I was also going to say that CW was, but I see you figured it out smiley face.
And CCW would be counterclockwise if using the American version.
Here you go.
Good.
If you express ignorance, then somebody will come and help you out, which I think is wonderful.
So thank you very much for that.
Just as an aside, I'm looking at this show in a browser.
And the browser is pale moon.
And one of the images in this show is meant to be vertical.
The top of the top, the other one's meant to be the top of the side.
And they're both the same orientation.
I don't think this browser understands the orientation tag.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Anyway, I interrupted you.
So we had some additional comments on previous shows.
And the first one was by me on a show 2015 by Lord D.
And it was.
Thank you Lord D, although he's passed his wisdom continues to guide us.
And this was a, I needed to get some information from this episode in order to do something for work.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
It's good we still have his shows around to refer back to.
Yep.
So next, what next comment was on show 1780 from Elle Mussel, who said Miss Tag.
Another tag?
Tag, if to ensure, by the way.
It is, it is.
Yes, yes.
Must have been having a good look through, through shows.
And he said that the tag should be GNU PG, not GNU PGP.
So I fixed the tag.
I actually added the change to the show itself as an editor's note.
So yeah.
So that was, that was good.
If you're listening Elle Mussel, then you can send this sort of thing to Admin if you rather not post a comment.
Because the comment stays rare, but whereas the fix can just be done behind the scenes.
Nobody should need to know.
Up to you.
2021.
We had a comment by Bentley Sorr Stally.
Dal, the TTS voice.
I like very much the outro voice you were using.
Can you tell me what was used to generators?
I found HPR just a short time ago and I have been enjoying very much listening to all the shows.
Have even started to think about answering the call and recording the show myself.
Not 100% sure yet.
Of course you are.
Go first.
Keep up the great work and thanks for your time.
Manol!
Can you come here a minute?
So got a comment here.
About the outro voice.
So this is how you use the outro voice text-to-speech generation.
Say hello Ken.
Hello Ken.
Okay, bye.
Bye.
That's wonderful.
Yes, yes.
That's what one probably software ever heard.
Yeah.
Very expensive to run though.
Nothing dear.
Okay.
All right, you do the next one then, shall we?
Yes, yes.
I'm just overwhelmed by that interchange.
How I record HPR episodes show 3, 4, 9, 6 by Norrist and D&T comments.
I use it.
Thanks for this.
I use this for my latest episode.
She'll have to go to audacity and edit it.
It allows you to remove a ton of ums.
I also then create a new script.txt in another folder.
Just to record a couple of bits to insert.
So that it would sound the same as the rest of it.
We're trying to get a better writing the script and avoiding the ums.
So I can go straight to HPR.
Great stuff.
Listeners out of the community news.
Since this show, Norrist has put this in pi pi.
So even easier to get it.
Try it out.
Go ahead or.
No, it's going to say that.
Norrist had made it.
If you know to speed this, it made a script which would allow the python script,
which would allow the simpler process of recording a show based around the sort of text
that you were going to be using.
So you could record chunks and then stick them together.
And there you had the whole show in one.
I didn't think at the time that I would find a use case for this.
But as I say that now, I'm looking up at my whiteboard.
And since before Christmas, there's a there's a show written up there.
And I haven't been able to get a recorded.
I've tried three or four times.
And I think using his method might help me get that through.
So I will try it one time.
Yeah, yeah.
I must give it a shot.
I tend to over engineer this sort of stuff when I know you're surprised.
You never thought you never thought you'd be saying that.
So something a bit lighter.
She'd be more beneficial to my mental state.
I don't know.
Or maybe to the audience.
I don't know the other.
Yeah, good.
On my show from 2020, a db alpha delta bravo Android.
I don't know.
Android debugger.
I guess debugger and SRC CPY.
It's on my list says archer 72.
I can.
The subject is on my list to try.
You should definitely do it.
And that's month.
Archer 72.
We said he was following the cliff notes.
That was wrong.
Archer 72 is a fine distilled whiskey.
That's what he is.
He takes.
He takes all the crap.
And he distills it down into something enjoyable and relaxing.
That's what he is.
Yes.
Yes.
Back pedal, back pedal, back pedal.
Yes, yes.
Stay on board.
Archer 72.
Don't believe it.
Yes.
We can't be losing horse.
We can't be losing horse.
Teenus north.
We cannot.
So we had a client on the porridge show, 353,
who was made by D&T.
And this was from Windigo, who said very informative.
This episode was revealed that, although I'd heard the term porridge before,
I never realized how many of my favorite foods encompassed.
Excellent.
Also, thank you for the feedback on the opposing views episode.
It's much appreciated.
That's one of Windigo's previous episodes.
It's D&T commented on.
So yeah, cool, very cool.
And again, on my show, this just happens to be working out this Vernier Calipers.
Michael says, unit mismatch.
Hi Ken.
Nice show.
I assume your pencil is 7.5 millimeters in diameter, not 7.5 centimeters.
Just stating to be obvious, because no one else did until now, smiley face.
Yes.
Yes.
This is why I'm not a mechanical engineer.
I am a mechanical engineer, but I am not in the profession.
Thank you very much.
I'm actually a production engineer and a prototype.
Yes.
No.
Carrying that pencil around would have been a killer.
I actually had a pencil.
I was oddly enough, 7.4.
It was a Guinness promotion thing that had stuck inside it.
So I had it for years.
I don't know where it is now.
Yeah.
The kids still love it.
It's a bit hard to deploy effectively though.
I think put behind your ear and things like that.
Yep.
Yep.
So on to the mail list.
Nothing much to see here.
I think I'll just ask permission to move out a show.
Huck.
How's the worst that could happen.
First, first, hi all.
This is from the mailing list, which are available on the mailing list site.
Hi all.
One of our shows in the queue has some issues.
I spoke to the host about it and it's not clear if they want me to remove it or replace it.
I think they are offline for a bit and haven't replied.
Can I move the show out past the community news so that the current slash can be freed up?
Hopefully this will give them time for the host to reply.
To Rich and Andrew.
Andrew replied, find by me.
Andrew Conway.
Can you do Nigels as well?
Oh yeah, Shusha.
Is it a technical issue or one of content?
The latter might have connotations for the community to discuss so it's pizza.
Then I replied, at the moment, it's not clear if they have officially posted the show or not.
So it's not appropriate to discuss the issue at this point.
The host remains a copyright holder of the content and needs to be given the opportunity to decide what the wish to do, regards.
And then X1101, which is liar, actually.
I'm clicking on the next message by three months.
It's not the fastest way to do it.
That's also my old nervous system doesn't function as fast as you can.
Your analysis here is spot on.
If you feel that there's a need to defer the posting, we're sure to clear up questions that the HBR admin team have,
but are having issues contacting the host.
That's totally reasonable.
Given the ongoing community discussions around surrounding content policy,
I think a lot of people would like to get more input on the situation after it's been resolved,
assuming we have the highest permission to discuss it.
This is rely on.
And Ron will also comment and then I will comment.
Can I do my own one book and these?
Shall I tell you about the other ones?
You want me to do Ron's or?
Yeah, please.
So Ron says, in this situation we have no information to make an informed decision.
I have to trust the Janus claim there is a technical reason to do so.
The vote is basically a confirmation that we trust the Janus's judgment on what the technical reason is.
If we're taking a hands-off approach to all the issues to avoid any taint of censorship,
then we should not postpone any shows unless the host has agreed.
Following the above argument, I don't consent to move the show.
Please don't take what's the lack of trust in the Janus or logical listener.
Please don't take this as a lack of trust in the Janus.
My first response puts much trust in them.
I can see Ken's worry of just moving things to that.
I notice and I think moving it with a post to the mailing list that's being moved for technical reasons
would give one a chance for someone to give one.
A chance for someone to object and to provide an audit trial if an issue of sensitive censorship does come up.
They every other post by a Rome suddenly gets postponed.
Smileyface, I feel at this point a vote doesn't provide much more protection from a censorship claim
and just opposed to the mailing list that is going to happen.
I'm replying to that.
In this situation, no information has been given for an informed decision.
I say correct.
Technical reasons to do so.
I have trust that the Janus has claimed that there is a technical reason to do so.
I reread that.
I reread the email thread and I cannot see anywhere that has suggested that the nature of this issue was technical otherwise.
Or otherwise, I want to make it very clear that I'm deliberately not saying if it's a technical decision or a content decision.
Vote is basically affirming the trust of the Janus' judgment on what the technical reason is.
No, I say no.
It's allowing time for the hosts to get back to us in response to if we're taking a hands-off approach,
take to censorship then we shouldn't postpone any shows unless the host has agreed.
Okay, I would say the whole point is that I cannot get in contact with the host.
The last communications from them said that they would host us somewhere else so people can choose to listen if they like.
And they would mention it on their next HPR show.
My last communication to them was to ask if they will be uploading a new version of the show.
If we take the decision to allow the show to be released to the main feed and the host did not want to post it,
then they have to live with the consequences of our decision and that's not fair.
Please don't take this lack of trust with the janitors.
Incorrect, do not trust them.
I say incorrect, do not trust them.
Then audit trail, technical problems about the audit trail in this move.
I always CC the admin list on communication so there is an audit trail.
I would like more people to join the list but due to the volume of mails,
people tend to unsubscribe after a time.
So if you want to join the list, anyone who has shown a long-term dedication to the product,
that project and trusted but community can become an admin.
And in response to his comment about if his show suddenly gets postponed, etc.
I would say I said, would Ron not send an email to the mail list and ask why the show has postponed
as I did when HPR started to put fade.
At that time, I had mentioned several times here but there were shows in the cube
but the work would be released and then it was obvious people needed help so I stepped in to help.
When we were not leaked out that there was a question of censorship on HPR,
surely it would appear like Twitter, Macedon, IRC, Matrix, not to mention all the podcasts.
Like it did when Platy mentioned on Glue World Order that I asked him to replace scary image that he had in his avatar.
In this case, you would hear from the host themselves as they tried to post the show on HPR
but decided to move it elsewhere.
So you do the next one.
So this is from JWP who says, hey Ken, not knowing the topic makes it hard for me.
Can I love you, man, but your thoughts are liberal and free.
In my birthplace, this would be reviewed as socialist or communist, which are against Gordon Country.
Having lived in Germany, I understand there are views on that in my place of birth.
I suggest that unless it fails the newspaper test or something you would not want to tell your grandmother about it should be okay.
Maybe do a double show day.
Sensorship in our group unless the above happens is not okay and puts you Ken and Dave in a tough spot.
Yep.
To which I reply.
I think I understand the issue here and correct me from wrong.
So the fear is the gentratures having contacting the host directly to have them self-centered the shills.
As we have mentioned several times on the community news, we assist hosts with their upload.
This also extends to protecting hosts as much as possible.
For example, preventing leaking of the host location from the show that we just reviewed.
Due to our policy, we do not fit edit moderation or any way sensitive audio or use submission.
We trust you to do that.
Issues often only come to light when we have posted the show to the future feet.
For example, there might be a 10 minutes of silence in the middle of a show, but there can also be violations for some other policy or other.
When we notice or inform the issues, we will take up contact with the host to see what they wish to do.
Sometimes the host will supply us with a new version or they may ask us to release the slot so that they can upload the show later.
And sometimes they do not agree with us.
And when that happens, we inform them that we need to bring the issue to the mailing list.
For example, like we did with the issue, should we reject a show with copyrighted fair use slips in it.
But as Roland rightly points out, how do the community know this for certain?
This is a valid concern and should be addressed.
Who watches the watch to use a charity practice reference? Any thoughts or ideas?
Now, I actually started off thinking why is everybody making a big deal of me moving the show?
But I completely understand the issue here now.
And it's a very delicate thing.
But we'll come back to us again further on. So shall we continue?
So the next response was from Norrist, who said, I have no problem with the HPR Admin's moving shows.
Todd?
Yeah, okay.
And Dave said, Hitchie about attachment will scrub.
Dave said, it makes it hard to read.
I have no problem with HPR Admin's moving shows, line break, line break.
I wrote something. One of the shows was, was that it?
Yeah, that was it, I think.
Sorry, I was just trying to find the original message.
I think it was the one where he said, I think this is the key point here.
I'm more than happy for the HPR Admin to make decisions where it's deemed inappropriate for a show to be shared with technical reasons.
Although not for content without needing to seek permission first, yeah.
Yeah, that's a very key point to this.
This is the key point here.
I am more than happy for admins to make decisions deemed inappropriate for technical reasons, not for content reasons.
So now the whole, now the janitors need to make a call.
That's the important point.
Okay, next one.
Rowan says, I'm in agreement with Dave's assessment, which is right.
Brian also agrees with Dave, Brian and Ohio.
To which I reply.
Thanks for the feedback.
However, we do not wish to move the shows without, around, without the whole permission for any reason.
The queue is there to prevent allegations of favoritism and it is succeeding in its task.
Just some background we used to get a lot of crap about moving shows around.
So nobody understood the guidelines.
Now people picked the slots themselves.
That's it.
Occasionally we will ask somebody if we can move their show.
Um, but that's, you know, if there's a somebody wants to put an anniversary up or so to out or something, but that's up to them.
I get back to the comment.
It is also a dangerous path to go down allowing janitors to deem a show inappropriate to be scheduled for any reason.
Even a valid technical reason could be considered censorship.
When you get to defining rules for a valid technical reason, then you get to defining rules for a valid technical reason.
And as we saw with the scheduling rules, they simply do not work.
So the janitors will move shows with the host permission as normal, but they will always ask on the mail list where the host cannot or will not move their show.
We will always provide, try to provide an explanation as we did in the past for special events, post protests like HPR 0903 SOPA protest or anniversaries.
That is not possible at this stage as the host is yet to decide what they wish to do.
However, it's also not desirable to keep postponing the show's release in the main feed indefinitely.
My proposal is that we schedule the show in question for Monday, the 4th async of April, two weeks after this community news.
And we will give you the host ample time to respond if they don't.
We can discuss the issue in question with the wider community on this today's episode.
So do I have your consent to move the show or not?
And we had a response from Andrew, Andrew Conway, who said, can I agree with your reasoning about asking permission and as it's a rare event and consume too much of your or our time.
And yes, you have my approval in this instance.
PS as you inclined to reject, but I think you should be made president or prime minister of somewhere.
Yeah.
And these are says, I agree with Andrew and all points, including the PS.
Thank you.
Daniel says, Ditto.
And Lyle also says, I also agree.
And Kevin also agrees.
State dog replies.
Do you want to do that one?
You want me to do that one?
Yep.
He says, reply into the original, but read all the responses.
I trust Ken completely.
He's only taking this step for better communication with the contributor and the community.
He has that much respect to be open about it.
Don't overthink it.
Don't jump to conclusions on any reasons until the communication is complete.
You may never even find out.
Also, in general, all of us behind HBO believe in free speech and are against censorship.
Just like forums or TV shows or websites, we must have boundaries.
Again, I have no idea if there are content issues with the show that cross any of those boundaries or any show.
But don't cry censorship if I or the admins, janitors, etc.
Choose to disallow a show that promotes hateful or illegal activity.
That's not censorship.
That's safety and responsibility.
You must trust the system.
And again, I trust Ken completely.
Start giving these people the benefit of the doubt and assume positive intent of the people who have been successfully running this show for several years.
I'm certain that they have earned that respect.
Do you want me to do a JWP's response?
Hateful or illegal activity?
He says, wow, that's a bit woke.
Or the UK version of No God and Socialist.
One man's hate is another one's joy.
Illegal has many faces too.
If you live in a dry country, would a show about homemade beer be illegal?
If you think the first black woman nominated the Supreme Court is or is not qualified, is that hate speech?
What about transgender athletes pro or con hate speech?
KDE versus XFCE?
Is that hate speech?
What about Covid or abortion?
It all fits under hateful.
It's too wide a net for Ken and Dave to sense a far better to make a fellow.
A follow-up show if you disagree with JWP.
Then Carl says, here's what I'm hearing so far.
One, our current challengers are doing a good job of trusting them to make decisions that are in the best interest of the podcast on the community.
Two, everybody including the judges will prefer a clear objective process does not depend on trust.
Three, the current process is to reach out to the contribution host after the show is posted in the future feed if there are very detailed issues with it.
Five, for if the contribution host cannot be reached the mailing list we ask from Mission Move Show temporarily on title contribution host response.
The mailing list is not asked to make a judgment about the potential issue correct.
Five, there is no question that constitutes a potential issue and whether the reach out to a host itself constitutes censorship or at least a chilling effect.
I feel discussing this is important but what that answers answering the question of temporarily moving the show is pressing and needs an answer.
Given that the judges are following the current process my answer is yes move the show.
As for the rest of us feel free to continue debating whether the process needs altering money.
I think it's a healthy discussion that benefits the community and ideally allows the judges to eventually hand over all their duties and retire should they wish to do so.
Yes, that's our job.
Sure, secure in the knowledge that the process will safeguard both the podcast and the community for decades to come.
Brilliant. Yes, I want to replace ourselves with script Dave.
Yeah, oh yeah, I've already done it actually.
So the next one.
I'll do the next one.
Yeah, I have just opened a different thread about how best to audit the work of the judges moving this show is indeed becoming an issue and needs to be done this weekend.
The initial suggestion was to move it to the aging.
I suggest some people that object I have suggest some of the people that objected to the move for those who have concerns about the process contact me directly.
I can walk them through the chain of events and they can report back to the list if they believe that they.
On two points point number one, if they believe that the decisions taken by the janitors me in this case were a good faith and to if they agree with course of actions, just it.
So those are the two points.
They would of course be bound to the same roots of constant confidentiality that I am volunteers.
Let's take replies.
Yes.
He says, LOL at work, you don't know me very well.
If it helps, your examples are mostly acceptable to me.
I would argue against some of them on the grounds that they're not hacking technology or culture related, not even loosely.
I defended allowing the COVID alternative treatment episodes last year when the work more work trying to censor that one.
And I suggested a follow-up show as a counterpoint exactly as you suggested.
So yeah, I still say nothing illegal and stand by that.
I can't even think of an example, but we will bring it up if we see it.
It would be a transparent decision just like Ken is doing now.
Okay, I said the host has got back in touch with me after being away for a few weeks without internet access.
We now have permission to remove the show.
I have brought this thread to their attention.
I am producing a report into the chain of events that took place.
I have requested the community members who express concern about moving the show to reviews with the goal to reporting back to the list with their opinions on the matter.
And I also said,
thanks Dave.
I removed the show in the other news.
We appear to have a call for open shows.
Is that one missing?
Dave Lee wrote.
Oh, yeah, this is.
Yeah.
Let me do.
Can you do Dave's first?
And then I'll.
Yeah, because I'm just.
I'm just finding Dave's.
He seems to be sending HTML mail, which is being removed by mailman.
So I'm reading the original.
Sure.
Sorry, we're in post.
I didn't say anything and we could do a truncate silence on this.
Sorry for the repost my mail client.
He isn't clever enough to realize which email address I wanted to send this from.
Oh, I know what happened there.
Yeah, he sent it from the wrong.
Wrong address, which was on the list or something.
Hi, everyone.
Ken has kindly shared with me the details surrounding this particular episode.
I understand Ken's reluctance to publicize the full detail of this time due to the potential impact on the individuals involved.
This situation is not as straightforward as it might appear on the surface.
But this is not a simple case of censorship.
It's my opinion that Ken's dealing with it's been completely on point.
And I'm in full support of his actions as the host has agreed to.
In fact, they offered the removal of the episode from being published on HPR.
That is what I recommend is done many thanks Dave.
And I said, thanks Dave, I removed the show.
In other news, we have a call for show open.
Thank you to Catorot O. added.
Moved up on my special little list there.
HPR stickers coming your way.
And then Carl says.
I'm sure.
Yeah, I've heard it.
Okay.
It seems to me that HPR policies were followed meticulously.
And beyond that, the communication with the host was amicable and sought to encourage contributing the digital content of the show.
I'd scarcely consider it chilling in a loan censorship on the part of HPR.
At most consideration.
And this is Lane, Carl Hammond.
Can you jump forward to Zolk's one so that we can round this off?
It's further down.
It's under the heading my thoughts on delaying shows by Zolk.
Once you're in a thread, it's hard to get out of the damn thread.
Oh, don't say.
Yep, got it.
So Zolk says.
We don't censor shows ever.
However, should something come up, we can delay shows in certain circumstances, then immediately inform the mailing list.
EG.
If a show regarding a subject comes up, then a tragedy occurs regarding that subject.
The show can be delayed for 60 days.
If the host may not have wanted the show to be released, the show can be delayed 30 days or until the host confirms whichever is sooner.
On a personal note, I don't think anything was done wrong here.
There were concerns.
They were raised in the mailing list.
It was open and public, not discussed in the hushed whispers, not discussed in hushed whispers behind closed doors.
Cheers, Zolk.
Oh, P.S.
Yes, Ken, I'm working on another episode.
I screwed the audio up, need to redo it.
Or the noise game said to me.
Oh, my words are cropped.
So people won't know.
Yep.
Very much so.
I replied back to this commenting on where Zolk said.
We don't censor shows ever.
I replied.
I wasn't going to reply to this.
But it bothered me so much that I can't sleep.
The world is just not as tear-cut as that.
It's all very well saying we don't censor shows ever.
When you're not the one going to be on the receiving end of a lawsuit.
Now we've got two sections here.
First is personal implication for the janitors.
And by janitors, I also mean Joss, yourself, myself, and whoever posts the show.
But also Joss, and Stank, who owns the domains, Joss is the hosting company.
Anyway, the janitors have already refused to publish a show
before uncopyroid crimes for fear or prosecution.
The hosts preferred not to remove it.
And we both brought it to the attention of the mailing list.
In the end, the hosts decided that they would remove the offending material.
And I linked to HPR, should we reject a show and copyright it's fair use clip in it.
I go on to say.
I just saw this YouTube video.
Why is this sound illegal to play and a link to it?
It's about a video.
It's about an emergency tone that is illegal in the US.
What if a host uploads a show with the EAS tone in it?
I'm sure as hell not going to pony up the $5,000 to $1.9 million
to find that the FCC dishes out.
Link to the Wikipedia article.
Second section, personal implication for the hosts.
Sometimes a host may not only include some material in the show
that would expose them to undesirable consequences.
What if they accidentally record a show where their partner can be heard,
giving out credit card or social security number in the background?
What if their same sex partner came in to kiss them good night?
But they had not yet come out publicly as being gay?
What if they take a call from their boss?
And they go on to 20 minutes rant to their partner about how they could plunker their bosses?
And ends with, oh, I need to remember to remove that.
A fine community we would be if we just blindly sat back and did not protect our hosts.
To be clear, none of these were the case here.
But if we spot an issue, we have a duty to allow the host to fix it.
If the host wants it fixed, then it's not my or your place to decide for them either legally or morally.
That's if they wanted fixed.
What I can say is that if there's anything that falls outside what we all agree, all agreed,
then I will try to get clarification from the community.
What is an issue is the possibility that we are doing this in bad faith
and that's why we need some form of oversight.
So to summarize, it's the host show, so it's their choice to one to publish or not.
It is my choice to not publish it if I'm going to be the one left holding the bag.
In that case, the mail list will be informed with as much detail as possible.
And the oversight can help here.
Putting fixed timelines is not responsible.
To take the case of the copyrighted fair use tips above,
I would not have published the show, so the community would need time to have a range for somebody else to take over the running of HPR,
transferring all the domains, setting up access lists, etc. etc. etc. etc.
So as Stankdog says, all of us behind HPR believe in free speech and are against censorship,
but we all need to accept that free speech is not always without cost.
We are all free to decide what we are willing to pay, but we are not free to impose that decision on others.
So then I reply back, this is the other thing that we need to do, another thread, auditing the janitors.
Hi all, I'd like to suggest a new thread about the need to provide oversight into the work of the janitors.
My initial suggestion is that we have an auditor from the community joining the admin channel for the purposes of monitoring the work.
They should be a rotating position so that the person people don't become part of the team.
They could then report to the mail list or the community news when they feel that there is anything that is not a board.
Anyone got any better ideas?
So Carl Hammond, the Indian replied,
this seems like a reasonable approach to me.
I'd encourage a select, a host from a random ordered list,
but allow it to decline, allow them to decline and pick next over and ask for volunteers or community vote approach.
This is easier to demonstrate an absence of bias.
The question of how often does it rotate?
It deserves an answer balancing the toilet, the janitors and reaching out to potentially many hosts who decline,
against having one order to serve too long.
Monthly feels burdensomely often and yearly feels like a long time.
Perhaps quarterly, they could then report to the mail list or on community news.
They feel there is anything?
Yeah, that's so.
So above board here meaning according to current policy as decided by the mailing list.
Anyone got any better ideas?
I most certainly don't have a better idea, humblest admiration lander.
Mike says, I've got a better idea.
How about we start remembering that this is a podcast not called on sex?
I don't mean to be cheeky or aggressive, but the mention of auditors is that not going a bit far.
You've not going to be fine for non-compliance or underpaying corporation tech.
If, indeed, anybody anywhere actually pays corporation techs any more.
And I replied, I might please take this seriously.
You have no idea the amount of money the judges have to deal with.
Only yesterday we had an Nigerian Prince Office offers 15 million American dollars.
Not to mention an ongoing issue.
We have the UN Secretary-General who was having a problem with his bank account.
Mike, Mike Ray says, you're quite right.
I had no idea there was any money involved at all.
Any thoughts about GDPR?
Every word of stick my quite legit.
Okay, that was, that was rough.
Well, we're through it.
I hope.
Yeah, that was not the most fun section.
No, not so this month, not only this, but all this stuff is all average in about two to three hours a day on HPR stuff.
Yeah, anyway, there you go.
Hi folks.
Well, what do you know?
I've recently installed the newest version of NVIDIA, not NVIDIA, NVIDIA open source screen reader for Windows.
And it now uses eSpeakNG for new generation.
I don't know how new generation it is.
I'll next, there are still problems with it responding to the stop command and the build system is a bit of a mess.
But there are some new voices.
The default voice variant as max is even is the one every photon dependent one of you wants about.
But I have fallen in love with the new voice called Edward 2 is, it is lovely and is still features eSpeak's small form print no bloatware on like Mary TTS and the like eSpeak continues to be the light enough to run.
I'm even the first generation of Raspberry Pi.
I listened to the open TTS HPR episode of Units ago, so I cloned the repository because I thought I might be able to write an eSpeak Linux console screen reader to open the TTS connector based on eSpeak.
But open TTS fill the build.
I will go back to it when I get a chance, but don't get much spare time at the moment.
I just thought you might like to hear me banging on about eSpeak again, but this time not in a not so snarky way.
Very good mic.
And there's me again, Ken speaking.
That would be good actually, because while the text to speech at the front and back are at the front, not the back, at the front of our episodes is nice.
It is very, very slow to generate.
Even that little piece of text can take to two to three minutes to generate.
And that's fine.
I'm not that big a deal.
But when I do screen reading here during the day, reading mails from the mail list, I pipe it through eSpeak.
So a nicer voice would be cool.
So I look forward to having that available to me on my Linux desktop at some point.
Cool.
So should I do your own your own reply, which he says is your in button saying while on this subject, I'm really curious what voice was used to make episode three, five, five, eight.
Can someone tell?
And I replied with the answer.
Since this is an open to TSEN.
And we had an offline conversation about that.
We're appointed them back to the original poster who posted it.
Cool. Very good.
Go for it.
Any other business props?
Dude.
So yes, any other business.
Sorry, I was just floundering about in my old man's strange intersection.
Shall I do that one?
You can do the older shows thing.
Yeah, go for it.
So we had a report of access problems from Argentina.
And we were able to get to them, but they weren't able to get back to us.
No, we were able to get to them from other locations, but not from the HPR server.
And they weren't able to get to us.
So there was a so there was a routing issue that was fixed.
But then now appears not to be fixed anymore.
If anyone has our notices, those things.
Notes is the lack of a HPR or access at some point in the future.
Please try and contact us with it.
That would be great.
No, that's the last we can do about it, but.
We can probably shoot from this side as well.
Pretty grim.
Haven't heard anything further about the situation.
Maybe it's resolved.
So we can.
We'll be there.
So I'll just on the janitor thing that there's a lot of stuff that we.
A lot of stuff that we do, both on the mailing list and stuff.
So it would be no harm to have somebody just.
Having a third party eye on it that could join us on the HPR shows to give us a.
You know, in other news.
It'd be that janitor or a monitor or a friend of the network.
Absolutely.
Yep.
Go for it.
So the other any other business is about the old HPR shows on archive.org.
And this is to report that.
Although I said the last community news that we had.
Issues with shows one to three.
Those have now been resolved.
And one to one and two have been blocked by there being existing.
Non HPR items from over eight years ago with the same names.
HPR zero, zero, zero, one and two.
And I'm managed to get some help.
With that particular one from Jason Scott of the internet archive.
Who's his name?
The history of that of those items.
And he very kindly shifted them out the way so they didn't block us anymore.
Then show three seem to have been an early attempt to upload blocks of shows.
Not quite sure who did this.
Well, yeah, wasn't that name wasn't against it.
But anyway, whatever.
It contained the audio for shows one to nine, but no notes or anything.
So I cleared it out.
Removed all the audio from it and then rebuilt it as a standard show with notes, etc.
Because one to nine were already available as individual shows.
So that's it.
So I think I can consider at least this aspect of the project about
loading old shows to be complete.
Yay!
So we've had no idea the amount of work that was people brilliant.
Well done Dave.
Thank you very much.
Well done.
It was an interesting challenge and quite glad to finish though.
Yeah.
But it does look fantastic actually the whole archive.org stuff.
Just they all lay out of everything is top notch over there.
I've been thinking we should probably do something.
This is where now I get you to do the next project that's going to take you five years.
We fixed all the HTTPS stuff.
We've posted everything to archive.org.
We've tagged all the shows and now we need to go back and fix all the show notes.
Yes, yes.
Well, there is a further project that I'm well aware of.
And that is that at some point during the upload process,
I found it's just coming on.
Can you hear it?
No, no.
No, that's fine.
At some point in that history,
I started making sure that the uploading software
searched each show for all of the assets as I call them.
Any other files, photographs, et cetera, et cetera,
and uploading those as well.
Because originally we didn't do that.
We simply pointed back at the HPR site.
So there are, I have a history of all the shows that have had the,
these files uploaded, where appropriate, of course.
And also those that don't should have had, but don't have them.
So there's a task led to go through and upload those extra files
for these shows.
I don't think there's a huge lot of them, but 50 maybe.
I mean, I don't have a real number that was just a guess.
So, yeah.
But then, yeah, we want to, we want to find all the dead links
and fix them up as well.
Yeah.
It's always tough to be done.
It's never ending.
Yeah.
Okay.
Cool, I guess.
Yeah, looking forward to a boring month, Dave.
Alrighty.
Tune in tomorrow for another except Sunday.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of hacker public radio.
You have been listening to hacker public radio.
At hacker public radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive, and our sync.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
