Episode: 3806
Title: HPR3806: HPR Community News for February 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3806/hpr3806.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 05:45:08

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3806 for Monday the 6th of March 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for February 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 77 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in February
2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fatton and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Joining me today is...
Hi there, it's Dave Morris.
Yes, Dave.
Trying to take over my show.
That chance that's been held.
Yeah, welcome to the Dave Morris, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah.
No, I must say you did a brilliant job last month.
Okay.
Two people new to this whole concert.
This is HPR Community News, where the juniors put down their proverbial mobs of office
and have a look around and go through all the shows and talk about the stuff that's
been happening in the HPR Community News this month.
I will want to say that there's going to be a lot of profanity in this show, so if you
are a bit later on when we do the comments section, so at that point, be aware that that
is something that you're going to need to take care of.
You've got a few minutes, so if you're heading down the highway with the kids in the back
of the car, now will be a time to turn it off or listen with headphones or something.
So fair warnings on this one.
Anyway, as is traditional Community News, we look at what HPR is.
It's a podcast where every show is submitted by a volunteer host, very much like you.
And while we have shows for the next week and a bit, we're still short of shows.
So if you could send in a show, that would be great.
If you've never recorded a show before, just press record on your mobile phone or other
device and say hi, my name is Bla.
This is the journey of how I got into tech and introduce yourself to the community.
Go to the website, pick a free slot, fill in your email, you get a link, you fill out
the form, it's fill in the list of explanatory.
Most important thing is to upload your show and then we'll take care of the rest.
So more people do that, the better.
And then you can listen to next month's Community News, where we will then give you a list
of shows that we intend we would like to hear more from you.
It's a very simple day, isn't it?
Oh yes, oh yes.
And as is traditional, Dave, you introduce the new hosts.
Yes, we have three, three new hosts this month, which is wonderful.
We have Screw Tape, we have Starship Tocks, and we have David, Threin, Christianson.
I think you met it for us, David.
Indeed.
I think maybe MacNalloo and a lot of people, a lot of people are faster.
We were supposed to do a follow-up show on that, but life can't get in the way.
But that's something we might just do at a later date.
Yeah, I should be valid.
Yeah, exactly.
Hitch, you're not that worried about Russian shows out on time.
So the first thing that we do is we go through the shows that were on last month.
And the first one that was up was from Mike Ray, episode 3783, which I have to admit, Dave,
I was a bit worried about when he posted that one.
Why, why, particularly?
Well, you know, was, okay, just to give people the background, what some people might
then know is that Mike is visually impaired, and as a result, he uses text to speech tools
to navigate our website.
And I was, I was worried like that there was going to be whole chunks of the websites missing
and Mike wouldn't know because, you know, the screen reader doesn't see it, so the screen
reader doesn't see it, Mike doesn't hear it, but I think it was okay all in all.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's too bad.
It's not perfect by any means, but I think we've between us managed to move the line
further forward over the years, especially with some feedback from Mike and other vision
impaired people.
So, yeah, it don't be complacent, but I think we're not too badly off.
Yeah, it didn't sound that horrendously bad.
I mean, what it sounded like, and we'll, I personally consider that any accessibility
bugs or a P1 bug, that's not to say to get fixed straight away, it's just at the top
of the list when we have time to fix stuff.
And yeah, so that's good.
Mechia, Tronik says, actually, can you do the first comment because I responded and
then I can respond to it?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mechia Troniac says, apropos of question mark, HPR, that was my introduction, by the way.
HPR, the site is awkward to download from now that I'm using a standalone MP3 player
in my computer instead, and my computer instead of an Android podcasting app that automatically
does it.
I don't understand why things are made more tedious for PC users, but this is a degradation.
It doesn't help that the podcast apps for PC are garbage.
Pod friend doesn't even let you download.
I should be a way to download more than one podcast at once without mastering some scripting
language.
So it stands as if I want to, is, if I want to download shows, I have to navigate to each
individual page and then click to the MP3.
Why not put an MP3 link on the main list so people can download the podcast without having
to go to each individual page first?
This is so tedious, especially after getting used to the ease of Android apps.
Yeah, to which I replied podcast clients, Hi, Mechia Tronik, thanks for the feedback.
Can you clarify which page you mean when you say main list?
The main page is a link to the media files.
If you want custom control, then I suggest you load the site's RSS feed into any of the
money podcasting clients that are available.
For example, G-Podder and they will allow you to load all some are non-depending on your
wish, your wishes, I guess, is what I meant to say.
Hi, Mechia Tronik replies, G-Podder, G-Podder, I tried once.
The Discover New Podcast feature is completely broken.
I can't there be a straightforward list of MP3s to download that I can save as and download
from the list.
I mean, in the two-week show list, I guess that's good, but it's in RSS format.
Forcing people to use other and another app when all that's required as HTML seems
regressive.
I think RSS should probably be probably part of the HTML standard, but it's not so pain
in the ass plug-in is required.
Anyway, you can search and scroll for the MP3 links in the two-week feed, scrolling a
little too much, then it shows the next five weeks as links.
Why not have an MP3 of each show there?
Full list doesn't even display in the PITA extension I'm using.
Can't there be easy HTML links for MP3s by the 100 or so?
I don't really care about the other formats.
I mean, I like the show notes, but when I come here to download MP3s, I want to be able
to download a bunch of the time and not have to spend a lot of time doing so.
And he goes off to say, awkward website, sorry about how jacking in your comments might.
I will listen to your podcast.
I should clarify the homepage when you scroll down to, when you scroll down, it isn't identical
to the two-week feed, which is a bit of scrolling to find the MP3s, but okay, since you're
on the same page, then there's the nice table with a list of last month's shows, but no
direct MP3 links.
So if you are two weeks or more behind, you have to click on each show title, then go to
that page, find the MP3 link to download the show.
Then you have to go and repeat the process, what a waste of time.
Can't there be a link to the show's MP3 next to the title on the table so that I don't
have to keep going back and forth?
Go to archive that are hoping that it would be better optimized, same, and this is where
you're turned off your radio.
Do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do, okay, presumably everybody is now okay,
with listening to explicit content, same shit.
You guess, you give you a picture of the audio waveform in the link page with no MP3
or other of the MP3 link, then look at the stupid waveform, everything sucks.
The hapless HTML user is click labor for no reason.
It shouldn't be so punishing for people using HTML, this is a web.
After all, and I find the podcast player for the PCP, PC insufferable, most of the good
ones are for Android and don't even have a PC version.
Now I trade all RSS links for a simple table design that had like a hundred episodes
for page with a direct link to the MP3.
If you choose, you can also read the show notes by clicking the title.
All it would take is a little better adding a small letter links to the MP3's last month's
show table on the homepage and extend the table for three months.
I'm sure that room could be made, please.
In another comment from mechatroniac, nm, never mind, I'm using the crippled g-pod
for the RSS for now.
I think my comments were at the website are valid, though.
OK, and I go on to say fixed.
I updated the site as requested.
I also uploaded updates of the complete episode guide and hack a public radio index, but
full HTML and created an index of the same change on a new site generation tool, which
is issue 70 for Rome, which has also been fixed, I believe.
And I would like to say something about this comment and about mechatronica, who we will
be talking about later on very much.
This is an example of why we kind of need to guide mechatronica in what he's saying.
He has a valid issue, there's an improvement that can be made in the website.
Yes, it took three long verbose pulls in order to get what he wanted to say across.
And once I understood what it was that he wanted to say, it was a trivial matter.
To implement it.
So don't assume that we're not going to do something.
So don't assume, don't be hostile about stuff.
Just state the issue.
This might be a good idea.
I see that there are no links down underneath.
It would be a very good idea if you could add those links.
Blah.
And we will do it.
Is that a fair point, Dave?
Absolutely.
Yes, yes, yes.
I don't really really come to understand what the problem was as we've been reading these
comments, to be honest.
So there was so much verbiage and bad feeling in there.
First version.
I don't understand.
Yeah, it's first version.
Absolutely, absolutely.
I mean, we've all been there.
But it doesn't achieve much to do it that way.
Yeah.
I'm getting a right.
I'm the person who can fix the issue and I fix the issue.
So I'm sitting here trying to decipher.
He's frustrated at something.
What is it?
He's frustrated at so make it funny, make the electronic.
Absolutely right.
This stuff.
Okay, there's an old trick that an old boss of mine used to do.
She would write a response to the email, go, are you fucking nuts?
You were absolutely stupid to do this because blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Then she would go back and go, oh, actually, maybe they have a point on that and then rewrite
the thing.
Of course, hilarity and soup, which he accidentally left the people's names in and press send
and then ran into the server room and turned off the power so that we can get routed
up for those were the good old days.
However, write it down and then go back, leave it for 24 hours, top tip.
Leave it for 24 hours.
It's been like this for 17 years, another night won't hurt it.
Leave it for 24 hours and come back and read it with a fresh pair of eyes and then submit
your book report.
I think Tattoo mentioned this before when filing a book report, it says something along
the lines that I'm paraphrasing and when paraphrasing because I've had the same thing
myself where when filing a book report, during the process of filing the book report, I realize
I haven't covered all the bases and when I do cover all the bases, I realize what it
is.
So, again, this is some some territorial advice that we offer here free as a service on
HPR.
But at the end of the day, Dave, we've got an improvement.
It's a valid point because I know the history behind it because they were on different
pages and they'll be merged and they'll have the feed down there and the code never copied
over.
So, yeah.
That makes sense.
It's good suggestion and it has been implemented.
Yep.
Yeah, yeah.
Good outcome.
But rather, rather tortuous plot, a path to get to it.
Exactly.
Okay.
The next day, Celeste, if I've read enough correctly, leave so.
Do factor authentication without a phone number, diving into privacy aware offline methods
for generating one-time passwords.
So services, improvement, do factor authentication and, yeah, and we have one comment on this.
Who's turn is it?
Uh, you, uh, I forgot.
I'll do it.
Okay.
Go on.
Zendflotr2 says, thank you for making this podcast.
I found your version of two factor authentication interesting and would love us if more companies
implemented comment sense rather than marketing.
Hmm.
Good point.
Yep.
Yep.
It, um, I certainly learned something from this, this, uh, episode, the fact that keep
parseccy could handle one time, one time passwords.
Yeah.
I didn't know that at all.
So I haven't used it yet, but, uh, it, uh, it could be good to, to use in some context.
Good show notes as well.
If I miss it.
Mm-hmm.
Indeed.
Uh, moving on, hacking, boobah, boobah, topic handler, parole, fail.
This one's operator in the kitchen and when this one came in, I had no idea what he
was on about.
So I think I had a death link to, uh, the Wikipedia article for, okay, okay, tea.
I, I knew of this.
I've not tried it.
I don't particularly want to.
It's all sugar and I'm go better, so I don't, yeah, and, and I was brought up as a kid
eating tapioca, which is in here, and, and, and hated it, detested it with, with great
violence.
Uh, it was a dessert that was quite popular in the 60s, 70s and stuff.
I think, but, uh, oh, I hated it.
So yeah, that, that's a little traction in this.
And, yeah, but, you know, each to his own, it was, it was quite, quite interesting.
I've seen, because I like watching Asian cooking things because I do moderate amount of Asian
cooking myself.
And, uh, I've seen things where they make the sort of dove for, for the, for these balls
and have machine that sort of stamps them out and, and, uh, all this sort of stuff.
Uh, it's very popular in career and, uh, Singapore and various places of Vietnam, I think,
in Thailand and wherever, all over the place.
So.
And surprised us on what sugar there was in there.
Absolutely.
It's all really, really thick with brown sugar and stuff.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Not, not healthy.
There were no comments on that.
As yes.
Probably people were too busy, um, making it to comment.
Chewing the way through, because the fair amount of chewing involved, I would imagine
to, to, to eat these tapioca bowl things.
Hmm.
And then we had the community news where we left you high on drive, they've, sorry about
that, that you couldn't use the mobile server.
I, I had the application started, um, moonla on my phone.
And then I closed it, you know, doing the all apps, but apparently it was still recording,
which is rather scary.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was, it was hard to, I mean, for my end, I couldn't tell what was going on except
that I could hear everything that was going on the table, which, which is not, you know,
presumably, you know, what you wanted, um, but, yeah, it, it, it, it drowned the channel
completely.
I couldn't, I thought I might have the ability to, to, uh, turn off your connection, but
I don't have those privileges on, uh, on the mumble, I don't know who does, actually.
We, uh, should probably ask, um, should probably get you, uh, those privileges on the,
on the server.
Yeah.
Okay.
Anyway, we, we, we, we managed to find a plan B and that was fine.
But yes, certainly Sandra Bidio.
Wow.
I mean, it was not, it was absolutely not the, uh, I printed off a thousand leaflets because
I was thinking, yeah, okay.
Well, you know, there were, there was only like five euros between, you know, 500 and
a thousand.
So to the thousand, we gave away a thousand leaflets.
Wow.
Wow.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
And that, every one of them is a conversation with somebody.
And there were loads of people who just didn't take leaflets.
They would photograph it or, you know, take a picture with the phone and then move off.
So there were, and it was quieter than your normal fast end.
Unbelievable.
Yeah.
Wow.
So they were estimating 8,000 attendees there on the, on the website, but, uh, yeah, maybe
not as, maybe not as many in where you were.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Well, it was just, you know, they, it was mobbed certain times, but yeah, you could feel
that there was less people, there were less queues.
Yeah, there was a good bacteria, but it was, it was easily the less than I, you know,
the super long queues and they, you know, um, and the K building, sometimes when I was
recording, yeah, going around recording a boots, you just couldn't get to the boots
because there was four or five people deep, uh, and around they, around the, um, devium
stands and stuff, it was, would be impossible to get to, but, uh, I think the move things
around as well, uh, they tried moving the stands to various different places as well.
So that, that kind of helped.
Mm-hmm.
Yep.
Yep.
Let's go.
Um, we had to find a place to, right in the middle, I mean, now I know why.
Yes.
Yes.
Oh, thank you.
So they, uh, what they want us to do next year is, um, all the speakers on the main
track before they, uh, when the main track speakers are announced, what they want to
do is that we, as hacker public radio, will interview these people, you know, where you
come from, wanted a standard set of questions and those audio, that audio would be published
on HPR and then get released.
So, um, I'm actually thinking it's a good idea, um, the only thing is, uh, we may need to
spread the workload a little bit so that, um, you're recording team, exactly.
So if clacky can do the Asian ones and, uh, uh, somebody, uh, tattoo can do the, uh,
the, uh, Australian, New Zealand folks, and then we have people in, in the States doing
the States ones, uh, you know, can do the European ones, and then there's all scheduling
things.
So it would be a big thing, but it would, it really does put us front and center, uh,
literally front and center as, uh, a fostom is which, of course, people think it's a European
conference, but I saw some statistics there that showed that 65% of the nationalities that
were there were, you know, the, it was a breakdown based on nationalities of speakers,
I think, or attendees, I'm not sure how they came up with it, but, uh, 65% are Americans.
So it's, uh, it may be a European conference, but it's very international.
And by, yeah, like Belgium, people from Belgium were way down the list, you know, it was,
uh, people from the UK, people from, uh, from Germany, people from all over.
So yeah, it's, uh, very international conference.
Very good.
Okay.
So we go on to the next show, I guess.
It's shocking crack, I like that, that's, that's, uh, never, never want you out.
Ron describes fixing wiring in the ceramic Christmas tree, and, uh, I, that just, that
just brought me back to, uh, pair of Christmas lights, my father had, oh my god, they, uh,
you plugged them in, and the local power station would go, woo, yeah, yeah, yeah, I, I,
I think I've experienced that, that type of thing.
I think when I was a kid, my, uh, parents used to put actual candles on Christmas tree,
I lit them once, and then went, oh, we're not doing that again, but, yeah, yeah, the,
the techniques for doing this sort of stuff were, uh, dangerous back in the day, but he got
fixed and he was served more than it was, so that's, uh, yeah, yeah, he did a, did a great
job.
I like his pictures, by the way, the, the way that, that, that they're all laid out, uh,
in figure layout, is that what that is?
Yeah, that's quite good.
It, it does look nice, it doesn't transfer to, um, uh, all gone, fortunately, they, they
strip all that HTML out of it, so it looks, it looks nice on the HBR site.
Good stuff, good stuff, uh, we're, we're going to have to implement the, uh, switch over
the HBR site, I'm thinking it's only a matter of time, my guilt levels are, are rising
very high, especially if we again, when you see rolls, uh, change, change log comes flooding
in, we're going, oh, I still haven't put it off for the life.
Okay, well, we need to do that.
Uh, yeah, we'll figure, figure out that, uh, no comments on that, obviously, uh, we'll
have to waste for next Christmas, before that, uh, that happens, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So nice core tube torch, this is, I don't know, is this, uh, everybody in Scotland have
one of these?
Everybody in this house, yeah, at the moment, which is just me, yeah, yeah, yeah, I did
give one to, uh, my son's girlfriend, because she, she, uh, works late, um, and you just
have a little torch in your pocket or in your key ring, yeah, yeah, yeah, there were no
comments here, but I actually got a comment on Master Don, somebody saying, oh, that's
really good. I enjoyed your show. So that's the first time for me.
Yeah, should maybe, um, incorporate some of the Master Don's, Master Donny stuff at some
point. Yeah, yeah, if we can trace it or whatever. I think it was born launching the website
Dave. I just know that it's not, it's going to be a mess. It's going to be that any time
I do stuff like that, suddenly my own personal life bugs up and then the HBR site is broken
and, you know, there's a division of duty. Yes, yes, it's, uh, there's running HBR takes
fair bit of time. So, yeah, you'd have a clear run at these sorts of things. Oh, precious.
Anyway, the next day we had a new host screw tape with a common list portable games, including
ACL2 format logic to which Claudio says, Claudio, great first episode. Hey, fellow SDFR, which is the,
SDF, what does that sound for? So something like super dimension fortress. Ah, that's a
gesture. It's the free cell thing. Something like that. Yeah, yeah, it's a unique cluster. That's
free, free access. Anyway, Claudio continues. I enjoyed the episode, even if it was over my head
for the morning drive and traffic. Sounds great. And thanks for the shout outs. I'm glad I had a
hand in getting you to submit an episode. And I'm sure everyone is thankful to hear what you had
to say, looking forward to future episodes from you. Maybe we can guess, I bet, another fellow SDFR
to do for those who don't know, to record an episode on a similar list topic or to respond to
your episode. See what they did there. Claudio's a pro easy. Good, good. And we had a comment from
Zen flow to two nice show. He says, I finally decided to join master on today and sent
screw tape a message there. So I'm on the same server instances screw tape now. I also went through
Gofer resources. He's using I had the big idea that I would use and by use by Chrome Gofer extension
micro extension thing to view all of it ended up using links from my Linux beta on this
Chromebook because the Chrome Gofer extension fell flat on its face. Thanks Google. I'm going to
have to get a new computer with 32 gigs of RAM so I can run for GUITAR again and quit using these
Chromebooks. It's bad on my image. That is to say, if I had an image. And the next day we had two
two scone. Why can't I say that? Two son. Two son. Yeah, two son or a son. Two son. Part two.
We continue our month long stay at Benson, a town just south east of Tuscan. Tuscan. Tuscan.
Two son. Two son. Two son or son. Oh, Lord. Yeah, and we'll continue.
Stiffrano didn't run out of things to do and this was kind of nice because he had links to his
which are on flint. Yeah. Yes, yes. I find that it's fascinating. I've been to Arizona,
but not not not to go around it much. So yeah, it's a fascinating place. Hot and very dry.
Still amazing. Yeah, very good. I listened to this. I must confess after he posted this
because I couldn't wait for the second part. So that was that. So the following day, my hard
wear problem, which is keyboards. Oh, and yes, it is. Starship sucks. Doesn't need a keyboard
problem. And that problem is not having enough keyboards. It's a party. Yes.
Yes, I was fascinated by this. I've not come across anybody who has quite so many keyboards,
though my son is heading in that direction. And yes, some really interesting tales about the
good and the bad. And I'm going to listen again. I've made a note to myself to do it because there's
so many so much information there. He mentions the Ducky. Ducky keyboards, which I have here in front
of me with its LED cycling through the spectrum or something or other. So yeah, yeah. It's a lovely
keyboard. It was my Christmas present. Very good last year. Yeah, yeah. It's great. It's really
nice and solidly built and whatever. But yeah, I'd like to hear tons more about keyboards.
It's a fascinating subject for its own concern. Yeah, just two heads-ups that I did there.
One was I used the transcripts to get links to all the stuff. So if the links are not ideal,
there are sources I could get based on transcripts, which is excellent. Plus transcripts are working
out well. And I also applied noise reduction because it was quite difficult to listen to
the original audio. But the original audio is available on archive.org if you wanted to get
it from there. Cool. Yeah. Good show. Good first show. Very nice.
My come to this. I cannot remember. Right, I'll do it. And tray, keyboard addiction. This was a great
perspective on the world of keyboards and customizations. I too grew up with solid mechanical keyboards.
The first PC keyboard I purchased was the lighten tactile 101 key and I loved it. Part of me
wants to try to get something which will get me back to the feeling of those old keyboards.
However, I have a friend who has fallen into the addiction of constantly needing top grade
rebuilt customizer keyboard and I could see myself there easily too. Thanks again for sharing
great first episode and look forward to hearing more of your work.
Hey, good stuff. Yes, yes. I'm surprised that we weren't more keyboard addicts in
Photoshop. But yeah, they're too busy using their keyboards for a movie.
So the next day we had learning to read music part one. I was like to see that coming in Dave.
I mean, somebody was me showing. In which we learned to read music by going for a walk.
This bed absolutely no sense whatsoever, where I was listening to it at double the speed.
So I went back and listened to it and put it off the music sheet.
Yeah, I also struggled with it because I tend to list the podcast and I'm doing other things
and you need to concentrate a lot more than I did the first time around. Second time around is
better. It's going to need another listen to fully grasp what he's talking about. And to look at his
his information on his own site. I haven't looked at that yet, but yeah. No, great idea.
You need to see something. Yeah, great, great idea. I was taught to read music as a kid of about
10 or something, 9 or 10, but I don't remember hardly any of it now. Didn't get into music big time.
So you do trays? Yep. Trays comment is what fun. This took me back to my days in elementary
middle school learning several instruments and to high school and college choir. This was much fun
as I happened to listen to it while walking around the grocery store. I'm sure it was quite a sight.
I finally figured out why I was getting out of breath though. I listened to podcasts at 1.5
times speed. So sprinting around the grocery store. Thank you for recording this. I look forward
to the next parts. Excellent, excellent. And Jesu says quite possibly the most toe tapping
episode of HBO. Thank you. Although I don't tap my hands, didn't tap my hands, I certainly tap
my feet in time to the beat while you were typing while all the while typing away at work. So
very good, very good. Excellent. Like these. That's a great idea for a show. Yeah, really good.
And Zenflotor 2 came with God probably will use a Chromebook which now has a counterpoint show
called God will probably use a Chromebook which is episode 3754 by some guy in the internet, obviously.
And Zenflotor 2 says appraising the show, the squirrels of a thousand hulls, thank you.
Oh no, this is a counter to Zenflotor 2 shows. So this is some guy in the internet with a show
about God will probably use a Chromebook by some guy in the internet and I was very welcome.
It's confusing, eh? Yes, exactly. Thank you guys. Oh, God. He did a really good job of the
analysing the original show with with clippings and that sort of stuff which I think is a really
nice polite way of responding to the to the show and commenting on it. Well, some guy in the
business is a gentleman anyway. So, there you go. Absolutely. Yeah, yeah. And he did a wonderful
job of I did enjoy listening to his his response and his response to the response.
After Zenflotor's comment is a squirrel of a thousand hulls and the Scotty says you are welcome
kind squirrel. I had fun making the show. I'm hoping to create more show responses in the future.
Thank you for giving us all something to ponder. Excellent, excellent. Yeah. Yeah, a wonderful
pair of shows. Have we jumped into the next month or not? No, no, no, we're fine.
The next day Archers 72 had retro karaoke machine restored or the fix a cassette tip mechanism
for resale to a resale shop karaoke machine. There's a thing actually that I would like people to
stop doing is is using the first tense and start using that they go to third tense as a pair.
Because I copy and paste these so but but in Archers 72 instead of iFix the cassette
tape mechanism if you could but in Archers 72 fixes the tape mechanism. Not just the Archers 72
everybody does it. So if I'm trying to do that I'm trying to modify that now when I upload the
shows in the first place to go back and fix them because it makes the it makes the social media
stuff a lot easier. I can just paste that when I'm doing the response the following day to the HPR
things. No, fair enough, fair enough. Well, back to the show. Excellent. Again, as always,
more interesting stuff. Oh, the one he does does he keep the stuff for? Does he sell them all?
I don't think he said. Yeah, I was wondering that because it seemed like quite a fun
machine. I'm not sure you'd want to be singing karaoke in your house, would you? I don't know. I've
never lived. We've had the donda for parties for birthday parties. Yeah, yeah, it would be
good for for kids parties in the tub thing. Yeah, yeah. Well, you can do it. Oh, I don't know.
Thank you very much. Anyway, yes. That would be quite good. It should be a one of judgment. It should
be a plunger of judgment. It's a tiny plunger of judgment. Thank you. Anyway, yes. It was
fascinating. I did like the pictures of showing the steps involved and that sort of stuff.
I've taken apart cassette players and the bars, but not and I fixed them actually, but they weren't
very, very broken. Not like this one was, but yeah, yeah, excellent. I thought it was really good.
And he was capturing stuff off it using a USB DAC digital audio thingy.
And yeah, it's interested in that. I've had a few chats with him about it actually, but
under basted on to or not the most of the elements on the matrix. Yeah, element. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
so what? Yeah, can you do one of spoons, sir? Yeah, sure, sure. One of spoon says tape cassettes.
I've dismantled a few cassette plays in the past. The memories make me shudder, but I thought
pieces were neat. I've never repaired one. I've repaired a lot of chewed up cassette tapes,
though, albeit stretched all with missing sections. Cool. Yeah, I had a splicing thingy for tapes.
It wasn't for cassette tapes, so you could get those, put a bit of sticky tape and you cut it
at a 45 degree angle and stuff. Yeah, but I did have a splicer for a reel to reel tape.
awful thing to have to do, but you could make loops and make strange noises and things
would get record people's speaking and then play it back to a million times in a loop.
Yeah, I didn't do that. No, no, it wasn't. So the next day we had the very first
New Year's show episode one, and it's spring isn't even over here in the Northern
Hills for a day. What's going on? Yeah, I know. Everything's upside down this year.
Yeah, exactly. Dogs live all the cats, good. It was great to hear it actually this early on.
Huge, huge us to the team that made it happen. For some of our Indian fans and Hitchfield Lovecraft,
again, did a fantastic job, though, sure, not. Yep, yep. I think the transcripts may have helped,
actually. I would think so, yes, yes, yes, but still quite a massive undertaking.
They are fantastic. I've met a point of just going through each of the links and opening them up
because they've tracked down everything. It's excellent. It is an excellent resource.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. Quite a fun show. I quite like the length, actually.
I left that particular show till late on in my listening for the month because
I was sort of slightly daunted. Yeah, the length. Would I have the time to listen to all of it?
But yes, I did, and an hour and 30 minutes or so is a good length, I think, for these.
So, yeah, really good. Some of them are slightly longer, but it's probably because there was no
natural place to cut it. But they are shorter than we've had in previous years, I think.
So the following day, Newhost David, come in with a quick taste program with dependent
types. And this was a show that McNullo managed to extract as foster. So, excellent.
Yeah, well done. I'm done. So, is it my turn? He is the head of the Haskell organisation.
Oh, by the way, let's just drop that into the chat here or why don't we? That should be an
interview of the salt. It's been mentioned on Macedon and elsewhere, I think.
But yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, excellent. Good to have him on board.
Whose turn is this on the old comments, Steve? I'll do this one, probably his mind.
McNullo says, concise and clear. Consize and clear, David, but then I expected no less,
given what you said to me at the HBR stand at Fozdem. I'll be trying out some of the languages
and reading the books you mentioned. Thank you for this show. Excellent. You know what we need,
Dave, is one of those, you know, chess, you know, speed chess timers things, you know,
when we're done the top comments, I can, I can click my hand and you can click yours.
And somebody connected up to two wee molasses and then syncing it over the internet,
that would be a good show for one of our hardware actors. Yes, yes, yes, yes, I can see that
possibility now, but I'm not going to be doing it just yet anyway. No, no, not for you, for somebody else,
somebody else listening, sure. But I knew what type of show to do. Gosh.
Oh, Dave, Dave, I weep. I weep. We never database of some directly followed like 50
different different topics that you want to do. I cannot believe people have
they tell me they don't have ideas for shows. I challenge you folks. Anybody out there to please
contact me if you think you don't have a topic for a show. Anywho,
next day was a show by myself and Rwoon basically Rwoon, but I get credit for it because I press
record. And it was about how to do change request. And I haven't actually done the pull request
to fix the thing that I thought I was going to fix so I better have a look at that at some point.
No, this was good. I sort of vaguely knew how to do this, but I'd never done it.
You know, have you done this? Well, you've read the stuff that says, or if you want to do this to
X, Y and Z, and you say, oh, yeah, got the general gist of it. But when you come to actually do it,
then you're going, oh, I don't really understand it clearly. And this helps to fill in the gaps
in my mind quite a lot. Yeah, it's good. And yeah, each get like service,
you know, get home and get lab and get to do it slightly different. So yeah, the general steps
apply. Okay, good. And there were comments. And the first one was from our good friend,
Mechiaronic, who said, very cool. I didn't know how much I could help, but it looks like a
firmware to learn more about Git and what a static site entails as opposed to whatever it is in
the fact now. I'm having trouble finding where to register. I keep getting the badritch by gateway.
If I go to our source, and this is the index page, and then the link to the CBI, if there's four
or three for bitment, clicked. And the Git clone command run in Linux connects, but ask for password
work. And I sign up to be a member. Now, in contrast to his other comments, this was an ideal
comment. It gives exactly the steps he was doing. It avoids all naughty words that will purse the
reader into a bad mood. And it gets gives you enough information to carry on. Yeah, yeah, it was
a fine bug report, I would say, indeed. And I'll read Ron's response to that because
it's the last comment today. It's comment number five. I'll do that one now.
And he says, hey, Mechiaronic, if you go to an on-source at the top, there's a register button that
takes you to a form. It's not an automated process. It may take a day or two to run a registration
request to be processed. I'm looking into marrying, yes, on a public location, just haven't had
time to do that. Yes. And I think actually at the time that he was doing it, that was the day we had
there was a small outage for a period of time. So perhaps that was it as well.
I think it was. Yes, you get a message about bad gateway from engine X because I saw it too and
reported it to to Josh, and it was he was able to fix it quite quite rapidly, I think.
So yeah, yeah, super. So you can do comment two then. So Norrist says,
I'm three because I'm six. Second time to do your work, I think I'm going to nip off
the other coffee. Okay, have fun. Norrist says, repo location. It looks like we killed repo.noronisthost.net.
Well, yeah, or itself killed. I don't know. Can the HBR generator repo be moved to GitLab.com?
Moving the repo would eliminate the need for an additional read only mirror and we could take
advantage of GitLab's CICD. And the next comment, three is from Daris as well, automated build on GitLab.
I was able to get GitLab CICD to build the HBR static site. First step was creating
a mirror of the HBR generator repo and it gives the Git commands to it, get clone, get remote add,
get push. And he says, then I created a GitLab CICD pipeline to check out the HBR site generator
from the mirror, load the HBR daily MySQL dump into a MySQL database. Build site published to
GitLab pages. The CI project is and he gives a link to GitLab for his build off the thing. And
says the build is published at and it's another GitLab link which presumably I've not looked at this
actually, presumably contains the site actually in a built state. But yeah, cool, cool. Yeah, I have
another chance to look as yet either, but it is on my list. I sure would be an ideal thing to do
about that actually. You're going to do a comment for? Yep. Roons says, sweet, nice work,
north. I was thinking about having a mirror in GitLab or my own GitT instance. But now you've
done the heavy lifting smiley face. One minor modification to your site that comes on your GitLab
pages will have the audio files and transcripts pointing to the correct spot on archive.org.
Media-based URL is that. Yep, cool. Cool, the next day was the 22nd of February and it was
laptop 2nd SSD MX Linux install by Mechia Tronic. And this is about doing hardware upgrades.
First comment doesn't make sense. Oh, yes, first comment does make sense because Ken says the
original summary was overcoming fucking UEFI and Windows to install a thingy as per policy.
And Mechia Tronic says, laugh out loud, I really wanted to hear her swear. Guess I will have to
disguise the phonics if I want that to happen. I did get a kick out of reading the transcript.
It really did hold and hold and call feed install Linux. One clarification, my method of
geo-booting to hard drives in BIOS considers, considered of me simply switching the boot hard drive
to the BIOS settings that can't be done with UEFI. Okay, and the next comment if?
The next comment is from Zen Flota 2, OBS Studio comment. It's entitled, did go back and read
the transcript of my Slackware 15 show and it seemed a bit unclear on the comment about OBS Studio.
I had to compile that program along with others. Slackware 15 offers Kaden Live
on the DB3, but not OBS Studio. Anyway, sorry for any misunderstanding.
And Mechia Tronic says, reply to Zen Flota 2, I see, I didn't like to compile on the links. I tried
to compile OBS under Devon once and there was always one part that was out of date. So I went
through all the steps only to find some dependency in order that was too old and had to be updated.
But when it can't be updated for some reason, there was a frustrating waste of time.
Never what want to do that again. I didn't even like having to run app to update all
that code on my computer from all sorts of different sources. That is constantly changing.
How could that could ever be secure? If you went back in time to the 90s and told
computer user what it's like now, they will think it's nightmarish.
And there's a comment from Luna Bittin-Jürnberg. Slackware Grub is entitled. Slackware is using
Lilo by default and you don't have to create a boot USB stick. Can just install Lilo to the
standard disk you install on or install Grub from Slack Package and configure that.
Okay, pretty good to know. And the next day we had Norris with my home router history,
which was one I was kind of listening to half tools and then I stopped and went back and
re-list into it because some of this stuff is quite interesting to me at this point. I would
kind of want to look out for a good gigabit ethernet routery hardware thing. Two or three gigabit
ethernet ports so I can do some network segmentation. So I'm going to have to have a look at some of these.
And Semphoto2 says, extremely entertaining. I could not stop my tail from lagging on this
program. It was, it's a squirrel, of course.
Fine. It was extremely interesting to listen to your program on your router using OpenBSD.
Could you give us an idea of the throughput on this device using OpenBSD. Try using
link removed, which is a speed test site. Okay, um, when to go?
Not smart. It's an OpenBSD live system. F-U-G-U-L-T-R. Yes, yes.
Yeah, Figuita. Figuita. He's done shows on on this in the past, which is a very strange name,
but I thought it was some sort of Japanese fish when I first heard it, but there you go.
So next comment, Windigo says custom routers or routers,
routers in this country. I've been looking into DIY OpenDOL-RT hardware and PC engines came up with
a, came up a couple of times. I'd never heard of them before and was happy to hear about your
experience with them and other devices. Cool. Bulk, I missed a bit. Thanks for the well timed episode,
he said. Perfect. Love it when that happens. Put that again. We're 17 years and all our episodes
are well timed, Dave. True, true, true. Yes. Nist quantum cryptography update, and this is from
2022, and there's probably no harm that the days is in there, but still good update at the time,
I'll listen to it. And Brian Inos Hio says, Moore's law, interesting episode, but Moore's law
has to do with transistor density, not systems getting better. Also, how, now, how Ahuka
know the interworkings of your Ukrainian upseq, I'm guessing he doesn't. Well, I could tell you how
he knows, but we're afraid, I'd have to edit it out. Yes, yes. Zenflow to two comments, very
interesting. I found this program very interesting. It was a goodie, he says. High praise indeed from
the squirrel. Yeah, it was good. I don't know quite where it's going to go, but yeah, but we don't
need to be too worried, I think, is Ahuka's message. Speaking of American mammals, I guess,
gophers, screwed it, had another excellent episode on using the gophers approach with gophers.
And you know what Dave, I tried this out, and I have to say I love the beauty of it, it's just so
simple, just go, you get the file, you read the file, that's it, no crap.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I installed gophers over on universities, what was then a mainframe,
BMS cluster, before there was much in the way, where was a very, very new thing, and we weren't
sure we wanted to play with that, and to have foolishly we were. Yeah, it wasn't a general thing,
it was meant, it was the thing we used to put up information about the university, we were going
to try and do things like with the next bus times and stuff, we never quite managed to get the
information that we wanted, or have enough people to manage that stuff, but it was really nice,
we definitely had quite a lot of stuff that had been put there by the computing service department
I worked for, so you know get a lot of stuff on there from about where to go, who to see, about
stuff, how to get access to certain things and so on, it was a really nice way of making that
available, and the web stuff when that came, became available year or two later, looked really
crappy and comparison, because only web stuff was grim in the example, whereas gophers was nice,
but yeah, it's quite an interesting voyage back in time for me, yeah, I'm amazed that people
are enjoying it as much as they are, it's quite nice to see what, I mean we could, we could
fuss all of, I've been thinking about doing the Gemini protocol, because it seems to me,
you know, we have all this data on HPR, we could just dump it out to a text file, and boom,
you've got to go for a site with all that content, and equally a Gemini protocol, so I'd like to know
what, if somebody wants us to do that, that's, you know, that was the time, because we're doing
the static site, so it's another template essentially, so yeah, talk to us.
Yeah, yeah, static site and a go for site, it's going to have some similarities, you think,
terms, so overall structure, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we can, as we're generating the index.html,
we can generate a lot of whatever it is that we need for a, a go for site, and the subdirector
is all going to be there, so yeah, it's, it's just extra dis space, doesn't even need to be on the
main site, you could use the template thing that much and just, you know, gofor.hackerpublicradio.org,
yeah, there's anyone's interested, attack on the Squishmallow, and I had to go to Wikipedia
find out what a Squishmallow was, that makes sense, so. I'm out of that world now having
my children growing up, there's lots of strange toys, they're still looking around the
corners of this house, but not, we never got into that one. Yeah, yeah, fascinating.
That knows what I was listening, yeah, I see, I like the effect there, that's kind of cool. As I was,
you know, the thing about these shows from Ron is, you know, are indeed anybody who's doing a fix
as you go show, you don't actually know if they're going to fix it or not at the end.
This is not like moment of terror when you're there, God. Is it going to work? Is it going to work?
Yes, it works. Yeah, very good. I did enjoy his pictures of things like lots of little cups
with lids on in Squishmallow. Marked off Squishmallow. That is really nice, and also his
rather lovely, yeah, iFixit driver kit. I've got one of them, they're quite a number of different
types actually, but yeah, but this one looks really cool. You can get a, there's a tray you can get
from iFixit, which has got lots of little square wells stamped out of PVC or something.
That's what I use, and I'm doing this sort of stuff, but I think Ron's method might have
slight advantages in these cut lids. Yeah, yeah, yeah, not stuff over his, hopefully not going to roll
away and disappear under furniture. Well, I am always terrified when I do something like this,
isn't going to get cold away halfway through. And then it's just there, and you know,
accidentally you're picking up a towel or something with the washing down here, and then the whole
thing goes flying across the room. Yeah, yeah, yeah. People on YouTube, because they are on YouTube,
are filming these sorts of things. So I've seen people do really complicated tear downs and rebuilds
of all manner of stuff, and the comments say things like, how did you remember? And the comment
that the reply is, will I look at my video? Yeah, that's all where that screw came from.
So there's probably a moral there, if you set up a webcam or something to film yourself,
then it might be quite useful if you're ever doing anything as complex as this one seems.
And the next day we had chatbath, well, hello, we did hold on. The next day we had the next
month prize. Aha, there you go. See what you did there, Dave. So what else did we have? We had one
comment on a previous show, which was a Linux distro review, episode 3776 by Buchwer, and Brian
in Ohio had commented how to do it. This is how to do a distro episode, great episode in which
Buchwer replied. Thanks for the compliment. I appreciate it. I have since decided to use zero box
as a zone minder server. We'll see how that goes, and I'll record an update. Yes, I need to
purchase a couple of hard drives first, and maybe do a clean install, do a reinstall for a clean
start on that project. Recommend me a non-system D distribution for a newish laptop explicit.
I tried Slackware, Devon, MX Linux, and they're all broken in various deal breaking ways. I figured I
must need a rolling release, go to Artrix, their website looks like dog shit. Can't even log into
their form, it keeps giving errors. I wanted to sign up just to complain that they're a fucking
telegram, that they use fucking telegram. The release stuff on a fucking telegram channel,
which makes me question their sanity and confidence right away, are these fuckers on meth?
Telegram is fucking dog shit, as they make you sting up with a phone number. If you aren't a member
of the telegram, you can't see anything. Well, great fucking fast, they're fucktards.
Needless to say, I'm very proud of Artrix from the start, and I bet it's an absolute piece of
shit. Judging from their shit website and the fact that they're publishing on fucking telegram,
does anybody have any recommendations for a laptop distro without system D? Does Gen2 or BSD play
better with newer hardware? Do you want to do John Dole's results? Yes, we get the next
email is from John Doe Locksmith. Great name. Well, I think your way of starting out here,
rather off the wall, even offensive, have you tried antics? Yes, and Jesu responds saying
agreed childish and offensive. If someone's asking for help was speaking to me like that in public,
I would turn around and walk away. And there are two responses there, so yeah.
Well, is Jesu saying, marking something is explicit? No, no, it's not you. What's happening is
mechiotronic is not responding to everybody on the list. He's responding directly to the person
who sent this. So his response in private to Jesu was, each shit then coxaker, it says explicit,
then Jesu replies saying. So Jesu having received this comment says, marking something is explicit
is not a shield against being called out by using pejorative language. And he replies
back to the mail list, which is exactly what he should have done. And mechiotronic then responds
is saying personally directly again to Jesu, make sure you take all your cloth shot boosters to
dickhead to hitch. Jesu responds. I scheduled a boost to show appointment for after lunch.
So super. And Carl Chavez says, give Alpine a shot AlpineLinux.org. And in a completely unrelated
email, I say, hi all, there's a longstanding policy on HBR about moderation.
Saying we do not vet, edit moderation anyway, censor the audio submit, you submit. We trust you to do that.
As we asked a few times a foster, we were asked a few times a foster, as to how we get away without
moderating, I pointed out that the most important bit of that policy is namely that we trust you to do
that part. And that the community understands this responsibility. If we imagine for a moment HBR
being a grace theater, where each show has their own hall. In your hall, you will not be in moderators
and we will trust you not to say anything in there that will get us into trouble. If you are dealing
with some topics of a delicate nature, we make sure that you take reasonable steps to ensure people
do not accidentally stumble upon this. We do not want anyone to be in a situation where they're
exposed to an unsavory experience. We go on to say, please note, this relates only to the audio
you upload, the rest of the metadata branding, summaries, tags show, etc. are managed by the HBR
community and may be edited. To use our theater analogy from before, outside the hall, the janitors
ensure that the entire theater is kept welcoming to all. One of our contributors is having a
difficult time with this responsibility, not only within their shows, but also in their show notes,
in the comments, and now on the mailing list. I can understand that this is difficult for them,
but a lot of leniency has been given over the years. At a particular point, you have to accept
that even more help is required in showing them the best way to interact with the community.
Therefore, I wish to propose that until trust can be reestablished, all submissions by
Maggie Atronic, aka Anacore, to the mailing list will be approved by the janitors. We will
take up contact with him in cases where the content may cause offense, and we have had some
success with this approach before. This will not apply to anybody else. All our actions will, of course,
be overseen by the HBR auditors who are volunteer community members outside of the janitor and admin
team. Do you want me to read? Please do, yeah. Kyle Chevy has comment, he says, sounds good to me,
but I'm curious what effing non-system D, non-dog obscured it. Distro, he goes with, I've
been, I've become kind of an alpine fanboy, and I'd like to know if I have an unsavory convert.
Maybe he'll liven up the alpine wiki. And to which Anacore maciotronic responds, I might stick
with MX for a while, I use TLPUI to disable the PCI runtime power management on battery,
and currently being up to 42 minutes without USB dying, so may have stumbled into it. I keep
changing back when I try disabling USB suspend, so I try the PCIe option and the thing to be working.
Don't know what the PCIe stuff has to do with USB, but maybe it uses the same power rail.
I'm pretty sure I've tried alpine before. It did not like big bucks though, although you
probably changed it, I'll try it out again as live and see how it does with the hardware,
bitchute and the video. Just wondering why I responded.
Burnard M wrote, I shook my head about, did he send that to me? Did I just
post that to the public mailing list?
Yeah, I was trying to work out what that was.
Looks like you've seen it, did you?
Yeah, I sent it to the list. Okay, I shan't read that out, but I will read my reply.
Sorry about that. That was not my intention. The email itself fails.
JWPs, would you say that in front of granny tests? But for me, it was the all-feless response to
Jezra from which is the straw that broke the camel's back. Jezra handled it correctly and has been
around long enough to know that the community is behind him. Imagine that you had just joined the
mail list and the first post you got was that. Say you were brave enough to call him out and
got attacked like that on a private email. It's possible we would never even know.
The janitors have had to deal with a lot worse from this contripture in the form of trolling behavior,
the legal content and other cases of direct attacks to people who questions his behavior.
The excuse that he was not aware that he was replying to the person directly cuts no ice
with me anymore. So enough is enough. His behavior is not helping grow the community. He has put a lot
of effort into making. We have put a lot of effort into making this welcome and place
for people that might be scared to do their first show. Just this month, we expect new contributors
because a lot of people have their own personal expense, but in the time and effort to resent
representatives of Fuston. The annoying part is that Mickey Atronic, aka Anacore produces good shows
and is a valuable member of the community. Frays differently, no more to have any problem with his
question. So there's a reply from Windigo to that message, or may I read that?
I agree with this approach as Windigo. This is an isolated case that seems intended to fall
outside the very reasonable guidelines in place. Indeed, they seem to have a history of malicious
intent that have been treated with tolerance and patience so far. I can appreciate the delicate
balance that the janitors are attempting to maintain, preserving freedom for hosts while keeping
the community welcoming. Thanks for all the hard work.
Adjison said, I seem to have missed the issue, any specific issue in question.
Oh, I did see it on call for, I'd say, approving his post has warranted enough,
although it also releases the route I'd take if it were me. Yeah.
And Paul Quirk comments, freedom of speech is one of the greatest freedoms of modern
civilization, but it's based on the assumption that those who use it will be civilised and civil.
And Brian says, who determines what civil, civilised and civil? Just delete mechatronics email if
you don't want to read them. Don't show how Europa has succumbed to non-liberal thinking when
people at free open source software developer meetings think moderation of speech is good and
necessary. Brian and Ohio, keep up the tunes coming, Paul. Can you read Wendigo's comment there,
Dave, please? Yep. I'm a US citizen, says, when Wendigo was standing on red-blooded American soil,
eating flags for breakfast and defecating the constitution. Shitting the constitution there,
so it's loud and so proud. Okay, not scared of it, but I prefer not to. My opinion isn't
tainted by the continent I live on, surely. Personally, attacking HBR host is unacceptable and
it's a great way to lose hosts. It was handled in a transparent way and the janitors showed
a ton of restraint and fairness. Excellent. And the following was from Jesra. We, the members of
the community, what kind of language we will accept in our community. If growing the community and
getting more people involved and thus having more shows is a community goal, then it is of interest
to the community to see that see to it that exclusionary language is not part of the community.
If all are welcome, then all should feel welcome. And Brian in Ohio replies, sorry, didn't know
someone was attacked. So there are a few other comments, JWP, Hi Ken and everyone else. So I'm a
fan of free talk and very opinions. What I'm not a fan of is an appropriate content public. Yes,
as Ken says, if you cannot say it to your grandma, you might not want to say it in a podcast.
That love our platform is hacker public radio. There's nothing sexual in the title. So it might
be not be appropriate to talk about sex topics based on our platform name, to talk about sex
technology or medicine might be okay or even enjoyable. As we went through the last time,
if you attack something in your podcast or via late laws in your podcast, no, that does not work
either. In May, I'm going down to the basement. Raspberry Pi will work with a 1980s serial terminal
and do things on the internet. There will be a few podcasts about this. Those podcasts will not
have sexual or criminal acts or things your grandma might like to see them. Our community should
strive for podcasts like this, take care and be safe. And DNT says, I think it would be ideal if
people who act like a prick just told off repeatedly in public until they either adjust or leave
on their own. But I understand this may not always work out and then desire to keep the environment
friendly as legitimate, especially at this time because of the work that several people put
into promoting HPR at FOSTA. I really appreciate the janitor's efforts to accommodate
mechatroniac so that we can all enjoy his contributions. It shows a strong commitment to retaining
every host and it seems like it would have been much easier for them to ask for support for a
ban. If they're willing to moderate him so be it. It's worth mentioning too that the message has
started all this was completely off topic for this mailing list. Might have made more sense on
IRC or on the matrix channel, where maybe even would have been tolerated. Thanks DNT.
And Ron says, thanks publicly accessible HPR repository for a HPR static site.
Thanks to the interest shown by mechatroniac and Norrist to show HPR 3797 how to submit
changes to HPR. I created a publicly accessible repository on GitLab. Actually, it was where I
originally hosted, I just was there. The GitLab repository will be updated once a day from
the one on the repo.anonstores.net. And the GitLab link is in the show notes. GitLab.com
for a session on Dr. Horin for a session for your underscore generator.
Cool, very good. So, yes. What else is the left to do Dave? Nothing, I think we're done.
I think we're done as well, yes indeed. So tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
Public Radio!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net. On the Sadois
Stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
