Episode: 3050
Title: HPR3050: Linux Inlaws S01E04 What's in a name
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3050/hpr3050.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:50:22

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,050 for Friday 10 April 2020.
Today's show is entitled Linux in-laws Season 1 Episode 4 Watts in a name
and is part of the series Linux in-laws. It is hosted by Monochromec
and is about 73 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
Season 1 Episode 4. The episode where the legacy is revealed.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair
at Ananasthos.com.
Thank you for watching.
This is Linux in-laws.
A podcast on topics around free and open source software,
any associated contraband, communism, the revolution in general,
and whatever else fancy the article.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language
or fancy humor and other certainly not politically correct language
you have been warned.
Our parents insist on this disclaimer.
Any mom, thus the content is not suitable for consumption
in the workplace, especially when played back on a speaker
in an open plan office or similar environments,
any miners under the age of 35 or any pets,
including fluffy little kilobunnies,
you trust the guide dog unless on speed
and cute T-rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
Welcome to Linux in-laws.
Season 1 episode, what is it for?
For.
How are you Martin?
It's a good sanction.
Sorry. Yes.
Yes. Good. Thank you. I am non-infected and well
as all my relatives.
A great podcast for all the way.
Yes.
How are the, yeah, how are the Hining and Cardsberg supplies?
They're non-existent because I don't really like...
You just... I don't know.
Okay.
I just set the word, I think. Anyway.
Okay. Yes.
Martin, what have we, what have we, what do we have in store
for the next three hours while we do an extra long episode
on not Corona but rather Hining and Cardsberg?
Okay. On this episode we are going to discuss the legacy
and the region behind the name of this podcast.
The legacy, Martin. What's that?
You did go to school, didn't you? No.
What school?
I wasn't present in your school days.
And I wasn't living in Germany.
That's okay. What school?
What is school?
I thought you asked me what school you went to.
No idea what school you went to.
No, no, no. What is school?
Although it is debatable whether you went to school at all, of course.
True, true, true.
Then many things are debatable.
Sorry, where were we?
Yes. No, Martin.
It may come as a surprise to you, but I did do a PhD, so...
I must have got to say that some stage of medicine.
No, fun enough, I'm not.
What about all these drugs that you keep pushing?
I can't really talk about this.
This is a podcast.
I mean, we're explicit, but we're not that explicit.
I want to mention it.
Okay, fine.
Let's start with the news, Martin.
The news.
Apart from this corona thing that everybody keeps talking about.
I can't, I don't get it, but because...
Yeah, it's just not a beer brand, right?
I mean, what's the deal with highlighting Cardberg?
Becks?
Becks.
What's the name of this beer?
Rats and Belgian.
Belgian beer made in Germany.
So, yeah, so if you're listening to Rats and people,
just get in touch.
If you are wondering how to promote one of the up-and-coming
beer brands in Germany,
you're not going to be able to do that.
You're not going to be able to do that.
You're not going to be able to do that.
You're not going to be able to do that.
You're not going to be able to do that.
How to promote one of the up-and-coming podcasts in
the free and open-source software world?
I mean, I can't mention that German built-in beer
doesn't really, isn't really any good or bellgroom?
Martin, you can mention whatever you want.
Because we are exposed.
Oh yes, I'm not highlighting the sponsors anyway.
In the case, you keep forgetting.
Okay, coming back
to the lovely beer contest, get going.
The news, did it.
Then news, yes, yes, yes, Martin, what do we have? Yes, I can't
request something of a very peculiar apparently, Mozilla in
their infinite wisdom has decided to in the future version of
our beloved Firefox browser has decided to make a way or to do
away with HTTP traffic. So meaning that and this is an option,
it's not mandatory, apparently, the future release. So you
have the option of going for HTTPS only. Okay. So if you
run a website that has that use HTTP, it's going to be tricky
without starting. Does anybody still do it? So yes, all the
people who don't have a certificate installed, like let's
encrypt or something like this. Well, this is the only
small fun. And yeah, let's encrypt this useful, but most
commercial companies don't use that, right? Well, it's a
depends, right? I mean, if you have the doubt to spend it on
real in the vertical certificates, which sometimes tend to
cost quite a lot of ruler, you might as well, you don't need
let's encrypt, but let's encrypt has the has the has the benefit
of really being free of charge and provide it that you can
meet the free requirements, for example, right access to your
web space. So what are you running on yourself then?
many things, but you mean, let's encrypt any into
for the certificate. I use let's encrypts for reuse or the
let's encrypt for for Linux, I love this video. It is for
Linux in laws for riot, a mumble, which we no longer use
for that. It's another story altogether. And we'll take many
many hours. Not to mention the power supplies on Macbooks
material for a future episode. Yes, going back to the
HTS PS topic.
Why do we need this in your opinion? Why have they gone to
this measure to
well, you see, I reckon it's it's an evil scheme to force
actually people to encrypt the traffic. But I mean, if you
are, I mean, I mean, I'm not fine enough. No, no, I mean,
no, I just do, I'm sorry, sorry, sorry, not that I know. But
maybe people know more than, but maybe our listeners know more
than I do. So the listeners, if you have input there, feel
free to get in touch at feedback at Linux in laws. EU. Not as
far as I know, no, they, they, they, they, they just, they
just use certificate authorities needs to say to do the
handshake or rather to check the validity of websites.
As far as I know, no, they're not in the certificate business
themselves. Okay. So, but I mean, one, one important, one
important consequence of this is, of course, if you're running
a, oh, HTTP only website, and if people finally choose to
it up this measure, you'll be forced, I wouldn't say out of
business, but nobody will be able to look at your website.
Yes. And so if you're your, a friendly news website, you need
to encrypt your traffic now to display your news or or make your
users being able to view this news. And not to even mention the
added overhead of encryption and associated carbon footprint
this creates seems like a bit of a overkill, might be.
But I mean, yeah, you can shuffle this off to the GPU or
something. The, the NVIDIA GPU or the, for our, for our
experience, fun facts, Mr. Vista has just bought laptop with an
Nvidia GPU built into is, and into it, um, quote, it's, it's
something that everybody does. I'm sure, I'm sure there was
an age that you remember, VHS and PT Max, right? I think we
about what, two months apart, when it comes down to age, right,
Martin? Are you sure about this? Oh, it's three, I keep
forgetting. Anyway, yeah, so what I found out is that, um,
Nvidia is just the standard, right? Everybody builds them
with Nvidia. So therefore, you be a fool to go with something
else. You looked at the link that I sent to you about a certain
Mr. Torvalds, making a very rude gesture at one of the big
conferences about this Nvidia support, right? Yes, but then
what does he know? I think Linus told us is one of these,
who is this guy?
And maintainers? Yeah, he maintains a code base for something
called Linux. I don't know if that rings about that. There
are a couple of podcasts named after Linux. Oh, yes, Linux
course would be one of them. Linux indoors. In case you forgot,
is this like a segway? It's Linux outdoors? Well, don't
that, man.
Uh, obviously, okay, let's spend two more minutes on brew
raving the fact that Mr. What's the bottom end video base laptop?
Martin, shame on you. I'm very pleased with it, so far. But
then I haven't tried to install Linux. Oh, yeah, so I may take
the future episode. Yeah, you will be in for a rough ride,
depending on what, what video driver do you, do you, do you
want to use? Have you decided on a desktop yet for that
machine? No. Any hints here that you would like to share?
It depends on what you're looking for. If you're looking for
no, if you're looking for KDE, um, I mean, the reason why I'm
asking this question is quite straightforward, actually, there
are two factions at the moment. What is called, um, X 11, that
would be the old guys. And the new kids on the, on the block,
would, would use a compositor like Wayland. Well, I've given
my age and experience, then X 11 would be the way to go. So
something we are most, um, yeah, regardless of this, you
may be in for a rough ride, when it comes down to driver's
report as such. Okay. Well, we'll be revealed. And I have a
handy export person on call. And who would that be? Well,
others, it's not so in Germany, especially, specializing
in all things operating system and open source related to
visitors. Yeah, Mr. Mr. Visser, the audience, wait, made one,
one made one fatal mistake. He disclosed the fact to his
text. Oh, yes, he disclosed the fact to his text support,
namely me, that he actually bought an Nvidia based machine.
So all bets are off when it comes down to support service
level agreements, operating level agreements and other
and all the rest of this crap, because I do not support
NVMe machines funny enough. Yeah. Okay. So just take a look at
your at your Thompson conditions, Martin and sent a machine back
today. I see. No, seriously, just do. Well, you, I think you
should know me by now that your advice is appreciate, but also
a challenge to prove you wrong in most cases, which has
worked, worked, worked. Well, if you can prove me wrong, of
course, I stand up corrected, but don't send me mails or reach
out to me on right, asking for that machine does it work? I
can't get this. I can't get a picture on the screen. What's
happening? I just see static Martin, sorry, you choose Nvidia
top floor, I see. That's not meant to be the operation,
Joey. Okay, if somebody has experienced with Nvidia and wants
to help now to chance, I'm sure it'll be a topic of beautiful
post as well. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, and season one episode
six, maybe seven is dedicated to Nvidia graphics support on
Linux distributions running on laptops with Nvidia GPU
course. That would be a special episode before about three
hours, I think, because we at least need these three hours to
discuss that topic at length. Also, we need another, we need
enough time to discuss all the audio fun we have had. Yes, but a
good portion of these three hours, I reckon, would be spent
on this on the discussion on how you keep in how you keep
your sanity while it's struggling with preparative video
drivers, reverse engineer crap, sorry, video drivers and
prior to crap that in that order. And the fun stuff at the
time that Martin spent on this during the next six months,
getting this thing to work. Maybe it's the Martin face.
Martin, I sent you a link about the arch wiki, right? And the
second paragraph of the paragraph already talked about a custom
kernel. You remember, right? He sent me many links, which
you know, not not all these are for public.
Martin, Martin may claim that he's younger than me, but at the end
of the day, he seems to be much older than me, apparently. I
see. More experience. Yes, enough, yes, enough raving about
Martin's laptop. Let's get on with something called Linux, sorry,
the legacy.
Why don't you give us an overview of what we come from? We as
in you and I or the podcast, the podcast was something that
you suggested, as being a, a, shall we call it a supporter, a
fan of podcasts, I guess, something that you enjoy listening
to. And so you introduced podcasts to me and some mainly
floss weekly, I think, but can you remember the particular
circumstances, circumstances, it was probably some work related
on interesting activity, that cost for some diversion. Martin is
almost right. There we go. Prague ringsbell. No, no, no, no, no, no,
this is a year, a year before, you mentioned more customers.
Well, we just, well, we discussed in practice, the kind of
serious, the, the, the seriosities that we're looking for about
this whole endeavor. Let's put it this way. Ah, this is when
you bought all the beers, isn't it? Well, there are other things.
Yes. Yes, indeed. Ah, yes, now I remember.
First closure, Martin and myself, yeah, went to, went to a bar in
Prague in November time, right? November, was it? Yeah, it was
November. And underground plays craft beer. I picked it, I
think, and then basically this podcast was more or less very
hot chicken wings. Yes. It was very much so, yeah, um, apparently
the plays with the hottest chicken wings in Prague, if not for
the moment. Martin almost cried when it tasted one of mine
and said that he can't do this stuff. Which was okay.
I'm not into those kind of rituals myself, but do continue.
Yes, and needs to say we, at that stage, we did it, we did it
a name. The name can do. Yeah, but the foundation was laid
there. Yes. So Martin, why don't you lie to us about the choosing
of the name? Okay. I have a recollection of it. Let's see if it
corresponds to you. Okay, so obviously Linux outlaws being
the, um, the famous podcast that we were both fans of,
um, specifically because of their opening tune, which is from
Chris. Uh, Germando, because it's license free? No, it's not.
Actually, no, no, no, they're violated the license, didn't they?
Because it's not CC bios of the thing, as in creative
crops. Yeah, but it's, you know, it's from some movie, right?
You don't know the movie. Well, I'm not a movie
official like you are, Martin. So why don't you lie to me or us?
Okay, so this is obviously, obviously, um, for those of you who watch
are of a similar age to ourselves, most of you will have seen this
movie. Uh, and it is actually probably one of the most famous
movies in the world. Is it? I don't know. Okay, look, we could probably do,
uh, come probably do a poll during a poll cast, but I would
imagine that 80% of our listeners would have heard of this movie,
or seen it at least. Call it good to bad and ugly.
Oh, that one. Oh, you know it. Uh, the title rings about,
I don't remember see, maybe I saw it at some stage. I don't know. Okay.
This is with not John Cleese, but
John, no, it's not the artist escaped me. Um, something,
something similar. I don't, I don't know. Not sure.
That's it. John Cleese would like to be compared to Clint Eastwood.
No, but there was something, but there was another
actor with a similar name, no? John Cleese is an
British actor. And this is an American movie.
So far, I'm with the starring Clint Eastwood.
And some Mexicans. Yes, I don't know the names, but to be fair.
Let's, let's use the, um, this, yeah, what's called again,
this video distribution network for Ken, it's called the
Inter, well, the internet. Yes, and the name,
uh, that I was looking for is actually Leone Cleese.
There you go. Yes, sorry. Okay.
Which is obviously very related to John Cleese also. Yes.
The resemblance is uncanny.
Yeah. And there was, there's another guy called Eddie Valach, which is peculiar
because Valach is a castrated horse in German.
Oh, there you have some. Every funny, every day.
Why do you have a name? Okay. I do not. Okay.
I just have just that's in the fields.
It's like, what is this?
Why would you come up with a word for this? Okay. Um,
you asked the guy who, uh, the guy who invented John, I don't know.
I don't, I don't think so. I don't think that there is somebody who invented
the language, but you have a, you must have a simple word in Dutch, no?
For castrated horse. Yes.
As an male castrated horse. No, no, no. Okay.
Unless my Dutch is, do you speak Dutch?
Okay. Why would I speak Dutch, Chris?
Because you are from Holland? Actually, I'm from the Netherlands. Sorry, sorry, sorry, my mistake.
Yes, people there is apparently it's still a difference between Holland and the Netherlands.
As Martin has just, he's a mistake to make because even our, when we encourage our local football team,
we say, her Poland and not have the Netherlands, but there we go.
That's fine. Uh, where were we anyway?
Remind, remind me. Uh, you wanted to talk about the legacy. Yes. Okay.
The name comes from, yes, that was it. Thank you. Yes, yes, yes.
Oh, yes. So the name, yes. Okay. So the name is for Lewis outlaws or in laws?
I don't know where the name for Lewis outlaws comes from. You'll have to ask them.
Soon, they were a foul of the movies. Okay. Okay. Apparently, if you take a close look at the movie,
there, that movie is about outlaws. Yeah. So the music is fitting to some extent.
Okay. Okay. I think I think the music came later and the idea of having a podcast
that plays along the themes of outlaws came first.
I made, okay, maybe we should, maybe we should check more light on, on, on the outlaws before we go
kind of what the in laws are. Yes. Okay, guys. Um, for those of you who don't know,
um, Lewis outlaws was a podcast that started in 2007. If I'm completely mistaken,
it went on to 2014 2016 2007. Nothing. Why would you call it 2007? Who does that?
Because why? Just a case. Okay. It's just something wrong with that. I would say so,
but hey, let's not go there. Are you, are you from the international standardization organization?
I wonder, are you, are you an ISO member? Secretly? There is, there is a review that fact out to,
um, pronounce a year, right? And it's not generally called 2007.
It is. Again, I think this is another, um, Paul, we need to, um, and distribute it once I read it.
The preview of, okay, get again. We just found out that Mr. Risser is secretly funded by the ISO.
No. Not a fact that apparently many people know, but you heard it here first.
Oh, yeah. You like to get things correct, right? Yeah. And so in 2007,
a podcast by the name of Linux outlaws was started by two people, namely Dan Lynch and Fabian
Charles. And funny fact, fun fact, Fabian is still a German, if not completely mistaken.
And Dan Lynch is of Liverpool fame. Um, and if I recall correctly, they,
in contrast to the in-laws, they never met in person before they started the podcast.
Um, they met in online, I think it was like radio, some flotters. Okay. And then they decided to do
something like a Linux podcast or free and open source podcast, um, around the outlaws,
uh, the outlaw theme. And this is how the theme music came along, um, and also the format,
because the way they did it, uh, or most of the episodes, uh, especially the, the, the,
the later episodes are around what happens, uh, what happened during a week, or during a fortnight,
or during a month, and then a discussion around these news items.
Somewhat comparable to the way the in-laws do it. Um, but in contrast to the in-laws, as in us,
they kept to this format pretty much for the later duration of the podcast, i.e., um, Dan would pick
up an, an use item, and then they would discuss the consequences as we did at the, at the,
at the beginning of this podcast, when we discussed HTTP versus HTPS, um, in an upcoming
Mozilla release or Firefox release, um, whereas the in-laws do a little bit more than just
discussing use items. Mm-hmm. And um, what's the reason for that, do you think?
Mm-hmm. Good question. The Martin put me on the spot because we are more comprehensive than
the hourglass. Good answer. Good answer. Um, and I think we still have to find our spot to some
extent. Yeah. I think so. I'm just discussing news. It's not, you know, it's, it's a informative and, um,
so why were we on the subject, Martin? What is, yeah. What is your opinion? Where,
where, where, where, where we should take this podcast of ours, called the Linux in-laws?
Okay. Well, um, it apart from slagging off people who buy Nvidia crap, it's too easy, isn't it?
Yeah. Um, no, it's not, but it's justified, but that's a different story.
Well, it's, okay, so if, um, I mean, this is partly up to, to what our listeners like and do
not like, um, they are all three of you. And, um, so that should at least provide us a majority of
votes. But, um, if, you know, if we think about ourselves, what we like in podcasts, um, that,
that's probably, you know, the, the main thing about this is to, um, enjoy ourselves and give some
useful information and entertain our audience. No, that is the objective. Um, it doesn't have to be,
uh, entirely, factually based, uh, but can be more free-flowing and more way. I like the upcoming
sketches, right? These are, um, I see. Well, have I given too much? No, you have not. teaser,
there will be a, um, fictional, I might add, sketch later on as a part of the trailer of this
episode, so stay tuned. And this is actually one of the few differences. Yes, we do like to add
some sort of humor to the whole thing, um, because, uh, open sources great, news are great,
but all means, um, it's, but especially given the current circumstances, beer, um, viruses
ruling the world and all the rest of it, I think what is much needed is some laughter.
Because that releases pay, that because that releases stress, it alleviates pain,
and is as much more, uh, much more things to, to, to improve, um, the current and future and part,
well, not past the ages, but future ones anyway. So this is what you will see. Yes, you did listen to.
The pastor was broken, didn't he? Yes, this, this is why we can't improve the past situation.
Yes, right, Karen. Correct. Yes. Thank you very much for adding this, Martin. Yes.
My flux capacitor is broken. So if there's somebody out there, it's coming really handy,
it could be fixed right now. Yes, indeed. And who can give me hand here to, in order to get
this word, to order, in order to get this working again, but all means please reach out to feedback
at Linux and lost.eu. Um, and before we go on to the legacy further, let's play, let's hear some,
some, a little bit of a soundbite from a, from a recent episode, but from the 100 episode,
we're actually Dan and Fabian in a car going to something called Linux talk in Berlin,
but doing the podcast on the way. So the next hour, the soundbite won't be an hour, but let's,
but let's listen to some excerpt so that you know, um, what they talk about. Um, so see you back in
a few minutes. Hey, everybody. Welcome to Linux Outlaws episode 100, very special episode. We
were recording from a car, doing 130 kilometers per hour in the moment. Um, we thought we'd, uh,
you know, beat Dave Yates at his own game, and she had warm burgers doing that as well. Yeah,
special 100 episode. I'm Fab, as always. Hello, everyone. I'm Dan. Yeah, this is, uh, we're on live
from Nioh Toeban. Uh, eight two, eight two, apparently I'm reliably informed. Uh, yeah,
this has just seen a sign A2. Yeah. Uh, we had a special intro as well. That was a special
classical guitar version of our theme tune by, uh, John Colp from Lafayette, did you say,
Louisiana, which is amazing. He's even done like a full musical score. So if any, uh,
anyone amongst you, you know, it can read music. I'm useless at reading music these days,
but you could get the music and learn to play it on a whatever piano or something could be
interesting. Yeah. So you probably hear a bit of background noise because, uh, as Fab said,
we're in a car. So I'm kind of holding the microphone and passing it across and trying not to hit
him in the face while he drives, but get it close enough so he can still talk into it. We haven't
quite worked that out. So we're trying to outdo Dave Yates. We also talked about editing the
show in the car as well. So we could say that we've outdone, outdone Dave Yates. That would be good.
So yeah, this is going to be a bit different because we haven't, we're not actually going to talk
about computers and, well, maybe computers, but not about Linux specifically. We've got a,
you can hear some waffling paper. We've got a list of questions that people sent to us on Twitter
and Identica. Um, about, yeah, we had a few responses. A lot of people posting like loads of
questions, the same people posting loads of questions. So thanks to them. Should we start off with
the first one then? You ready? Okay. This one's from Don Henry. It says, uh, what is a good size for a
snack cake? Um, I don't know. Do you want to take that one? I'd say as big as you can possibly make it.
Well, it's still, you know, fitting in your mouth. You have to eat it with one bite. I think that
would be a good idea. We were talking about this. And this is, of course, assuming that you can have
more than one. Um, if you, if you can only have one, it has to be bigger, definitely. But yeah,
that's, that's what I would say. He didn't specify what he could have more than one or not. It just
says what is a good size for a snack cake. I don't know. I'll agree with that. I, uh, I've never
really thought about it. So any, he says, what's the sound of one Linux outlaw clapping? I can't
really do it with the mic. Hang on. Um, I'll put the mic down for a second. There you go. There you go.
That was it. Um, that's what it sounds like. If you can hear it over the traffic noise,
what else has he got? If you could be any major appliance, which one would you be and why?
And he's put a stipulation anything bigger than a can opener. So what do you reckon?
This is terrible because I, I would have said some kind of sex toy. Yeah. That, you know,
it's going to be bigger than a can opener. I don't know. Oh, I don't know. Probably a fridge.
Something you can keep beer cold in a fridge. Okay. Now that we are back, Martin, so what,
what do you think about the whole thing? The whole thing being sorry.
Oh, the clip. Sorry. Yes. Um, yes. Well, this, it's, for me, it was a, um,
uh, a bit of a memory thing, right? It's like, uh, two guys driving along the German Autobahn. Um,
obviously being off of Dutch origin. I have driven along the German Autobahn on numerous occasions.
And having a discussion on the way with a good friend is something that's very pleasant. Um,
that was my initial kind of comment on that.
Hmm. Should we do this tour? I wonder, getting in a car and then recording that
episode while we're driving. I do. Okay. I thought you were a public transport. Uh, uh,
addicts. No, no, addicts. Uh, uh, you can die in these things these days. I, uh, I'm
let to believe for the transport. Yes. Well, you can, well, you don't die in the, in the
public transport, but you pick up things there that you can, that you can die from later on.
Hmm. Well, it's not discussed that topic. In theory, you can die of anything, right? So that's
not, uh, well, it mentioned a truck runs over a train that you're dead too. That's, that's,
indeed. Uh, yes. No, that sounds like a good plan. Um, yes. How is your, uh, what do you call that
resistance to car sickness? And never have a good to hear. In that case, I'm dry. Why?
I wouldn't see it for the driving in that case. Okay. In that case, I'm going to take
for chance on public transport. Okay. So do we actually, um, is the Linux tag still going ahead?
No, um, why not? Because, um, the Linux tag, uh, I think died around 2011, 2010,
something like this. Sorry. Um, 2010, 2011.
For the ISO. Okay. Now, um, Linux tag went on for, I think, at least 10, 15 years before I
died an awful death, um, due to funding situations, uh, it's certain level of discussion
in the organizing committee and all the rest of it. You'll see, you see the legacy all over the
place. For example, the, the little presentation day originated, um, as in the, the idea that,
uh, each and every log as a Linux user group locally, um, take one day in a year or two days in
a given year and present Linux and, uh, and the surrounding open for open source ecosystem
to the greater public. That actually originated from the legacy of the, of the Linux tag.
The Linux tag essentially was one of the biggest German community events compared to
Camels and Linux Tag, uh, to a Frostconn, to Opemaranova when it was still wrong. That's a
wrong thing. This is basically where the German free and open source movement originally came from.
But as I said, I think they abandoned this, this format in 2011, 2010, something like this,
maybe later. Um, but this is, I think that was one of the first times when actually Fabian and
Dan actually met in person, uh, going from Hanover where I think Fabian was living at the time.
To, to Berlin. So how did they, um, this just sort of, yeah, it's a slightly different topic. How
did they record their podcast before? There wasn't a famous episode 19, which I've never managed
to dig up where they talk about this apparently. Um, similar, I think to us, they were called
separately and then mix it up as part of the post-production process. Uh, if, if a listener has this
episode somewhere on his, on his, on his server, please do us a favor, um, and send this to us because
we're interested in how Linux outlaws did it originally. The reason being quite straightforward
because for the last six months, so it feels anyway, we're struggling with all your problems left
right in center. Yeah. Martin has just discovered actually, if the breaks break through moments,
if you unplug a MacBook Pro from its power supply, it actually changes the characteristics of
audio recording. Um, maybe it's down to the fact that it's running an ancient version of OS X
called El Capitan, but it's, it's really, it's really strange. Um, I had to replace my
headsets because it was giving crosstalks on the recordings. It's just amazing. Um, and in
previous times, I wouldn't believe it. And when you tell me, yeah, audio on Linux can be a bitch,
but now I'm fully subscribed because yes, we have first had, we have first-hand experience here.
Many audio on Linux. Great experience. Yes. Um, especially in this stupid fashion,
it is setting up a working podcasting environment on Linux is not without challenges. Let's put it
this way. Agreed. So did we actually explain the name so far? Uh, no, we haven't. Why don't you
do, why don't you do the honor Martin? Okay. Where do the in-laws come from?
Right. So obviously the show is based on the outlaws. And we are slightly less outside of
the law than the outlaws we thought. Um, combined with the fact that, in a way, you know the term
about in-laws, right? And how they are described, usually referred to the mother-in-law as a,
let's say, unfriendly person. Ah, no, Martin, fun fact, I've never been married, so please
enlighten me. You know, I'm in marriage. What happened? No, is that a, is it life? Life happened
in Martin lives. This may be a concept you may be somewhat familiar with. Oh, it is thinking,
shall we demonstrate the power supply to the listeners? Well, if you want to go ahead,
well, the speaking could plug in and demonstrate better than the ads.
Maybe for the purpose of this accessory world. Yes. But do explain this in-laws concept to me.
Well, so, okay. Right. When you marry someone else, then they generally have parents,
but they would have parents, but for whatever reason, they may not longer be around those
parents, but generally those parents are around, right? Because you tend to marry when you are
in your younger days, most people in their, when they go beyond, let's say 30 or 40 don't,
what does it marry anymore? It's usually beyond, so they think that marriage is a great thing.
Again, topic of the other episode. Anyway, so you get married, you get your, this comes with an
in-law package, right? Meaning the parents of your beloved new wife, husband, whichever way
you inclined. And these, these in-law generally have an opinion of their own about how you should
be looking after their beloved daughter, son, etc. So generally seen as a somewhat interfering
party in the opposite. Makes sense? Interesting perspective, because to me, that sounds like you
haven't paid enough mula when you took over their beloved offspring, because if you would have
paid them enough money, they probably would have stayed out of the inner mechanics of the marriage.
You don't want to get paid together on a daughter, right? You don't mean. Anyway, there are exceptions
to this rule. Inception in case my father-in-law who is a very helpful and an uninterfering person,
so there are some some exceptions to this, but the general accepted that opinion of the
in-laws is that they are interfering and not beneficial. So you are in the lucky position,
basically, that your in-laws are quite different? Yes, I only have one in-law remaining, but
oh, you do? Okay. Yes, so he is quite old and we built him a house in the garden, so he is
actually quite a close in-law, but not living with us, which is quite nice, but also a good arrangement,
but it's yeah, as an in-law, he is very good, he does not need more, but he used to do things like
fixing things around the house and painting and all kind of useful stuff that you would normally
prevent you from doing your open-source research. Excellent, excellent. And playing with NVIDIA.
This is the reason, right? And this is the reason and this is the role model that you had
in mind when you suggested we should call this podcast Lindo's in-laws. Interesting.
Did you not have a say in the matter? No. Okay, that's good. Why should I have a say in the
matter-bound? You decide anything anyway, anyhow, not a big deal. I'm just a techie, right? Do you remember?
Well, I'm actually wearing my T-shirt now. Let's just assume I'm always right, which saves us a lot of time, right?
But you didn't borrow this from your wife. Thank you. Oh, I didn't, this was a gift from my
dear friend. Mrs. Visser, if you're listening, this is just funny, right? This is just humor.
It's not meant to be serious, but I know memes. I'm sure you'll get the video one day.
Okay, shall we play another soundbite from a previous episode? Please do, please do, just
do close this out. Oh, does that mean we... Okay, guys, sorry, does that mean we get to play that
theme tune if it's part of their recording? Unfortunately, we can't because it's not...
But if it's part of your recording. Yeah, but still, this is... Yeah, I bet. Of course,
that content is under a creative commons' attribution, but that theme music isn't.
We might be tempted Martin to do this, but it'll be just another surface of attack for everybody,
but for somebody who wants to get after us or not in that case, so I'd rather not.
So what you will hear now is actually, I think it's episode 70, just basically to give
you another kind of impression of the great legacy Linux in laws had in mind when this podcast
was formed. So just to close this off, before we go into the picks, here's another soundbite from
episode 70, and actually, this is basically where they describe how they're met.
So then we had a big, big event this year for both of us, which is so
LaGradio Live, first time we actually met in person, which was a lot of fun. You came over here
and with Katie, and you know, we had a lot of friends over and... That was cool. Yeah, and everyone kind
of traveled down with us. Our entourage is so beautiful. Yeah, we had a crew with us.
I'm looking forward to that this year. We have to do that again.
Yeah, in the next year. We have to publicize that. Otherwise, you know, LaGradio not being around.
Yeah, well, I've offered. I'm sure we'll manage that. I spoke to Adam about that, and he's
seemed quite keen on spreading the word. It'll get us to help promote next year.
So that should be cool. Yeah, a great event. A great weekend. We sang badly.
We ran around enjoying the show. We talked to a lot of people.
Yeah, I did a lot of... Forgot the names, like, 10 things.
It's hard, I mean, it's really hard when you stood there and like,
there's 200 people walking past constantly going, I'm whoever, I mean, you really want to
remember every single person's name. But, you know, when you just suddenly, like, introduced
to 200 people and walked out, it's kind of difficult to, you know, to keep up.
It was really, really weird as well. Like, on the first day, I was still a bit, like,
drunk from the night before. We did the mistake we padded, like, three nights before we went down
there. So not enough sleep too much. Alcohol wasn't good. It's actually really funny. I remember
on the Sunday as well. I didn't get out of bed. It's about 11 or 12 on the Sunday.
And it'd already been opened again from 10. And we, like, rolled up at 12 or whenever it was.
And I think that is on the open... No, the guys on the Neuros OSD table next to us were just,
like, looking at me and groaning. You know, nice to see you here, nice and early.
Okay. So after this suitable second clip, let's discuss, oh, let's go into the
Pix Martin. What is your pick off the week? Oh, the pick. Sorry. You said this beforehand.
I couldn't work out what pictures you were referring to. But, sorry, no, in terms of what do you
think is worth mentioning? Apart from beer brands. Well, personally, I have discovered
another source of podcasts, which I'm not previously listened to. These are not Linux-related
podcasts, but they are still very entertaining and insightful for, you know, not just
technical reasons, right? There's always things to learn, whether they are open-source related or not.
But some latest one I listened to was the Manning One on BBC, which is, well, it's very much worth
listening. Do you have more details like the name, maybe a website, a URL that we can put
it into the show notes or something? Oh, yes, of course you can. Yes, yes.
And the subjects would be what? I'm curious. Okay. So, oh, sorry, sorry, oh, yes, you're not
familiar with this one. Okay. So it's, it's not, no, this is a, you see Martin, this is outside
the free and open-source software world. So why should I even know about it? Right. You must have
other sources of news that you follow? No, okay, tell me. No, but what's, what, no, what,
what other news do you consume? I don't, I tend not to because it's all just crap. It's people
talking about some sort of virus. Oh, and the implications and this is rather sad. Let's put it
this way. Anyway, this is not news, right? This is a historical podcast, but it's, oh, so
a podcast about me in the past, me being the first moon landing. And the title of it is the
13 minutes to the moon, which is it? Yes. Is that the one basically that was was done in this
basement in Hollywood? No, sorry, not the podcast, but the moon landing. I see.
You mean the waving flags on the moon, where does the wind or? That's exactly what I'm referring to.
That's actually a movie made about this. Oh, yeah. I think. I don't know this. This podcast
describes this and trailing them the movie. I'm sure. Okay. And the podcast essentially describes
that basement thing. Okay, for it off. Anyway, those of you who don't conscribe to the conspiracy
theories feel free to listen to it, or even if you do listen to it and for your own conclusions,
but it's it's not about whether it happened or not, right? It's more about the facts and the people
and the history around that era where there was still the global race going on between
the then USSR and the US. And funnily enough, it almost didn't happen as in the American Space
Program. Because okay, why funding? Well, no, no, well, not funding, but originally kind of
you had a completely different idea of how to beat the Russians at something very important
that wasn't related to space because they were obviously behind, right? And so he came up with
it as well. Obviously, he didn't come up with it himself, but he had advisors and so on. Anyway,
going back to the podcast, it is like I think it's eight parts, something out seven or eight. But the
final session is really where you get to listen to the final 13 minutes where they have all the
communications and do the actual landing and leading up to that final episode is the explanation of
how it all came to that, some of the people involved and obviously the computer programs at those
times and so on. So it's well worth listening, even if you're skeptical about it's happening. Okay,
interesting. Okay, must do this. And of course, you'll find the details including the website
in the show notes. Okay, my pick of the week, it's actually a TV documentary called
the Sarah Connor Chronicles. For most of you probably would be familiar with another documentary
called Terminator 1, 2, and 3 and 4. And the Sarah Connor Chronicle actually tells us about what
happens what happened in between. What is particularly interesting and this documentary was
done about 10 years ago, it runs for two seasons with I think nine and 22 episodes each. It tells us
about how this sky net thing came into existence that shaped our world just before the beer viruses.
For those of you who are not subscribing to any any what's what I'm looking for, 10 foil
theories. It's still worth giving a shot because as I said, it's a documentary about how this whole
thing came into existence and also some of the consequences that well developed from it. Let's put
it this way. Show notes will contain the details available I think in your online streaming
service of choice, even at a reduced resolution because Netflix and apparently the like want to
keep the cat video network free for much more important stuff like working from home and doing
important telephone conferences when I'm missing here Martin. Did I forget anything? You didn't
mention why you like this program. Oh yeah sorry it's it's it's pretty much like your podcast
is about history basically why I'm sorry how a sky net came into existence and why eventually John
John Connor couldn't prevent us. And being entirely more realistic than living nothing.
Absolutely. It sounds like it's well worth it. I'll watch.
Okay, I think we've almost we've we're almost done for today as usual listeners.
No, no, we don't really have feedback. You haven't done it. Hang on, hang on! Of course two more
two more segments of course feedback and then of course ultimately the sketch. But the sketch
comes at the very end so I think we should we should go into the feedback right now. Okay.
I would like to reach out to Luna who sent us mail and said seems nice or far but only listen
to 12 minutes but this email is about well 20 days old yes there has been a little bit
little delay about us doing podcasts due to various and let's put it this way audio
challenges. Luna we do appreciate it feedback keep up the good work and yes Debian is the
this of choice my opinion and there was another guy called Richard Batten you want to do this
or should I do this you do it because I've got it open okay Richard Batten sent in emails
sorry one email actually that he can't find us an overcast.fm yes overcast scrapes other
RSS feeds and the reason why we're not an overcast is they haven't scrapped heck heck a public
radio yet. Not to show how you came across us Richard please reach out to us for the time being
as before we are only available on heck a public radio. For the time being no we won't syndicate the
show even not on our service so the place where you will find Linux in-laws for the time being
and you will be notified once this changes is heck a public radio.org you go to resource for
quality podcasts. Okay now the sketch and then we are almost done.
The one with Leo and the command line.
This is dark side tech support how may I help you. This is Leo and always government I have a
problem. Girech T-Shark, my Larry Lott can this be hard to? What sorry I almost forgot that
they don't speak Irish down Dublin 20 nevermind Trinity what can I do for you? I have a
a bottle with a recent election. What seems to be the problem? I lost it.
Sorry to hear this what is your recollection of seeing it last? Home, car, government buildings
perhaps or party headquarters? No no sorry my understanding we didn't win it the election
they've been of all suckers did. Almost. I see have you tried turning it on and off again?
What? I see have you tried turning it off and on again? What? The election?
No the voting public sometimes are hard reset can work wonders. I tried this already it didn't work.
Let's take a closer look then are you in front of a government computer? That can be arranged
bear with me a second. Turned on ready to go. Can you log in?
Dunn what should I do next? Open a terminal and tap the following commands. Open what?
Dublin Airport has two terminals already. Why open another one? Do you think they have taken
air traffic justifies this? A terminal is a command line interface allowing you to control the
system on an administrative level. There should be a small computer screen with the keyboard
underneath it on the desktop. Click on that. Dunn. Good first let's check out the operating system
version. Type you name and tell me what it says. You name you haven't even introduced yourself man
and why should I type this name? Sorry Leo please type you naam e and read back the characters
on the screen to me. It says oil and minor democracy two party system with interesting and
somewhat bloody history. Interesting future ahead due to major neighbor failing politically and
economically. Yep that seems to be an updated version of it. So let's get cracking off what
happened at that election. Please enter sys tmd minus analyze minus minus election blame
and tell me what it says and that's two dashes in front of the election parameter.
5% gender issues 95% lack of incentives. Interesting. Let's tackle the gender issue first. What does
locate minus m lgbt pipe and that's a vertical bar fgrap minus e tlc pipe fgrap cron say cron is
cron. Okay there's only one line of output slash e tc slash cron dot monthly slash tlc underscore lgbt
underscore community. What does lgbtgbtg mean? Lesbian gay by and transgender do I have to explain
everything t-shock? But I see the problem right there. If you only pamper the queers once a
month with tenderloft and care how do you expect them to support you? By the way how's Matthew?
Let's move this to at least daily please type mb space forward slash e tc forward slash
cron dot monthly forward slash tlc underscore lgbt underscore community space forward slash e tc forward
slash cron minus daily. It's always the mission denied. Are you rude? Can you hear me talking?
Why sure do you have a voice? Root t-shock root not mute. Try typing pseudo bash
anti-aparsword and tell me what it says. It says in addition to being the supreme leader of a
small island you are now an administrator on this machine. Good. Now please repeat moving the
tlc underscore lgbt underscore community to forward slash e tc forward slash cron dot daily.
Dune. This time it worked. The wardeners of administrative rights. Now let's tackle the
incentive issue. First of all let's see if the correct software has been installed. What does
apt space list minus minus installed pipe symbol f-grap electorate say orish dash electorate.
Good. What does f-grap bribe space forward slash e tc forward slash rsh dot electorate dot conf say
nothing it didn't bring anything at all. What? That doesn't sound right. Are you sure that this is
a government computer? Hmm okay I think I know what the problem is. Type pc linux and tell me
what it says. Politically correct linux status colon enforcing. That's what I thought just curious
who was the previous owner of this machine? Yeah how do I find that? Type who am I space minus last?
It says Mary Robinson former president. I see the problem right here anyway let's fix this pc
issue first type pc space minus disable. Dune. What's next? Let's try this again. What does f-grap bribe
forward slash e tc forward slash rsh dot electorate dot conf say now bribe equals 1.5 m.
Hashtis parameter is called tax dash break in the pc version. We are getting somewhere now type
dp kg minus reconfigure space rsh minus electorate. It says package script. No surprise there. What does
dp kg minus reconfigure minus vv space rsh minus electorate? Double v say.
Package corrupted but not corrupted enough. Okay we have to do this manually.
Start an editor and correct the configuration file. Editor of the times or the in though
and what does start mean? I know both of them like well and these relationships don't need
starting as long as messy don't find out. Apparently it's the long way to go. Type vim space forward
slash e tc forward slash rsh dot electorate dot conf and press the cursor down key until you get
to the line starting with bribe. Now change that figured from 1.5 to 150 by pressing capital R
and overwriting the value. Save the file with escape colon x enter and you should be good to go.
That's the next election done. Cool. Anything else I can do for you today t-shock.
As a matter of fact there is. How can I get rid of t's finnifuls of course?
Not an easy feat but this can be done by reconfiguring rsh history. First of all let's make
sure that the correct package is installed. What does apt space list minus installed?
pipe f-grap history say. History comma English dash history and orish history.
Good let's reconfigure it as before. Excellent typing dpkg dash reconfigure history now.
Wow easy big fella you don't want to reconfigure the global history just the Irish one.
So just do a dpkg minus reconfigure Irish minus history.
Okay a few pink screens with questions came up most of them seem pretty straightforward.
Snakes and for many ffu and for none why for none ultimately.
Saints ffu and for many I for insanely many. How many parties in the door?
Doesn't sound too complicated. Oh it says delta two insignificant in order to justify
reconfiguration task aborting. How many parties did you enter?
Nine. Oh all habits die hard. Do this again this time making it's two max dun thanks for your help
Anything else I can do for you. No thanks I'll buzz again if any further support.
50 minutes later.
This is dark side tech support. How may I help you? It's clear again or you think I made a mistake.
What happened? After the successful reconfiguration of Irish history I got ahead of myself and
said to myself heck why not giving this history a try as well and so I did.
And the reconfiguration screens ask a lot more questions among them
cox city ones, loik, eventual type of rulership, tyranny, self-inflicted, tyranny,
Brussels imposed, democracy or constitutional monarchy,
committed level of royal in breeding, and dragons, Welsh dragon, Nessie, Sussex knucker or Margaret
Tatcher. Save the last one again? Dragons, Welsh dragon, Nessie, Sussex knucker, Margaret Tatcher.
As Ireland wasn't exactly pleased the last one I opened my deter from the list of dragons.
You did what? The cow done enough damage already so I decided not to make a part of this
again. Do you realise what you did? By removing old maggots from the lines of dragons,
you essentially turned into an ordinary human being instead of the mythical creature half
human half dragons she once was. This must have had serious implications on the overall timeline.
Well there was a message asking for confirmation. Amitting Margu Tatcher from the set of paths
encouraged English dragons may cause a comprehensive alteration of the timeline,
and trigger the reconfiguration of neighbouring countries. Enter, yes, to confirm.
And the warning and trigger the reconfiguration of neighbouring countries didn't ring about.
The reconfiguration took quite some time and printed a lot of text. I recall seeing messages,
setting up dependency, Irish history, removing finna go, and finna fall from the list of
configured parties, promoting Sinn Fein to leading party.
Congratulations Leo, excellent job well done. Not only did you manage to put a splinter
group funded by New York City drug money into power, but also reconfigure yourself out of a job.
Or with one command, that's a first. I also recall seeing a message like promoting
Michael Collins' granddaughter to Mayor Dublin. What? Michael Collins got killed during the Civil War
of 1922, and never had children, never my grandchildren. The damage is bigger than I thought.
And the last round red, removing Irish border.
I will hope it's lost Leo. If there isn't an Irish border anymore, there might not be an island
at anybody's disposal, flee while you can.
I hope you liked the sketch. Yes.
Any final remarks Martin, before we close the show off?
Yes, so again, on the feedback side, also please do feedback on the sketch, specifically on the
magnificent Irish accent, of course. And more sketches, follow up for sure.
Yes, I'm sorry, without disclosing too much, there are further sketches in the making.
I need this to say, if you have any ideas about sketches, topics you want to be covered,
you want to have covered on the show or any other ideas that you have for the show, send us to
send these to feedback at linuxillons.eu. You'll find the show notes and other information
as usual on linuxillons.eu. And of course, there will be show notes also on Hacker Public Radio,
including the link to our website. Yeah, and in the feedback, if you have questions on any audio
issues, any video cards, running linux, etc. Likewise, Chris is your man.
And yeah, Martin will be more than happy to answer any any any and video related questions
for the next two years while he's struggling with getting his system to work. Yes.
Looking forward to having you around for the next episode.
This episode is brought to you by TP Premium. Once a mere commodity, this brand of
fighting toilet tissue has now become a premium investment vehicle of global scale.
Thousands have already made a fortune by buying their rolls when these was the modestly
expensive and selling them only a few weeks later at a nice profit. Buy your rolls today while
still can afford it that is of course because leading analysts are confident that gold will
soon be cheaper than TP Premium. TP Premium once crap now gold. This podcast is licensed under
creative comments attribution credits for the inter music go to bluesy roosters for the song
salute Margaret and to twin flames for that piece called the flow. You find these and other
diddies licensed under creative comments at gemendo a website dedicated to liberate the music
industry from chalk and copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
This is Leo from the Orange Government. I have a problem.
I don't mean it's sorry I thought there's more than that.
Oh no that's just the pronunciation is it okay sorry.
Okay bye. The reconfiguration screens ask a lot more questions. I'm
among non quiet silly ones like eventual type of leadership, tyranny, self-inflicted,
tyranny, Brussels imposed, democracy or constitutional monarchy and permitted level of
inbreeding and dragons well-streg and nessie, so sex, knucker or Margaret thatcher.
T-shock by the way this is permitted level of royal inbreeding. Could you please repeat that?
What?
Martin without the run it doesn't make sense. What does that say?
Did I? You missed out the run. I'm sorry. Okay.
I don't know. Okay. What's for the beginning? Let's start again. Leo the reconfiguration.
Okay. Let's start here with Leo. Right. Okay.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital
dog pound and the infonomican computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on
Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
