Episode: 3356
Title: HPR3356: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 5
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3356/hpr3356.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:54:36

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3356 for Mundi, the 14th of June 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HPR 2020-2021 New Years Eve, Show Episode 5.
It is hosted by Honki Magu and is about 282 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, everybody seems to be quiet.
Yeah, it seems like silent.
That happens a lot.
It's coming up on, it's coming up on New Year's and uh, like UTC times, so that's like England.
So it'll probably get loud soon.
That's what Brexit officially occurs.
Yeah, yep, in 15 minutes it's going to be New Year's and London.
It's going to be Brexit, so that's, that's going to be...
So you are from UK then?
No, no, no, no, I'm just saying it's going to get loud then since I'm just saying no one's talking.
So are you from America?
Oh, so you have seen in December?
Yes, for like five hours.
Oh, yeah, so the closest UK time as you can be.
Yeah, I'm on East Coast.
So for those of you who are already in 2021, is it better yet?
Nope, I have a feeling something kind of stuff is going to happen in like the first day of January
when we're all going to realize this is going to happen for another year.
This is going to happen for another year.
Have you seen the meme going around about 2020 saying you can't do any worse than me
and 2021 going, hold my beer?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that we will at least have another one another year of this.
At least most of the year, I mean, even with the vaccine it's going to take six to eight months
to get any type of real distribution.
Yeah, if we just count the number of weeks in Sweden you need to
anoculate yourself between two separate dates of four weeks and the people that get it first
are the emergency responders and the really sick and the old ones and those are a very small
majority of the population as a whole and that's the first eight weeks.
And if we had gotten rid of all the dates you know.
No, so and that's going to happen in January.
So January and February is booked for people that really need the vaccine and then we have
at least four or five more of those batches until we are closed to reaching most of the population.
So at least until summer, but I'm pretty sure that the whole year will go to
anoculating people.
And you know that there's going to be a high percentage of idiots.
Well, there's always a high percentage of idiots and the last idiot is not born yet.
Yeah, but no, somebody will get the inoculation and decide that
10 minutes later they can go out and party not realizing that the immunity has to build up
in their system. And then they'll wonder why they got COVID after they got the vaccine.
And then they will spread a lot of lies on Facebook.
Exactly. Oh, it doesn't work.
The COVID vaccine gives you COVID.
Yeah, that could also be it.
Or deep state is telling us to inoculate ourselves because they want to put
microchips in our arms.
Yeah, they don't have to put a microchip in our arms.
They already got us to buy our own portable surveillance devices.
We call cell phones.
Yeah, yeah, so those rumors are just so incredible stupidity.
I saw a meme.
It was like, you know, in the 50s, everyone was worried about getting a wiretap.
And now we say, hey, wiretap, add eggs to my shopping list.
So yeah, we haven't really approved on that list.
Are you talking about Google?
I don't like that.
Hey, spoke.
You're too much roll.
So I want you to prefer the other one.
Oh, Jett, you're a mid-cast listener.
Well, no microphone.
So do you listen to the mid-cast?
Yeah.
No.
Me neither.
I don't listen to the mid-cast because I'm a host.
Oh, oh, yeah.
It's okay to listen to what you're a broadcast thing.
Yeah, yeah.
We won't hold it against you that you're a mid-cast host.
Uh, thank you.
I appreciate it.
No, it's a good show.
What's the general topics I have never listened to it?
Linux.
The next mint?
Or um,
different.
A lot of it is in regards to Linux mint.
But, uh, that's a pretty narrow topic.
So we do Linux in general.
And sometimes we branch out into security in general.
So are we done in here in this membrane or some other place?
What's that?
Are we done inside this membrane or are we done some other place?
This is actually, we used to use this mumble exclusively for it.
Yeah, and then you vanished.
Yeah, and then we got our own mumble set up and we used this as our
backup mumble server.
Yeah, no one uses it anymore, but the first, yeah, I know it.
Yeah, but we were getting a better sound quality
using our own for some reason.
Yeah, maybe it's closer to where you're at.
Probably.
But, um,
well, we have had a couple of hosts that were across the pond in Blackpool.
It's right outside of London.
Oh, it's a city.
Hmm.
Are you in UK?
No.
No.
The pool is not outside London.
It also can't be heard.
It's testing.
So I can be heard, yeah?
Yes, yeah.
I can hear it.
That, I can hear it.
Yeah, yeah, okay, good.
I've got, I'm trying out, I don't know, I've never used mumble.
I use plumble less than we use, I'm worried for this.
But that's, uh, not work.
That's abandoned way apparently now.
What, plumble?
Do I have any background noise in my banging?
No.
No, no, no.
Well, I hope not.
Well, I don't think I can hear this echo.
Yeah, I can hear this echo.
I get, I got to be called, uh,
Walter Hammer in my flat annoyingly
and, uh, they can fix that until next week's, uh,
hopefully.
Okay, it's come back.
I don't know if anyone knows I'm talking about, but anyway,
no, I'm in the UK.
And we're finally going to the 2021, although there's probably
not much to celebrate until COVID is a virtually.
I don't know if it's ever actually going to be over,
but it might be under control.
Well, yeah.
But you are going into new, exciting times outside of the EU now.
So, uh, you have nothing to do with it.
Are you a seed?
Now, you were saying plumble is abandoned?
Where's Carlos from?
Where I'm from?
I'm from Sweden.
I'm from Norway.
He's from Norway.
He's from Sweden.
Norway.
I'm also half Swedish actually.
That's why I thought that was interesting.
Yeah, I'm from Sweden.
I'm still using plumble, Joe.
Yeah, well, someone had mentioned that plumble was abandoned
where, and I was going to say another really good
Android client is Mumla.
Hey, boy.
Yeah, that's why I'm home now.
I've got the text notifications.
They think as well.
Yeah, I had to turn off the text to speech for all of the text
team, but because that's a very annoying speech.
Yeah, exactly as I turn off, it's insane, Julie.
But I'm doing good, Joe.
I've been listening most of the day through the stream.
I'm trying to get on fire.
What do you say?
Somebody from Norway, somebody from Sweden.
No, you hear that, right?
Yes, I'm from Sweden.
I was one Norway.
Vise, yeah?
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Gothenburg.
Oh, yeah, Gothenburg, Gothenburg, yeah.
Or it actually from Kung Spaka.
It's like 30 kilometers or 35 kilometers that's from there.
I don't know Norway enough for me with the rest of it as well,
but I think I've been in the one I was very little,
or just about on belly counts if so,
but it's supposed to be very nice over there as well,
or normally.
Yeah.
Nice in Sweden, and I believe it's pretty nice in Norway as well.
We often go there to ski.
Just to go there to probably not this year.
Nope.
I'm pretty sure that I haven't been anywhere outside of Gothenburg
or Kung Spaka this whole year.
Yeah, not being outside my city this year.
But we're going to go.
Sadly, we have to go into Gothenburg,
which Kung Spaka is a little bit smaller than Gothenburg.
We have, I think, about 80,000 people in the population,
but Gothenburg is pretty close.
And when we are fixing our glasses,
we need to go to Gothenburg because the people that work in Kung Spaka
is very incompetent of actually repairing glasses.
And as I have two younger kids, which are very active,
the glasses go really fast.
They're destroying those things.
So, I'm not genuine in a very long time.
Karl is through all.
But what did you say?
Not genuine in a very, very long time.
I remember I think you come out often when you started
and then you used to vanish and all vanished.
Yeah, I reinstalled my computer.
I had said for a long while that I would never install Windows 10.
And then some of my programs that I used daily
stopped working in Windows 7 and they will never release an update to them.
So, I had a couple of months of updates to do
in order to get Windows 10 in a reasonable state.
It's still blue screens about three times a month,
but it works reasonably now.
So, it took me a while before I actually installed mumble again
because I had so much other things I wanted to get working.
When you vanished, all the other guys vanished too.
The same time.
I want to know if they were doing the same thing as you.
Yeah, I think it was a lot more people here
while we were running the dungeons and dragons things as well
because then I had to be here once a week.
Yeah, enjoy that session.
I hated that that was when I stopped.
It was only just a stop all the time.
But then during the dragon and that was when I stopped coming here.
And I was waiting for a lot of time.
It was a lot less stuff.
But you stopped running all but that's a session.
Yeah, well it was more to the reinstallation than
actually the dungeons and dragons stopping because
some of the olds, some of the olds, some of the olds.
How do I turn text to speak, sure,
frizziness and things?
And also some of the boys do fireworks a little bit early, don't they?
Yeah, I would think they started here at
believe around nine o'clock and some at 10.
And then there were two hours where really silent.
And then I think half an hour.
I heard some of our five minutes go outside, I think.
And now it's new, yeah, yeah, ready.
But TV is absolute joke because all they can show is big Ben.
No fireworks in London this year.
Happy New Year.
Yeah, happy New Year.
Yeah, I think they actually went out of the way this year
with the fireworks in my city.
I don't, I just don't really care to be honest because
because we're under all these restrictions here.
You don't need to go out of that in Sweden.
But in England and the UK and Wales and Scotland
and not just here, it's other countries too.
We were under the, it's just, it's, well, we think it's bad here,
but there are countries out there where it's a lot worse to be fair
with their restrictions.
And it's just crazy.
And we are wearing masks and we are keeping a distance of four meters.
So we are lucky there.
And we actually have a space close to my house,
which is on a very large hill or mountain.
So we can look down over the whole city.
Fireworks.
So you have more people sitting in the mouth in their garden
having a bit of fun to be fair?
Wasn't Sweden supposed to have less restrictions
than all the other countries before?
I think we had, I think we have perhaps a little less restrictions
than some countries because we are still sending our kids to school.
But we have a lot of restrictions when it comes to keeping distance
when we are out walking or meeting people.
Or if we are in a shopping centre or so on,
we need to wear masks and we need to keep distance.
That's the restrictions.
We're not starting the mask in Norway.
So no, actually, yeah.
It can also be that just me and my family
have those restrictions because my wife is a nurse.
But that's what I have been told and what we are keeping to.
Yeah, you have a nurse in the family.
That's the main reason.
Close to the family.
We just started with the restrictions again.
We had no masks here in the first lockdown.
It's like March April May and then it decided to mask.
And it was like, right, you know,
I have a mask in the shop or in the section card
or landyards get out of it maybe.
And then it was like on the bus as well
and then the cinema suddenly and then the pubs.
It was actually as well.
So no rubbing with mask and no.
And now I think they want to do school kids
and people go to the works masks everywhere, basically.
March is 72.
Because there's a new way.
Because there's a new mutation apparently as well.
So you're sitting next to speak on.
I couldn't find the same with text speech.
Where is it in because that is annoying.
It's true.
You probably cannot tell to self.
Yeah, if you're running mumble
into the configure pull down, you should see a checkbox
for text to speech on the mom.
The Android client that was recommended.
Yeah.
That's running and running.
Muzzle out wherever it's called.
You have a headset so we don't have the voice
going around when you speak.
Hope we're going to going around.
Meet me.
Yeah, yeah.
We hear ourselves when you speak.
I'm not using phone, obviously, at the moment.
That's why I said Android.
I've got, I don't know.
I've got Bluetooth headset I found and I was thinking like,
could I use maybe I can use that as well?
Or would you call something?
You can.
If you have Bluetooth from the device,
you're talking number three.
Well, with Mumla, after you connect to the server,
which of course you already are,
the hamburger menu in the top right hand corner
will have Bluetooth call.
Yeah, or it'll just say Bluetooth.
And you have to click on that.
I sold it.
Yeah, I think I've sold it.
Yeah, sort of Bluetooth button there.
And I found the sold headset,
which I shoot as a mobodon as well.
It was like, it still works.
I was out this day to get some.
In Sweden, we have, during both
two Christmas and also two new years,
we have these kind of TV shows where we sit up and watch.
And they are doing some kind of lottery
during that time and also having some kind of bingo
system that you need to fill out and so on.
It's a little bit of a fun thing to do while you're waiting for it.
And I had to go get those lottery tickets.
Today's I wear a mask.
And the annoying part is my glasses is steaming when I used my mask.
I was looking for something with that could handle that.
And I found this mask that was a steampunk cosplay mask.
Not really what I wanted, but it was really cool.
With your cloth masks, you can order these, um,
stick on metal strips that will form around your nose.
Oh, yeah, but these are cloth masks that are, um,
I think they're night, um, black ones and they are not the old one that are,
they, they conform to the face, but some air still escapes.
Right. The, the metal band really helps with that.
And it'll, it'll just keep it that little bit more snug onto your nose.
And now the metal bands don't last for a long,
but I think last time I ordered, I got a hundred for like five bucks.
So one falls off.
I put another one on and I'm good to go.
So it's one that you used to mask.
You can use it with one use masks or, um,
well, and I have several masks that I rotate through,
but you know, it's only going to stick on one of them.
So the hundred is really helpful for that.
And then that allows me to wash the mask.
And then if I wash the mask, yeah, I have to put on a new strip.
Interesting.
Not having many talking about washing one use mask.
So my masks are generally, um, washable, um,
Oh, yeah, washable masks with, um, charcoal, um, filters that you can put in.
Oh, yeah.
So they're not one use mask.
Yeah, they're not.
Like good blue ones.
A lot of the disposable ones come with those strips built in.
Yeah, but I'm not heard about anyone that, uh,
watching them.
I've used those with strips, but those were for painting.
So a little bit of a different use case there.
All right, drop the link.
Yeah, it's a little dim, but we can hear you.
Yeah.
Yeah, no echo.
I've got no headset on now.
So I guess it works.
Yeah, it works.
I didn't, uh, hear, uh, are you all ready to talk?
Then you talked.
Well, they're the batteries.
I use this for, like, I don't know.
Probably about three, four years or something.
I remember buying it sort of, but,
I mean, I remember buying it and they found it.
Like, I've not got duty pads.
And like, I turned it on and it's like,
it's all cut, it's all got power.
And I thought, okay, that's good.
Although it's maybe a bit low power, doesn't it?
So the moment you doesn't talk anymore,
and it's, it's up, it's, it's me, it's dead man.
Well, it's a lot of cross masks as well.
Yeah, uh, plenty of that, isn't it?
You're going to, uh, going around everywhere now.
Got to love these prices on Amazon.
You have the four bucks for the metal strips,
which is really nice price.
And then you have the 14 bucks to send them to Sweden.
That's a bit of an out.
Yeah, that's also the, I think Sweden was kind of,
ob one out, but I was like, the one that wasn't doing lockdown,
the one that wasn't doing this wasn't doing masks.
Maybe told people social distance about it.
And they had all the rest of Europe,
like lockdown were pretty much masks and all the rest of it.
Yeah, but I think I did an episode about how we,
how we did it in Sweden and what the actual restrictions were.
But that was a couple of weeks ago,
and they have, uh, added more tighter restrictions lately.
And I saw this cheek, cheek now,
and what we call on TV a few times here on BBC,
as well, talking about William and what they were doing.
But probably today, many people are stuck to what this,
even I know you know it.
The only limit we have is how many can be in one place.
Well, so again, no, no way.
No way, yes.
The only limit we have in all is the limit how many people
you can be in one location.
Yeah, we have that here as well.
I don't make sure how often that was,
but I'll set an affection for that.
Only meet people outside, maybe,
um, and as a tear system that they've like,
they've put mostly, kind of most of England in the highest tier,
and the new tier where it's basically locked down.
And then I thought was bad here because they'd put us up in the higher tier
before the new tier four,
but it was like with only places in tier three and it's like,
why are you the city's bad, but they're not even.
We have old shops open.
We have never had, uh,
we have not, not had a second race,
locked down and stood the first one.
Yeah, we also have all shops open,
but I think there is a limit of eight people in a group,
something like that.
Yeah, we have a limit in how many in a group,
two, but if it doesn't follow it,
no one, um, in force it.
Yeah, in a way, nobody, nobody enforces this.
And you also can see people having small parties
by the beach with 20 people and you're like, why?
Yeah, no enforcement.
I'll be perhaps that here tonight.
I'm sure people waiting the so the rules
and having parties and things, especially younger people.
Apparently, uh, the beaches are packed in some places in Florida here.
So at least that in some way in the England,
they'll, oh yeah, the beaches were had a few stories,
like we were supposed to social distance,
people were from beaches,
and yet there's no, there's no other people out on the beach.
I saw, I saw a TV report where I think there were
larger restrictions coming to the UK.
And then all the younger people went out to the pub
just for a last night before the restrictions were.
Yeah, yeah, that's all right.
So that's seen that as well on the various new sites,
the Sun, the Mirror and Daily Mail,
and all the things we've got.
And it's like that, and it's probably for real,
that they know lockdowns coming,
or although there's next lot of restrictions.
Same when they put London into Tier 4,
which is basically lockdown,
people knew that was coming.
So many people escaped London the day before,
basically, and they were allowed in that
and in the whole area that was going into the Tier 4,
lots just escaped the day before.
It was all train station was busy and road and, yeah.
What, what is the tiers?
I'll say that again.
What are the different,
are different people in different tiers?
Yeah, yes, that's exactly it.
They've started putting it into the national lockdown,
again, where it's the whole country.
They've slipped up into areas,
or counties, basin, counties and things.
And it's got a lot more strict recently
when they just review,
because like nobody's in Tier 2 anymore,
a lot worse before.
Now everybody, everyone's in Tier 4,
78% of the country's in Tier 4,
which is basically lockdown.
And then I'm in Tier 3 just here,
and around here we are,
and if you are the places,
and then there's a little, either,
a lot of cool mall that's in Tier 1,
and that's it.
That's the only place.
But they've been there.
So what are the tiers, better than?
They're worrying about a mutation here,
and apparently a new mutation
may really go the round,
and sets a lot easier apparently.
I believe that I heard on the news
that there were a new strand
that came from the South Africa,
and then ended up in the UK.
And now we have it in Sweden,
because somebody let one fly through into Stockholm
with a think there were eight Swedes
and two Finnish people that were flying
to Finland after that.
And they forgot to check them.
And the new strain made it to the US too.
So it's like,
you knew that we have Corona virus,
and you still forgot to check a flight.
It is just whoops, a whole flight.
Yeah, we don't need to check it.
They're fine.
It was just one flight.
You just one?
That's all you needed.
Yeah.
So the third one is coming out.
It probably going to forget one plane again.
Yeah, I think you can have how many waves as you want.
And if we get at least one vaccine for the first strand,
we should be able to replicate the knowledge
that we have for the second strand,
as well if they are close.
That's my only thing that the UK has actually too
of the vaccination approved already.
So we've got the Maritan vaccine.
That was approved first,
a Compton Belgium,
the Maritan vaccine really.
And we've got our Oxford vaccine approved
as I think Monday as well.
And so they're telling on vaccinating
like millions and millions of people
before there's a spring, I think,
basically.
And then hopefully that will get us out of this stuff
because it's just really annoying now.
I think that we have one vaccine that is in trial
and perhaps will be accepted,
but we have a lot of people falling in
and actually wanting it.
The only problem.
The only thing is that apparently
that you're still your vaccinated,
it doesn't necessarily mean you're not going to spread it.
They've known for sure something could maybe spread it,
even though they've been vaccinated.
So they're trying to test that apparently,
figure that one out.
The problem is that we are still having cold weather
and it's spreading through droplets
and those can stay in the air
and you can have them on your clothes
and so on and spread them around if you are.
So it's hard to contain.
So you're not a mask against that?
The masks is mostly for you not to
send the droplets into the air.
That's the the masks you're.
Are we get anti-mast protesters here as well and all that?
Oh yeah.
So yeah, people are protested against masks and everything.
I haven't heard anything about protests against masks in Sweden.
They just have London have the protests
and somewhere else I think.
Well London and yeah.
People are just not wearing them,
but we haven't had any protests against them.
I guess that's the kind of silent protests.
Yeah, if you don't need to post that,
why it's going to do it.
The masks are quite new in Sweden
or are they recommended now?
Or are they all you have to wear them?
I mean, apparently it wasn't really masks at all.
It's all wet.
Yeah, I have wear masks for a year.
I got my first mask I think around
not a year but at least around April.
I got my first mask.
I have been wearing them.
Yeah, at least.
So as long as I have been talking to you.
But I haven't, when I go out to see that people are keeping distance
but you don't see that many people with masks.
Oh, so it's not a totally mask population?
No, no, not at all.
Here they recommended it all started to
and like were you doing a shot from things like that
and of course, most people are like,
oh, I'm not doing that until they're basically forced on to people
and it's like, you're going in a shot with a mask
or you might get fined if not at all.
You have the section in terms to say that you've got your
damped but then that becomes the problem at times too
because certain people then get challenged in the shot
or the cafe or the restaurant and it's like,
well, you're not wearing a mask and it's like,
I'm exempt and they still get the challenge rate.
So it's become a bit of a nasty thing I think.
Certain people.
In fact, I just managed to do an online shopping
and a staff pass and they've most packed things
and as I've said to other people,
we're just like, I'm not going to bother with shops then,
I'll just get things online.
I get my food online.
I'll get things.
Yeah, probably the year on the shopping.
Those are white.
You can be hard to get slots sometimes
that's the only thing with that but otherwise,
it works quite well.
It comes to your door.
Occasionally you get the wrong thing to live
or things like that but I'm by a city.
I live by a city.
So basically any company that matters,
like that stigma is going to deliver here as well.
So it's a robot that doesn't live or human?
Any company that matters,
it's big enough for all to live here as well.
So I live by a city, I say, by a city.
So it's a human that delivers the thing?
She's supermarkets.
Yeah, they have, yeah, and shop.
Yeah, supermarkets.
They have delivery drivers.
It comes from a company,
and you order, you order online.
And that's awesome.
Seems like videos about Amazon delivering a bit robot.
Yeah, Amazon.
It's not really there yet.
The drone delivery stuff,
yeah, in some places it happens,
but it's not widespread.
Yeah, it seems to be a good promising.
Just a few videos that's shared here.
So that's Amazon doing in the UK and sell
this for some food as well.
They've got, I don't add on it a little bit as well.
Oh, on the drinks.
Major supermarkets in the UK,
we're actually doing it after,
and things, we, and...
Well, some of our supermarkets have delivery,
but most of them you can order online
and then drive by
and pop your trunk, give your name.
They put it in the trunk for you,
or the boot, whatever you want to call it,
and then you take it home.
I think that's the one of the better solutions actually,
just to go there and get it.
But we have the cloths or trucks running around
and just delivering to your doorway
and you can take it in yourself.
And also some deliveries or packages
are going that way as well where they have people,
a specific service that takes it the last bit to your door.
And then take a photo of it and send you a photo.
Here you have your package.
You can open your door now.
Yeah, I know we had the service in no way,
but just to do that shortly delivery.
Yeah, so we've got clicking to let well,
the big two markets do that.
Well, it's got your own car off,
then trying you can sort of order online
and go to the shop and pick it up.
So that's an option as well.
But there's also, there's one particular company called
Cario or Cadeau, which is only online.
And they've been going since 2000, I believe.
And then he started using them a bit.
Well, I've only had two deliveries myself.
But it has some of the more fancy products.
I think it gets Swedish through them then, perhaps, as well.
They've got some of the different products.
And they've got a deal on that.
They have a deal with one of the big two
issues markets.
We're chosen at M&S, so they're kind of good as well.
But I don't have the money to constantly shop there personally.
That's the only thing with that one.
So delivery does that cost most much in the UK?
It varies on company.
So with like Cario, they also have a delivery passie date for a month.
Although, I've noticed if I do have one delivery there,
and I get the right day and I do a late delivery,
they might be getting a free slot anyway.
Or they have been a lot of them have like a minimum spend,
spend sort of like 15, 25 pounds.
And then you can have a delivery.
But they normally have the sort of delivery pass
where you pay per month we're supposed to.
But with one food market, I did it in August.
And I have not been charged for any delivery since.
So I don't know if that's a mistake or...
I forgot about you.
I haven't used it a few times like that anyway.
That's three times.
So I don't know.
But yeah, they charge people for the delivery usually or they might do.
I've written, looked up the distance from Blackpool to London.
And that is definitely Texas Close.
That's no, Blackpool's up in the North.
It's 239 miles away.
And like I said, that's Texas Close.
Oh, everything in the UK is Texas Close.
I came in when you said about Blackpool.
So I don't know if you said Texas Close.
Maybe it's Texas is big, yeah.
Texas is huge.
It's about, I'm in the middle of Texas.
And I could drive about eight hours in either direction,
well, either east or west or south.
And still be in Texas after eight to 12 hours.
In England, Blackpool is actually all the way out there.
And then if you go a little bit further, you'll install them.
In Sweden, you can drive coast to coast in five hours.
But you can't drive from the southern part of Sweden
to the northern part in less than 12 hours at least.
In the last time I was in Texas, well, well.
Last time I was in Texas, I learned they have no idea of size.
I found out how big a Texas skunk is.
And it takes three vans to get rid of one.
Jesus.
The nice thing about Sweden as well is that it's not completely wrecked.
I'm talking about forest and things still being there, right?
Not, not only the fun there, I mean the fun man as well.
But I think a lot of the main places are quite sort of far away from each other.
You know cars get around or train maybe if not.
If you're going to go between certain major places,
I'm going to see if I'll be able to weed agree with me here.
Yeah, there's a lot of the forest.
If you go to the northern part with I did once,
where I had a girlfriend up there, I took the train for 14 hours and was up there.
And I believe eight of those hours were just forest.
That's what I liked about Sweden.
And when you go off the plane as well in the summer,
it's done that plenty of time being in our food there.
You know, you get these other forests.
You're like, oh, lovely.
Because in England, it's just basically wrecked.
Well, I'm for the most part by far,
about town, cities, roads, farmland.
And yeah, there's a few places that aren't,
but it's mostly wrecked.
So a lot of people here as well.
You have some trees in UK.
So you like to see that again?
It's not real as country.
You have some trees.
There are some nice places, yeah.
But it's very populated.
It's kind of wrecked by people for the most part.
Have I the right picture of UK,
if the southern path is very southern,
path is part part of the UK is mostly populated
and deforested and cities and so on.
And more of Scotland and the northern part
is more of forest and countries.
So if we put Scotland in for Wales,
then Wales, I think of mountains and hills
and nice places you can go on a walk normally.
And saying with Scotland to an extent,
not that I've been to Scotland for years.
If you look at England specifically,
only England, not the rest of it,
only England, then it's exactly what I just,
why am I thinking, anyway, yeah.
Well, I just say that just now,
it's very wrecked by people, very populated.
And most of nature is kind of destroyed.
I mean, there's a late district, which is nice
and there's cool more for the sea,
fun and things like that.
But it's just, it's just not very nice
in a lot of places, I guess.
In this context of nature and so on.
If you want a city, then there's some good cities, sure.
Yeah, you have London with just a very strange city.
You can go there for a week and not see everything
and you can be there a day and be very,
what's that?
Yeah, I went to a London for a week
and wanted to see all the things.
And we ran around all of the London
and we did not see everything.
No, sorry, to hate you, that's, yes, quite big.
And there's a lot of things to see, a lot of both musicals
and different tourist attractions.
The musicals I'm not with,
in period times and no more.
No, no, no, no, it was like 10 years ago or something, so.
Probably if you travel, no, no, it's much less touristy
open to people.
No, you can see all that's open, probably.
Yeah, I've heard that they actually are running musicals
for a Zoom audience or for a web conference audience.
That's a very nice initiative.
Yeah, they did.
There was something on Christmas Eve
and I was like, what's this?
It was like a Zoom pantomile on TV though
that we had this song for a little bit
and I was like, oh, I was not going to watch this.
This is not pantomile.
This is not quite a pantomile.
You can't quite on Zoom.
It's just not the same.
That's not pantomile is a great,
or they can be quite good stunned,
but on Zoom, it doesn't really work.
Even if you put famous actors in there and stuff,
we turned that off quite soon afterwards.
Yeah, it's a little bit sad.
I actually were in a Zoom concert
with not a famous group, but they were quite good
and they were really nice with the community and...
Yeah, for choir, I saw that I see not on the news
or something like, well, you see that they were like, oh, they've got pets.
And I think that could sort of work
because everyone can sing when they're meant to
and I've done public speaking groups.
That all works lovely on Zoom perfectly.
If that we can go around the world now
because it's an international thing anyway.
It's like I had Halloween in Indonesia, for example,
because somebody invited us to go there
and I went on and did a really Halloween-style meeting
on Zoom in Indonesia.
It was midday here, but yeah, why not?
And they spoke really good English, too.
Nice.
And then there were this initiative
by the cold play singer.
He started this where he sang for his fans
and then he said, okay, all other famous people,
let's join together and do a long stretch of the
concert where we sing to our fans.
And that was really nice.
I was assuming work can work for conferences as well
and things like that.
So the international speech contest
came that they have to do each year.
And the show was speaking and all that stuff.
And I was sitting there watching it.
And it was just so the contest before the main one as well
and the change.
And it was just, everything was once a well.
And it worked so well on Zoom with lots of people involved
and they're part of it and then watching it as well.
And they're doing that next year as well.
And it was kind of cool in a way
because it's like, okay, cool.
And that's just America to see this.
I wouldn't want America to see this or France.
So normally in America, they would have done it in France
2020, but obviously COVID.
But it gave me the opportunity to see some of the best
public speakers in the world, basically.
In the contest, winning, trying to win this.
And I wouldn't have had that opportunity normally
because I've not got money to just go and spend
to go off to the conference format.
Yeah, I think I have been during this year to 20 conferences.
And that's Zoom conferences, yeah.
And that's not something that you do.
So I've been to a lot of different VidCon
and a bunch of Google conferences and so on.
Yeah, so yeah, some positives going to be online somehow as well
at the beginning of February this time because COVID, obviously.
I don't know how they're going to do that one,
but maybe Zoom won't be in Zoom because Zoom is
proprietary software, that's the thing.
You know, it's proprietary social software, really.
So you can't really use GITC and have a big conference either,
as an example, open source.
Because I think that could have worked very well.
But then we had this awesome experience of being
at Tomorrowland where they had the virtual conference
with music formats with virtual stages, which was totally...
Yeah, I blew my mind to have a virtual audience
that actually worked.
If you didn't really look close at them,
you could actually believe that you were watching a large venue.
I don't know, I was invited to
or found out about this like, as this is a small thing really,
but I did like a Swedish mid-summer thing.
It was like a couple doing songs and there was a guy who knows
like, in music for a while, or no, he is still really
doing a bit different place and he'd gone there.
And I was like, oh, what's this?
I'm not sure if you want to see what this is.
And I did a few of those and that was kind of nice.
So I think for music, I think for music, Zoom will work
and things like that, but obviously it's still going to be better
in person, isn't it?
It depends on who's there and what kind of people you are meeting.
And I'm a little bit of an introvert and a lot of people that work
in the computer.
Marina is also introvert, so they don't really like
when you are talking through them face to face.
They have had a lot more engagement and talks with people
in my field through Zoom than I had when I were actually meeting
them in person because they felt that I jumped on them
with questions without really, yeah, it got very strange
when you talked to them in person.
But over a Zoom call, they were more relaxed
and could answer questions.
Yeah, well, yeah, it's very Zoom or something like this
is going to be a bit easier to chat on because you're not actually
in person, but it's, I don't know, it's been a weird year
in this sense, it's not, I've got a calendar and it should be
I'm going to the city to go to some conference
or I'm going off somewhere to go and do this,
not I'm going to some online event that's happening
or I'm doing some online and then the next week, you know what I mean?
Yeah, but I were actually at VidCon in February this year
or last year and that was in London and was a really good
conference to be at and then Corona hit and now
have been to VidCon again, but online and I think I got
pretty much the same experience doing it online
as being there in person.
Yeah, so one conference, I really gone got cancelled
but it's really got to get about 300 people
so I guess they're enough.
That's an open source thing.
But I was, I was, I was able to do Brussels
or fuzz them this the whole last year to say 2020
just before this Corona really hit off in the room.
I've written lots of things for basically
pretty much the whole the rest of the year, the whole nine months
and it's still not over yet but, you know, and also
I've got to go to like a high-fi music event
with again in February as well, with like really expensive
speakers and also a little bit of home cinema.
So like I've got to see an AK TV for example,
one of the only LG I've had ever borrowing it, I think
from LD directly.
It's a demo, not that they're going to get much AK
out there anywhere anytime soon, but, but that kind of thing
it's a bigger bend.
It went, been going for 30 years or something like that
and I think that's just going to be cancelled obviously in February
and probably for the whole of this year 2021
I suspect it's going to be cancelled but, which is a shame
because it's a nice thing to go to nearby on the bus
and, and you don't think that would be
virtual.
You can't just swing big on Zoom like that at no chance.
Yeah, it's all to, I guess those
conferences are more to sell products, right?
Or display products and that you can do over Zoom
and you just get to be courageous.
Yeah, they want to sell products as well.
Yeah, and you have companies that are
marrying their kit, yeah.
I think if you are very creative about it
you can do it over Zoom as well.
Just that you need to, if you do it in person
you can handle one person at a time, but if you're doing
over Zoom or other video conferences
you cannot actually handle a large group of people
at the same time watching the same presentation
or asking questions about a product.
So you can be more efficient actually.
But I was wondering one thing.
I just got to my mind when we were talking about
this distributing food and so on.
A while back I was working on this web page
and I did the payment solution
and then I left the company that worked for us.
I didn't know how it actually went with the product
but it's a product for buying food online
and then distributed with containers I believe
and when you went to a container and picked up your food
or something and it was called market
and it should go be live in Norway
or perhaps they gone bust.
I don't know because I didn't really follow up on that one.
Is it still going in Norway or is it not something
that you have heard about KDB?
What did you ask me?
Yeah, I didn't know, I just started to read it.
If it's texting.
There were a company called the market
that sold groceries online
and then should deliver them by containers
to different cities and so on
to can go pick up your groceries.
Is that something that is going in Norway
or is that company bust?
Did I not succeed with that?
Yeah, I don't know because I get
almost delivered from one shop.
Okay, you haven't heard about them
or they are not a big thing in Norway at least.
They are not a big big thing.
I don't know about them.
But I don't follow news
so hey.
Yeah, it was just one thing that I was thinking about
because it was kind of fun to work
about on their solution
but because they were very innovative.
But I think they perhaps were a little bit early
with their leadership.
They have done it during Covid times.
I think that solution would have been a really interesting one.
I just ran to be heard from my grandparents
because I kind of have
been sitting in my house
sitting in Bøndøren.
And if I didn't tell me,
I probably not know about it in a year or two.
Probably if the whole world got nuked,
I probably not know about it.
So he's recording here anyway.
He's recording the podcast.
He's recording the podcast.
Two people are.
I can't see on this climb,
but I think that sometimes you can.
A pee-par-drag.
He's recording two items.
Yeah, but I think honkies is the official recording.
I know his has been going all day
and he's also the one that had it from last year.
Oh!
Because I needed a portion of the raw
instead of what came out on HPR.
So I was able to get it from honkies.
Yeah, he had the last one.
Is it going to come up as well?
When is it going to come up for that one?
The more you rush honkies, the longer he takes.
So it could be a couple of months.
So he does some editing then?
Um, yeah, either.
I think K-Wisher actually did the editing from last year.
Frick me if I'm wrong, K-Wisher.
Yeah, the guy that doesn't talk or listen.
I think it's just to take the white empty,
no one was talking to him,
and it's about it if I had the thing.
Yeah.
K-Listener has not been talking or listening since I joined.
Okay, well he was talking earlier in the day.
Oh, he was.
Because after I joined, he's been totally
off talking and speaking.
Yeah, when I was on this morning, he was talking.
Oh, yeah.
I was out in the moment and you were on and over
in my country, I joined.
Yeah, but I think I know it was honkies that had
all the raw recordings from last year,
and I think it was K-Wisher that did the editing,
and then I'm not sure who posted it to HBR.
So who's going to listen to the whole 26 hours or so?
Are you going to do anyone here?
Um, most likely what they'll,
yeah, I'm not going to listen to the whole 26 hours.
And it'll end up being split up into three different recordings,
and once all the truncate silence is removed,
it will be a lot shorter.
Yeah, because then I don't.
Yeah, you will, yeah, I'm going to go to the silence.
I mean, we'd chat only,
but who's going to listen to the whole thing otherwise?
No, then I don't be.
It's easier to request.
Yeah, if I were editing,
I would do some noise leveling
and I would do the truncate silence for everything.
And well, that would be most of it.
I would do some spot listening,
but I definitely wouldn't go through the whole thing for editing.
If that's because you probably take a seat,
you're going to have to go.
I think you can do 26 hours pretty fast if you want.
Well, I would be a lot of silence.
I do, well, yeah, that's why you load it up into audacity
and you truncate silence first.
Yeah, it doesn't can have some sort of something automated.
I remember him saying he had something automated
to remove the silence.
I know.
Well, yeah, it's actually really easy in audacity.
But I know Hunky McGoo,
who does the editing for the Linux lug cast,
he has a script that automatically does the truncating.
So, so after he had done that,
then we can talk about how many hours per broadcast is
or recording is.
So what show is this, you know, then?
What show is this?
This is the HPR New Year show.
Is the one?
So, Asia is better show, but still around.
No, I'm not sure if anybody's still recording
on this server regularly.
Yeah, because I've not seen anyone,
the last people I've seen was dungeon people.
That's what recently came in and lived in this place.
Or then that I've not seen anyone doing this place
in over a year.
Do the SML archives still use this?
I remember some guys said they were going
on Sunday, Saturday, and I was looking on for them,
and I forgot about it, and I was looking again,
no one doing it.
Maybe that was the main cause you were talking about.
Because you switched, there was a, no.
I think a lot of the recordings of Hacker Public Radio
is done by one visual poster,
so I don't think that most of it will do,
will need a mumble server in order to record them.
No, it's not needed here.
But it was fun to talk to people when
was the show was done before.
But it's not seen with people in a long time.
I wonder if the Saturday ones are done here, perhaps.
When you have a month break and you talk about
all the shows for one month,
those could be recorded here, perhaps.
Yeah, I am in Jupiter though on Sunday,
but maybe why I'm not seen there if this show in here.
I think it's mostly Ken and one person
who forgot the name of that record shows,
perhaps they are using some other server
when they do that.
Ken Fallinger?
Ken Fallinger, and what's the other guy's name?
Shading with him.
Yeah, I think Ken Chaln is in all the
judging and third-hand shows,
or what they were, and not sure if you recorded them.
Or did you record them?
I'm not sure if they weren't there as a podcast.
Yeah, Ken Fallen and David Morris,
they'd usually do this end of the month,
yeah, recordings where they go through
and look at all the feedback that I've
spent on during a month.
Yeah, that was for people, but I am
or even in a pop-bit, didn't you?
I have been thinking about actually joining
one of those sessions, but I've been
very busy lately with work, so,
and I've also been thinking about recording a show,
but that's also because of work,
I've been able to do that.
But hopefully next year, when everything has settled,
it can be...
Yeah, it's more settled.
Do you mean this year, 2021, this year?
Yeah, this year, you know.
2022, are you talking about taking it?
No, 2021, of course.
Yeah, this year.
So, 2022.
No, this year.
It was been a lot of work during the end of last year
to prepare for the storm of people
going to read the news during the December month,
and we never saw those people.
Joe, I'm talking to you from the future in 2021.
Yeah, I'm fortunate we still got COVID.
So, you and UK, you are one of our hinders.
Behind you.
Also, well, this is it.
This is it.
We've just left EU properly.
There's no transition thing anymore.
It just expired.
No, no, it's not.
Have you had a deal now with some sort,
saying that, but, yeah.
One our own now, we're going to be your friendly neighbors
apparently, the next year.
If I understand this correctly, you will do a transition
because I think you are outside of the EU,
and you will have taxing on some of the products
that goes into the EU.
The transition's period stuff was it is over, really,
but that was the nine months thing that's just finished,
but there's a kind of deal or some sort now.
Okay, well, because I think that the part
where you require a visa to visit the rest of the EU
and also the part where everything is taxed that goes
in and out from the EU is not in effect
directly after the end of the year,
but it should be in effect until summer,
heard on the news or something.
I might just get a Swedish passport
that I'm entitled to because I was born there.
I believe I still am.
Just in case that keyword is like the EU
and Norway as well.
Mother's saying, so it's like EU and Norway in Switzerland,
and then EU and Norway in Switzerland,
and then it's like, do you have the rest of the world over here
and the UK has to go in that queue now, if I think?
Although at the moment, we're apparently banned
from the EU because of COVID anyway,
or that's why I was reading.
Yeah, I think the UK is pretty much banned
from every country outside of the UK at the moment,
but I don't really understand it
because the Australian didn't come from the UK.
It just spread there.
So people cannot take it?
There's two strains.
South African strain and maybe UK strain,
or I don't know.
Yeah, I thought it was the South African strain
that come to the UK and then spread like wildfire
in the UK, and therefore the UK is banned,
but I thought that South Africa would be banned
as well from the rest of the world.
Probably not.
It was.
Well, I mean, I mean, the French banned
lorries the other week from Britain
because of this as well.
Hmm, you're very low.
Who's low-mars on all?
Yeah, he isn't a low-one user.
Boss, you're the only me.
Yeah, because you're low-one
some of others, but here isn't a low-one user again.
I'm glad I found this headset,
and I'm surprised, like I said, it was too...
It sounds like it's powering up.
It's turning the voice in for your voice.
Or do you just talk louder?
I don't know how low I am or not.
I'm talking with me now, but I hope I'm coming off.
Yeah, you're coming off to that good...
But you talk a low-dow,
or do you turn it up more after you start talking?
I think.
You don't stand more.
So the headset works fine now.
Yeah, you're coming though.
You're not as high as the Swedish version,
but you are totally fine for me.
Well, I'm always loud.
It doesn't matter in what medium.
So, do you talk loud and have a low mic?
Do I have a loud mic as well?
I can turn it down,
but I know that I talk loud,
so therefore I usually have to do some audio settings.
And then because this is a new setup,
I haven't really handled with it, so I can see here.
No, you're not talking as really loud,
because he's more quiet and no one else talks.
So it's because he's a...
I'm not sure how low I am.
I cannot tell myself.
Yeah, but you sound fine,
but I hope I don't blow your ears out with my speech,
because that's not the point.
No, it doesn't do that,
but you are very close to that zone.
Well, I will see if I can turn it down a bit.
If I can figure out this,
there are so many switches on this audio input thing here.
Yes, I can turn it down on my audio.
Is it better now?
Turn it down on the audio.
It was 60% or something.
Yeah, turn it down to...
I think it was at 75% before,
and now it's down to 50%.
Yes, that was right.
Wow, I guess.
Just random guess.
Because it's kind of...
So it's like it's half the volume it was,
but it's probably not as...
Well, my colleagues usually think that my
joke, or perhaps they just have a bad speaker.
Hmm, I usually have to turn the volume down quite a lot when I record,
because else I will blow out the speaker,
but I have to do a lot of sound mixing.
Yeah, no, I can...
Then I'll try to hear after,
no, I can hear it.
You're cutting out each time you stop talking.
Yeah, maybe I didn't notice it then.
You're talking so high.
I think I've had to turn that down as well then.
Maybe you let go right before you stop talking.
I see.
The message in the chat thing,
just now saying that,
Greenland and...
I think some more of just going to New Year.
Yeah, Cape Verde.
Happy New Year!
Greenland and...
I, uh,
von Ponte del Gada
and Mendelo and a few others there.
So happy New Year to all of you.
Yeah, happy New Year, I guess.
So, anybody who you have any New Year's resolution,
either have completed or want to do.
My New Year's resolution is not to make any more New Year's resolution,
so I know I'm gonna stick to that one.
I actually had a New Year's resolution for last year,
and I complete.
Happy about that.
And I think I will continue.
My New Year's resolution was not to drink alcohol for you.
I mean...
Yeah.
The new one is to wear face masks all the time in public,
even if other Swedes aren't doing it.
I can actually do that as well.
I like wearing masks.
I don't mind it.
It's just that my...
my asses fog over, and that's really annoying.
But perhaps the strips will help me there.
I've gotten used to the
glasses fogging up.
It's at this point, it's...
I just ignore it.
Have you tried rolling up the bottom of your, uh,
your mask to where it like sits on your chin
and opens up the holes on the side a little bit bigger?
Buy that, but I think that to get the best prediction,
you should actually have the...
I'm wondering how many people use fur masks.
One thing I thought that I was really liked was when I went to the hairdresser,
they actually use face shield to have something that sits on the chin,
goes up over the mouth and, uh, above the...
up to the eye line.
I love hairdressers.
I mean, even hairdressers have been closed here because of Covid.
Only bars are closed in a way.
I said for us, I don't know.
And some, uh, some food shops is some restriction back and forth.
There, there, there, there.
I think that actually a face shield,
they had transparent face.
I think that the face shields don't work,
because it goes down the bottom,
anyone here.
There goes down the bottom,
but you will not spray your customers with your droplets.
First, they're down in the distance here, at all.
Doesn't shield you at all.
No, I think it has to.
We might wear a face shield plus a medical surgical mask,
whatever.
Yeah, in hospital, I think it might be both facial plus a medical mask.
I believe that my wife has used face shields,
where you fall from the top of your head and all the way down.
That's where, just when they have normal, uh,
patients who are in the tent,
and along the COVID-19 have food like moon.
Uh, it's quite time again.
I'm still here.
About something, so just, uh,
break up the subject, then I'm all ready to talk.
Oh, you must have done the job mask thing.
I don't know where I will add anything to it.
I don't know.
I thought it was a, uh,
uh,
well, we can talk about mass even more.
So there's, uh, uh,
about three different types, I believe.
There's a debate about if any of these masks actually work,
or to work standing in work,
and which one's the best,
and all, and, uh, you know,
you could debate it all night.
Yeah, it's so fun if all people use masks,
and if I know it, they doesn't work.
I saw some, I don't know about the percentages,
but that's something like,
if you wear a mask,
check the other person to,
like 20 percent,
if other person wears mask,
they are protected to both wear mask,
you are both protected to like 5 percent.
It's cut off.
What percent?
You were taking the thing.
Is that a mask to protect you?
The mask protects them from you.
Yeah, exactly.
So if the other person has a mask,
they are protected to 60 percent,
which is a lot less protection than,
but if you both have it, or at 5 percent.
If you get used to your mask,
you can keep it and use it after it,
mostly go that way.
But I think in England,
all the UK, Scotland, Wales,
including all night,
and when they get the chance,
I think most people are going to chuck them out
into the bin,
and that's that basically.
Although few might want to keep it going
a bit longer, but they have the choice.
So I just watch mine every day,
and I'll be wearing it.
So you have a one-use mask,
you're wearing each day.
That's correct.
Yeah, I have a cloth mask,
a few cloth masks that I use,
and I,
after using them for the day, I wash them.
So it meant to be go spend?
No, I do not have a cloth mask.
I have a latex,
a latex free mask that came out of a box,
wash it, dry it out,
wear it the next day.
Oh, man.
Yeah, at this point,
I have the mask,
I would send a mask,
a couple of masks,
from a care package,
from the insurance that I have through work,
and I have a few other masks
that I purchased off of Etsy.
So at this point,
it's like underwear.
You wear it, you wash it.
So, you know.
I have four masks from my work site.
The face shields are banned from my work site,
and you pull over masks like a scarf
or a band from my work site,
the old mask,
which is where.
Yeah, the Gators provided masks.
They provide us with our latex mask,
and I'm allergic to latex.
There's no other option.
Oh, I went and bought some latex for,
I'm to waste them.
Oh, the latex free.
I see.
Yeah.
I have four masks for the four people in our,
are seldomly out with people.
So my wife is a nurse,
so she often goes to the hospital, of course,
and they have protected gear there, of course.
But we seldomly leave our house at all.
Nobody at school wears masks.
Yeah, I thought about something.
We, when he was talking about the glow text there,
we kind of high thought that
us to do the spraying thing
or the glows.
Oh, you both, I didn't think about that
because it's not so learning to see it,
but it's not the forced
and other places and hospital, I think.
If you get caught in public here without a mask
on, be fined $300.
You get caught writing in a vehicle
with someone that's not in your quote-unquote bubble
to get fined $1,000.
Oh, that's what it is.
Like, that's what's like in the England as well.
If you might get fined, if you're caught without a mask,
unless you can prove that you're certain
that you're exempt, basically.
Although, although in reality,
I think the police, apparently the police
just have better things to do for most parts,
so it's more of a threat, I think,
than actually you're going to get fined,
but there's a chance you might.
Well, this is a small town community
like place here, so the police have nothing better to do
than to drive around these fines.
And there's 10 a day, Italy.
It's an easy way for them to reach their quota of tickets.
I expect there's been a few big parties tonight.
I've been up here, again.
I wonder if the work at places where you are
in the public or do you work from home, some of you?
I work from home.
Because I work from home.
And when we were talking about it,
my boss was actually looking into
how we should do after COVID
and how many people wanted to go back to the office.
And he found some research that were done
in the IT sector.
And they said that 90% of the people that works from home
want to work from home and stay working from home
after COVID.
So they are actually figuring out how to end the lease
of our offices as we only have one office left.
Now, we had three years earlier.
So we wouldn't mostly work from home
even after COVID, believe I believe.
I would like the option to work from home.
But I don't know if I'd want to always work from home.
My company, my team works, is before COVID,
we were working from home four days a week.
We went into the office one day a week.
Since COVID, we've been working from home every day.
And they're looking at adopting the model from my team
through the rest of the company and having more teams
where they just come in that one day a week.
So they still get that face time together.
You still get that socialization
that you're working from home most of the time.
And they can actually reduce office footprint in the process.
What about the people that work in an industrial setting,
like myself, I work at a tissue plant?
There we got some people in our company that work in the labs
and the physical material handling that yeah,
they're in the office and they've been in the office
who everything that's going on.
But for anybody who doesn't have to be,
they're going to try to use this model throughout the company.
For us, I work as a tech at a school.
And we basically are set up in different regions.
So we have a supervisor for our region.
When all this started here in Miami,
when they went into lockdown, we basically became,
we basically became desk support.
Like tech support, we would have to,
we get emails from the teachers
or they would send in a ticket
and we would contact them either through teens or through Zoom,
which is how they were, how the district
had referred doing it.
As time passed, they gradually had us come back in
because we had to get things ready for the supposed school year
that was coming up.
So we gradually started rolling in,
starting to get things ready.
Things changed day by day.
But yeah, eventually we did end up coming back to the schools.
And of course, we had to have the PPE.
It's been somewhat of a disaster in my opinion,
but we're getting by as best we can.
My kids are doing the whole school from home thing.
Yeah, mine as well.
As a matter of fact, my two youngest,
which were still in the K through 12 system,
they actually opted to go back.
They wanted to go back.
But after they went back after a few days,
they said, no, mom.
People are stupid.
Please bring me home.
Put us, put us, yeah, exactly.
Put us virtual.
And they've been virtual since.
Of course, my eldest, who loves to just be on the computer
and do everything there,
is he's super happy about doing everything remote.
He doesn't even want to drive to the college.
My kids are younger.
So they are still at school thinking
that the best option is to be at school.
About with about 440 students or 500 students or something.
So it's not a huge school, but it's large.
They have actually looked every week
for the guidelines from our minister
how we should handle schools.
And they have prepared everything for homeschooling.
So you either have work at home
or if you have a computer,
you can do virtual learning from home.
So everything is set up and ready to go.
But so far, they haven't got the go signal
from the community to say that,
okay, you need to do homeschooling.
So so far, we are still doing go to school.
I sort of ran into a reverse problem
that some of you have been running into.
My kids were homeschooled all the way through high school.
My youngest one graduated last year.
And she's now going to a college.
And she's been challenged trying to get into the college
because they keep trying to shut down
all the different colleges in the area.
I think all the colleges in Sweden
are still homeschooling or virtue
because at that age you should have,
or you usually have those that know how
to work for your own or and you often have
the equipment to do virtual schooling.
Well, she's, my youngest daughter
has got a triple major going on right now,
but one of the majors being dance.
And so that's something that you can't quite do virtually.
I wonder if you can be creative
and actually do dance virtually.
I have to ask my wife there as well
to teach dance for a couple of years.
So some things you can do on your own
but there are other things that you have to
interact with a partner for and that part can't be done virtually.
I think with dance you probably can do it virtually.
But I was going to say all the school stuff
and that, so talking about the UK of course.
So in the first lockdown they closed
the whole education bound yet.
University schools, colleges the whole lot.
And then it opened up.
But now because worrying about this
second mutation is basically because
Christmas holiday now, but it's about to finish or should finish.
But I think the primary schools, or I forget you say
elementary in America, they're going to come back
I believe on Monday as normal most of them.
Unless they're in this tier form, possibly some of those.
But then they're going to lay the secondary schools
by another two weeks in the colleges and
and the Sam students back maybe a little bit earlier than the rest of them.
And the people giving the government advice,
the scientists, they're just like,
claiming the school will just have them
claiming the whole generation.
But this is just a mess all of this here.
The problem with closing the schools for the primary kids,
I have four small children, two of which in primary.
And you close that down some nurse.
So now they're supposed to learn from home.
I don't work from home.
I work out in the plant.
How are both the wife and I have to work the kids.
And if there's no.
Well, yeah, that's basically it.
If the if the school kids aren't going to school,
then it affects the parents as well and what they're doing.
And I should be very lucky that I can work from home.
And I also have a company with a very
lacks attitude against work.
The only thing that they require is that you do the work,
not when or where.
If I need to homeschool my kids the whole day and then work on the evening,
that's just fine.
I mean, that's one thing that's physically impossible.
My preference.
I understand that.
And the.
Thank you.
Here they want to close this.
Well, the government will close the schools as a kind of
lucks resort, or they'll might delay it, but.
But they, um, they've been trying to keep those open.
They'll close the pubs and not in the stairs in the meantime.
But, but education kind of comes first, I guess.
But just, yeah, it's just, it's just all a wrestling way.
If I were in the situation where I needed to go to work.
And of course, my wife, as a nurse, needs to go to work.
And I thought, well, well, my parents could have the kids,
but they are above 70.
So they are in total quarantine.
We don't talk to them with.
We are visiting them with, but we have this four meters of distance between us.
We are, when we are talking, we are sitting down at their, uh,
porch and they sit at one end and we sit on the other end and then we
can't let each other.
So we are not really meeting them.
So they can't really take care of the kids either.
Yeah, that's who watches our kids as her parents, my parents, very far away.
But that becomes really difficult to increase the household.
About the interpretation of single family bubble.
But if you say eight people, then you are of a lot, I guess.
And again, my, I'm pretty defined.
The single family household bubble as anyone that has a permanent address
within your resident.
If they're permanent address on their license, it's different from your
address on your license.
You're subject to a thousand dollar fine.
If they're caught in your house without them.
And again, yeah, yeah, people like to rat on people.
Okay, Cuba a little bit low.
So am I apparently, uh, but, um, yeah,
that like a sudden chat, turning microphone up a bit, possible.
Uh, not possible for me.
I don't know where the microphone adjustment is.
Is that any better?
It is so indifferent.
I'm using a Bluetooth headset.
So I don't know.
I'm fine with.
So Bluetooth headset has a cold bite, right?
Sound like that.
I don't think you talk a little bit.
I'm also speaking low because the kids are in bad.
Yeah, that doesn't help properly.
Um, I'm, uh, detached from the house.
I can scream in here if I like that.
I'll teach the kids for getting you up.
Exactly.
I went outside.
I'm going to do some testing.
Is, uh, is it louder when I speak here?
Yeah.
Well, I've just changed myself.
I think it's still louder.
Well, that means, uh, do I sound all different now and now?
Uh, pretty much the same as before.
Yeah, but you're not low then.
You'll come through loud and clear.
But I guess the only reason that people didn't hear.
Cobra was that he spoke after.
Yeah, I thought Cobra's, uh,
Cobra 2's volume was fine.
Yeah, uh, I've seen that too.
But, uh, but I, uh,
it's just a cold voice.
It's just a cold voice.
Not seen you in a long time.
Um, I think I was on this morning.
And earlier this afternoon, uh, well, my time's on.
Uh, but yeah, I was, uh,
No, in this afternoon, you was,
and I think you was one of the people I talk to,
then, uh, uh, rocked on and started.
If I'm not, uh,
Mr. Renembringy or Nick Bisson and else.
It could be.
Um, when this started, I was still sleeping.
When this started, I listened a little bit beginning
and then did other things as that for a while.
No, no, not today.
I mean, uh, Cobra,
when Cobra locked on and started.
Uh, uh, who it is.
Yeah, because if you were sleeping in the whole Cobra period,
when you were sleeping, I would be very well rested
if that were the case now.
Yeah.
No, no, no, I, I'd probably not.
No, I haven't been on the mumble, uh,
the HPR mumble, uh, up until now.
I have recorded episodes, uh, here and there,
but as far as doing the live chat,
like right now, not until today.
Last year about last year.
Oh, yeah.
If you mean, uh, in that sense,
yeah, last year would be.
Yeah, last year.
Yeah, last year would be the last time that I was on this.
So when the Cobra start last year,
was you one of the third people in here?
Oh, what do you want to for regulars in here?
I mean, on here when it, when it started, uh,
because I remember, uh,
Carla prefer was one of them.
I think your name is, your name is
familiar, but I'm not remembering from what place.
Yeah, I mean, I've recorded some episodes for HPR, um,
and then just recently I did something with, uh,
Pat from the Linux link text show.
So that one came up.
I think that that episode was on the 28th.
So that was just a couple of a few days ago.
So are you doing it?
The inside this place.
Oh, someone else, someone else.
No, um, I think,
because I think the Linux link text show guys have their own
mumble server.
I don't, I could have sworn it was on here.
I could be wrong.
I didn't see in the list, but, uh,
yeah, we had connected that way.
I guess through their, through their own mumble server.
So with mumble, I'm feeling this,
this is a mumble challenge.
Probably only useful one thing is to each, uh,
one, the first day for one year.
Yeah, I guess.
No, this is, I don't know, I think it's mostly used to,
so the new year show, isn't that?
Yeah, one, one number for one thing one year, uh, one day.
Yeah, he's just the first day of each year.
Yeah, it's a problem too.
There's a couple days.
Yeah, I have problems saying my handle,
Kalasco for it's, uh, the serial branding Sweden.
So I guess it's hard to pronounce, but I'm done.
Donial person, so, uh, can just call me Daniel.
But I think, uh, hang on a minute, the name,
the name you've got now is the serial on Sweden, is that?
It's a serial brand in Sweden, so it's, uh,
Yeah, yes, I was,
Honeypuffs.
I was, yeah, I was, no, I mean, I can read it.
The Swedish bits, uh, enough.
So as you can know, okay, yeah, but I didn't think,
oh, it actually has a serial, okay.
But Kalasco be a name.
No, I think you need to remove an A though,
so class, if you want to have a name.
Yeah, I think during the start of the COVID,
we also had a lot of regular shots
when we were talking about our different situations
in different regions and different countries and so on.
And that was very informative.
So what, uh, uh,
Kalasco ended up in there.
Oh, do I remember wrong?
I'm not remembering who was in all.
I remember some names, but, uh,
I talked to too many people.
I remember you, but I'm totally bad with names, so...
Yeah, I remember you being the only Swedish guy
that you come regularly.
It's always good to have something special about it.
More regular, you are,
it's worth to get to remember that guy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The, uh,
they defeat the men,
have nonsemen, can
fat as Swedish men,
mediate for store.
Good.
I'm not sure if we,
we should talk Swedish at the moment, but...
Well, well, no, but...
You can make it here, you can make yourself too much, but,
but, um, my point was it's nice when you can talk to some
being Swedish or...
Oh, you've got some being Swedish.
I've got some of the kind of little bit.
I can tell I was half Swedish, so it's got some links, I'm not.
So you...
Sounds like a very good Swedish if you're not living or talking it.
If you are from Sweden, it's, uh,
you can hear the difference, but you, uh,
it's, uh, yeah, it's very, very good.
I'm not from Sweden, so I cannot tell the difference.
No, I was born there, but I've lived in England, so I was free, really, so...
Yeah, so...
My mum's Swedish.
So does she talk Swedish at home then?
She, we, um, growing up, it was very much like, you know,
you don't speak English to your mum.
She should always be Swedish, Swedish.
Plus, she'll be going over to visit, um,
more and more.
They grab grandma and the, yeah,
like, put up every summer or nearly every summer.
So we've got times of God now, that's, that's the past.
But, um, I'll be over there in the summer a lot before,
and then you, you see,
speaking Swedish then as well.
And, um...
So you've got to be two languages then in the...
I speak two languages, yeah.
I didn't, I didn't, I don't write Swedish very well, though.
That's, that doesn't annoy me a little bit time,
because I didn't really learn to read, write it properly.
I can read it better now.
But, but, but, but then you've got the free letters at the end,
the same with German, those all out,
the A would, one dot, the A would two dots,
and the O would, um, two dots.
You don't get those in English,
but you're doing Swedish in German and stuff as well.
So that composes it a little bit as well.
The un-louts, I think, they're called in German, at least.
I think they think the same for the Swedish.
Yeah, so we don't have those in English,
but you, you, um, so that's one of those things
that I didn't really learn either properly.
But, um, and then you get names like Björn,
which obviously you don't really translate into English,
anyway, um, very well.
With, with Ares belt and everything.
How about if you have the Abbas, you,
everybody's calling them Björn?
Abbas, yeah, Abbas, actually Björn.
From Abbas, it was one Björn.
But in the, the funny part is,
if you have different regions of Swedish,
you, you talk differently.
And from Gothenburg,
where you're speaking different,
specific words, you add extra outlets to different words.
So you, you talk with a lot of Princess Er in, in Gothenburg.
For instance, there is this fish, fish,
church, you should probably say Irkan in Swedish.
But in Gothenburg, they are saying,
Haskershörkan.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, some of the,
some of the things when they, when they show like, um,
for example, some of the Scandinavian,
and, um, Nordic, um,
Kroimfrellas on, at least on BB4 in the UK,
sometimes, uh,
they, you can see when they're doing the subtitles as well,
when they're trying to translate certain things.
It's just, it's just wrong.
It's just, no, that's not what they said.
That's not, it's not, it's not really what they said.
It's just wrong to see the mistakes,
when you know, when you know, you know,
when you can understand the Swedish enough.
I prick a sad, I only know two languages.
I would have loved to learn, uh, third language,
but I think what year is old it's too late.
Yeah, yeah. Well, my mum, my mum,
the thing is now as well.
My mum's mother's actually finished, right?
So I've got finished second cousins and stuff like that as well.
But the thing is she'd never got taught finished for some reason by her mother.
And I think she got annoyed at that time,
because it's a bit like,
oh, I could have learned, I could have named finish as well.
But that, that, that's a hard language to learn apparently as well.
It's very like blah, blah, blah, blah.
Yeah, they're thinking a lot of finished people say all themselves as well,
like if you were then finished.
Oh, oh, that, uh, it's not going to be very easy to learn this.
And again, there isn't time to say things.
I think, um, from my standpoint,
I think if you on sort of the Germanic language tree,
it might be easier to learn Finnish, German, Sweden, Dutch,
than, say, for instance, the Saxon or the, the, um,
goals or the farms, um, with, I think struggle a lot more to, to pick up Germanic languages.
So where are you from? Not getting to pick up your phone?
Yes, yes, I was going to, I was going to say that as well as he from.
I'm, uh, Afrikaans, which is kind of Dutch.
There's this, uh, sort of bad connotation.
Some people call it kitchen Dutch, which is, uh,
omigation of, old bunch of different languages.
That is great.
Pick up on that thing.
It, it's really interesting that it's kind of Dutch, because I was watching this,
YouTuber and she's from Holland and she was, uh,
going through this horror game and suddenly they started to talk a very strange language.
And she said, okay, I can understand this because this is African and it's very close to Dutch
So I understand most of what this person is saying and I was like those are so far apart those two languages or those countries
How can they be the same? But is it that they have codalized or they have codalized or yeah, it's pretty much
That happens very large portion of us
Stems from Dutch then there's a bunch of me like from my lineage
It's more closer to the French being one of the French Ugonauts and
But I can also I mean if you talk Dutch fairly slowly, I can follow and I can even reply
And I think it might even well, okay, my uncle was German, so I pick up a lot of a lot from him
And I think
Finish maybe if they talk like very slowly, I might pick up maybe like say 10 15% of the conversation
I can't understand finish for for the life of me if I would kidnap to Finland and somebody was trying to get something out of me
Well, you might be in the Swedish part, even if they talk slowly and I have a
Little hard I had a hard time with Norwegian as well, but not as hard
Yeah, I was still thinking this as well like I mean, I think sometimes Norwegian and Swedish can be quite similar
But not always and then Danish is a bit different, but you can kind of depends you can sort of understand them
Possibly and if you are in southern part of Sweden
Most of the people there talk like they have oatmeal in their throats and if you go to Danish
It's the same thing, but it gets worse
Much first is whole
But it's just because I'm not familiar with the language, so that's why I think it sounds very strange
So you are from there in North somewhere. We don't know
Gothenburg so it's in the southern part of Sweden, but is if you look at the most populated areas in the northern part of this Norway always at the border to Norway
Oh, you leave it to the border to Norway
using Gothenburg you said well, you have to bore it which is
I'm not the best with a map of Sweden, but I believe it's more
Quite far down in a way
It's far down, but it's closer to the Norwegian border than it's to the southern part of Sweden
But if you're looking at Sweden as a whole because it's a very long country
We are very far south of the country
Yeah, and when
And it was too, oh, there was a Swedish linex where we got from Berge as well
Can't remember what's called now, but maybe we've been to that
So how long drive it's to Oslo for me to do
About
Or something
For us
But it's for us to Stockholm
It's at a five hours to Stockholm, so it's shorter to Norway than to
Oh yeah, I see
That is what this is for me to do to Oslo, but enough
Yeah, yeah, there's a Swedish
So there was a Swedish linex when in Gothenburg, FS cons or something like that
FS cons have been to them once
And they're also a post-knower
I think
Post-knower and
FS cons is in Sweden
Perhaps been in Sweden at least
I mean, by looked at one year or at least I was looking at that again
Oh, we could get in the way it goes to that
And I thought, oh, I don't know actually
Yeah, playing and then you've got to, you know, sort of money, isn't that
I were there one year and were
Not one of the organizers, but I was one of the crew
So I helped out a little bit one year
But they were telling me, someone told me it was dear to one line somewhere
But, yeah
That was kind of nice
And as a crew, you didn't pay for anything, so that was nice too
And I think they had at least what's cool
They're one of the FSF people who I think spoke there one year as well, yeah
They have a lot of different smaller user groups in Sweden
A lot smaller and smaller
We have one interesting Java group
Or a Java forum that I'm a part of
I think it's a thousand members or something like that
And they actually had Stolman as one year
It was very interesting
So I actually got to both meet him and talk to him
No, I think that they're
Nicholson or what she's called from the
FSF or the something like that
She, I think she's spoken to the Swedish, she got from Virgo Van once as well
Because she's done being in the UK a little bit as well
And then she goes to Brussels
But there's loads of people like that out there
Hello everyone
It was nice actually, they had an event
I mean, the FSF had an event right
For two years and it was very near to I live and it was like
Oh, lovely, I can get a bus down here
I don't have to go off to Brussels or heading well
So I can just go to a little bit of a event down in my local city
But they only did it for two years
But that was nice
Because normally I have to go to at least, well, somewhere else
I was actually at a Pasha con this year
And that was a virtual event
And that was really nice
Book with all those things
It's nice when you get on the local city there
You don't have to travel anywhere else
You just get on the bus or whatever and get down there
Not, not, oh, in a city far away
In a train or something or a plane
Or if you've got a car, you're going your car
But you know what I mean
It depends, if you have kids
Or then you have a different equation there
Because I was on a Bitcoin in London
And it was really nice to be at the conference
And not have anything that you really wanted to get back to
So you just had your hotel room
And then you stayed at the conference
And did all the things
And then you went to bed
And it was really tired
If I had something in go for it
What was that?
Wait
The phone was on it
Vidcon
So it's a YouTube right there
But if I'm going to a local event in Sweden
You always are hurrying home to the family afterwards
And then you can't really enjoy it as much
So I think it's quite nice
To either have a virtual event
Or go away further
I don't like it
I mean, I've only been to a few conferences
Not that many really
But I guess sometimes even so
Actually the evening social can be better
Than the actual
Compostate times, I guess
I feel like you a lot are talking about a time
From a hundred
I feel like you a lot are talking about a time
From a hundred years ago then
I actually went to Vidcon in February
Just before COVID hit
So I was actually a little bit scared
That I picked something up in London
And took it with me home
So you were one of the last one
To probably go to
And then
Yes
Yeah, I think Vidcon was in like the last part of February
So it was like the 25th, 26th, 27th
Or something like that
I don't come home when you're home
I like what Joe said
Yeah, yeah, conferences
It's all the past
That's the like time before
Yeah
Before the event
But then again you have the possibility of the virtual event
So I have been to more conferences
This year than
Earlier years
Because I have gone to a lot of virtual events
Yeah, but
You probably
Be the last guy that's been
On a
Live
In a very
Very, very long time
Why don't we have many years before it
Become
Really
Not a big thing to go to
A really
Or not anymore
I think give it another year
I think this time next year
We'll all be excited about the
Various events that we're going to be going to
Yeah, I don't think there will be a lot of events this year
And I don't think that we're
Most of the restrictions will be lifted this year
Next year I'm hopeful
This year is probably the
Be a hobo here
For events going
Outside of
You're still good
You in Tier 4 Joe
You're in I think you're
Yeah, but England as well
I think
Yeah, yeah, I'm in London
Tier 4 to the max
And yet
I live near one of the busiest roads in London
And it
The level of traffic on that road
Tells me generally
Like the movement levels in the city
And it is the busiest I've seen it in months tonight
Despite the fact that our levels of Covid
And hospitalisations and stuff
Through the roof
And like
Worse than April
Where it was at the peak
I mean it's just going to be a disaster
Give it a week or two
Or three weeks
So it's just going to be horrible here
Yes, it's crazy in there
Although I'm tier 3 here
And actually I was the only place in the south west of England
And tier 3 for a while
And now
And now they've put a load of other places
And with some stores as well
Yeah, and the fact that you're here
Tell us a minute
You've been responsible tonight
And uh
Stied at home
You know, that's really the thing
To me about all this stuff is
You have all these people
Who are out
Where you are Joe in London
Just driving back and forth
Doing all their
Regular New Year's Eve things
In spite of all the
Rules and regulations that have been put in place
And it's just going to come back to bite you
Like me
And you who are doing the right thing
And doing what we're supposed to
It's
I find it really normal
Yeah, that's basically it
A lot of the younger people
And think that they're like
Oh, there's no COVID in there
Yeah, let's go put you down
And it's like, well, there is a parent
Yeah
Yeah
Now in my area people just
Even when there are restrictions
Which there aren't a lot of restrictions right now
They mostly seem to ignore them anyway
Yeah, same here
I've been to the whole neighborhood
Where um
Like I went to pick something up off
Of uh
Facebook marketplace
And I was the only one in the entire
Neighborhood
Wearing a mask
Mm-hmm
And what do you think?
Mask fatigue here
That people are like
I was walking around the supermarket the other day
I got about once a month to get those
My wife calls once a week to get food
And um
It was just it was just unbelievable
All the people working there
We just like had their masks around their chains
Just didn't care really
And this was like a week or two ago
When things were still looking pretty bad
And just I look around
I just see people just fatigue
But they just don't care anymore
It's been nearly a year
And they're just done
They just think, well, I just don't care
What will be will be
And the result of that
Is potentially catastrophic
Yeah, especially with the new strings
New strings
I don't understand mask fatigue
I wouldn't you want to
Sorry, go ahead
There was quite a horrendous story
And South Africa about a month ago
So over a year there's a bit of a culture
That when you finish metric
I think it's called just grade 12
Or it's basically your final school year
You get this feeling of independence
You jump in a garden
You go to the coast of
Margate
And then they've got tons and tons of raves
And parents allow their kids
To go and join these massive parties
Where they stay for like weeks
Or basically like a week
And you go to these raves
Stacked with people
And that was the launch of our second wave
There was four of these parties planned
Three of them got cancelled
One went ahead
We're thousands and thousands of
Young students that just finished school
Attempted it
And suddenly bam
We went to a second wave
On a new strain
It's just because people are
blatantly ignoring the risk
Yeah, because this new strain isn't just here
Right, it's down there
Like it's supposedly new
And the UK government used it as a
An excuse to cancel Christmas
But my understanding is that you
What had it down there
Quite some time ago
And it had been generally around for quite a while
But yeah, people just don't take it seriously
Especially young people
People under 30
Just they think, well, if I get it, I'll be fine
And that's generally true, right?
If you're under 30 and you get it
The chances of you being seriously ill or dying
Are very, very long
And some people are just selfish
And they don't care that they're going to pass it on to someone
Who's going to pass it on to someone
Who's going to pass it on to someone
Who's going to pass it on to someone
Who is at risk and may die
Or get seriously ill and get long COVID or whatever
And, you know, I mean, I'm looking now
There's a group of people hanging around
One of the local pubs here
That they shouldn't be there
They're illegal
The police are around
They don't care
What can they do
And, you know, it's just
What could they be doing again?
I guess
There was in London as well
Yeah, I'm so bad
I'm sorry
That's the point
It's all pretty much the same
The UK managed to get our strain somewhere
Which is, I think,
501 version 2
Or something like that
A controversy with the exact code
So, somebody from
Our side went over to England
And, if I'm not mistaken
There's now actually a ban
In England
For travelling from South Africa to England
Yeah, I think we are banned
From travelling pretty much
Most places now
Because of this supposedly new strain
Which I think has been around for months
But, yeah, there's a lot of travel
Yeah, yeah
There's generally a lot of travel between
The UK and our former colonies
Like South Africa, US, Canada
Australia and New Zealand
So, you know, I mean,
We're a very interconnected world
I mean, we're all here
Right now from everywhere in the world
Talking on this mumble server
And, you know, we're the tip of the iceberg
In terms of business travel and stuff
Like, people have continued to move around
And, you know, we've not had a proper lockdown
Is the bottom line
Even when we had a supposed lockdown in March
You could still travel for business and stuff
And, you know, I don't know
It's such a difficult balance to strike
Between personal freedoms
And the good of society
I'm just glad I'm not in charge
Because, people who are in charge
Have done a terrible job
Apart from Jacinda
A hern ad hern is it
The Prime Minister of New Zealand
Who seems to have done an excellent job
And I just wish I lived there
So, it's an idea of all of a person to be in charge
Because I'd just kill everyone
So, if you had no input or expert from country
You'd probably get rid of it slowly
I would be horrible to try to solve any kind of conflict
Or anything like that
Because I would just try to get people to hash it out themselves
A lot of conflicts that I've been thinking about
Just put all the people that don't agree somewhere else
And then they have to live with their mistakes
Because I'm so fed up with people that can't really figure out
But they don't agree, etc
That would be about probably half a wringling then
We have to put some rails
Because yeah
But if you think that okay
Masks is something that we really need to figure out the way to get rid of
Yeah, but then create a mask less country
And everybody that don't want to wear a mask
Can live there
And spread their COVID and die
And the rest of the people that want to survive
Can live in the rest of the world
So find me life for that simple eh
Yeah, what country should be the mask less country?
He he
I thought you said people to live in the rest of the world
I vote for the top week
I vote for Morica
No, no, no, I say Australia
It already has a history of us sending our undesirables there
Yeah, I heard about it
I heard it was once a time prison
Used a big prison I was lent
Yeah, but that's controversial you say
Because it was like it's supposedly undesirable people
Or people who had committed crimes were shipped off to Australia
But the reality of that is that there were a lot of people who were
Just less fortunate or whatever
Perhaps homeless or whatever
And you know, they were just
It was just a good excuse to get rid of the people who
The people in power decided were undesirable
It wasn't necessarily criminals
I mean, that's the rumour
Well, the sort of axiom that persists
Is that we shipped our criminals off to Australia
But really, it was just people we wanted to get rid of
And people who had no say in the matter
Australia and Georgia
Yeah
That man, Georgia voted for Biden
So they were right by me
I didn't vote for him
Which probably avoids politics
Yeah
I didn't vote for the other guy either
I didn't vote for the other guy either
I didn't vote for the other guy either
Which probably talk about Linux and stuff maybe
Politics is there
Yeah, it's there
Yeah, it's there
Either that or let's switch to religion or something
Just kidding
Joe Rez
What podcast are you on these days?
I know you had a bit of a switch this year
Oh, I've had something of the year indeed
Yes
So basically right now
Going into 2021
Well, which it is right now
Late Night Linux
And two and a half admins
Two.5 admins.com
They have the two podcasts
That are regular things
I've done some things
Of the Christmas break
With Drupes broadcast
And I'm still working with Chris
Still very much friends with all the JB crew
But in terms of shows that I am on and hosting
Yeah, just late Night Linux
And two and a half admins
And late Night Linux extra as well
Which makes
In the frequent appearances
But there will be some coming up in the new year
Well, I think I want to get started on the midget
But speaking of podcasts
So as I said security researcher
I would really like to get more in touch
With the blackout communities without revealing
Exactly my intentions
Are there any known podcasts
For that specific community
We, somebody like me that's interested
In just the sort of human behavior
And studying of that
With the impact on security
Can infiltrate a community like that
And just
Now, getting into the community
I don't know about
But the best place to start
When trying to learn about social engineering
And that type of security
Is to start reading
Everything written by Kevin Midnick
Yeah, and he's had some wonderful talks
On dead eggs and things like that
Yeah, I'm quite a huge fan of his
I like that all his books come out in audio
Read by him
I was actually just get an audible account
There's just so many books that I would just
Fall asleep to
Yeah, crank up the speed
Sure, when you get your audible account
You undear them your books
The problem I have is
I have had an audible account for like 10 years
And I have a lot of books
Have a dread
Yeah, I suppose that's the side of that equation
Did a trial a while ago
I initially read
Ready Player One
Shortly after it initially came out
And then just before the movie
I decided to take the audible book
And was pleasantly surprised when
What does he name? Will Whedon
Yep, Will Whedon
Yeah, when he read that
That was such a fantastic
And then he even mentioned himself in the book
And he read that so well
He also read Ready Player Two
Was he character in Star Trek?
What's the Crusher?
Crusher
Ah, there we go, yeah
He's also Abbott
Beer Brewer
He had some guest spots in
What the Big Bang Theory
He had his own TV show for a little while
And he has also done a lot of youtube things
He ran
He was on the guild
I remember that
Funny what you're talking about there is content for take
And the attention economy
I also think youtube is experiencing
A bit of a boom at the moment
Which is going to burn out
I predict within the next year or two
Well everybody stuck at home
Well, not everybody
But most people are stuck at home
So there's a lot more time to watch youtube videos
Or create them
Or create them
Yeah, I've noticed that
I've personally
Increased youtube consumption quite considerably
But then at the end of the video
I feel really disappointed
At what I've been watching
And the kids as well
Things that really get me down
Is people like purify
And Mr. Beast
With basically junk content
Making millions of views
And millions of dollars
Compared to something like
By zero
Or is it zero bite
And it's got a couple of a hundred thousand views
Or that
Big personal
Also big into the chemicals and things
And that
The guys that really give
Educational videos
Is highly underrated
But these like
Brainless dead content
Is making like
Things of millions of views
On a single video
I don't get
The kids as well
One of our people want to be entertained
Kids probably watch it
Over and over again
That's my kids watch the same music video
Over and over and over again
So that gets a ton of views
Myself, I watch a lot of brainless
Game videos
Because I want to do
Sheldon so on
But I create
Educational content
I've created about eight hours
At least 13 videos this month
Man
It's a lot
Pretty sure the
Views algorithm for YouTube
Only counts the first view from an IP address
But remember, IP address has changed
Because it's mostly dynamic
Yes, but mostly not totally
I still think that those rack up reviews
Because of a lot of kids that watch them
Okay, you see that you've got
Educational YouTube channel
Would you mind sharing the link for that
What's your content sort of about
Linux and that sort of
Programming
Mostly Yorva
Yorva
Ah, that is my favorite
I'm going to see a Java developer for one of the major banks in
In South Africa
So yeah, I might definitely be interested in that
So not the old Yorva thing
The other Yorva thing
It's mostly just YouTube and then my name
But there you have the link
Sweet, ah, awesome
Then
I also think
And this is just me
I think Yorva might be heading towards this end
If you look at things
Like how Kotlin
Okay, it's still using the JVM
But how Kotlin is gaining momentum
And you know other
Other sort of
Non-curly bracket languages based on
On the JVM and things like that
So
It's basically I've seen a drive
Even if you look at
That
Contemporary I think it's stuck overflow
One of those guys that do the the writings
And it seems like things like
Python and Kotlin
Things like that are definitely gaining popularity
If you look at that you
You have
I believe a billion people running
Companies with
Java based applications
And you have
As many or even more people writing
Whole operating systems in C
But both those two languages
Are considered dead at the moment
Because there are so many news
Exciting languages that you might want to run
Instead
But in my case
I've looked into Kotlin
I've looked into Rust
I looked into a lot of different
Different
Things and I also
Done a lot of the videos about them
And I think when it comes to actually producing things
It's more important to have a stable environment
And something that
You can create good code
With then
The newest hottest things
I think Java will be around for a long time
But the
The language is evolving
And I have done a lot of videos about
Difference in
The new releases
And as they have added to the release cadence
So it's actually every six months
That you get an update
And there is a lot in there
So I think the language is
On an uptake
As I understand Kotlin is
A popular language
Not something that I
Really enjoy writing code in
Yeah, now I can definitely agree with that
My go-to is still Spring Boot
And Java
If I need to build something for a client
Be it microservices
Or like some other service
Or utility
It's just
Maybe it's the comfort zone
And I know that I can do it fairly quickly
But yeah, I mean
It's just so easy to get something going
You
Start a Java application
Rapid in Spring Boot
And
Everything is just
Blitzfast
And you can accomplish anything
Like within a couple of hours
And you also have the community
And I don't really
Like people that say
Okay, this language is so good
You can write things
That are very
Terce and very
Very fast to write
But it's very hard to read
And then when you look at Stack Overflow
There is nobody talking about the language
And nobody solved anything in that language
And when you don't have the community
Around the language is very hard to
Actually work with it
Because sometimes you run into problems
And if you are running to Java problem
And search for it
There is an also for it
Any error that you come across
Within 30 seconds to a minute you'll have an answer
I would like to write more C code
Or more native code
Would be really fun to
Get that going again
Or perhaps learn rust
Because I think that's a language that actually can
Yeah, my only experience with C
Was back in the day
When I tried to write a
Underlead utility
And submitted the radar
To include into
Raded with a 4.7
Or whatever comes after that
And
After that I left it for a bit
And then I'm
The only place where I'm using it now
Is when I'm messing around on Arduino
The only real product I wrote in C
Was a spam filter
Oh yeah, you're definitely on the good side
One of the other things that we've worked on
Was
Like a little C utility that takes
A fat partition
Well, both of them you scramble the first one
Then you copy it over the second one
And then that way destroy a hard drive
But that was like many years ago
I don't have
Dark impulses like that anymore
Yeah, if we are talking about dark impulses
And things that you wrote when you were a teenager
That it's pressed
Not
Something that you can charge me for anymore
I wrote a lot of assembler code
That
We wrote a little program
What was very interesting
That you started it up
And put it in a specific mode
And it would hide itself on the C drive
And if you did a
A dear listing on it wouldn't
Wouldn't show the program
And it would hook on different interrupts
In the
Journal so it could actually read your keyboard
And type that down to a file
On your C drive that also were hidden
From dear listings
So we should get passwords
Yeah, wireless then
It was a little bit of a virus
But you had to install it yourself
So it was nothing that spread
But it was there
To be in the bootroom
And read all the passwords that were entered
Or all the keystrokes that were entered
We actually got the admin password of our schools that way
And just to be funny
We took that password
Type it out on a A3 paper
And put it on his door
And after that we got the special accounts
At the school with extra
Hardest drive space
Because he wanted to keep a track on us
Oh, enough
Oh, those are always fun
Unfortunately I'm in like 92
There about, you know, computer class
The year after us
They started teaching Pascal
But for us it was still basic
And then the one day I just wrote like a little fake
C prompt
If you type things like DUR
It would say, you know, it will reply with something like
This time I don't feel like it
Or, you know, just grab like that
Just run this thing across all the machines
And then on the next class it's just chaos
And we had one of those where we typed something in
That actually locks the computer
And you needed
It said that you needed to contact the customer support at Microsoft
They had some very well-dressed men there
And changing the computers
And reinstalling them
That was an interesting time as well
And we also wrote this little program
That could pick people from
Network
What's called the novel network
Or something like that
Novel network
Novel network
ITX, SPX I think
It actually was just that you
Spam the network queue
And told it that the spam came from their IP address
Or their session
And then they were kicked out
Yes, the protocol was IPX, SPX
And there was another wrap it around
That I can't remember
What that was, Nick, Nick Bui
Was a Microsoft implementation of that
Kind of follow
Kind of follow
You remember sitting up
Little networks like that
Using all BNC
Coex network cable
And then doing games like
What's it?
Command and conquer
And Duke Nukem 3D
No, we did it to Duke Nukem 3D
We actually ran the first doom on them
But with the only computer room
That we could do that in
Only had 286
So they were terribly slow
And we actually had to run it
In with a minimized screen
So we had a postage stamp
Of a screen to run around
And frag each other in
But it was still kind of fun
Well it beats the old
I don't know if you guys had a
Laplink playing with you
When you played via serial
Or parallel port
No one game that we did that
Was
Dune 2
Which was sort of the first
Strategy type game
But there was no blocks of it
So yeah, to select each soldier
Soldier
Then right click on a target
And say attack
Actually destroy the mouse with that game
Yeah, but I think you could actually play that
Over the network with some patch
Because we played it first
With this area connection
Or a calm connection
And then we had some patch
That you can actually run it over the network
Would you could only stay
Play two people
Still
Or those with the times
That's still the games that I prefer
I mean, I'm still into the old
Sierra games and things
Ladies, modern things
Except for maybe for cry
I'm just not into them
I'm into the puzzle games
Mostly
At the moment I'm playing some
Iron line
Grinding
Korean thing
But usually I just play
That are not strategy
Or do you play with anyone else
You just go around and solve puzzles
In a 3D environment
I love those kind of games
I got a VR headset as well
Now I can actually
Stand in the room and then
Milipede things
So one of my favorite game
Series is the room
Kind of
Puzzles that are mechanical
So you actually have to move things
The slide things over
And so on in order to solve puzzles
I really love those games
That is my
That it would definitely be my thing
I just don't have a machine
capable of running VR
I'm still running a
2014 Mac Mini
As my main machine
And then my work machine is
Dell
Something with the other
And you see
There's no serial numbers on you
Which I'm actually not using at the moment
But yeah
I really would love to get into VR
But yeah
The startup
Goes through that
This is just too much
I got that for my
4th years
For
When I
Came 40
So that birthday
I got the
Allowance to
Or my wife said
You may buy that
If you want
So
I spend a lot of money
On myself that year
For me that all have to start
With building a
A Ryzen machine
With 32 gigs of RAM
Maybe one of those
PCIe hard drives
And you know things like that
As it's first
Build a machine capable
Of enjoying VR
And then there's the actual
VR equipment as well
So yeah, that's going to be
Quite a bit
Yeah
One of the repurpose
And old server
The lot of RAM
My computer
I actually got a server
Lying around
I actually
Had an extra job
So I
I did some consulting
For my old company
For I think two months or something
I got enough
To buy a B-sub with the computer
Back then
I think it was three or four years ago
That it's a 12 core
And 32 gig memory
And really nice graphics card
And so on
Otherwise I wouldn't have that
Kind of capability either
When I have a machine that powerful
I'll be too tempted
Not to play games
And just do security analysis
You know try and crack some passwords
Try and crack some ashes
Things like that
I mean the security stuff
Just
Draws me in like a
Like a magnet
I can totally understand that
But one of my best friends
Has a virus library
At his home
I run a lot of different
Machine learning tasks
On my computer
I have another friend
That really like password hazards
And have a large library of that
So
We're all nerding out
In our own field
Did you had your friend
Pass that information to Jason Scott
At Archivore
Because I bet there's a lot of history
And all those different files
A lot of history
A lot of history in the virus library
Yeah
And he has a virus library
That is quite large
And he runs
All the virus vendors
Difference software
Every
Amphabilly
And does some up
On which of them actually catches
The viruses in his library
Has a web page for that
Where he does those
Those kind of works
I don't know if he
If he is keeping up on it
When during COVID
Or if he
Because he has started to work
For one of these Swedish
Governments agencies
Perhaps he's not allowed to continue that
Side hobby
Yeah
I don't know
He actually worked for the
Norwegian government earlier
So
For the Norwegian defense department
I think
So
I had had a lot of interesting jobs
And the background
I've been checking out your YouTube channel
And I see you are quite active on advent of code
I started off
With quite a big bang
And then worked over
And as the holiday started
I just
Couldn't find the energy to complete them
But yeah
I think maybe next year
When I'm well-rested
I'm still going to complete all these puzzles
This year was my first one
And then still see if I can finish all of them
So you're going to wait
Before you're going to do something
Yeah, I just want to still
I want to sleep until
You know, 11am
And
It's now
423 in South Africa
And I'm still wide awake
So
Yeah
But definitely
This is how I relax
Actually
It's 3
Uh
24 here
So
One
Hour less
But
Uh
You
Usually I'm
Up to 2 at least
And then I sleep to 9
Yeah, I saw
I was living here
It's Sweden
It's GMT plus 1
I'm in the same zone as Germany
Which is GMT plus 2
So you're saying
At times zone and Germany
Then you should
Should be the same as
The year
Yes, Germany is
GMT plus 1
Oh, sorry, that
Great
Might be something to do with the summertime
I guess
All winter time
Because it's now time
Yeah, it could be
Yeah
If you just don't have some more time
Then you have a different time
Probably
Or if you have some more time
So it's 2 o'clock there you are
I think it's at 4
Oh 4
So it's
One
Actually one more hour
Okay, extremely late
Well, I'm working my way through a
Madelow dry rate
So hopefully sleep will come eventually
I have Madelow dry
What
Madelow is a
A red wine in South Africa
I think it's probably in other areas as well
But it's one of my favorite wines
Also it's a self effort
So you're trying to think just how to sleep
Yeah, I do that probably a little bit more than I should
As I said earlier, I haven't had any alcohol this year
Last year
And then
Yeah
That's pretty much it
That's inspiration
I'm planning to try another year and I see
I can do that too
I think about this
My brother and law actually had us
My brother and law had a horrible year with the alcohol and stuff
And it's turned me off quite
Quite hard to it
So I haven't
I haven't touched it this year at all
And I have a quite large whisky collection as well
But I really enjoy
But I
I really don't like the aftermath of alcohol
I happen to have a really convenient
Kind of intolerance to alcohol
So most of the time stops me from drinking too much
Yeah, in my case it's just one beer
And then I'm not really functional after that
I really hate it
That's you in the ring term or you feel it
For me it's after
The problem with the fuel of my soap
Really
That's sorry
Sorry
The problem with beer is absolutely brilliant for quenching the thirst
If you have a really cold, dry
Especially low alcohol beer
Like one of my favorites is beer from Namibia
Which is a two percent beer
Man I can chuck those things down
And it's not good for the belly
And I've had a bit more through it
Of that through this year
And I can see it in my waist
I can see it in my BMI that's shot up through the roof
And yeah, it's just
Something needs to happen in 2021
So you don't drink water, you drink beer instead
I would do water
Like three or four times during the day
But we currently
In like the hottest part of summer
It's December in January
It's just like in say
It's like almost 3332 degrees Celsius almost every day
And you know, jumping into the pool, cracking a beer
I mean
It just works
I would hate living there
Yeah, I mean
So the European blood in me is probably still quite prevalent
Because personally I prefer temperatures around 18
Maybe 17 degrees
That's where my happy spot is
In shortclothes
You know, anything from 13 degrees Celsius
Upwards
I only start putting on jackets when it starts dropping below 13
We have five degrees outside now
And that is on the colder scale
But you can still just have a shorty acted on
Hard part with zero
And it's on seasonably warm
And if you're in Gothenburg, the hard part here is the humidity
Because it's very close to the coast and a lot of humidity
And you actually get cold
You get really cold
Because it's
So it's very wet
And the same goes for in summer
If it goes above let's say 2325 degrees
You are sweating and wet all the time
You can never keep dry
So you feel like you've been cooked all right
I have a friend that actually went to Lulee
Or somewhere very north in Sweden
And were at college there
And he said that it's not really that cold
Even if it's 40 degrees minus up there
It's still very cold
But you can't feel it as much
Because it does go under the clothes
Like the wet weather in Gothenburg does
So he thought that let's say
20 degrees minus up north
Was about zero in Gothenburg
Very different kind of cold when you have the humidity as well
Oh
At this point I'm longing for that
And I really hate when it gets warm
So if the global warming is getting worse
So I'm thinking of actually moving to Norway
Or something so I can get further north
Greenland is maybe your answer
Yeah perhaps
As long as they have good internet correction
I'm happy anyway
I think in today anything can make or more
You can get by on
Yeah
But at the moment I have fiber and at least 200 megabits
So I have my YouTube channel and so on
And I don't really want to go down to 10
50 perhaps
Yeah I'll be here I'm sitting on 10 meg
But you know this is Africa
So 10 meg is sort of the average
And then when you get to 2050 or I think 100 is on maximum
Then you really start to buy premium rights
10 megs for me at the moment
I mean it's comfortable
I can stream Netflix from my wife's machine
My machine and the kids can stream on the Xbox
Ultimate Danias and just goaps
With normal 1080 quality
I think it will probably not work with 4k
But you know for our needs it's probably sufficient
Yeah and I know that I'm privileged
And that we at least have too much
Yeah just for our needs
But when you work from home and you have a YouTube channel
And you move large files
It's the time you have to wait for up and down
That is really sad
And most of my
I don't really think there's something like too much bandwidth
That's a mess
Perhaps
And most of my streaming I do from my phone
And that's on the phone network
So there I only have 6 megabits
Then again I'm alone there
So only then you talk about having terabytes
So you can start to think about your having too much
It's coming right for you
I heard on the news today that
They are actually removing the copper network in Sweden now
So everything should go over fiber
Some communities are really up in arms
Because their home phone is getting removed
Premeter surely
And some people lose their internet
Because they are removing the copper wires
That actually provided the internet to them
Some of the
I do not agree with removing the copper lines
And replacing them with fiber
You should have both
Yeah, but it's Sweden
They are removing the copper wires
Because the maintenance was too much
And they also had a hard time
To actually find replacement parts
Some of the switches and so on
Elko companies
We definitely had the same problem in South Africa
If you go to Talcom which is our main
Talcom provider
Which is kind of government owned
They really do not want to install new copper
They are not removing it yet
But
Ideas L actually became more expensive than fiber
So they really want us to move on to fiber rather
So extra tax on the old stuff
Yeah, and the problem is
With our exchanges for ideas L
Which is sometimes like up to six kilometers away
If you pay for a 10 make ideas L
You're most likely only going to get six make
Just because of
Floor noise or whatever that was called
The first thing up here where I live on my street
I think I'm one of the 10 houses or something
In my neighborhood here of houses
That actually got fiber in the first wave
And it was like
Thousand euros to install fiber in your house
And I saw it like an investment for the future
If I were to sell the house
Then it should have fiber
But we have a lot of people that are older here
That thought that investment was not a good one
And they are thinking twice now
That the copper wire is removing
It's getting more and more
That was just like 10 years ago
Something like this
It moves fast
That's the problem I have with the spaces
The problem I have with the copper being removed
Is when you remove the copper
There's nothing
You're relying on the home to power
The phones and to power the lines
And power the end devices
Fiber doesn't carry any power
If I'm not carrying any power
You don't have a phone when the power is out
Yeah
And again, if the power is out
You don't have any phone anyway
Because we don't have any phone
We only have mobile phones
And that goes for most people actually in Sweden
My parents had a copper phone
Wired to their house
Last year
But they removed it this year as well
And they were
So your entire phone base
And Sweden is moving from copper landlines to mobile phones
Yeah
Pretty much it is
I don't
I know very few people that actually have a home phone
Sweden is a real country that has no home phone
And no doorbells
My home has no doorbell
My home has no doorbell
I wish my home didn't have a doorbell
We kind of have the same year in South Africa
With private homes
Do not have copper phones anymore
We just use mobile
It's actually cheaper
Calling mobile to mobile
Than it is calling mobile to landline
The only guys that actually still use copper phones
Are large companies with switchboards
Yeah
And if I were to install a copper line phone at my home
I would pay double the price of my fiber connection
At the moment
One phone
And that's not really reasonable
And I thought okay but
I could get my phone then
So I can dial over that network
But that never works
And the only people that call my home phone number
Is salespeople
And I don't want to talk to those people
So I don't really know why I would
Get myself into the trouble and pay extra to get sales calls
Yeah
Oh the sales calls haven't moved to your mobile yet
Yeah I want to have an android who has the
Interesting feature of blocking calls
And you also just come up with a private number here
Often you can just see who calls and then just not answer
If there are not in your phone book
So
God bless buffer
God bless buffer
If can I interest you in some new insurance
The interesting part is that most people that call me
I tell them that if I would like your product
Or if I would like to have anything to do with you
I would either send you an email
I hardly want any help
That's exactly how it should work
That's exactly how it should work
You know and I've tried all these tricks
I mean guys call me with
Offered for a new credit card
And then I play the game
It's like
Yes you just in the right time
I just lost my job
I need this credit card
And I'll max it out
Like in the next two days
And then
Things like that
Or
The insurance guys
Or one of my favorite things is
I'll tell them
Just hold on
And then I'll put the phone down
Just next to the phone
And just leave them hanging
Until they realize that this
And I'm just playing with them
I
The favorite I like is the people that call
And said
I want to take all your loans
And put them under one umbrella
So you pay less for all your loans
Do you have any private loans
No I don't have any private loans
Okay thank you
Bye
So interesting
Yeah they haven't done the research
We haven't done the research
Yeah or you can just
Ask them about the math behind it
So
You know
On the current loans
My average is maybe 13, 14% interest
What do you offer me
And then suddenly
Oh wait we offer in 22%
And it's like
So give me one good reason
One I'm going to go down that route
But I only have student loans
And in Sweden those student loans
You're actually
They are so cheap
And they are removed if you die
So if you have those
Keep them
Because I pay like 500 Swedish crown
So that's like 50 euro or something
A month
For those
And they are
We're very large
So
They don't really matter
And then I have my house loan
And that you can't move
Because that is
Locked to your bank
For X
Number of years
So the only thing they're looking for
Is credit card loans
Or private loans
And they can do a difference there
If you
If they
Can put them under one and braille
So that's why they are calling
But when you say that you don't have any private loans
They don't have any business
Yeah but their business also includes
Having a much larger interest rate
And the moment you show that to them
Then they don't have a sales pitch anymore
I also love those people
That call you and want to sell
TV and
Phone and other services
To your
Internet bill
Like
I
Almost not own a TV
So I don't really what you're looking for there
But you can get like 50 or 40
Sport channels
Well I have been
Exercising a bit
But I haven't watched any sports for like 20 years
So why
Yeah the only sports that I'm really interested is
Maybe the months or
The months
I love men
Yeah the months are one of my favorites
What's that?
It's a 24 hour race
Where they race through day and night
For 24 hours they just keep on lapping, lapping, lapping
And it's quite
Quite interesting to
See how fatigue kicks in
And mistakes are made
And things like that
It's quite interesting
And then of course the car
Rally
A car rally
Wow
And so 48 hours
It's like quarter to four for me
And I'm already
F and tired
Oh yeah
Why
How are you still awake?
I'm doing this thing
Which
Where I'm staying up all night
And all day
Um that two years ago
Oh
Is your dad teaching you a lesson?
No
I chose this
Oh wow that's
So I know
So watching nature documentaries on the couch
I'll go for David Attenbrough
You'll be asleep in 10 minutes
And I told you one
David Attenbrough is the best
I actually was watching David Attenbrough
Just then
But then I remembered
I had some new
Some new ones
Not from 2008
Which yeah
So I decided to watch that
Um about two years ago
I was suffering from some severe panic attacks
And anxiety due to a project that went haywire
And while I stayed at home
I just queued every single David Attenbrough
Documentary that I could get my hands on
It's just that soothing voice
And everything just get me sane
I know right
Like he has the perfect voice
For a nature documentary
Like this other dude
He doesn't have the
The same kind of voice
As like action movie voice
So yeah and unfortunately
I think
Bimes running out for Attenbrough
He's getting fairly old
Yeah
Yeah
I really love the silence when I'm going to sleep
And actually I've done some of these exercises
When you are listening to somebody
And should calm down
That talks with a really calming voice
And try to give you into a state of calmness
I'm feeling like I'm listening to an axe murderers
I get hyped
Have the speaking of
Speaking of sounds
When you guys want to get into the zone
When programming
What are you listening to?
My personal preference is white noise
Not music
I don't program
When I get into the zone
Depends on what kind of zone I want to be in
I listen to a lot of happy hardcore music
So it's music that is very high
Intensity and also very happy of course
But the problem with that
Is that I can become extremely happy
And sing along and not focus on the work
And so yeah
That silence or perhaps
Some sound or something like that
Could be good to get into the zone
Usually I can power through even with a happy hardcore
So not
Have you met?
Oh
And I think when I
Coded a lot
Coded a lot during the 90s
I listen to a lot of scooter
And those kind of tracks
So when I want to come back to a nostalgic vibe
I go back to prodigy and scooter
And all of those bands
I know I can both be happy and productive
So what the end is then?
What?
What
What
What type of music I always spend
Could be in the happy hardcore
But I think they were very early on that scene
Prodigy is more of the punk rock
Rave kind of band I believe
Yeah
Haven't heard about them at all
Ni?
Nope
And
Happy hardcore of never heard about
You never heard about happy hardcore
Me neither
No but prodigy
Do you have this even on my days
So prodigy is
But so happy
Happy hardcore is
Rave music with a high BPM
And a happy tune
Some of them are 160 BPM
Some of them are even higher in pace
In pace
Wow that's insane
Yeah I think for me still white noise wins
Because you don't get distracted by the lyrics
Or singing along or things like that
It's just that
That constant something in your ear
That blocks out everything else
And you can truly focus
So what type of white noise do you prefer?
The deep things are just something else
Before I upgraded my amplifier
I'm using a vacuum valve preamp
And it had quite a bit of noise
So what I would do is I would just crank the volume
And you just get that
Spermanently
But now
I recently made some modifications to that amplifier
And now it's dead quiet
I can crank up the volume to maximum
And there's not a single bit of noise
So I just use online white noise to generate this
You can generate white noise with FFMpego I think
I knew I had a white noise generator
That worked with that
I also think there is a lot of YouTube videos with both white noise
And another kind of sound tracks that are like 24 hours long
One of my favorites of those is the star track series
We just have to bridge noises without any dialogue
And you can choose whether it's the original
Or it's next generation
Or whatever
And you just get that bridge noise
I think the most important part when I'm getting into a zone
And I actually want to write some code
Is to get other things out of my brain
That's the hardest part
I actually say to my boss
That if we want to solve a really hard problem
I think I need to take a bath
Because when I take a bath
I don't bring anything to the bath
I actually sit down
And have
Total silence
And just let my brain work on
On the problem
Or just empty the brain out
Because when you are not thinking about something
That's when you actually are getting hit by good suggestions
If you haven't had that time
That you actually either take a walk
Or take a bath or something
And you have a lot of things in your head
That you need to keep track of
You either have a large schedule
You need to remember to have a meeting then
And so on
Then you can't really focus on the actual task
So I think you need to clear out those things first
And then perhaps some music
Yes
And what I mostly didn't do
If management understands the problem
I would tell them
Listen
Remove me from any meetings or distractions
I'm going to put my phone on silent
Or even leave it in my room
On charge
And I'm going to sit in my office
And I'm literally just going to concentrate on the problem at that
And the birds are starting to chirp
And I see the sun is coming up
So I'm thinking
I'm going to log off
And just try and catch the couple of hours of sleep
And then
Well, it's 5
Well, almost 5am
2021 January 1st
So
Yeah, I'll probably if you're not there yet
I'm assuming you
I am
No, no, I have been in the new year
Since I don't use place
Ah, all right
Anyways, I'm going to try and see if I'm catchable
So if I'm not seeing you again
I'll see you next year
When the next
So stay open
Yeah, no, I only discovered this community today
So, but I think I'll definitely never see you again
I just want to
I want to see if I can move this account
Away from my VM
And just run it from my Mac
But
Yeah, otherwise I will join again
Just using the same username
And, y'all, definitely stick around
No, for seeing you again
Perhaps you can create some shows for Hacker Public Radio
about
Biology behind
Ever the field
Which topic?
I think you talked about
That you were interesting in the Hacker
The Black Hat Psychology part
Oh, yes, yes, yes, yes, that's something
Definitely that I'm interested in
I'm trying to understand in mind
So that we can try and be
You know, half a step or a step
Ahead of them and try and prevent some of the atrocities that happened
Yeah, but perhaps you can make a show about
Hacking or perhaps the White Hat
That's a part of the
Yeah, let me spin some time, form some ideas
And let me work on something
I'll just definitely stick around
And we'll
We'll get to that
Yeah, making an episode might seem hard
But I did one
And it's not that hard
If you've got someone to tell you what to do
Creating the content is not the hard part
It's actually
If you want it to be informative
It's more about thinking about the subject matter
And having a plan on how to put it out there
So I've done a lot of YouTube stuff as you
Oh, I didn't have that problem
I knew the book
I basically memorized the entirety of it
Accidentally
And I just
I just had it there with me
And I just began reading it
I had a little plan on the board
And then we just began explaining
And then
Woo
Suddenly, suddenly an episode appeared
That's the best ones
I really love to learn a topic
And then just speak about it
Oh yeah, I can talk about a lot of stuff for literal days
Like I will remember the most useless information
And then be able to regurgitate it
Like later, like year sound the road
I actually had a friend that was a little bit fishy
Because he could actually see a page
And remember it like a photographic memory
And very eerie
Because we had this math book
For the page with 1000 numbers of the
Or decimals of p pi
And he said, okay, I've seen the page now
So I know that
And well, I know
All the numbers so
That's insane
Yeah, that's cool
So we tried him out
And he failed
On the
Lott third last on the page
We knew all the ones
Except that they were lost three or something
We were like
Wow
You're extreme dude
That's that's
I definitely can't do that
Like I will remember some random stuff
I will remember like
That like last
I had a conversation with a person
And years before I saw
Saw a person there playing a game
And then I saw footage of said game
Later
And I was like
That was the game
And then I said it to that
And then that was like
I saw that footage like two years ago
And I just had to conversation like
Few days ago
So the person was quite
And the person was like
Yeah, I have that
Yeah, we have different brains
Which I think is so interesting
My wife is
Is the person that remembers everything
That no one else remembers
So she can actually
Yeah, she actually can remember things like
Okay, on our first date
You have white socks on your
I was like
That's your bullshitting
You like them?
What does he say to me
I mean, maybe she can just say
She remembers stuff
And then she plans the memory in you
And now all of a sudden
She's controlling you
Wow, that's the first time
It is 2am here
I'm actually four
It is 4am here also, so
That's 4am
Oh yeah
It's
It's
Same
So where are you
It's Puntronk
In
As you did
Hmm
Where do you do that
What country
Do I come today
I live in Netherlands
It's a very low country
Very wet
If the dikes were to break ever
Also has a lot of fireworks
At new year
Even though it's illegal now
Yeah
Yeah
They decided to ban it this year
And blowing behold
There were still people
Doing fireworks
Not as many people
Definitely less fireworks than there is usually are
But
They definitely bought more
They definitely decided
Well, since it's illegal now
And
Let's do more fireworks
Yay
So
Yeah
That's people for you
Yeah
And my Labrador's
They hate fireworks
I really do hate fireworks
It's literally setting
Fire to money
For what
And it really does damage the dogs
And stress them out
Yeah
Yeah, it's like
People
I was talking to people
And they were saying like
Yeah, this year
We might not have
Kind of stuff to our pets
And I
And I was
Already like
Maybe
And no
No
Yeah
Hania Singh, if you have fireworks
Don't buy the fireworks
You have free fireworks
All over the place
You just have to look for it in the sky
And you have free fireworks
You don't have to pay for it
And it's added with
At least here in Netherlands
Usually with the feeling
That you can be blown up at any moment
Shee shee shee
And I'm very weird
And I like that feeling
And
And
Yeah
That's definitely
Weird
Actually, we're in the Netherlands
I'm Adia
Yeah, sleep tight
Bye bye
Good night
Actually, it was in Netherlands
Before last
No, where were you?
I think we were
We stayed in Nailmegen
Ah, Nailmegen
And we slept there
And then I think we
Can't remember if I've been there ever
And I think we'll find out when
And then I think we went down to the large
City of Grave
It's a
Yeah, it's a near Nailmegen
It's a very small community
But we were at the
Company there that where
Does books for
For the blind and so on
Because we are working with
Those kind of
That's cool
Both companies and
Organizations in different countries
So our company is actually producing
All the newspapers in Sweden
For
Government department
That
Does all the
Uh
Extra speech for
News in Sweden
Oh, that's cool
So it's
The digging
Ton
That it's
It's Swedish for Grave
It's
Dig
Of it
So we
Had
Grace and stuff
Probably
I think it's
Stand for something else in
Dutch
I don't think it's the same
It's a very nice country
And Nailmegen
Has a rich history
With all the
Yeah
For history and so on
So we were actually
Walking around a bit
By this
River, a wall
I believe
The wall or something
I
I
I'm tired so I might not
Know geography
Completely
And I haven't even been to
Every part of my country
Like I haven't been to
Every proven
Chats
I haven't been to all of Sweden
By this
I understand
I've actually been to Sweden
I saw a snake
Yeah
Me too
Oh, cool
Yeah
Snakes are not
Common in Sweden
Yeah
We saw it in log pile
That we just saw it
Going into the log pile
And we never saw it again
One time I was walking in
The woods found a snake
In the floor
And I thought
Oh, what a tiny little
What a nice tiny little snake
And I'm in Europe
So there is no such thing as
Poisonous snakes in Europe
So I picked up the snake
So I picked up the snake
And played with it a bit
And then put it down
And everything was fine
Sorry
The snake didn't enjoy it too much
Did I see it?
I can
Later found out that that was one of the poisonous ones
What do you call the foxes?
The fun part is
Talk to the kids
They say
Okay, if you find the snake in Sweden
They are more afraid of you
Than you should be of them
So just keep it as
But you should be fine
The only place in the world where you have
Animals that really want to kill you
And pretty much every animal want to kill you
Is in Australia
So it's Sweden
You are pretty much safe
Yeah
I do actually know
Quite some biology
I have a biology book which I lost
And I also accidentally memorized
Might have been a nature movie
Might have watched so many of them
Have become one of them
A biologist
At least you're not a geologist
Well
Yeah, I don't know
No much bad rocks
Some of my friends do
But I'm not a rock guy
You know what they say?
Rocks rock
Yeah
Yeah
What did you say about
Texas Joe
Is there a lot of things that want to kill you there?
Yeah
Quite a few actually
I mean cottonmouth, the rattler
Things like that
Well, I guess Georgia had water moccasins
I got out in my snakes
Because they're doing some other stuff
Well, this is bad
Yes, Swedish snakes
So
There's this lovely
Little island off
Main and Sweden
And that's where there's a summer cottage
That my man's paras own now
Anyway, we'd go over there a lot in the summer
Unless it was raining cool
And it was always like
Right, watch out for snakes
Watch out for snakes
Watch out for snakes
And then
As kids I remember there being snakes
In that
Words
That blueberry words
And with
And we'll kind of be a little bit scarier than I think
But yes, snakes
Although they're mostly harmless
Although thin
That might add more than a holiday
With us
2010 in
Canary on the 10th of the year
Proved everybody that he's not scared of a snake
And so he wanted to
So
Now the list of poisonous snakes in Texas is
Cottonmouth, Copperhead, Texas Coral,
Western Cottonmouth, Gardersnake
I did not know the Gardersnake was poisonous
Rock, Rattlesnake, Texas, Brownsnake
The Cystrus, Catanatus, Turgaminus
The Common Water Snake
The Cysterus, Catanatus, Edwards
The Rough Earth Snake
The Mississippi Green Water Snake
The Graham's Crayfish Snake
And Earth Snakes
You've got way more poisonous snakes
Than even snakes in the Netherlands
We've got a poisonous snake
Not
That's like
Can't imagine all those snakes being there
That's a lot
Yeah but a lot
But you have dikes just waiting to burst
That's true
Yeah
Then again
I'm one meter above sea level
So I'm totally fine
Rest of the country might sink
But I'm fine
For now
For now
But here you have the large list of things
That you should look out for in Sweden
The most dangerous animals
The moose
The moose
Toast tool
The bear
The bear
You don't mess with the moose
And you don't mess with the bear
I saw a moose once
Well not really
It was a paper moose
So shawling in the head
But we actually have
Moose in our gardens
Sometimes we're eating our apples
You think
That's cool
So eating your docks
No eating your apples
If that's wrong
I hate to hate your parents
We're an elk or a moose forever
And it's not
It's probably not going to end very well
You know
For you and the car
So I think we have raiding
And it's actually
We had jumped on my car once
And have a buckle in the car
Because of that
In indentation
But there is
Six animals
So we have four more
We have the wolf
The wild boar
A common
European vipers
And the bee
Because of the bee sting
And you can't be allowed
Another animal
Right
Yes
That is one of the things
That was the one
That was the one I picked up
When it started walking
But it suddenly hurt you
When it started hissing
That's when I put it down
You know
The Netherlands has two of them
We have the bees
And we have the boar
And the boar are
In nice little
Pendle of areas
Where
And people
I know if they're like released
But there's like
They aren't really a problem
So they get
They get really
Yeah
They're mostly a tourism
Tourist attraction
I think
Haven't really had some animals
You
So we have a lot
Fewer species
Of venomous spiders
In Texas
But it's basically the nasty ones
And in some places I've lived in Texas
There were a lot of them
Like the Black Widow
The brown recluse
And let's see
There's two more
The Texas brown tarantula
And the spider
Exclusion
But I've only ever seen
Black widows and brown recluses
Do you have any of those nasty animals
And the bees
So all the spiders
Would you get us to keep them around?
Well
Scorpians
It's another
Dangerous raccoon
Great
Scorpians aren't all that dangerous
Yeah
Wish they were
That wouldn't make them way cooler
Well
When they're extremely young
They're slightly more venomous
But it's not
Really all that much of an issue
Then there's also a specific species
Of scorpions called the vinegar run
Which um
It basically
It doesn't have the stinger
But it will shoot
A substance very similar to vinegar
And that um
They're known for killing spiders
We also have a lot of um
But small lizards
But that aren't dangerous at all
They're just little lizards
So I think they said that in Australia
They have a really nasty raccoon
Or something like that
That could really bite you
And eat you whole
If you actually get a hold of you
But you shouldn't kill those
Because those
Is the really nasty
Spiders
And other
Red raccoons
I have everything
In Australia
I'm on this to kill you
But no
That sounds like a
I understand
That's telling
I understand that there's a couple of large um
Species of spiders
In Australia
That don't want to kill you
But we'll kill a whole bunch of the things
That do want to kill you
Except there's like honey badgers
Honey badgers
Oodles
I've seen
I've seen what those
Can do honey badgers
They
They're dangerous
Well, badgers
Badgers in general are dangerous
Yes
They are the largest
Carnivores
In my country
Where I am
At right now
We haven't got a lot of wild animals
But too small
Well
The Wolverine is actually
If I remember right
A breed of badger
I don't know
It's something like the Nigerian
But I actually looked it up
Because in Sweden
There are Wolverines
And I didn't know about it
Because they were super rare
I think we
There is like ten of them
In Sweden or something
Or something
Yeah, and none of them are in Wisconsin
So Wolverine is not
A pet thing
Oh, it's a little badger
Like thing
They look really nasty
But they are
The larger than a cat
But smaller than a bear
I sent a video of a Wolverine
To the chat
Yeah
Okay
Okay
Put it in the
Thing in the
Net
It's a YouTube thing
Sorry
How about Sharks
I mean they always talk about that in the media
And the jewels
And less movie
But
You know
Some sharks
I think with me
Hamlets
And others
And not
Depending on
Oh Sharks
Sharks
They're
They're
They're quite nice
If you don't bother them
It's actually
Some guy
Some
Person
YouTube
Person
Did apparently
A test
What
Like a taste test
For sharks
What do you like?
What don't you like
And
They apparently like fish blood
Which does make a little bit of sense
When you consider
They
They evolve
For millions of years to
Hunt fish
That's what the shark want me
Want to to believe
And then they get
Tum and then they go
The thing in that video
Was kind of cute
Aside the fact that I was holding it
Dead in a woman's mouth
It was a dead goat's head
Well
It was a goat's head
So I guess the goat was dead
But
But
Yeah
Did you know
Apparently
Great white sharks are something
They
Um
They
Don't want to hunt on humans
But they hunt seals
Which
Looks especially like
Surfboarding humans
That's why you shouldn't surfboard
With great white sharks
Yeah, I think I read
Yeah, I think I've read that
As well, they
They
The prey
When it's not
Yeah
And
Sharks have also been
Very hyped
In American culture
With shark week
As well
There's movies
Outmakes
Outmakes
Jook
Yeah
Sharks definitely
Sharks
Are super cool killers
Which have been
Like evolved
To be
The greatest hunters
Of what they are hunting
At the moment
Um
But
What they are hunting at the moment
Is definitely not humans
Because everything
That tried hunting humans
Uh
Died
Um
See the giant lists
Like
Giant birds of prey
And stuff
Um
Which used to hunt humans
Now they don't exist
I'm not making that up
About the giant birds of prey
By the way
I don't know if you mean
That humans destroy anything
But
It's going to hunt them as well
Then
Then
Yeah, I guess
Yeah, it's retali-
Retali-
Retali-
Thingy
It's
Thingy
Where you
Vengeance basically
Retaliation
Yes
Unable to pronounce
Certain words
Because
It's
For a clock
In the morning
Uh
Quilter pass
For
So
Yeah
Is the English your first language?
Uh
Together with Dutch
And by
bilingual
And two languages just
Yeah
Yeah
Yeah
Group
Group up with
Basically Dutch
And English
Together
Yeah
Nice
And languages
And they
I've got that as well
For meetings
And languages as well
Well, English is obviously
One of those
One
I'm one of the fallen kids
You know, one of those three
Which
Come every new year
Like
Middle of the night
They say hello
And then they leave
One of those
And the middle one
This is the one who stayed
Yes, this is the one who stayed
Actually
There's another one
But she
She's doing her own thing
She decided
That this year
She wants to stay too
Hmm
Yeah
We just missed Brazil
Well, just missed like 20 minutes ago
Brazil, Argentina
And a bunch of other places
So
Welcome to the new year
South America
Yeah
Although
It's not the 2020
They might be listening from my
But I mean
You know
We need to make them feel welcome
Hey
They're going to be listening to this
And they're all going to be like
Why didn't they mention us
They
Oh, it's 20 minutes
They're going to be leaving
When this comes out in July
They're going to be pissed
Right
Yeah
How do I think about it
Is there actually some time zones
That are
Not populated
I don't think so
Because there's
There's only time zones where there is population
So
What does that mean
Like you know
There's
There's
But time zones are big things
They're big
Yeah, so if you if you go to the
The
Show notes
You have all the time zones
And you'll notice there's a
There's a bunch of them at
Half-hour intervals
Yeah, the
Not half-hour intervals
How are things
Well
Yeah, you has on their time zones
Presses
Yeah, there's one with 15s
Which is fantastic
Also she means a great
Because the idea was
We have a quarantine for our day
Right
Right now it's what
26 times
Because summertime
Whoever is
Can we just agree
To remove that
Shit
I
I hate
Summer time winter time
Winter time
Yeah
We're just going to remove it this year
But we didn't
Like the one good thing coming
That could come out of 2020
Didn't
Actually
There might be some
More good stuff like
I got
I
I got a D&D group
Yes
By the way
Klaatu
If you're listening to this
Thank you
It
It's very fun
Well I like to go to Iceland
And we'll talk about time zones there
But I like to go to Iceland in May
2015
Because
From England
So we're on
Summer time
BST
Which
Summer time
But they don't change their
Clots over there
So they're still on the DMT
Or UTC
And sorry basically when
And they were
Behind on the plane going there
Just because of the summer time
And then yeah
So you
Can't wait to come to the time
So Iceland doesn't change
It doesn't change for a summer time
Yeah that's right
And don't
They don't
Quite like it
Midnight over there
In May then that
You see I always thought
Sweden was the progressive country
But it was really Iceland
All along
But really
I think
Just the summer winter time thing
Just pick the time
Which is closest to your actual time
If you can't decide your actual time
It's the one in the middle
How hard is that to understand
I thought we actually can't talk about time
If you can't decide your actual time
It means that it's too cloudy
To actually measure the
You know
Your position with respect to
You know
Sun, stars and all that stuff
Which means that
You don't actually care about time
Because it's always dark
Mm-hmm
Yeah
But even then
I was able to see the last
Um
Time
Solar clipps thing when it was cloudy
So day can just
Look through the clouds
Just
Catapult someone up
And then ask questions later
About what the sun looked like
This is not a cherry-precious novel
Um
I do love cherry-precious novels
I know
I fret them more
You can see that
But anyway, when is everything going to be
It's always cloudy, pretty much
Yeah
Anyway
Every
Switch over when you switch from winter time
To summertime or summertime to winter time
You have a week or two
With really cranky kids
That don't really understand
Why they should go to bed
Or why they should get out
Yes
Yes
And they have to go to school
And no one likes going to school
Because it's at the wrong time
And yet, they don't like it
Or you can get
You just have to go
And then you're a kid
You get to school
And you come in late
Like now
And like, oh, oh, oh, oh
Yeah
Or you got
Get in early
Getting in late is worse
Because you
You get a little letter
And then no one does anything with it
Because usually you're not late
But it's still
It's like, oh, you get the little letter
And I don't like that
Yeah
That's how they do it in my school
And I'm one of the good kids
So I don't usually get in trouble
Yeah
What do you get to school, right?
Yeah, I'm 15
So I go to school
Actually, I do go to school
So it's the last year for you guys
Oh, have you seen more years to go?
Um
Well, I need to go to school
So I'm 18
So that
I'm quite young for someone who is
Doing their exams next year
I'm doing my exams next year
That's like
Way too young, I would say
But no, no
It's a perfectly good time
Yeah
So then you have to
And the school
What do you say?
So because of Covid
It's hard to track you to be a schooler
And a schooler
Um
Couldn't really hear that correctly, but um
Yeah
It was nice last year
Last school year that
We didn't have to have any of those stupid exams
But this time
They decided to upgrade the system
Where we can go to school
Only if we have exams
Which, yeah, I'm super happy about yay
Okay
Yeah
Exams are the best
Anyway, so yeah, under 20, I guess
Um, I was thinking about this before
I've changed the topic a bit here
But um, it's like with the Linux kernel
They, I was reading that school before
Like, you know, they get an old
Well, they're like, over 40, I think a lot of them
And it's a bit like
Who's going to work on that
Then that's kernel in the future
Because I believe they're not attracting that many new developers
And there's probably other open source projects
But as well, not just the kernel
But you see what I'm saying
It's like any younger people
To do this as well
Otherwise these projects are going to disappear
Aren't there or not
Or something's going to happen to them
Yeah, things are all things
I know nothing of programming
And the likes
My father tried to teach me
But I didn't work
I was more interested in history and biology
Because stuff kill all their stuff
But um, I do know that you need younger people
To, to be interested
Because otherwise
Your stuff's going to die out
Man
So we're done by all right
20 to 40 hours Linux is probably dead then
What?
Linux is dead now?
No, in 20 to 40 years
And it's going to be dead because it's
It's
No, he's working on it anymore
Because it's always dead
Hey
You were to look at my friend group friend
Then you would definitely notice
That it would not be dead
Because one of my friends
Really, he cannot shut up about
About Linux stuff
And how good it is
And that kind of stuff
No, no, but he's not on the white
Convention anymore
Convincing to learn C
What's C
I think it's the language in which Linux is written
You might have already tried
Or he might have succeeded
I don't know
I don't know
I hardly understand what he's saying sometimes
I can even hardly hear it sometimes
Because of all the people talking
During the pauses so I can't really hear him
It's a fun little language
Yeah
Maybe it's true, isn't it?
Well, that's how I was saying
If they don't want to try it
No younger people, I guess as well
Then your channel is going to come
Disappear or
I don't know
Just the channel
Colonel development isn't really a hot topic
Like it's no longer
Something that you talk a lot about
Because like there's a bunch of other
Cernels out there and like people just
Nowadays really just use it
More than actually talk about it
When it comes to these kind of things
It's all about the community
Toxic community or a community
Where some members really don't fit in
Then you have a problem to grow that community
And I think that some of the
Linux code is my
developers might
Tie out and then the community might
Change track and also attract more
younger
person
Yeah, I think so
As long as you can keep
A community big enough
I think it will definitely
Like the
Even if it might be only a few thousand
If it's enough to attract attention
Of all the
Younger nerds out there
And that will all be happy enough to do
Such in the things as
Needed doing
Then they will all happily do
Do that because
Their board and for some reason
Some people don't like dnd which
Which I find a fascinating
Oh, I think I'm
Go
I think the thing that makes
Some people nervous is that you know
Linus is getting older and but it's
He has plenty of other people under him
That would take the mantle
If he decides to step out of the project
Happy
Happy New Year to St. John's Newfoundland
Labrador by the way
Happy New Year is all those places
Happy New Year to places
Somewhere in Canada
Very easy
Happy New Year to places
Somewhere in Canada
Canadian people
Oh, Happy New Year
Sunday in Wenquaya
It
I think so
How interesting question
I sleep the night or not
So, anyway, I'm a tourist so
You said you're not a programmer
Pat, are you ready to do that?
Probably
How does he get into the nuts and so on then?
Well, my father does like programming
And um
He's can fall and you might have heard of him
I didn't know
I didn't know how many people know about him
But I just know that he did HPR
Like for as long as I can remember
Stats how
No one knew that Kevin fell in those there
All that's right
I guess I guess he didn't have a choice
Yeah
When did you want to come in entering my house of my dead body?
But I
The only reason I decided to actually
Join this time was because I
Have made something and I'm proud of it
And it's totally not
Connected in any way to
Programming or something because
It's D&D again
It's I can assure you it's not everything in my life
Just a massive part of it
You want to tell everybody happy new year?
Happy New Year
Happy New Year
Happy New Year
Okay, that thing as well
That with with with all this actually
Linux open source and people
People ever look that they really do
They really do at times
Is that actually if you want these projects
To actually be out there
And be used by enough people
But not
Our section is supposed to be it using servers
And all the sunny way
But like let's take the sick Mozilla as an example
They have to market that
And they are now losing a lot of market share
And it's because of Chrome as well
And Android having Chrome and all this
I read really good ask about that the other week
And if you have if you have enough marketing
Maybe you can get out there again
And people always kind of be overlooked that
They might have it's a very good project
There's brothers great
But no one cares
And unless you can market it
Because people use Chrome
It's still people use it in the next
Thought it was in Windows
In the past you know
And and I've been to conferences
Trying to market a particular
Distra in the past
And it's like it's a bit like
Well, it will be now to market
Fast-priced
Yeah, it's a relapse
But it's like no
You need to do people's thus
You can actually get your thing used
A bit more
Certain things
I think it all depends on
On really the users
And what they require
Or are interested in
And it comes to Chrome
That's a very interesting thing
That everybody goes out and download Chrome
My father and
Downloads Chrome
Even though he don't know why
He still goes out and download Chrome
Because he thinks that's better than Internet Explorer
Yeah
But the thing that made me switch
From Firefox to Chrome
Was that the
Firebird or Firebug that I used
To actually do web development
Was very buggy
And very hard to use
And then I switched over to Chrome
And they had built-in
Development environment
In that web browser
So you're good
So you're pretty much
Very good
Are you using the real people Chrome or Chromium
Both
And some which is them
They're very bright, yeah
On my Gento Linux web
Box that I work on
That I used to do my work on
So I had that on my
As my work computer
I have Chromium of course
And on my home computer
That I do mostly gaming
And now also talking to you
But through
There I have the Chrome
I think it's the classic
It's like in the past
Internet Explorer has
Internet Explorer 6 was bundled into XP
It had 95% market
And they had
They made a fuss
To the
Ornetscape
Tried and
Well, Zillog got released
Obviously
Open Source
So the European thing
When the browser
Palette screen
That was a bit of a condo
Because about half of those
Brows were
I'd call them fake
Brows as they
They use Internet Explorer
And they use
And I think
Opera tried that
But not
Particularly successful
Try and do something like that
And now
And then they'll see
Android came along
And that's got
Cryo Chrome built in
And it's
I think it's the same thing
As you mean it's the past
Basically it's by default
So it's used
And if you've got an Apple
Or an iPhone
And you've got the Atari
Or whatever instead
But that's not as popular anyway
But I think if you haven't
Mac you
You should stay to Safari
If you don't do web development
And you might switch over to Chrome
But on Windows
Even if you're
No, but no one
No, we're close to a programmer
If you just want to
Touch the web
You're still downloading
Another web browser
And that's usually
Chrome for some reason
Chrome like
Isn't that like
Google something
Or something
Or other
Chrome is good
Yeah
Yeah, I sometimes go to Google
Because it has images
Like I use
Dr. Go on my phone
And it's perfectly fine
If I just want to go to
Thingy
But sometimes
Most of the times
When I'm just searching for something
I want a picture of
That's something
And it
And I don't really
I'm not great
With that kind of stuff
So I just
Go to Google
And then I search the thing
So I can get the picture
Because I mean, just
Equal system
So to say
Fully into the Google
Real ecosystem
So I see the benefit
In that I have a very
Personal search
And I actually find
Things that I need to find
Much faster
Because of that they have
All the data
On me
People use
Anyway, people use what's
That by default
Generally speaking
So it was in that store
Like in my xp example
In the past
It's Google Chrome in Android
It's a
Safari in
A Mac
Although they might switch
To Firefox
Chrome even
Even there
But that's Mac users
And and then
And actually
And now it may not
Mass
As much in a way
At least we'll talk about
Web standards
Because
Even Microsoft edges
Now based on
Chrome in many ways
And you the new edge version
Although it's
So it's kind of like
Web kit is here
That with everything else
Pretty much
And then
Mozilla is all at
Same with
They're all
Rending in
Being over here
But I've noticed
For example
That the other week
That
The
I was looking at
Breathing about
Covid
And the
Brexit obviously
And I was reading the
Sun
Website
Which people say
Don't read the Sun
That's not a good one
So it
Relate
Just
Create
That
I'll read this
New
Soldiers
But on
I noticed on
Pick the website
That was right
The comment section is not working
Suddenly
I think
Checking
When phoning is
Chromium if it's Android
But
If it works there
Okay, I'll try Google Chrome on the computer
Okay, it works there
Now I have a feeling that
Maybe it's
Broke there
And they just
Didn't bother testing
And that's from it
Because it's like
Oh, well, it works in Google Chrome
So they're not testing Firefox
Maybe it has a name
But
The
Works in Chrome
And it didn't
It's
Google Service
They're probably doing
Intentionally
Which one
It's from Google
Also, it's
That doesn't work
From Google
No, no, no
It's one of the newspapers in the UK
So it should have
And then you've got
Have you say comment section
I'm not
A lot of articles
So really, that should have worked
In all browsers
But maybe they haven't
Tested
In Firefox
Suddenly
Or they broke something
And they don't realise
Certainly
They're looking at Chrome
That could be the problem
A bit like the past
When
A lot of the website
Where the photos were
A bit like
Oh, we'll just make it work
And then
Stora
Who cares about other browsers
Oh, some of them were like
We'll make it work
And then
Stora
We'll then
Do Firefox
And things afterwards
And try and make it work
There as well
So that's kind of the problem
You can get into as well
Yeah, the new 40s Google Chrome
For just a thing
If you look at the statistics
On Wikipedia
You have
On the desktop
browsers
You have a
67% market share
For Google Chrome
Edge and Firefox
And Safari
Has
7% or 9%
So it's like
Six times
The amount of installs
For Google Chrome
And
But doesn't really
Say that you have
Okay, you have a
A desktop
That is Windows
Probably
So you choose to use Edge
No
Because there is not
A market share of 7%
Of Windows out there
But then
Yeah, you have to factor
In the schools
Because if my school
Is like any other school
Which I don't know if it is
Then it has
Laptops
Manitory laptops
But you have
You
Which
For like homework
And then you have
To have
These sets of stuff
And they use Chrome
And many businesses
Require what you use Edge
Okay, my balance is
And these
They
Yeah, I mean like
Yeah, here's the
UK as well
They have
They will give certain
Kids laptops
Because they can't
For them or whatever
Even now
But then they're probably
Going to be mostly tied
To
What's on the laptop
And also the
Soul computers as well
They're set up in a way
Where generally speaking
You're forced to use
What's
What's there
You're not
You're not allowed to change
Stuff
Normally in between
Oh, you've this and that and that
And that's probably
What he was
Kind of saying as well
Yeah, but yeah
Every organization
That have some item
Management that requires you to
Have or requires
A specific
Set up
Then you have that
Set up that
That's
Organization
Has given you
Of course
But I think that that
Might be balancing
Both directions
I think still that
A large percentage of people
Shoes grow
For some reason
That
Are you sure those things that
Actually don't work on
For some sort of reason
Well
They choose the brand
And probably
Oh, yeah, Google
Yeah, we have one new
Google
So
It's that they go for that
It's like my
Software
So my software
Oh,
Yeah
That's
Oh, uh
Yeah
Anything that is less known
Will probably be skipped
Like, uh
And of course it's
Also if it has something
Which a person wants
With
And the other stuff
It no
The person knows
Doesn't have it
Then it's going to go there
And together with branding
It can really
Be effective
Like
I wanted to watch a movie or something
Yet I only wanted to watch
Something people
New about
Because otherwise
I was right
Seeing my time
I think it just came at the right time
Basically
Browse
Like the
Whole browser market
Was pretty stale
When chrome came into the
Into the fold
And then it was like
New and shiny
And everyone was like
Oh, chrome
And then it just
Became a thing
And you
I have
I have no idea
I have no idea
Uh, Google
The Google sorts thing
What's non-stop
Talking about
The download
Calm down
And chrome
Many yes
Many yes
Ah
So if you use Google
For search
Then you probably
Heard about
Calm non-stop
Yeah, yeah, yeah
So the brand is actually
So they go for that
It's a bit like Apple
And then they've got money
Well, they've used money
And marketing
To get Apple out there
And
But although money
Can also fail
Money though
It's not all about money either
Because like Windows
Phone has
But with that
Have money
But you don't have the
Marks and
Tone of Marks in, I guess
So it's
So you need both, see
So
The does phone
Didn't have the
Developers
For ups
Anyway
Good night everyone
Happy New Year
Good night
Good night
Happy New Year
Happy New Year
Bye
Wow
What I really hate
Is the branding that goes
Into school
That you
You push
Specific brands
Specific
Topics
Into the
Head of children
So
For instance, my
Shind
Consum
Everyday from school
And have to
Re-learn
But
The thing that you have at home
Is not an i-pad
Yeah
Mm-hmm
Like I
Learned that
The way that
It was just that
I never talked about that stuff
Because it didn't get it
And I didn't have
Such a thing at home
So
That was easy
But you just did
This is a surf
Tablet
Or a tablet
Tell them over and over again
This is a tablet
It's the surf tablet
You can't say that it's an
Asus tablet
Or a Samsung tablet
But it's usually a tablet
And where you go to school
An Apple tablet
But every day
The teachers say
Would you like to do that
Exercise on your i-pad
You have your i-pad
Better to have the i-pad
Yeah, yeah, exactly
The teachers say things
It's like, okay, it is
With those
Keeps my software
And so on
Like, here's my software
It's the blockchain
Yeah
Says whatever
Oh, they're all office suits
Use what you want
Or use what you know
Not like that
No
Like I had a teacher
Who was a bit like that
Like last year
And
We couldn't use
Like Microsoft Word on our
Chromebook for some weird reason
Or I didn't know how to
So we did everything in Google Doc
Because that's just
How it how it works
There
And
She was like
Oh, just send it to me in Microsoft Word
And then everyone was like
We use Google Docs
Not Microsoft Word
She tried it again with Zoom
When the official thing was Google Meet
That kind of stuff
You mean like
And I also think the teachers don't really know
What they're talking about
It's a bit like a
Dutch teacher
Teaching about history
They have no clue
Yeah, it's it's so true
Well, they really don't know their technology
Because some of the teachers actually
Told the kids that you can
We can look at the specific
Rehearsal and work with this program
It's a web page you go here
And it only works in Safari
That's not working
Only working Safari
Because it's a web page
It works in a browser
Have you heard about those
That actually wrote a very angry letter
To our principle
And said tell
Told her that she had to talk with the staff
They can't say that this just works in Safari
Because that's just not true
Yeah, like if I were to say something
About technology
I would probably get it wrong
Because I just don't do something like
But when like I had actually
This happened to me
There was a Dutch teacher
Who gave who gave topics on history
The class didn't have history
Yeah, we had a perfectly
Large amount of history teachers
In the school working at that exact moment
Could have asked any one of them
For advice yet they looked at a book
Which didn't which was just printed out from the printer
Which yeah
It was correct in some
Technicolities
In other stuff
It was really skipping
Really skipping stuff
And I was like
Miss it's not correct
And she was really
And she was kind of getting annoyed at the end
But you did have the problem
That you went to school
And you had this large map
That they pulled down
That was incorrect one year
Correct the next year
And then incorrect again
Because the fricking Soviet Union
Shaked over and over again
We didn't have an atlas back then
Which made me not being able to use atlases for a while
Because the Soviet Union was still a thing in the atlas
Now I have a new atlas
Just
Just to give an idea of how bad illegal fireworks are where I live
I just walked outside
And it smelled like I was in a
Fucking war zone
Or a Sourish
Swear
A freaking war zone
And the sky was just hazy with smoke
Oh I just had that like at
Nearly five hours ago
I had that nearly five hours ago
Was the same except the like
The end of the street
It's not a very long street
So
Quite close
They always like to do fireworks
So they did it this year
They did it a little extra
They usually go extra
But this time they went extra extra
And so the entire street was foggy
Uh
I think everyone was blinded by the lights
And death
Death because of the sound
Well
Yeah
Basically
Least everyone standing right next to
Which I thought was stupid
I covered my ears
And my eyes
I genuinely hate fireworks
They scare me too much
I actually like the scareiness
I actually put into the
Law this year that
Only people with a permit
And only people with
Had had some
You had to get a license
Yeah
Tell people how to push up the fireworks
And they also told people that
You probably should not do it
Because we have better things to do
In the police department
Than going off their
Burning houses
And people that
Lower their hands off
Still there were more fireworks this year
The last year
Yeah
That lost in many years now
But there is still
Still see people
Fire upself
Mm-hmm
Yeah
I
Gets
Anyone
Sink around
Six or eight years
Been able to fire
Rockets in a way
Yeah
But somehow people
Silgate
Rockets through the windows
I have I have no clue
How people get
Fireworks
Like here
You could we have tons of fireworks
Just laying around
Not using it
Because we are left
Some over so now we have just a box
But um
If if if you have it for like how long was it again
How long was this thing again
That it's been a little for
Uh, me six to eight years
That's quite a lot
Uh, quite a long time
I would probably import
That thing from other countries
Where I can all sit
Yeah
But then how are you going to get past the border
It's literally smuggling at that point
Yeah
Which is kind of cool
But then again not very cool
Again
You have tobacco and uh
Alcohol that gets smuggled from Sweden so
Yep
That was
And it worked in uh
Gas station
That was not close to the border
But it was on the way to the border
And the people stopped there
And where we're really stocked
Piled on both uh
Alcohol and other stuff
I can I can't take that yet
I I'm I'm too young
I probably
I promised myself I would never do such a thing
So I'm probably not
I'm smoking I've told my kids that that just
Very stupid idea
Bunched into a lot of marketing
I really caught on on that
That you can really destroy your lungs
So that's a stupid idea
And um
Hope that they will keep that
Thought in mind when they turn
1415
Haven't really talked about alcohol
But we don't drink it usually
What what works for me
I don't know I probably wasn't going to drink
Even beforehand
But if you just show a picture like
Before alcohol after alcohol
Then it really you can see the difference
Inside which isn't very good
So um yeah and definitely I know
How quickly I can become addicted to something like
Reading for example
That's actually a thing
So I'm never going to go near that stuff
Even when there's a person smoking on the street
I cover my mouth
Yeah I read a lot I read a lot
Now you kind of said it like you didn't want to get
Close to reading stuff hey
No
To to to um to if someone's smoking
On the street I cover my mouth and stuff
Just yeah
But reading isn't isn't that bad
It's actually quite good for your
Vocabulary
The second hand smoking is built and smoking
Your self
That's that's why I do that
When I remember
Um when
Yeah
Not that
Covid you can actually tell the kids
And we have talked about it a lot
That if you smoke
And get Covid
Then you have double the risk of dying
Because you have killed your lungs in multiple ways
Yeah
Pretty much the same as giving yourself
A voluntary Covid
And then they are really not keen on starting
I've also remember I said about the brain thing
Before after
You can also see that with lungs
I've seen it with lungs
When when someone's smoking before and after
It's also not great
And my wife is a nurse
She can actually explain exactly how the cell dies
And what is implicted in your lungs
That's great
We have actually talked about all about that
Oh that's cool
Yeah
Just I think I might just haven't had an exam about it
Like a few years
Years weeks
A year is not a week
It's five in the morning
I'm going to stay up until seven in the evening
Like at the chat last year
But we have five, four, three, two, one
Second left
And now it's five o'clock
So we'd say
Good
Happy New Year to New York Boston
Rockest in New York
Rockest in New Hampshire
Millockets
mainland
Washington D.C. Detroit
Havana and Atlanta
Happy New Year
Happy New Year
Play some places I've heard
Some places I've not heard before
I guess they're in America somewhere
And also some regions in Canada
But they haven't mentioned some here
Regions in Canada
Okay
And that would make sense
Yeah, that would make sense
So if you leave, no one is going to
Now it's the late ones
Yeah, I actually think that I should sleep a couple of hours
At least is the week in the evening
So
No, you don't get to sleep
You have the big announcement
For all of it from time zones
Yeah
I can come on later in the announcement
Of the time zones
Oh, you come in each time in the new time zone
So yeah, long time
So you get just a way to come in
Say the time zone
And leave again to sleep
He he he
All right, go ahead
I would really need to sleep
I need to get up and
Yeah
Go to sleep
I would say
You need it
I don't know if you need it
But I would just suggest going to sleep
Yeah, I need it
Sleeping is nice
You can never get too much sleep
I actually have that so far for you
I'm actually that kind of person
That needs to stay awake to 2 a.m.
At the moment
Because I always wake at 9 in the morning
And I can't sleep for 9 hours
Because then I will have headache
I need to sleep somewhere between 5 and 7 hours
And I don't want to set the time
That's morning
I don't really get it
A good morning
This morning here
Being awake the whole night
It's 4 o'clock
Yeah
It's 5 o'clock here
It's 5 o'clock
Where are you
This is the UK
It's not normal
Awake time
Normal awake time
Well for me
4 o'clock is like
Like midnight
And except you
Don't usually
Have experiences with midnight
You don't with with 4 o'clock
In the morning
Littles saying right now
Because they've been up
This isn't my first time I've been up
It sounds like Ireland
Ireland
Ireland sounds like Ireland
Do you know
I listen to blind boy
He's a funny character
Okay
No, I'm in the Netherlands right now
You might think
I'm in Ireland
But that's because
Half Irish
So
Yeah, name and accent
And 4 o'clock
5 o'clock is pretty close to 4 o'clock
Yeah
Well, you in England as well
Away you from
Oh yeah, Midlands
Aha
Cool, yeah
Are you in tier 4 now?
Oh yeah
So I'm not allowed to stray into any
Gardens
Fuck
I get busted by the
Yeah, I thought they were going to put us into tier 4
Because I was there any place in the South
Western tier 3 for a while
And they're still tier 3
Well, I switched a couple of days ago
Pardon me
We
Here
We have just gone into lockdown
I think that's what you're talking about
Um
But yeah
Before that it was literally
Nothing was happening
Literally nothing
England's got a difference
They want to put it just into lockdown again
So they've got a tier system
Based on the area people are in
Oh, they said they have a tier system here
Yeah, they said that
They didn't follow the tier system
They decided to
After they created their own tier system
They decided to throw it out of the window
And have a new tier system
The people who wanted the tier system
weren't very happy about that
So um
The sarcastic comments
Or that a lot of people know here
Made a sarcastic comments about it
That actually happened
He's on vacation now I think
Something
Isn't doing it
But yeah
So it's on on holiday
Well, holiday at home
Or not doing the show thing on TV
So it's going around trying to pick up COVID
What?
It's driving around trying to pick up COVID
So we can bring it
No, I
Uh, he's like
He's like a TV person
And he's not
He's not
He's like a news person
But he isn't doing the news right now
Like a comedy person doing the news
Imagine that in your head
And then see it on TV
And then you're laughing because it's relevant
And he makes it hilarious
That that's kind of
Imagine that and then
And then
It's real
I get it
Cognitive dissonance or something
Like it bends your brain
It's good to laugh
Yeah
That thing's good
Yeah
It's very healthy to laugh
Apparently
Um
Yeah
I think it's useful for your brain
It's accommodation
Is it?
Yeah
Recognition
Of the limitation of language
Yeah, maybe
I don't know
Limitation of language
Big words
So I'm very very tired
I'm going to complain
Because I like complaining
No worries, it's a raising
Raising point
I can actually give tips
And how to survive the entire night
And still be awake
Next morning
It's really weird
This being very healthy
Um
Not
It's actually
Bite the head of the people
Yeah, I don't really have problems with that
I have problems with not being able to
Get angry so
I don't have those problems
But it's definitely included in there
But it's only at the beginning
Because afterwards, you're so tired
You can't even be angry at someone
Um
That really, that's how bad it can get
Um
Yeah
Do you want to air the tips and tricks and stuff
So no, never go to bed then
No, no
I can't go to bed
Because then my sleeping schedule
Which was
Already kind of
Kind of skewed
Would be completely exploded
We don't want that to happen
That's the one positive of this
Apart from having lots of time to yourself
Is having your sleeping schedule reset
And I can't do that on my own
Because I will sleep through all the alarms
Because everyone knows
I sleep through everything
I'll sleep through fire alarms
Yeah, that's bad
Kind of similar
I've actually
I might have actually stepped through a fire alarm once
But the big thing was
We were sleeping in the
In a camper truck thing once
And it just
It fell into a ditch nearly
So everyone was awake except me
I was just sleeping
Where are you climbing?
I don't know
Oh god
Well
What is the cushion?
Do you know
I actually have trouble getting to sleep
But when I sleep I sleep like sound
Unless I wake up by myself
And then
So if my eyes close then I can just
Be awake
If there's a lot
Loud sound or something else
Which would startle me
Do you have
Issues of
Um
Deciding which side of sleep I'm on
When I'm when I'm coming round
You know awake if you if you need to get up to go somewhere
Then that's one thing but
If you remember that you
Prefer to be up doing things
That's that's another thing
You know where they are
It's good there's that
There's sometimes
You know half past three in the morning is just always too
Too early
No matter how long you do it for
It's you know it's a healthy
Um in terms of
You know one's social
Location
Uh there's the words I need to stop
Uh that that was
To be fair that was
Um
Deep butter
Yeah
Did you know that I'm at the point now
I think
I was
Ready maybe I who knows
That it I'm too tired for being tired
It's weird but it's true
There is a point
Yeah you can get the positive
Quiet and uh
Sleep point
Yeah
And today was
Uh uh 26 hours
On AC
Yes today I was
Uh uh 26 hours
20 26 hours
That's that's lots of hours
near
The last time I remember uh
Being awake for three days
I remember it just hurt
It really really hurt for a while
And then there came a point where it didn't hurt anymore
But mentally like cognitively
I was not as capable um
I was just not as capable
Yeah yeah that's
It didn't hurt anymore
I was able to carry on
That's where I'm at now
I'm just a little hungry
And a little bit dazed
And my mental abilities have not
Are not fairing as well as they are usually
So um yeah
But I've found that the last time I did this
The only solution was to power through it
And then and then the next
Evening you would be so tired
Even during a great British makeup
Which you're watching for some reason
You fall asleep
And usually you don't fall asleep
But this time you do
You must love baking
And we actually haven't watched it for a while
But um
It's interesting to see them
It's really is
And like
I the greatest thing I can bake
Is a pizza
From scratch
Which
But I could do that when I was
Three so it isn't much of a difference either way
It's just that you can see the people
And it's such a high standard
And it's just
Or it that was um
It was very very
Sponsored um
How'd you call that
Thingy
Thingy can
Thingy
Spontaneous
Uh no it's not
It's it's
Uh it's definitely not related to Spontaneous
In any way
It's um
Ah if you think Patrick
It's like
Edgey it's like
Not edgy but like it hasn't edged
Like you can
Tension
It tensions something
Tension
Yeah well done
Yeah went from edge to knife
To cutable with a knife to tension
Tension was cutable with knife
Kind of
There's a lot of tension
Basically that's what I was trying to say
So one of spoons you have got her head set
I have got a headset
Can you hear a servant noise like humming
No
Can you hear an echo
Echo
All night no problem I do quite a lot actually
And um
And I can basically put you much
Anywhere that comes full enough as well
Plus I
Generally don't get tired and that's
I'm really hot
But then again that's me right
Well
If enough for me I
I don't tend to get a full eight hours
But I get more five hours six thousand
Wasn't it full nine hours
I think it was nine hours for an adult
It's just the hours or so they say
I mean
Oh you know there's all those of the
Bates around seating I would say
And yeah
If you're used to it
After the 36-hour day thing
And stuff like that
I have done it in the past
Where you get you just the wake
24 hours suddenly or your wake
Maybe a bit longer 36 at the most maybe
But I don't think it's the best
Right there to do like this because it's just a bit like
You know
There's a bit bit of noise
No it's definitely one of my most
Super dirty ideas
Oh you get past
Well maybe 24 hours is
You know but
But some people do that
The day and night and then the day
The only time I can excuse myself to do it
Is today
So I'm doing it today
New year you stay away
No not last year
I did it the year before
That was the first time I did it
I skipped one year because we were going to family
For the first time ever
And it wasn't very far away family
We didn't stay over
We just went and we went back
And we were all stupid tired
So we went to bed
So many things
So many things to wait for the HCR 26 hours
That's a little bit different
Because you can see why
But generally speaking
Staying awake about 26 hours
Well
It does have to use
It does the stress you
And the first time I did it
I was
Yeah I was teenager
Wanted to do stupid stuff
And I'm still a teenager
Who wants to do stupid stuff
But it did have a use
I could watch the
And we could watch
Gala fans
But binge watch it
And usually I'm not able to
Because other people want to watch it too
And stuff
Or they don't want me
Watching it
And want to watch something else
But no one has a clue
What to watch
So I decided to watch it there
And yeah
That's also a handy trick
If you want to stay up
And I don't move
And watch something
We come back
Because I tried to watch time team
Which I'm really interested in
But if you want to stay awake all night
Now at this time of year
I can probably
The cold helps
Like don't have you heating on
Full blast or something
Because you might
Do start those and not
You might
But it might not work
What I usually
I usually just
Well I
The two times
I've done it including
Today
It's just don't move lots
Because that helps preserve your energy
And it works
And watch something with
Combat and stuff
Because
And like nature documentary
Will pass
And
And
Galifant
Which is more singing than
Combat actually will pass
It's
That's fine
But
The riveting time team
Will not
Which is very weird
But fine
It's no combat
And the one have a clue
What time team is apart from me
Archaeology
Yes
Archaeology
The great wonders
Of archaeology
They go in
And in three days or something
They have to find
Basically as much
Of the archaeology as they can
Which is
Really cool
Do you like
Do you like the
Alternative
Contexts
But where things are done
The same
So hang on
So different artifacts
In a different context
Like in physics
For example
Like discovery
And
But what is it that you like
About that time team thing
Well
It's archaeology
And it's like history
I like history
And it's really interesting
To see how much work
Goes into
Just getting the stuff out of the ground
It's not even that deep
You could dig to it with your hands
But you don't know where to dig
You don't know what to look
For you have to be very careful
Not to break stuff
That kind of stuff
And you also see
Time team is very old
It's been there for
Since apparently
The 1980s or 1990s
Which was way before I was born
So
You can see how it kind of
How it stuff got sophisticated
More sophisticated
More you go on
And also the presenters the same
So you see as hair fall out
Which is also very interesting
Tony Robbins
Now what's his name
I have no clue
I haven't watched him in a little while
I've been busy with school work
I used to I watched the guy who did time team
If it's the same man
He read Odysseus
On Jack and Ori
When I was a child in the 80s
Very I loved Odysseus
The way he told that story
Could be
Which made me
You know quite into time team as well
For all I used to watch it with my dad
Yeah
Odysseus
I know the rough outlines of the story
I know
Basically most myths
I know the rough outlines
Yet I never read them
I just I just hear
Some worries of them
But I like the story of Odysseus
Good guy just wants to get back home
But he pissed off
Um
He pissed off Poseidon
Because he um
Because Poseidon's son tried to eat
All his men and kind of
Kind of succeeded
So he blinded him
And stuff
You know I think that was the cyclops
Wasn't it? He did blind Poseidon
I think I'm gonna go look for the link
For for that Jack and Ori
To post it to you
Because you might you might love it
If it's the same guy
Yeah
I think I will actually watch it
But um
But it was a cyclops
But it was also the son of Poseidon
That that's how Poseidon got mad
And how Odysseus uh
Yeah and he would
He would not have survived without
To help of the gods
That's to say
Definitely there
Like um
Yeah that was that was pretty bad
And and and it's funny at the ending
He there's like he has to face off against um
The all all the suitors
So he disguises himself as an old man
And uh he's like he there's um
Yeah he does the one thing
Which only he
And his son
Know how to do
So he basically does it
Uh they they can't do it
And his son just shows
Yeah I can do it
And then uh he goes
And he does it
This old guy
This old random beggar
Just outshines all the people
And that's really cool
Good stories
Yeah
Miffs are actually uh very interesting
Like if you go down to
Quite a lot of myths
You will see
It's this it's basically the same
There's lots of story elements
We still use a lot of uh like uh
A lot of morals we still have
And also stuff has changed of course
Archetypes
Yeah archetypes and stuff
And but then for instance like um
The most at least in in Europe I think
The most known um
Miff is of mythical stuff
It's of course from Greece
Ancient Greece and
Romans and stuff because Romans
But then you've got these two
There are only two stuff
It's the Norse myths
We have only got two sources
And they're both from the Christian era
And so that's very interesting to see
To think about like what's real what's not real
We have no idea whether
The Christian missionary who wrote the Addas down
Wrote them down exactly
Or wrote them down in favor of the Catholic Church
There's definitely some favor in there
Like um
I heard
I haven't actually read them
So don't take it as gospel
But it um
I heard that there's like um
Imragnarok
It basically says somewhere
And then there will be a great God
Which was greater than all gods
And he was the greatest
And he was so great
And he didn't come up in the entire
So it was definitely
Was definitely crowbarred into the story
Like oh we have to mention our gods somewhere
We just have to
But then there are other things
Like at the ending of Wragnarok
There are two humans
They have to repopulate the world
And then there are several gods who survived
And Baldur
Who came back from the dead
Which is very interesting
Which makes you think that that really happened
And which makes you then think was Loki so evil
And I think I have to explain this
Please say if I have to explain this
Well everything I have read
Has said that the way it was supposed to work out after Wragnarok
Was that Baldur would be reborn
And would become the new all father
Yes
That's that's what I heard
And but think about it
The one god who is of all about love
And forgiving and all the nice stuff in the world
Has been reborn
And there are two humans left
To have to repopulate the world
Doesn't doesn't that sound a little bit like another
Quite popular
Yeah
Yeah that sounds like he made it up
To fit his own prejudice
But then you have to think
Why was Loki so evil
He wasn't actually quite that evil in
All the other stories from whatever
And I read quite a lot
Loki was more chaotic than evil
I don't think he set on one side or the other of that fence
Yeah he's more a chaotic neutral
He's he's like
I there was a fantastic description
I won't start and I'm just going to repeat it
They said
Loki is more like a cartoon villain
He messes up stuff
But then he has to go and fix it himself
And you can really see that back in the stories
But he isn't necessarily evil
He keeps just promises and that kind of stuff
But then the one thing where he
Those go evil is when he kills bolder
Which makes you think caused boulder to be killed
He calls bolder to not actually kill boulder
That's true that's true
But without him boulder would not be dead
Exactly
Yes
What was the intention?
I remember reading that story about that
The intention was that nothing could harm boulder
Because he got an idea
I mean the intention of Loki
Was he just trying to know what's even worse
No one knew who did it until he went to a party
And decided to crash the party
By telling everyone that he calls the boulder to die
That's definitely
That's actually
And then they trained him up
But with the organs of his songs
Which is a little harsh in my opinion
Sounds like a thing of Christian missionaries right
Yeah
But then pagans just wouldn't get their ship together
Yeah I think so
And it does also sound like Loki is supposed to be the devil
And he's usually described as the villain
Yet the villains are clearly the
Well the devil wasn't even the devil until two or three hundred years into Christianity
Yeah and that's true
Yeah I didn't know
One of God's inquisitors kind of idea was it
Yeah one of his angels he was one of his leading servants
Yeah I definitely heard that he basically
Prosecuting attorney type
Well the following from heaven part is in later apocryphal stuff that's based on revelation
But not in the revelation
Okay
Yeah but that does sound more in canon
Because every religion I think has a canon of its own
It does sound more like like like Christian canon
That the death because God
According to Christians has made the world the entirety of the world
So why would he create the devil that just doesn't make sense
This context isn't there
There's context one can imagine the conversation
And the people in the room
And what it is that the speaker is trying to achieve
Yeah yeah like personally I don't believe in like
Christianity or something
They offered I decline
I believe that it definitely there could be a possibility of God's existing
Depending on how much belief but that's mostly influenced by reading books
Terry Pratchett
Yeah I was raised to Christian
And I spent a lot of time shopping around different Christian denominations
And what not and eventually said none of this makes any sense
And um
Yeah
I actually started learning wica and that makes more sense because there is no dogma
There's there's no book saying you believe this
Yeah
But I've also studied a lot of Hinduism and especially Chayvan
Nice
I've got a few of those in the little doctorate the divinity things
And none of them are from Christian organizations
But yeah I'm also old
Real old
Heidi G
Have you heard of Eric Davis?
Uh you
Who was asking me
Oh sorry
Who was the other person speaking
Just then about being old and
That's me
Moss have you heard of Eric Davis?
I've heard of a few Eric Davis as I'm not sure which you're referring to
Eric Davis is uh it would be into um
How do you describe uh not religion but
The yeah psychology um uh
Religion occult
The way that people's minds work archetypes sort of that kind of stuff
I think you'd be really interested in I do not know that name
I've read a lot of other officers on the subject
There's a particularly good atheist channel on youtube
That now also has a discord that's under the name holy kool-aid
That's just funny
And that's funny
And he he was actually raised in a missionary family in
All-under Belgium I think and
Uh it was prophesied that he would become this great prophet and everything and
Then uh a few years ago they prophesied that by June of this year
He would be a great prophet and he would come back to Jesus
And he posted a couple times on it. Hey, it hasn't happened yet. I don't I don't see anything going on here
I think you know about Eric Davis
Yeah, my wife wants to hear more about Eric Davis
I just feel not Carolina
Eric Davis. He's he is a American uh is he didn't uh
Well, he's just written a book about uh Philip K. Dick
I'm trying to find the name of it
Um, he's done a lot of audio
That's interesting because yeah, I I am a big science fiction fan. I'm I'm a filter. I I sing science fiction is what that means
Uh
I I'm I'm more fancy. I it's
You can have fancy and sci-fi both. I do enjoy good sci-fi but I'm more of a fancy. I do both
There are actually a number of things across over. I know that uh the white crow stories by Mary gentle
Were said to be fantasy written as science fiction
Yeah, it seems to be a fantasy
Stuff going on, but it's being written the way a science fiction story would have been written. Okay. Yeah, they have a book here
Uh, high-weirdness by Eric Davis drugs
So terraca and visionary experience in the 70s from MIT breath. He has a a website called tecnosis as in tech then G
NOS IS
Nostgnosticism understand my wife is looking at I think I can't hear right here. Why are you looking up on your phone?
There's so much good audio. I really like his ideas the way he strings things together
Enough son. Is it calm? I'll check
Well, I will hit enter and see what happens
Yes, it is. Yeah, yes, and yes, that was the Eric Davis. Hi, weirdness in your ears. The audio book is out
Bill O'K dick films film festival our pandemic psychedelic trip
I wish it was psychedelic. We've been dealing with all his trump crap, you know
Oh, sorry, uh, I I'm needed to be accepting of the fact that there may be some right-wing weirdos
doubt it but possibly
Yeah, well I
Mm-hmm down here everyone will everyone here was like oh look
Biden most elected presidents nice
Hopefully it's gonna be better than the other guy. Well, it's such a low bar. Come on
Yeah, but apparently more people have voted for trumped in any other presidents except Biden think about that that that
means that true, but seven over seven million more voted for Biden than Trump and uh, yeah
In the last election
Hillary got 2.9 million more votes than Trump. So he much he almost tripled the number of votes difference between
Trump and who Trump was running against wait didn't
Did Hillary Clinton have more Hillary won the popular vote?
She did
I totally forgot about that I watched
some
explainy person
about explaining about it and I still don't get it if the public votes shouldn't she just listen to the problem was
uh, the south had
A few fewer states are colonies to the states
Then the north but the north had more people and they didn't want
New York running the whole country
They wanted to be balanced out in a way and in fact they even had the chance of constitution to have all the slaves who couldn't vote count as three fifths of a person
Well, there are no more slaves anymore, which is a good thing. I would say it definitely a good thing
But yes, they they found other ways to make them slaves
You notice the how high the incarceration rates of our among black males
I
I can work some in Carson male thingy yeah prison jail
Yeah, they have to work they found they found out that if you charge them with something they couldn't defend themselves
They put them in jail. They made them work and not pay them. So they were slaves again
And if you refuse to work like you get a higher sentence don't you just
Well, you also get beaten and maybe killed and nobody cares because you were in prison
And you must have just acted out or something, you know
This is why I like ancient history more than than than recent history
Like ancient history everyone has forgotten all
The horrible things except the people wrote it down
So you can just
joke about things that I've killed like but you can also notice that the people who wrote it down were on the winning side
So they don't really say what happened
not not not necessarily not necessarily
like
Rome lost
In the beginning against Hannibal they lost quite a lot Hannibal was quite true
Did the biggest ambush in history mm-hmm which totally worked
Completely perfection. He didn't have an escape plan as a problem
Yeah, yeah
We're not major going all the else and they started death after they got over because he didn't have my history book skipped Hannibal
Mm-hmm. So I had to catch up by watching youtube videos about it. Where are you? What country?
Netherlands
Nice place. I usually VPN in the hollins and streamies legal there
Oh, there smoke weed
My wife was from Canada
Okay
They smoke weed in Canada too. Oh, yeah, it's legal. I'm from California, but it wasn't legal when I was there
I've I've never been in more west. I've never been more west than the west
Parts of Ireland like the part which Judson to the sea and I have never been that are east. I have never been off the North American continent
Yeah, my wife has been to France
I haven't even been to the south of my own country that's saying something when you can literally walk across the country in a day or two
Yeah, if you take the train, it's gonna be way faster. There's trains everywhere. I heard a joke once or this
Texan is bragging about the side of his ranch to a suite
And he says I can get in my car and I can drive from one end of my ranch to the other
It takes me two days to drive to one end in the ranch to the other and the suite goes. Yeah, I once had a car like that tool
On the subject of vehicles and
and cannabis the UK criminalized all psychoactive substances about six years ago
So we do actually have one of the most draconian drugs laws on the planet. So they they
Criminalized all psychoactive and then they made exemptions for food items because of course that covered all the caffeine and the
All of the things in the in the health food shops
Like the Holland and Barrett needed a license to sell the US government has been trying to make anything
That affects your attitude that affects your brain chemistry a drug and that includes food
Yeah, that's the way that's the UK law currently so psychoactive substances built in the past years ago
Well, I don't know what the situation is here. I at least know that I'm not living anywhere where there are
um
I haven't seen any prostitutes and I haven't seen any people doing drugs
Anywhere near my um
My
I would call it a town. It's it's like like the trend if you would translate it my
Settlements would be called a village. Mm-hmm, but it's bigger than a town which has city rights
So it's confusing. I call it a village translated of course
I think it would be town town would be the correct word to describe it, but um
Yeah, it's very hard to know what's this what what's um sitting what's not a sit what's what's not in what is
If it doesn't have that medieval
medieval bureaucracy thing where they just went oh yeah, you can have walls because you paid me this some of money
Mm-hmm
Yeah, I think around here a city is is the amount of a population in an area you have to reach
Actually, it's a legal definition in the US
You have to incorporate as a city and what's really funny is that there are a lot of towns that are incorporated as cities
And with the pdf may call them a town, but I live in Blaine, Tennessee, okay?
Blaine has a population of 1800, but legally it's a city
What are the administrative consequences um apparently you can have your own police department among other things
If you're not in a
Incorporated city you have to use the county sheriff
Really most of the towns around here have their own
Police Department well you can check their
Incorporation papers and they're probably incorporated as cities now some states have different definitions
But that's over what most of the US is
Tennessee is weird because uh, they actually have county mayors
Uh, yeah, instead of just the city having a mayor of the counties have a mayor too
Uh, it's me I
I'm I usually get very well not very confused, but kind of confused with the American
System like in the Netherlands you have
Provinces
Okay, that's just basically the Netherlands and it's Netherlands and it's all the Netherlands
But in America you each have a state so it's America, but then states well Netherlands does have
Uh, several areas Holland is not all Netherlands or Netherlands. I know I know I live in Holland and the Netherlands at the same time
Nor Holland you've got
Nortal on settle months
I could list them all right, even one which was technically see at one point
It it it was also yeah, it's it's now it's now land
Someone starting to blow off fireworks here. We still that uh, 16 minutes before it's midnight
Oh, are you still before midnight? Yeah, yeah
Eastern time zone u.s. Now where my wife's father lives and new brunswick is already tomorrow
Well, I am at five in the morning now five in the morning for great
Six and I've been awake all night. Well, I I hate to say it, but I actually got regular old Kentucky bourbon in my drink instead of the nice bottle
Tell them or do I have sitting around
So you're not left in the Netherlands is that what you're saying? Oh, I've left the Netherlands. I've been
As far west as Ireland as far north as Sweden
As far east as Sweden or or Germany. I I've been on all days and both before COVID
um
Also been to Denmark once I went through Denmark to get to Sweden
Yeah
Yeah, uh, so that that's about I've been to Northern Ireland, but I don't know if you can call that it's own country
If it is well, that's okay. Yeah, it's UK. Yeah, it's still on the island of Ireland. I know
I've been I have been to 38 states. I've been to three provinces of Canada. I've been to
Two states of Mexico
So you've been to three countries. I had number your countries
Yes, except except that 38 states is a lot of states. I've lived in nine of them
Is a state a country dough technically if you look at the world map, but it's a lot bigger than most countries
It's that's true. That's true
It's true. You've probably covered more area, but I've been in more countries
I also remember that in the United States each each state is almost like its own country
Almost that's in the fact that they have grown we all have our own each each state has its own laws. Yeah, it kind of is isn't there
There's there's some Americans to get and then and then because it's so big some Americans just basically forget that actually
There's a whole big bulb out there
There's that really high way that runs through Tennessee, which is i40 and that highway runs 453 miles through Tennessee
Multiway at times what 1.4. Can it? Where is Tennessee?
Tennessee is east coast almost, but not on the coast
We're we're in one that we're across the mountains from North Carolina. Yeah
Yeah runs all the way for the mountains. See the thing is I
Haven't actually seen an actual physical map
Mm-hmm of
Of the United States of America
Google maps you know
Yeah, I've seen Google maps of course. I've seen that kind of but I don't know the names
So it's
So I have no clue. I'm definitely I definitely want to go to America wants to see what it's like to see if the crazy stuff
I heard about it. It's real
Because I've heard some crazy stuff
I
I want to see if it's real. I've been to and lived in a lot of states. So I probably know
But what have you heard that's crazy America? Well
Come on from memory tie. Oh, I remember one thing. Is it real?
That's some Americans actually think that the entire world is America
They're America
They're Americans that think New Mexico, which is a state is a foreign country
Yeah, about 40% of Americans think that New Mexico is not part of America 40%
I think 40% might be high
Yeah, Trump didn't believe Puerto Rico is part of America. Puerto Rico has
Gone through all the steps of becoming a state except the Senate won't hear about it
And that's because Mitch McConnell runs the Senate
Yeah, so it's not the same thing about New Mexico. I don't know
Yeah, he thinks he did such a great job after the hurricanes in Puerto Rico because he went down there and threw around some rolls of paper towels man
Serious and took care of the problem right there
There um, I've heard this crazy myth that like half the country doesn't believe COVID. It's real. That's ridiculous
What I'm doing in it. It's not happening to its population
The population
Actually, only like 47% of the population will believe everything
Which is which is why Biden had such a hard time becoming president because he had yeah
40 yeah, yes, he won by seven million votes, but that's out of
250 million votes or something like that
There's a lot of people space
You know if you look at the map you see three countries in the entirety of that of
Norden American consonants which is crazy. Yeah, that's right. If you look at Europe one of the smallest consonants except for
Oceania, which is actually the technical name
Um, you see you see tons of different
So the other one that they're in the constant. Yeah, yeah, well even in Canada where most people are saying
There is still a significant percentage of population that believe everything that Trump says
And Trump is not the originator of those things
Uh, you should look up to and on and see what the craziest of the crazies believe on
You know
Actually, America hijacked outside. There were wars with like Mexico and things so
I believe lots of California will use to be Mexico and some
I do know actually
Some history of America. Oh, isn't another thing I've heard is it true that um that some Americans believe that
um
When America was created basically it instantly changed the world because I haven't heard that one
Yeah, that's that's a doing look. Oh, yeah, there's enough dumbasses here in this country where people
There's a good chance that there's somebody believes in something. They're flat earthers here. All right
Do you understand? I have to stand flat. Oh, yes. Yeah, I believe in either of them. I've heard of them
But I'm not a man. I'm not a violent man, but I'm pretty sure
Yeah, I believe that the earth is a disc and then trying to use the Bible to prove all the things about the earth being flat
But the Bible says it has four corners, so it can't be a disc
Yeah, it's interesting thing
but then you
Back in the day of when the Bible was created everyone knew that the earth was a sphere
It's true some guy calculated it in in ancient times. Yeah. How do you think they had degrees?
I mean that uh all all the temples and and uh main things are set on exact points
Yeah, and but but they um they still just
But see there have been large long this series of illiteracy throughout history
And you forget what you used to know
So
But when uh, but any any fisherman could go out there and he would see
He would see that the earth is a sphere because you wouldn't see the land anymore
If it were against Columbus sailing believed that uh the world was flat and then he would say right off the edge of the world
No, that's not the intelligent people didn't but the the general populist did and I don't I don't think that's the truth
You may maybe the ones who live of course they could not at sea, but uh
Of course Columbus did not claim to have discovered India either
Columbus claimed to have discovered Indians and he just told the people in India they called Hindus not Indians
So he did not claim that they were the same people at the same place at any point
Okay, but I I I must say that um
uh
Back then you
Just didn't sail away from the shore that was the number one rule in sailing um that's why Athens could scam the entire
Greek peninsula
Because they had the one way they had a massive navy and they could block all trade and then everyone would be screwed except Athens
The whole 360 degree thing was set by the Babylonian so we've known him a while
uh
Yeah, they didn't you they did know that there was round 12 because the Babylonians believed those people who taught them their math had 12 fingers
Yeah, really interesting
Discussion about
Uh, I don't know I get them mixed up Aristotle uh Socrates all of those people and the question a person was asking was before
Somebody wrote this thing down, you know, did did people really were they able to to question um what knowledge was and what
People were actually believing, you know, they would learn some piece of knowledge
And then they would all rate they would speak out this piece of knowledge to other people
And then when enough of them got together and started pointing out the inconsistencies between the sort of
poems of knowledge that each of these people have
Then they came to some idea of uh, what a true thing was and how to determine the truth of uh some profession, you know
They had the Galapopolis falls at those days
Galapopolis and then their competitors are the harisopolis
Now you're talking
I'm sorry
So what about you first what about the what you oppose? Yeah, well that depends which ones
You believe in them or not
No, it's my consciousness
There are those long object there are those who believe that the oldest of the Hindu texts the Samaveda
Was actually written on another planet and describes the astrology or the astronomy of another planet that the gods came from another planet
Had actually do battle to stay here the the rishis are not demons. They were the native spirits
Huh take that that kind of for a while
That's interesting actually so
That's really interesting that just shows you that there are are people around the world who would believe in
in
Yeah, a lot of stuff could of course my mindset on it
Or is that it could happen if a little North people believed in it then it then it could be true who knows
No one knows
Well my wife was waiting for them to come and get her because this place is not a good place for her
Oh
The the um what is it the paths the garden paths of I need to find this name for you. Mm-hmm
It was an author a story he wrote um
Borges is it
Borges was uh
I need to find the story you'd love
It's about someone who they they began finding artifacts
um
I think it started with an encyclopedia entry about a country that didn't exist
But when enough people heard about it, they believed that it did exist
It's sent on and the people started finding archaeological artifacts, you know, they would send
They would get students to
Try to find these things and I don't want to hear about that
Because we already have enough problems with a big lie theory if the big lie that comes real then I don't want to hear about
Do you know
Do you know that's not the first time that happened it's not it actually happened in great ancient Greece
Which might be a total shock but Atlantis was actually
Not so it didn't exist it never existed. It was okay. I have a different view on that one
According to an amateur archaeologist uh what the heck was his name um
You're gonna something you're you're gonna spanner is he actually he actually traced uh the
Course that Plato describes of Atlantis and found out that that civilization did exist
And it was centered in juteland or in other words Denmark
Well then
He did good research, but he never actually
Well, we know for a fact is he never actually
Wanted people to go out if it did happen to be Atlantis
It there are two possibilities or it's a coincidence which happened all the time
Or he just did very good research
He had he might have had a secretary who was very good at doing research and just found oh there were this place
Which sank and then he was like ah?
I'm gonna use that in my next story to teach people about how they should live their lives
Because that was excellent
It theorizes the origins of the Celts called the Celts by the author Gerhard Herm
And it includes some of the stuff on Jürgen Spannis
archaeology
Okay, but in a minute
Yeah, we oh yeah 2359 yeah
Yes
It's nearly six in the morning
Well, come to
You've got to go yell Juman he'd better take the earpiece out first
The other thing with America is it's so big pad rig that it's in like four different time zooms
And this is the first one the bats go into yes, this is the first one. Yeah, Canada's even bigger
Five and a half times
Five and a half times your zones four times and starts way too much time sentence for me
I live in a country which has one time zone and I'm perfectly content for that. It makes it much easier
So some of these guys are joining us in 2020 all right
Of course, you know, still I don't have a seconds counter, but it's still 2359 you better go y'all
Happy New Year
It's
I
Let me step outside and yell Juman. I'll be right back
Is it is the sun coming up?
No, not at midnight. No
It's six o'clock here. Mm-hmm. It's five a.m. here in the morning. Yeah
Most five a.m. and hour ago
She just yelled Jumanji
See my my grandma's the kind of guy who would sit on the front porch
Who's joined us in 2021 that you look that
Right here shotgun
Yeah, you don't hunt deer with us
Yeah, my my grandfather would sit on the front porch on christmas Eve with a shotgun and he said one of these days by god
He was gonna get some medicine
Most what time to eat and say in the U.N. A eastern one you went in yep, we just did it's going to 2021
Yeah, yeah, we are wait
Yeah, as one of our
Television comics said 2020 the year that took years
Well, that's a good one. That's a good one you can find that on your taste of 2021
Well, it's gotta be
Just a long time machine because anybody want a time machine that can go back to March 2020 is about mid-March
I believe anyone up for that
If you would have for it if you would have a time machine to any other time apart from March
mid 2020
If you had it to like
November
2019 or
October whenever
Corona
God off. It's actually
Started out and then I would happily take it and I would risk my life saying to those guys a stop stop
Saying the doctors are lying. Yeah, yeah, because they actually afterwards they did
You can
You can talk to yourself like back to the future
Too isn't it way comes back when did the book and it's like I'm you from the future
And if you've got this you know that you're gonna win you're gonna have all the money and and you can come and say
There's gonna be face masks and there's gonna be this and that and and you're the opacity will be like what you're about
Yeah, generally people will go about that day, won't they?
Yeah, I think if you can get a bookie to take a bet. Yeah, you can make it make out of killing
Yeah
You could that's really the only way is thousands of people thousands will die from starvation as usual
You can give them a food vaccine, but you know how many people are gonna go for that unless they themselves feel threatened
You can take a vaccine back to when it started like actually that's the point vaccine that I want not for taking the vaccine
If you make it available or take it. Yeah, I'll take it
I'm not gonna ask someone I asked about almost an hour ago how old I was and the answer is 68
So yeah, so I was the one who asked that question by the way
I'm 15 so that's a little difference in in age
So good friends he has become a good friend in the past year
Uh already has six distros who is named and he just turned 11
Six walks
He started out with a Raspberry Pi
That was based on Linux from scratch
As a nine-year-old kid wrote a Raspberry Pi distro on Linux from scratch
When you say right, I mean, you know, well, you know, Linux from scratch is pretty much writing it, you know
It is
It's putting bits together. I remember non-years-old
Yeah, it's not a Lego project. Let me tell you
Yeah, Lego can be complicated sometimes. I have a Lego set where they have to use elastic bands
That's not something you find in the normal Lego sets I can tell you
When I was a kid, Legos were just the basic blocks. You didn't have these little characters
These little special things you had to make something out of this
It has come a long way you still have to make stuff out of the box now
There is um the the
When when I was a bit younger, I did like Lego thing. I did Lego series and after that another Lego series about Minecraft
um, but the first Lego series
There were I have two of them and they're complicated and they're big
They're big they're massive and I can hardly move them and I haven't real and and they're dusty
They become dusty, but and they're so advanced you need elastic bands
Mm-hmm, but what I have been blowing people away by telling them that we did not even have a pocket calculator until I was a senior in high school
And at that time that pocket calculator cost $250
What that's that's like that's like a little less than my graphic calculator right well
Yeah, and it did probably no more than what you could get at a dollar store these days
Uh
I
Well, you don't have dollars. Yes
You're a store everything for a euro
So they're basically a very cheap store. Yes. Yeah, okay
But like I did not have a personal computer of my own until I was 28 years old. I wouldn't have to buy
There wasn't an IBM computer when I had
I think you're capable of
Similar things
I mean you'd be capable of doing similar things with what you had as he would you know if you were born born today
Like the nine-year-old kid is putting things together
He can put together the things that are available can't he or she he yes
But he's a good person you really is I was just saying I have an 11-year-old friend that already has six distros to his name
He is maintaining six Linux distros. I have no clue what that is but I think it's impressive
What operating system do you run?
None
You don't have a computer. What do you want?
Oh, I do have a computer, but I don't on their sand because I um
I do I do a few things
What do you want on that computer windows?
Man, I think Linux. It's Linux. Definitely 100% okay. My dad does
There are hundreds of types of Linux each one is assembled by a different person or group of people each one of those
Yeah, oh
Oh
Impressive, all right, distro is short for distribution
He is actually working on a seventh right now
Wow, that's impressive. Yeah, I must say it's impressive. He wrote the Ubuntu Unity project
He has Ubuntu ed which replaces the old ed Ubuntu project
Um
I
Know a distra is come on
You just explained it to me
I
Stuff that I
My wife are then in trouble getting out of the room on her wheels. I'm meeting my mic for a bit
Okay, the most complicated thing I have ever created with code was in Minecraft pie
Because I wanted to make an iceman a man which could turn stuff to ice with with a touch of his blade
And everywhere where he walked for snow it worked and that was the most complicated thing I made
It was with hamper. Yeah, well
They were talking about putting the distros together and maintaining it and stuff
Okay, I'm back. Yeah, let me be a little bit, but
Oh
But yeah, this boy is an exceptional. He lives in deli india
Yeah, now just an incredible human being
like
Save that we were talking about how they would know young developers, right?
Yeah, and here we go. He is a very wrong date
Well, sir, no sir, no SSL by a guy in UK named Dominic who just turned 21 and he's been
running it since 2017
so yeah
Yeah, yeah, there are a lot of young developers. Yes, yes, I'm not one of them
so
How many young kind of developer are there?
Well, you have to talk to Linux foundation and see who they got
Because it's just about who many was
Developing the corner why does it matter how old they are? What's the purpose?
It doesn't know
Colonel is saying they were 15 and I was 68 and while look at the difference in eight
I go well, I've got a friend that's younger than that. That's all it was I think the context is
Vaccines then wasn't it whether you would take the vaccine
Yeah, it was about vaccines that seems like ages ago because
It was ten minutes ago
Excuse me
The topic changes like when I came in it was about kernels if it was about there was radio silence before that there
Someone asked the question and then some of these think people started answering and that kind of stuff so
Yeah
Back in kernels or UFOs both of those things relating to consciousness, you know, and how we make
Decisions and what kind of mythology and all kinds of things, right? It's open open season on topics here
You've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org
We are a community podcast network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
Hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicum computer club
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
On this otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments
Attribution share a light 3.0 license
