Episode: 3871
Title: HPR3871: HPR Community News for May 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3871/hpr3871.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:04:42

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3871 from Monday the 5th of June 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News from May 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 94 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is HPR Volunteers Rendave Retro and can talk about shows released and comments posted in May 2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today is HPR Community News from May 2023.
Hard to believe it's May already guys.
Joining me tonight in alphabetical order starting from the top is Dave.
Dave Morris, of course, my name again to the D.
And yes, hello everybody.
Then we have all the way from America.
Would that be Ryan from Baltimore?
That would be America, wouldn't it?
That is America, yes.
And then we have Retro.
Hi, this is Retro from Switzerland.
Yeah, my last time was more than a year ago on a new year's show and now I want to join again.
Excellent, excellent.
This is HPR which is Hacker Public Radio, a podcast where the shows are contributed by random weirdos on the internet.
There's a t-shirt right there.
And we have been doing this for quite a while now and we need to, well, it's a cool idea.
So if you're interested in keeping a goal, submit a show once your year is all we're asking for people.
And this show is a roundup of what's been going on in the community over the last month.
And what a busy month it's been, Dave.
And we have a new host.
And this is where Dave introduces the new host.
Ken is breaking from the script.
It's all right, it's all right.
Yes, we have a new host whose name I didn't double check with pronunciation, but I'm going to go for Ryo no Ki.
Sort of a Japanese style name.
So yeah, welcome on board.
Always, always nice to hear.
To have new host joining, it is excellent, but I'd also like to see some of the older hosts come back.
That will be also excellent news.
Anyway, this show, what we normally do is we go through all the shows for the previous month.
That way for people who only subscribe to this feed.
Know what is on offer.
And can select a la carte.
And then we basically go through the mailing list and anything else that's been happening around the juncture.
First show of last month was episode three thousand eight hundred and forty six.
Each viewer community news.
For April 2023.
And the word comes.
This was you.
This was your show, wasn't it?
Are you talking about it?
Yes, yes.
I've grown and I did that one.
Thanks for helping.
God, I was screaming down the microphone.
If you guys know, that's not fine.
Yes.
And now I can't remember what it was that company still worked up.
You shouldn't record the show again.
I have to go back and listen to it.
Let me see if I can read it from the transcripts better not do that.
You obviously didn't say anything controversial as nobody was commenting.
Let's go on to the next, which was all somebody tell me what that is synchrotron.
This is a show about shows coming up by Clinton Roy.
And I'm looking forward to that series again, no comments on that.
And anything Thunderbird email filters using BIM.
This is something that I didn't know you could do in the first place.
And B, I didn't know you could do with BIM.
There was one comment.
Do you want to read that?
Yes.
So it's from the host himself, some guy on the internet live streamed the process.
He says, I've also streamed a Thunderbird client config and the VIM filter editing on YouTube.
CC by SA.
The VIM editing starts around 1 hour, 11 minutes, 35 in the video.
Wow, he's put some time into that one.
I haven't looked.
Yeah, I did know you could do this because I do it.
And I wrote a project that manages them as well.
So you don't accidentally go and splat your changes on to the live thing.
Hello, Scott, he was very cautious about how he did it as well.
So good stuff.
I was quite surprised that email is still such a big thing for somebody at home.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's the last bastion.
Unfortunately, it seems to be almost impossible drawing your own server now,
but that's such a language that everyone has taken up first.
Yeah.
It's for going to be interesting.
I can't see there's any, there are features of email that are not duplicated elsewhere.
The fact that it remains for as long as you want it to remain,
it doesn't vanish or disappear in some giant list that you can't find as with other instances,
other vaguely comparable things.
And you can also receive an email and take action on it relatively easily.
I certainly do in Thunderbird.
I get it, runs scripts for me if I get messages and stuff of certain types.
And you can order it and format it in all manner of good things.
So I can't see that it's ever going to totally go away.
I hope not.
I hope not.
The following day, we had troubleshooting.
Don't overlook the obvious from Brian and Ohio.
Now, this one was dripping with hard, hard, sought experience.
What you think?
Just trying to remember what it was.
Oh, yeah, he was.
Wow.
Was this the one where he...
Go on.
Was this the one where he bought parts doing the investigation?
What is wrong?
Yep.
That's all.
I thought you did a magnificent job and his explanation was really, really good.
And also how to make sure that you don't file under these circumstances after you've looked at everything
and not found the answer.
Really good.
There are some comments.
Anyone, Ron or Rachel, do you want to read Kevin O'Brien's comment there?
I can read Kevin O'Brien's.
So first comment from Kevin O'Brien, good advice.
Thanks for some good advice.
I have several misbehaving computers I need to fix.
And your reminder is, thus very timely.
And Joe says, troubleshooting is an art.
I do agree with your last statement that haste makes waste,
which leads to jumping to conclusions and not getting the results you expected leading to frustration.
You usually have to follow your goals, as they say.
First impressions, previous experience related to the given topic
and the right state of mind can lead you to the correct answer quickly.
There are particular steps you mentioned.
You have to walk through in your mind and testing your assumptions to see if you're on the right track.
The old adage that failure is the best teacher to learn from and improve your skills,
whatever they may be.
Great episode.
Get people to implement critical thinking skills and enjoy the experience.
Good show.
So the next one was a continuation of a Hookah's travel series.
This is something I personally requested him to do.
And I like the show where he and his good wife are going around America.
And we are proxying along with him.
There are loads of pictures in the show notes as well.
And Rachel, would you want to have a go at the comments?
Or are you prefer to leave the truth?
I can try if it plays with me.
So the first comment is by Stache AF.
Space Museum.
I'm surprised you didn't stop by the Space History Museum and tour of the Gene Roddenberry exhibit.
It's strange hearing someone talking about things to do nearby and thinking,
was I there when they were?
Oh, cool.
My turn.
Yep, Kevin O'Brien says the next comment didn't know about it.
I never heard of any Space Museum.
Where is it?
And I get to the 2022-22-23 trip.
You'll find that I hit a number of space related sites.
So yeah, I'll report to that one.
Well, there's lots to come.
Cool.
Firefox extensions.
I walked through some of the Firefox extensions I have and also
give a rundown of why I use them.
There's one comment.
Ron, can you read that?
Sure.
So we have a first comment by Joe.
Plugins I've never heard of.
Great episode.
All of the mentioned extensions I have not heard of and look forward to testing them out.
Appreciate you sharing some of the extensions you're using or have found.
So the next day is UDM Ubiquity Setup for 2023.
Operator has a Ubiquity Setup on his system and provides us with a script,
which obviously has no you should review before you download all missing sites.
Are the Ubiquity routers seem to be quite common in the States?
I have never seen one in real life.
Can we do that?
Go ahead.
I was going to say we actually have a couple at work.
They're sort of gateway device and then like a managed switch.
And even like one of their the Wi-Fi access points.
And they're nice.
The work nice.
And part of what I liked about them was they had like the local control,
you know, their web interface controller that lets you, you know,
you don't have to use it out in the cloud.
You can have a local instance running.
But the downside to that is it can be a little finicky to get running.
And once you've sort of paired the device with a particular controller,
it's kind of a pain if you need to move that controller or like you haven't logged on for a while
and you can't remember which computer it's running on.
It can be a bit tricky to, you know,
you almost have to like make it refactory reset something to get it to go on to another controller.
I mean, there's ways not to do that.
But yeah, that's the only downside to them I've found.
But they're okay.
It's okay stuff.
So the following day we had creating a prompt for chat GPT to generate a HPR show.
It's a rushed episode.
People, even if you're submitting a hit as show, never say it's rushed episode.
Where Mr. X pretty attached GPT prompts to generate a HPR episode.
And I found this personally more work.
More working when they do this.
That's what I've got into just doing the show.
What do you guys think?
Yeah, it's a great idea.
I really like the idea of doing this.
And it did seem like quite a lot of work to go backwards and forwards with chat GPT
to get it to produce the correct instructions for itself to produce the show.
Which seems very, very torturous.
But yeah, I like the idea.
Yeah, I'm still just coming to terms with learning.
It's probably something I should learn to play with.
Because it does seem to be, you know, it's gaining momentum.
I don't think it's going to go away.
But I still have been this like, I don't know if I want to deal with.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm the same right now.
In fact, I met up with Mr. X couple of weeks ago now.
And we talked about this a little bit.
And it turned out that he's been using it a lot.
And I've used it once.
So yeah, I don't know what it is that attracts certain people to it.
And repels people like me, perhaps, to that's the way of it.
Well, people who seem to be getting excited about it are the same people who get excited about Bitcoin.
Which is always a red flag in my book.
I personally, as I've said to people who can this is going to be a huge big thing.
And people are excited about the remark, etc.
And I can see use cases for it.
But at the end of the day, whatever this thing produces.
And if you're putting your name behind it, it's not it.
That's going to be held responsible.
It's you that's going to be held responsible.
So yeah, you know, I mean spell checking fine.
If that's your thing, autocorrect fine.
If you want to produce a with chat GPT fine.
The end of the day, professionally, you're putting your name behind that.
And that has not worked out very well so far for a lot of people.
But we'll see what happens.
To be interesting for people in 20 years going back listening to this show and going,
oh, that was before chat GPT became sentient and took over the world.
Yeah.
Strange thing, there was no comments about that.
Which is interesting.
And the next day, we had episode seven, hard to believe, of the New Year's show for 2022,
2023 with as ever excellent show notes by some guy in the internet on HP Lovecraft brilliant work.
And it was nice.
I mean, I just, I sort of sped through, I usually speed through these.
I just, they're not always my cup of tea, but it is nice.
Like Dave's mentioned, like hearing there were groups, you know,
times when groups of people that sound like they haven't been able to like get together
or the shows that sort of brought them together have moved on or they've moved on,
but they're getting to sort of have like a little mini reunion.
Yeah, exactly.
This was kind of weird, but it was a lot of people that I hadn't spoken to in a while.
I'm, I'm a soulfossing on the episode that much.
So I missed out and talking with a lot of people.
So make more of an effort.
There you go.
I missed out completely last year or this year, whatever you call it.
Yeah, so it's quite nice to hear.
Just as an aside, can you break up a bit as far as I am hearing things?
You're getting it to the same run.
Yeah, there's been a couple times where you've broken up a little bit for a second or two.
Strange.
Yeah.
Don't know what that is.
Okay.
Just in case, you could stop it.
Yeah, man.
Yeah.
Yes.
Well, just tell me if you know, this is a window, please.
Okay.
The following day we had SSH or open SSH escape sequences by Claudia Miranda.
Wow, this was an excellent episode.
I have never thought that you could do this within an ongoing session.
Unbelievable.
I had never heard of them to be perfectly honest.
And then I finally this morning, I was like, let me see.
And I was like, wow, it does just pop up a little menu and there they are just as he described.
Yeah, I had to go and check it as well.
Back in the day when we used telnet, then you would there was escape sequences you could use to tell the telnet client
various things like clear the line or hang up or something.
But yeah, I didn't know there was anything like that in SSH.
It's actually quite potentially useful, I think.
Retro, do you want to read the comments by Claudia or herself?
Yeah, sure.
I hope I'm not breaking up this time.
Claudia says, man SSH, the manual to add these sequences are also available in the man page for the SSH command search for the title escape characters in the man page.
The man page if you like to read it.
Well, only if you understand it very well.
It depends on the man page.
I think quite.
That's true.
There was a lot of balls on the social internet about this episode, particularly the BST people.
A lot of people were commenting that they didn't realize that this was possible and life changing, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Cool.
Is that mastered on you?
We were looking at it.
That will be the master done.
Yes.
I didn't notice myself.
There you go.
Very good.
It was really interesting because I mean, I would just quit the sessions usually or close it somehow and just go through it.
And I had no idea about these comments, really valuable information.
Exactly.
The following day we had plateau painting toy soldiers.
Class two started painting miniature figures for war games because hashtag is tattoo.
And there was a comment by equal sign.
But soldiers pointing to a YouTube and really guys want me to think that Sam.
This is exactly how you make a spam count.
But what it turns out to me is an excellent video.
Can you hear me?
Yeah.
I think you were breaking up on that.
Yeah, reading that again.
You know what I think it is is my push to talk button not working.
So what it turns out to be is a Peter Cushing's video from British pate.
And if you don't know who he is famous English actor, very well known for being.
For the Star Wars general and Star Wars, the original ones.
Hunting vampires at various points.
I was going to say I can remember him from the horror.
I think he was in Dracula.
I was in a person of Dracula.
So definitely remember him knocking steaks into some vampire or other.
Yeah, he was part of that hammer horror.
Oh, yes, of course, yes.
Cool.
People don't talk like that anymore.
Hello.
I was brought up in not very long after that era and did for a while.
Yeah, I said, I'm doing my prep now, but it's great to hear.
And apparently you enjoyed playing soldiers, etc. etc. etc.
Now, sorry, I got just diverted there myself reading the Wikipedia article.
The following day we had yesterday, I saw a solar flare.
On the count of the first time, McNally, we saw a solar flare with his own eyes.
And now he is legally blind.
No, he didn't watch it with his own eyes.
He watched it through the proper equipment thus sparing his eyes.
Yeah, I really found this.
I really found this an interesting episode.
It's pretty cool to just think you can sort of see them.
I mean, I know you know, there's ways to detect them.
I just hadn't really thought about the fact that you could, you know,
properly protected, look at it, you know, with your own eyes.
Yes.
And the fact that very few astronomy people actually do that was also quite interesting.
Looking at his show notes, I especially liked picture at the bottom where the sun is
well looking very special.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
It looks like a pizza sort of melting or something.
Yeah, nice idea.
So the next day we had in-early news.
Sometimes the internet talks about the Toyota's data leak and more in the ONO news.
And Kevin O'Brien says, this is a great series.
I do love the ONO news.
Please keep it up.
More about that later.
And the following day we had GWP with my life, my life in devices.
Where he talks about various devices and, like, purchase them.
There's no comments, but it could be sure ONO.
Why am I not seeing the transcript for this, David?
Oh, because was that the one that I missed?
I don't remember to be honest with you.
I got a new laptop during this period.
And the ONO I upgraded Fedora.
And it broke Whisper, which is the tool we used to do the transcripts.
So perhaps that's it.
Any comments on this episode or shall I move on?
Sorry, I'm just making a note of that show to go and look at.
See what went wrong.
Yeah, it's good.
He's got a JWP has all sorts of weird and wonderful machines.
It's always good to hear about.
He meant it to say, my live in devices.
Do you think?
Yeah.
I think he lives with.
Yeah.
Okay.
So Civilization 2.
This was a show by Hookah about the strategy game Civilizations.
And to be honest, I don't play computer games or games in general.
And both.
This feels quite cool to follow along with this.
So nice.
Yeah, Hookah.
Hookah mentioned something that I thought about it.
Is that back in the days he could look at the clock and it was four o'clock in the morning or something like that.
And this is one of the reasons why I wouldn't play or even start with such a strategy games.
Yeah, yeah, good point.
Yeah, exactly.
So the next thing is how to find things at your home network.
How to find a lost Raspberry Pi 0 on your home network.
Again, by JWP, it's an app called network analyzer on his Huawei phone.
It would never come into my mind to search it via the mobile phone.
I thought it was quite special on his approach.
My go to would be an ARP look up, ping everything and then do an ARP look up from.
I would go to my router and see what is connected to that.
I think I used to like using would it be netcat or something where you can.
Yeah, you can you can quiz that for all devices.
It can it can see.
Which is yeah.
But yeah, it's just because I've got an alias to it by hardly ever use it.
So I can't remember.
I think I showed previously on locating's Raspberry Pi's on your network.
And while the easiest thing is to go into your router on a podcast,
it's difficult because every router is going to be different.
So doing the ping look up kind of makes makes more sense because it's generic and anybody can do it.
It's it's end map that I couldn't remember there and end map query.
On the whole subnet is what I got configured in my aliases.
So the following day, part 72 did a response episode to my episode and goes over a lot of plugins.
And one I particularly dislike is they I don't care about cookies tough.
But for the rest, you should very much care about cookies and turn them off manually.
It sends a message back to the websites not to track you.
One of you guys mentioned that I still don't care about cookies,
which sounds almost similar.
But because of us, the virus antivirus manufacturer,
which had some bad reputation in the past that took over that that software.
Interesting.
I don't like this the one I had to be.
I know people love dark mode and I like it for some things, but it's an obvious what it is.
But I like my light mode.
Yeah, I'm struggling with dark.
I've got dark mode and a fair number of things, but I find that terminals with it.
And then you start up them and the contrast between the different syntax colors and stuff is two.
You just can't read them sometimes.
I've got to be really careful about that.
It's an aged thing or an eye thing.
Yeah, I'm not sure I would go for dark mode and everything that's basically what I'm saying.
I was trying not to mention the age thing.
I've talked about myself.
It's amazing how fashions go so quickly through IT.
Everybody, all of a sudden, all of the applications have to have a dark mode.
Yet an invisible scrawly virus for some reason has become a thing.
And yes, if you want people to change so you can change the format of the date function in your application.
No, no, no, we can't do that.
That we can't do, but we can spend all this time changing dark modes and messing around with you eyes.
It's just amazing.
Yeah, yeah.
I spend lots of my time struggling with these things.
Being a KDE user, I'm constantly tweaking stuff.
Why has this window not got a title by this different color from the rest of it?
Because when they overlay, they're really hard to see.
So I've just been trying to make sure I've got that enabled properly.
Those sorts of things.
Not saying that there shouldn't be dark modes.
I'm just saying it amazes me how popular all of a sudden.
It wasn't popular and then everybody has it on everything.
Even in work like wiki pages in work suddenly.
Oh no, we've got a dark mode.
Don't want it.
Thank you.
Have a nice day. Goodbye.
Just the other day I followed up on on your add-ons for for the copy stuff and user agent changes.
And what was interesting to me on the one from now I don't have to name.
From March of 72 is I use something for YouTube already.
But the extensions or the add-ons he mentions for YouTube are quite interesting.
I wasn't aware about those that you could even mention when some advertisement is inside
that is spoken where they can share it.
This was a really interesting idea from the one who developed it.
Yeah, true.
Yeah, yeah.
I didn't follow that one up yet, but it sounded amazing.
A good use for AI.
And speaking of AI, they absolutely spoke about previously about Mr. X and chat GPT.
This is the article that HBR that he produced using that.
So that was also interesting actually.
Yeah, I actually enjoyed listening.
I thought it was a pretty good episode.
Yeah, and I enjoyed this one.
Yeah, I think I seem to have spent most of my time puzzled over how an earth he managed to get it
to do what it did rather than listen to the content.
Now I come to see it's quite a large set of show notes here, but very, very good.
So the following day we had the New Year show, Part 8.
And there were no comments about that.
The day after that, we had, when did the internet get some boring?
Some thoughts about the modern web as part of the information underground.
And it's about, yeah, Tatoo talks about the state of the web.
And Hammer on has a good comment there.
Somebody want to volunteer to read it or shall I?
I can read it.
I'll grab a coffee in the meantime.
From Hammer on, why did the internet get so boring?
Tatoo, I found this episode to be very relatable to me.
I missed the vast quantities of those independent websites such as geocities that you mentioned.
I almost forgot about how poor, how poor coded they were.
I'd sometimes see text overwritten with graphics on top or other text.
It's hard for me to complain on that issue as my own personal website might not be written much better,
but it's mine and I'm learning as I go along.
The small sites though, far less common than days gone by, had a vibe that is far from the mostly corporate based sites today.
It was nice when you'd see a description of what people were doing from their point of view.
A recipe from a grandmother, a hike along a favorite trail, a little known but much loved music group, games, stories, poems.
Many graced with gifts such as dancing flames on a torch, dancing animals, or fantasy castles and dragons, perhaps copied from elsewhere.
Many had background music from MIDI files with their electronic tones.
As you stated about modern sites, tending to talk and not listen a lot, I totally agree.
A problem that I encounter is when doing a web search looking for information, the sites often are not a good match for my search terms and more.
Few of the sites offer quality information, most instead being geared for sales, hear them talk.
It's like entering a library to find that it is not a library but a department store.
Something I've recently noticed is that if I look for a particular website, say, let's say, comparing Linux distros, I can go several websites and a few of the sites will have identical descriptions, word for word.
It's a shame to visit site after site to find information not similar but identical.
Well, thank you for the podcast, Clotu, and thanks to HPR, Hammeron.
And the thing you missed was the under construction icons, gifts.
Remember that?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, they were nice.
Regardless of what stage your website was, it had the under construction gear for them.
Has one of you ever given a goal to this goal for?
Yes.
I have worked at a university where we implemented it.
In fact, I implemented it as a sort of campus-based information system.
And it was on the internet, but it was really for the campus rather than anything else.
Yeah, it was good, but we were happy to move away from it once.
Web browsers and web servers started to rise.
I never was on the server side.
And I think really the first time I used Gofer was like in a web browser.
Because I think like the early like net scape and whichever previous ones.
Like to that.
Mostly have.
Yeah, that's it.
Music had, they built Gofer in to it.
So you could and FTP and all the good fun stuff.
So you could.
It was sort of a multi-purpose tool back then.
There has been an effort to do something along the lines of Gofer with a protocol called Gemini,
which I've been considering.
Now, once we're on the static sites that we can also generate Gemini pages,
I mean, shouldn't be too difficult.
But yeah, if you want to see some old school internet pages,
just look up some hand radio stuff and you're all immediately go back to websites designed in 1990.
Still been maintained, but the look and feel are still there.
You know, yeah, there's a hand radio website.
But that was a good show that that show had me thinking actually.
Have me thinking a lot introducing myself.
This is by Rona Kuhi.
Andre Yanish.
Yeah, that'll do.
He's named the Raiuno key is.
Yeah, I would say Raiuno, but he does actually say it in the show,
but I forgot to go back and listen and learn it from there.
But when next time we'll know, you know,
for every host, I have a wildfile where they introduce themselves.
And I save that.
That was something else for the static sites in the direct,
in the host directory, you know, host name or something.
That would be nice.
What I thought was funny with him is,
I had once a mouse when you, especially in Logitech, I think,
is when you click the button, you get this double hammering.
It's like when it's getting old,
and all you would have to do is clean the contacts a little bit.
So the mouse is basically broken because it drives you mad
when it does a double click if you don't want to.
And now he says he has broken computers,
so to say, your computers, he no longer needs.
So what does, I am hindered you to take those things apart?
If you don't use it anyway, why not just go for it and learn?
If it's already broken, it can't be more broken.
Right, isn't it?
There was so much in this episode.
I totally agree with you by the way, Roto.
There was so much in this episode, I'm looking at Firefox OS.
There's a show, F-Troid, there's a show.
Hold stuff and Fairphone.
There's a shows.
I could talk about mathematics.
Well, now, as it so happens,
we have a mathematics series here in HBO plus.
I have some mathematical stuff that I need for the,
for the ham radio exam course that I would appreciate.
People's help from the mathematics community to explain that stuff.
So get in touch with me about that, please.
Let me see any other shows.
Thinkpads, yes, reviews, breakdowns, upgrades,
HTTP and laptops, Farad, all machines from the DOS era.
We have a DOS series here in HBO.
So I'm expecting big things here.
Welcome to the fold.
Exactly.
Who's going to do archers?
I haven't done one for a while.
I can do archers, 72, who says show ideas.
First of all, welcome here.
It was a good introductory show.
You mentioned four topics that would be interesting to a lot of listeners.
Web development and coding, mathematics, music theory, electronics pertaining to computer repair.
On music theory, I would also like to hear more.
As a child of 12 years, I did play the piano, but didn't go far with it.
Without I can still play a few notes.
Electronics, less of my experience is in computer repair.
More of this is repairing electronics in a factory setting,
although knowledge here is not what it could be.
Maybe not you, but another host might like to do one on Arduino.
Again, limited experience here, but this would be an interesting avenue to explore.
Archers 72.
I think we need to put archers 72 and some guy on the internet into our host,
host something team.
What will we call those?
A publicity department.
I second that move.
Absolutely.
Yes.
I was trying to think what the word would be, but I can't.
Yeah, I can't.
Especially in the whole context of the generative process.
Customer relations.
Sorry.
There was some horror like that.
It would be perceptional.
Yes.
Following date, generally, it was our role.
And installing leap 15.1.
I think that's the rolling release of open suits, I think.
If we did to SN9000 thin plant, interesting.
Very, very interesting.
Would not thought to run Docker on that.
But why not, actually?
Yeah.
As I said before, JWP had some weird and wonderful equipment.
He has mentioned this device before.
But yeah, I think I've probably seen one in my.
We certainly had a bunch of these in my work in the earlier days.
But I wouldn't consider every using it these days.
Good for him.
Yeah.
Cool.
Excellent.
Excellent.
And are we hitting the end date?
3868 is the last one.
3868 is the news.
Reports and recent ask some guy in the internet again.
Reports and recent FBI criminal reports and other news.
If you like it, help me name it.
So that was that.
And there was one coming.
JWP says the news show.
Hi, I really like the news show.
Easy to follow.
Cool.
I didn't like it so much.
I thought it was in opposite to the to the security.
Oh, no news.
He did before.
This was.
Well, I don't know.
Maybe it was just me, but it felt quite negative somehow.
I don't know how to express that.
OK.
Yeah, I suppose it's difficult to to pick and use.
Yeah, it's difficult to pick news in general, happy news.
As well, it must be hard to find.
I think I sort of.
That was the sort of the sentiment for me to I guess.
I have enough sort of news, news feeds in my like feed reader that.
For me, this was like I sort of come to a hacker public radio.
Not to sort of hit the sort of more general news.
In a way, I mean, he does it well as you know, I mean, I do and I appreciate.
Like how much got he's really like putting it effort into everything he does.
Obviously, but just improving his, you know, podcasting and then, you know,
providing, you know, really dedicated to the community.
But this for me just doesn't quite hit it yet.
Now, maybe it's just, you know, one episode and he hasn't found the stride yet for it.
But I definitely lean more towards the owner news and its current format.
Sort of like this companion news.
Yeah, I tend to agree actually on reflection.
I just hadn't quite been as discerning as you guys with it.
I just said, oh, yeah, bunch of news, interesting.
Thanks for presenting it.
But yeah, looking at it now, I think you're right.
Maybe I'm not sure quite what the intention is.
So, but something a little bit more of a mixture perhaps might be better.
I don't know.
A quality wise, I'm totally impressed by his work.
How he does the different voices or this auto.
I don't know what it is, but I'm totally impressed how he does it.
And well, he and how much time he will spend in his was just the.
The content of it didn't fit my as a.
Ryan already said before.
Yeah, okay.
I think that's the end of the shows, but there was one comment.
I think it was left by you retro.
Would you like to read that out?
It's on the page itself.
I'll send you a link in the mobile chat.
Okay, it's opening.
I think the big red one that Dave tells us never to mention.
The big red line route.
Okay.
Oh, this is one that I left for Macatroniac.
Hi, Akatroniac.
Having Akku.
Having Akku's on hand with different voltage sounds good.
Almost like Ken.
I don't think soldering destroys the Akku as long as you have a large soldering iron.
By the way, large means it can keep a lot of heat.
So you can really quickly heat something up.
Exactly.
It goes further.
Why not building a do your own spot welding machine?
I watched some videos in the past like then I put in a link from a YouTube video.
How they took from an old microwave.
The transformer, I think you say.
Or a bit more risky.
You can just take a small car battery.
Maybe a motorbike battery will do it as well.
And just use that one.
But the battery has no switch.
You should be careful.
You see in Macatroniac stuff, you shouldn't be giving the guy more dangerous stuff to be doing.
We're trying to get him working safer.
Not more dangerous.
Oh dear.
There was one comment, two comments on previous shows.
The D1 Mini closed scan to lid by me.
And the comment was by me.
I need to put this on Perfboard.
Thanks Dave for having the scheme out.
You can archive.org for me to find based on the bash file in.
This is how my life works now.
Since then I have put it on Perfboard and found out that my Perfboard is cheap and crappy.
So I need to get more Perfboard.
And Roland, do you want to do Archer 72's last comment?
And then we can move on.
So on for episode 353H, installing the tenacity audio editor by Archer 72,
we have a comment by Archer 72, my memory.
These shows are my memory.
Not only my shows, but a multitude of other shows.
I have recently had to reference this one.
I had hoped that tenacity would be in the Fedora 38 repose.
But no.
Still, tenacity is alive and well and currently has implemented a dark meme.
Which I definitely was not.
Also newly integrated are the clip handles to move around audio clips instead of a separate tool.
Okay.
Sorry.
So one of the fork of Audacity stayed alive as it sounds?
Yes.
I haven't used tenacity.
I've read about it, but apparently it is still alive and kicking.
I was looking to see if it was alive just the other day because I had a conversation with Mr. X on that subject.
And to me it looked like it was dying because there's not been many releases in quite a long time.
But I might have misunderstood what I was reading there, I don't know.
If somebody has more information on that, they can always record a show.
The idea.
That would be good to know actually.
Okay.
A lot of movement there on the old mailing.
One of the first ones was by Operator.
And it was about, I won't read it because it was about an record related to posting show with comments.
Okay.
We have this thing where comments, if you're posting comments for the last two weeks that it only shows three questions.
And if you're posting in the future feed or in the past feed, then there are more questions.
And they require you to fill in additional stuff.
That will be coming standard for a while for reasons which we're going to later.
I'm Ron.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'll quickly go through these.
Ron sent in a message about the GT instance migrating to the new server.
The IP address is there.
So if you run into issues with your key being giving errors, that's the reason for that.
And then policy.
So first of all, by me, first of all, we need more shows as the queue is empty for the next number of weeks.
The number of emergency reserve shows are also dwindling.
So please finish the shows that you were thinking of submitting and send it in.
If you don't care when it's released, put in use as emergency show in the show notes for now.
And that is also still relevant today as we speak.
We're just keeping the queue sort of filled all the time and we need more people to contribute.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
Then I'll continue on and concerned about the future of HBR as a project where the shows are produced by the community.
At this rate, we cease to be a bar camp style podcast and become one where the shows are provided by a rotating team of regulars.
Ideally, we would like to have every show is contributed by a different host giving a one-to-one ratio between show and host.
As far as you're all about four of the submissions are from hosts who submitted more than one show.
So this is a three to one ratio.
On the hooker side, the majority as a result of kindhearted hosts who contribute shows at the last minute to fill a vacant slot in the queue.
This problem to make this problem more visible, I would like to introduce the following scheduling guidelines.
No host should submit any more than one show in a two week period.
Of course, these are guidelines, etc.
But it should still allow prolific host to submit shows who are now masking the underlying issue that we have yet to address, which is we need new hosts.
But we also need old hosts who have not submitted shows this year to submit a show.
How do we solve this problem?
And I realize reading that that is terribly worth it.
But we will go on and somebody read the next.
Let me see, Dave, can you read Nigel's response?
Yep, yep, yep.
So this is Nigel Verity, who says I can.
One of the many occasional contributors is always and genuinely just about to put a show together.
Slapped wrist accepted. We will do better.
We are very fortunate that the prolific hosts generally put out such excellent well-presented shows.
Could there perhaps be some mileage in contacting all the top Linux and more general IT podcasts to put out an invitation for their listeners or even hosts themselves to contribute?
There are some extremely knowledgeable people amongst those presenters.
So it's probably safe to assume that this will be reflected to some extent in their audiences.
And this is Biza, it's his handbook.
Excellent idea.
And if there are people who can do that for us and go get interviewed on those shows and explain about what HPR is and stuff.
If you're actively involved in another podcasting community, can you please take that upon yourself to do it?
I think just wait for somebody from HPR, one of the generous to do it.
You're listening to HPR.
If you need some information about what HPR is and stuff, we can supply that to you but feel free to get in contact with these people.
And if you must put Admin at Hacker Public Radio on the CC.
Excellent, excellent.
Can you read us a retro McNally, please?
And, Andrew Conway, I can at all.
I have a show that just needs an edit, so I will do that now.
I really understood from somewhere that more than one show per fortnight was thrown up on.
Don't recall from where exactly, so that guideline is fine by me.
One suggestion for increasing diversity, invite someone you know to do a show with you.
I'm sure we all know folk who have interesting things to say, but who are not yet on HPR.
We can then point out the guest how easy it is to record and submit the show, smiley.
Also, we can spice things up a bit by doing shows with a co-host from among our own ranks.
If there are N hosts, there are many more than N co-hosting pairs.
In fact, it is N choose two, which can be expressed mathematically as I will do a show in greater than two weeks times.
Andrew McNeilwis is a abbreviation, I guess, in which point.
I think it is interesting.
Well, for me, I live in Switzerland.
I don't have so many people who would go ahead and say let's do a chat in English.
So it's maybe more appropriate for as one of the new person said for the host in the UK or the US.
Or it's easier to find someone.
Where can these hosts find each other?
I mean, from this community, when he says to find a co-host who is already doing something on HPR.
Where is the best place for that?
Well, I can think of two people straight off who we have Benny, who lives in Switzerland.
And we also have, although he's never done a show, actually, together with you, he did.
No, Benny did.
That's correct here.
But from the broadcast, oh, what's his name?
French guy from, French speaking guy from Switzerland.
Oh, Yannick.
Yannick.
Yannick.
So, guess, email Yannick and tell him to do a show.
That will be excellent.
Okay, you catch me.
Can you do tattoos one, please?
Rolled.
Okay.
From Clot 2, I agree with Minix.
Fewer rules make for easier compliance for the content creator.
If we want to maximize incoming content, we should take what we can, when we can, whenever
the content provider wants.
If that means we have a week of just one host on a recording spree, that's okay.
People control their own playlist.
They can mix it up as they prefer.
If we want to reserve the right of episodes around as we see fit, then let's stop asking people
to reserve episode numbers and just say that the content gets scheduled as the schedule
seems fit.
We get to make the rules.
If people don't like how each operates, then they don't have to submit shows.
There are lots of places to post stuff on the internet.
We're just one place.
Let's make it easy for people to create content for HDR and easy for HDR to publish daily,
which is it's day to go.
We skipped over the one that Minix had said, if the survival of HDR depends solely on new
hosts, then you might as well fold the show.
If the survival of the show depends on getting show period with a smattering of new hosts
through in through the year, then that's good.
If it were me, I would encourage everyone, all the new hosts to send in lots of shows.
If you want the Q to be empty, just to prove that HDR needs new hosts, I bet that's easily
accomplished, but I don't see that changing the nature of reality.
IE what it is.
So my reply to that was, well, HDR depends on the new hosts.
Yeah, it was a different version back in 2010.
It's hard.
We managed not to miss a day's sense, although survival of the show depends on getting you
an old host.
Yes, that's a realistic situation.
It's an excellent idea encouraging older shows to contribute.
You may want to consider sending them reminders on their own adversaries, such as five
years since the last show.
If you want the Q to be empty, just to prove that HDR needs new hosts, I bet it's easily
accomplished.
In response to that, I said, well, it's a difference between some guy in the Internet
and Arch.
Some, the difference is with between, quote, some guy in the Internet and Archers 72 seem
to be on a recording spree.
And, oh, that's another emergency show.
We need to send them some shows.
So it's the same reality, but different effect.
The two-week rule is intended to make the Q management easier, as it will tackle the
feast and famine of submissions.
Calls for show work, but there's a problem with it.
First, it only reaches a tiny fraction of the community here on the mailing list, which
is probably the same people anyway.
This was on the matrix, by filling in the free slot and the emergency reserve show, we automatically
announced the entire community that there's a free slot not being filled, and that we just
need, and also we need another emergency show to replace that one.
Secondly, the call for shows result in people going to the site to see what the situation is
now.
And if one show host fills all the slots with a series they've been working on, then the next
person will see a fill queue and not bother submitting the queue, submitting the show.
Fortunately, that happens on more than one occasion.
The two-week rule will spread out slots and make the queue management a lot easier.
So that was the Linux one that they posted and my reply to it, and then Platoon replied
to them.
And then I replied to Platoon, which I will read.
Okay.
We still need more shows from people who have not posted this year.
Okay.
What appears to be a recording spree is in fact people rushing to post shows, rushing to
post something to the queue to urgently fill a vacant slot.
This is undesirable for many reasons.
Chasing the queue leads to burnout.
The stress of monitoring and filling upcoming slots eats into one's personal time, and
what's supposed to become, what's supposed to be a hobby becomes a chore.
I just want to stop right there.
Dave, when you came aboard, you were doing this.
When I came onboard, I was doing this.
Mystrex was doing it for a while, and other people down to the ages have been doing this.
Watching the queue every day and then popping in shows to fill it up.
What happens is, those people get burned out and leave the project.
So it's important that I would love to stress that the responsibility for filling the queue
is not falling onto the schedule, and I'm calling out some guy in the internet and Archer
72 here.
These two guys have been adding shows into the queue to fill vacant slots, and I've been following
their discussions on the Mystrex channel, and I love the shows, and I don't want them to
stop submitting shows, so that's why I want them to stop submitting shows.
But only when the queue is not full.
If you submit one show a year, you've done your responsibility, you've done your bid for HPR.
And I really appreciate it that they continue to submit shows, but I don't want them to
guys to burn out, and then I have nobody to go to when I really do need shows.
I hope people understand that.
I didn't make it clear in my original email, but I mean, back to what I was saying in the email.
And this is about filling vacant slots.
We've already had comments about the quality of shows suffering as a result.
Human nature results and people not posting a show when there are no free slots in the coming
month versus when there are slots available.
So despite both queues containing the same number of shows, we receive less shows.
Okay, another reason people stop listening to HPR because the feed is full of the one person
that they just happened to not like.
And the last and most important one to me is HPR is community podcasts.
That means more people need to contribute.
It should not be down to the few to keep the project going.
And this is to just go into tactics comment about moving shows around.
Moving shows around leads to confusion to satisfaction and complaints.
This is why the janitors now always ask permissions to move shows, which causes the delay
in processing all the other shows, given somebody has already gone to the effort of recording a show.
I personally think it's, it's reasonable to ask people to scroll down a bit before posting their mixed shows.
For those holes, we genuinely don't care when their shows are released.
We can add an option to get them to post to the don't care reserve or emergency queue.
So that vacant slots are filled from there.
That way the host intention is clear from the outside and the janitors know where we stand.
We need to at least try this two week spacing thing for host because I think it will balance out the slow continuous trickle going out with the burst of shows that come in.
And it would make the actual stage of the queue more visible.
And I think that was about it on that.
No, actually, those more somebody do Jason Dodd's one.
Let's see, Dave, can you do Jason Dodd's and then retro?
So Jason Dodd says, my personal thoughts on the topic have turned into may.
Well, this is probably not technically right.
Not a good thing when discussing amongst hackers and aspiring hackers.
But I think the more rules you put on people who want to contribute shows, the more you push people off from wanting to contribute.
But I do think HBO will get to the get to the point.
Either cease or some of those rules or guidelines will have to go.
I think as new hosts become old hosts, they will have a tendency.
And I still will have a tendency to consider them and show hosted on HBR.
And I like that.
I understand that goes against policy and many people do not like that.
My point is that I think it's counter to goal of filling slots.
I haven't caught up on recent email, but I'm half afraid to, to fearing that it would be a thread about how unknown news has to go.
And, Robin, can you do Kevin's first one?
Okay.
So, from Kevin O'Brien, I'm a strong believer in the value of license.
Actually, hold on, that's for the other one.
You do the second one, please.
No, I think it was the right one.
No, it wasn't, because it's about the community request input needed by some guy in the internet.
So, we'll read that later.
Okay.
I see.
So, I went down.
Okay.
Sorry.
No, it was fine.
I told you to read that one.
Okay.
Sorry, bring forward on my part.
I was not responding to the correct issue here.
I followed the guideline of no more than one show every two weeks for a few years now, and I think it is a good idea.
And since the main issue is that there are not enough shows coming in, it is hard for me to see it as a binding constraint.
If someone has a spur of creativity and records three shows in an afternoon, why is it bad to tell them to post one every two weeks?
I generally record a dozen or more shows over a few days, then upload them in a mass uploading session.
Of course, I'm retired.
So, this is a hobby for me, but I kind of like the two week rule.
As it is, I kind of worry that one day I will see messages on the mailing list saying, when will that guy shut up?
But thankfully, that hasn't happened yet, regards.
Excellent.
Can you reply now?
Yeah.
Yeah, I replied to the wrong one as well, so ignore that.
What did D&T say?
Oh, a message.
Should I read that?
Yes.
So, D&T says, hi.
On this, I agree with the majority that we don't need to change the current guideline into a hard rule.
And it seems like it could exacerbate the problem of filling the queue.
More importantly, I think it would do little to attract more shows by more contributions.
I have fought a lot of things about this.
I also have been thinking about what Ken said a while ago, which got me thinking about what it seems to be a member of a community project.
I think the process of submitting a show is not very involved, but it does feel quite formal, which can induce the contributor to feel like they are producing a major work, which can cause delays.
On the other hand, it is important for a contributor's first contribution experience to be a positive one.
I think there's probably a wide range of experiences of becoming an HPR host.
So there's a wide range of things people need to help them through that step.
For me, I remember as I stood over a small pot of porridge, wooden spoon in one hand, phone in the other.
I was really smitten with HPR and was very driven to send a show.
But I still took a couple of months.
We can only imagine how many recorded, but unposted HPR shows are out there.
You could perhaps get another 13 years out of them.
Anyway, in the porridge show, I remember that one by the way, I mentioned some of the shows that captivated me.
And ultimately got me to want in.
And they were by a variety of hosts that don't submit shows at all the time.
I think if HPR would be a show with a small group of rotating hosts, that would be okay.
But it would become much more similar to other shows that I don't listen to.
For me, the key thing with HPR is that you don't know who or what is coming.
Oh gosh, it's further.
Anyway, I think in the part we need to understand that HPR's goals are quite lofty.
Actually, and of course, perhaps it will fold at some point.
And it is quite a long run.
Also, not always lost when HPR does fold, because the archive will live on.
With those things in mind, I think it is worth continuing to aim for an HPR that contains multitudes, many hosts that only contribute sporadically.
We need to accept the risks that come with that and agree that they are worth it and today and today HPR folds.
So can you shall we split that up?
And you can go turn off that alarm.
Oh, sorry, you heard that in background. Can you continue here?
I can take over if you want.
Yeah.
So as for ideas for how to increase listener conversion and also help fill the queue in another way.
First, rewards for submitting a show.
Could we actually offer to send people an HPR sticker if they'll submit a show?
Could that be worth doing or is it all feasible?
Or could there be some kind of digital thing we could send people?
Maybe create a bundle or creative common stuff like a collection of texts about free culture?
The HPR contribute a handbook where we would say what we would want to say to all new contributors.
If we had them trapped in a room for hours, it could be kind of like a catalog.
Perhaps this is something I could apply my developing latex skills to automatically building a 1 million page PDF from the show summaries, etc.
I do as a library of stuff. I get in touch with him.
Toriel.
Creating more seamless platforms is the next point for people to submit shows.
I could try to implement that idea of creating an HPR recording booth in a matrix channel using matrix commander.
It could be the HPR confessional smiley face.
Having a regular live session on mumble, we can get people to show up and talk for 24 hours on New Year's Eve.
Could it be possible to do it for 30 minutes a week?
We could form a team that rotates staffing that recording session and the focus would have to be on whoever turns up.
That is, if somebody comes to the recording, we start asking them about them as a tricking them into how I got into tech show.
I also do their best to avoid inane chatter smiley face.
Next, consider making a show submission API.
If there are members of the community who would be interested in building a show submission app that aligns with the goal of getting contributors.
I think this has been talked about before the context of the Linux in-laws asking for it.
I think it could be something that eases development of integrations because if people want to develop an integration, they can do more independently.
Unfortunately, I would have nothing to contribute on this front.
Last point, reruns.
Once a week, select a note where the episode from the archive and repost it.
That is a huge archive, many of us don't know.
And I have had a great time listening to some old shows, some of the more venerable, among us, have mentioned in passing.
We could form a small team to select shows, I think, for reposting, with people who are interested in randomly listening to old shows to pick one for the week's rerun.
This could be called throwback Thursday.
I'd be happy to be part of this team. Thanks for reading DNT.
I personally would be opposed to that one because it would take up 52 slots.
We're about sharing knowledge. The archive is there forever.
And you can go back and pick them out.
How if somebody could do a show about shows?
Absolutely.
About a show.
Maybe you can call it what throwback remembrances or something.
From archive shows and point them out.
Okay, I've completely lost thread where we are now, DNT Brian.
Would you like me to read the one?
Yeah, from because I've lost it from Brian, never it.
I agree with DNT.
You listen to shows like Ask Noah and they are doing the same, though not as good editing wise or as funny thing.
I like the shows.
Brian, is that the same?
I was in that thread, but on this degree, yeah.
I wasn't quite sure what he was.
Maybe he's referencing the last.
No, no, it's not one, yeah.
But maybe the referencing the last point, is that what he's brought?
Yeah.
I haven't listened to Ask Noah, so I don't know the reference.
How do you do it?
There is about the similar platform thing.
I think coming out of this discussion, that's more or less it.
Nobody, I think, in the community cares about the queue management as such,
but as admins and people on the matrix town, people following the queue were chasing the queue,
as I've said before, are worried about it.
And we get super stressed about there being empty slots.
So I want to take the pressure off that.
This is a problem that we've had from day one and continues to be a problem.
And the two week posting thing was an attempt to fix that, but I didn't.
I don't think I handled it very well in the original mail,
but through the process of this, at least we know,
know what the community's feelings on it are.
Streamlining the upload process, that's a very good one.
That's something I think that we can do.
We can put in in the scheduling options.
So that you have three options.
You pick a slot.
You don't care, are you submitted to the reserve queue?
So we can put that as the first option.
And if somebody says pick a slot, then our pick slot, then they're telling us,
I want my show on this day, full stop, and we will do that.
We will do that if the slot is free.
If not, if they put it into the, I don't care, schedule or whatever.
We will schedule it according to what we feel is best for the queue.
And if it goes into the reserve queue, then it goes first in, first out.
Filling up pick and slots that way.
That way.
So I'm going to the internet, arch 72, myself, everybody doesn't need to panic
about there being a free slot coming up.
We know we have spare ones in the, in the hopper ready to go.
And that that hopefully that just becomes part of life that we have.
A scatter of shows coming in and a steady stream going out.
That's all I have to say about that yet.
Now moving on to the next topic, where some guy in the internet.
Well, see, I'll do this out of order because the original request came for me on Matrix.
Where I said, this issue was posted into the HPR channel on Matrix.
Hi, some guy in the internet.
I love your a new show, but as a janitor of a few concerns about carrying them on HPR.
This shows represent the problem as they are reporting slash quoting.
And someone else has copyrighted work.
Therefore, it represents a gray area as to if it can be released onto the greater comments or not.
We require that you have permission to just read your show in and its entirety.
That's stuff you need to know permissions.
While some jurisdictions may allow commenting on quoting references other people to work, some may not.
So we're opting for certainty.
Also, we have had experiences with two other new show series on HPR in the past,
one by Phoenix, which featured out and the other by Top Geek to me.
That show was syndicated and was moved from HPR following a discussion on the mailing list.
It prompted the rule syndication.
At the time, there was a question as to the long-term value of these shows,
as most of the shows gets half of their audience in the long tail way after the show is aired.
And how well it fits in with the idea of a community part of the decision-driven knowledge.
Or it has been changed for a time, so it's just that if you are intending to a new show
that you contact the mailing list for a community approval.
So who's doing the next one?
Ron, can you do the first one from some guy in the Internet, please?
Okay. Hello, HPR community.
I'm requesting assistance from the HPR community.
A show I produce and upload HPR must be paused until we have the community's input.
Nothing too bad, just need more input before continuing.
First, I create and release the ONO news on HPR.
It has been brought to my attention that the show's content requires further review
and must be changed to comply with the HPR community guidelines.
It gives a link to the guidelines.
Some of the shows contain direct quotes and not all jurisdictions support fair use.
This is a flaw failure on my part, and if the show is allowed to continue,
it must be brought in line with HPR community guidelines.
Secondly, syndication concerns must be addressed.
When I create the HPR news, now ONO news, I did not consider syndication.
I had no interest.
Let me be very clear.
At no point do I plan to seek syndication.
I'm not interested.
ONO news was created for the HPR community as a product we can share,
enjoy, and participate in without any limits.
This is my way of giving back to the community and that has provided loads of information
and entertainment for me.
I'll be releasing a show with more information on the subject soon.
Last, if I must go and let it go, I've enjoyed creating the ONO news,
but I enjoy HPR more.
The show threatens the community or isn't accepted by the community,
I have no problem letting it go.
No decision has been made, and this is a call for all members of the HPR community
to weigh in on the matter.
I ask that you voice your concerns and or provide any feedback
at your earliest convenience.
Thanks, Scottie.
Some guy on the internet.
Dave, do you want to do mics?
Yep, Mike Ray.
Mike says, personally, I don't like anything that appears on HPR
with anything other than HPR branding.
Any recurring cast which seeks its own identity stroke label stroke title
is in my humble opinion, a parasite.
Why don't you just produce the same content without the extra layer of branding?
Okay, and I replied to this going,
the issue about seeking decation does not apply to here.
I was pointing out other issues with the news show that arose during the discussion.
Sorry for any misunderstanding.
I kind of copy and paste discussions here from the Matrix channel
without individually, so I've asked the Matrix channel to discuss it here.
They met a point on the Matrix channel that they may be doing media,
we can media quote on free articles,
but in their case, they use their own copy to refer to factual events
where the news show here are copying the site's content for it.
Well, in the media's long-lived news story should be paid for.
And I reference Google,
you can see article where Google's to pay for news
and Google has to pay Facebook, EU revenue,
and Microsoft believes that tech giants should pay for news.
So somebody read D&T's one?
I can do it.
And there's anybody else wants to see?
I can do it Dave.
So for D&T,
on this, I agree with the majority that we don't need...
Wait, did I just click on the number one?
I know this matter is mostly settled.
From the 29th.
Ah, okay, I see it now.
Sorry.
Hi, all.
I know this matter is mostly settled,
but this is a topic I have a lot of interest in,
so if everyone already knows all this,
I thank you for the opportunity to articulate it for myself.
And sorry if I'm a little verbose.
The way to go would to be have reporting on the facts
that you have learned from other sources,
rather than reading the other sources.
Since you're not a journalist,
you wouldn't even have to fact check them.
If the article includes quotes,
you could read some quotes,
but you'd have to avoid quoting the article itself.
Essentially, the all-known news can't be a substitute
for reading these particular articles,
in the sense that listening to you read them
and the all-known news show does not...
does the same thing as reading the articles myself.
It can serve as a substitute for learning about the same facts,
but if I wanted to read them in that publication,
I would still have to go and read it.
There are many newsletters nowadays
to cover a variety of things
by basically paraphrasing other publications
to propagate the facts.
Also, pretty much anytime there's a big investigative news story
one publication breaks it
and others report it based on what they learned
from that first publication.
After some fact-checking, perhaps.
In some cases, I think you could quote the other publication,
especially if it is an opinion or analysis piece,
because that can be said to be a newsworthy fact.
However, again, your piece can't be a viable replacement
for the piece you're quoting,
so you'd have to also tell us that why you're quoting
what Krebs wrote by adding your own analysis or perspective.
It can't be just because it was good.
For example, you could report on a certain breach
in your own words based on what you've learned from another article
and then you could quote something that Brian Krebs wrote
on his blog about it.
If there's some reason what he said in the fact
that he said it is itself worthy of reporting on,
rather than reporting on the fact via his words.
Again, I think the essential thing is that you can't make
the ONO news into a replacement for reading the articles
you read on the show.
Therefore, since the articles you read are usually reporting
on facts, it should be perfectly feasible to continue
doing the ONO news show by just sticking with the facts
and saying them in your own words
and just linking to your sources in your show notes
or giving them a shout out.
My understanding of this is based on reading
about the US fair use doctrine,
which I know doesn't necessarily have analogous everywhere,
but I do think it reflects pretty universal understanding
of office rights and sometimes I think the US
were just the only country in the world
that need to codify fair use,
being the world's most legitimate society.
Nevertheless, I welcome any corrections to whatever
it is above D&T.
Retro, can you read the one that's linked in the chat please?
In the chat, hold on.
Hi Scotty.
The news is okay and when I think about it,
I think about something like this through a watch.
This is what is going on in the Linux world.
This also works for larping or rockets,
just not something medical or political,
much positive thoughts to you, JVP, JWP.
And Dave, can you read that one?
Kevin or Brian?
Yeah, just a second.
Somebody's put some message in the way.
Me, not on the fingers,
the whole buttons and everything.
Anyway, yeah, this one,
I'm still not in the right place, I don't think.
And we would never have known Dave
if you hadn't first pushed the talk.
But it's entertaining watching some guy fall in about
and looking at it.
So this one's from Scotty and his guys as young lion.
I've made some progress in changing the show format
to correct the copyright issues quoting articles.
It's not much work to correct this issue,
but I'm also contacted some of the sources I draw news from
for more information concerning their licenses.
I've received emails from the FBI and DEA
about their publications.
I'm told these releases are considered public information,
but one may not use any of the images agency loans
or claim to be affiliated with those agencies
without written permission.
I'm allergic to prison so I'll make no such claims.
I'm researching other news shows and polishing my craft.
Thank you for the Shannon Morse, the link.
Link, I will review this show,
does not have major issues that would cause it to end,
but I wanted the community to make that decision.
So far, I've seen positive mentions of the show,
this process is healthy, it's more engagement of the community
and a show, oh no news, will benefit from it as well.
I would like to hear more from Mike Ray,
perhaps do a show with him on the subject of recurring cast
and show labels, slash identity.
Thank you for your time, Scotty.
See what he did there, see what he did there.
He's smart guy.
He also says we could rule the new post with the title
if you are a weirdo, who would resist the show
or watch over it if you are a cult like us enough.
And I think that is for those
and the community news, comments
and we'll see only other thing in the news section.
Rolling down, the events calendar.
Do you want to talk about the server move guys?
Roll.
This is your baby.
So we are moving servers.
Josh needed to do some changes to his infrastructure,
which is bringing us along.
So we found this to be a highly motivating factor
in getting the switch to the static site
in a working order, at least a working order
and good enough to go forward.
Yes.
So that will be happening.
For some reason I had the 15th of June stuck in my head,
and it sounds like it may be a little sooner than that.
We are frantically behind the scenes,
pushing brooms,
mopping floors.
Duck tape is a vault.
Yes.
Lots of duck tape here and there,
a little electrical tape at places, perhaps.
Getting things, all our bits and bobs and infrastructure,
moved over to new servers.
We're going, like said, we're hoping to go to this.
We're not hoping we are going to be hosting the website
on the static site.
We're looking to upgrade to the latest version of Mailman.
So there may be a little bit of disruption with that.
I'm hoping not that there won't be any.
We will make sure we don't lose any of the old archives.
It just may be a slightly different place to finding them
if you've had things bookmarked or if you're Googling.
But generally speaking, that shouldn't issue.
So by this time, I guess the next community.
The next one.
Yes.
We'll be having a little bit of a post mortem on where we are
and how things are going.
And I guess if things go well, hopefully the mailing,
well, I guess we definitely need to mailing this
since that's where people will hopefully be complaining about things.
I guess there is matrix and places, but please,
mostly try, try keeping, you know, general comments in the mailing
for just because archives, just because it's easier for us to keep track of
and comment on during the community news.
I know Ken is working furiously.
They can get great progress.
I have for some reason decided to volunteer with the mail server.
I'm not regretting, but there's always a lot more to things
than you think about when you first starting.
Like when you first started making sure this I can government to you.
Yes.
Yes.
I'm sure there will.
I can't think is there anything else can you can take of or Dave
that I'm missing at this point?
No, just keep an eye out.
Bear with us because it's an awful lot of work.
And we haven't a huge amount of spare time.
So bear with us as we do this.
Try and contact us if you notice stuff.
And going forward, we will be probably tracking everything
as a GitHub or a GitHub T issue.
So you'll be able to just log your issues there.
So don't be annoyed if we ask you to do that.
Because then it's on the list for sure for sure.
And that is running now.
So actually if you are finding things even now,
but particularly later in the month,
please, if it's a website issue,
or even I guess we might need to come up with a general repository
or something for other things just to track issues easier.
But for now, even if there's something
and you just go to the site generator repo,
you can put an issue and just talk about whatever failings you find.
I think it is very exciting project you're doing here.
And I love to hear about it.
Just one question about that.
I don't know if I missed it or not.
Is there how to say a prototype or something like that,
running on a URL,
or is it just that you would have to build it by yourself
with the repo?
No, no, it's the, yeah.
They currently go to HackerPublicRadio.com.
If you really want to see the bleeding edge of the move,
because that is where everything is at the moment.
And then HackerPublicRadio.org will switch.
So we will talk more about the idea behind this
is that anybody can take the static site
and host it on their own site.
And then we will round up and DNS over to your site
as well as the HPR site.
That's the goal.
And there should be,
we're not going to do that straight out the gate,
but in six months to a year plan to do that.
And the reason we have lots of bug fixes to do between now and then.
Right.
And you can actually,
to sort of see that effect,
you can,
if you go to hpr.horning.us,
that's HTTBS,
or I think isn't,
and then I think hobbyPublicRadio.org is a mirror also.
So to sort of see it in effect,
those are the statically generated sites currently.
Can we put that links into the show notes?
No, no, let's not do that.
It just, we're too busy moving the site,
when the site moves, the site will move.
Yeah.
Okay.
I cannot overstage how busy we are with this.
It is any free time we have.
We're working on the website.
So just leave us be.
If there are bugs making all of them.
Yeah.
Cause by next month,
it will be over.
And then you can answer all the questions.
All right.
Okay.
So,
server move,
connecting hold hosts.
So,
come up during the whole conversation about the two week thing was,
we're trying to fill the queue,
and we're trying to fill the queue with new hosts,
but what about the old hosts?
Why?
We have 400 or more hosts
that have gone to the trouble of submitting a show.
Why have this stopped?
In two cases that we know they've passed away.
Well, that's a good reason.
But,
everybody else,
why have this stopped posting shows?
I don't want to send out a mass mailing to people,
because
now is not a good time to do that anyway.
But would people be open to the idea
of being contacted,
maybe on your show anniversary,
or maybe our cheerleaders,
you know,
in doing the retro look,
you know,
interview a host from days of your,
and discuss their shows with them,
as in you show itself.
So,
ideas there,
we have this pool of people who did at one point,
get all through our since submitted show.
Why are we not able to get those more shows from people?
And then, Dave,
can you talk about,
sorry, what?
I was just thinking,
I know,
I mean, I know now,
isn't the time for maybe the janitors,
but other people,
I'm not saying we do a mass mailing,
but maybe,
I don't know,
you know,
I know there's like polls and things
for different matrix and stuff
that somebody could maybe take on themselves.
Just,
and I think it would be eventually,
maybe not this month,
but thinking about it next month,
doing some kind of like,
figuring out that,
asking that question,
figuring out the best way to ask that question,
is like,
what, you know,
just moved on,
have you,
haven't listened to HBR
in, you know,
five years, you know,
what sort of,
what are the barriers to older hosts producing a show?
Yeah,
I don't want to mass mail people,
because that's very impersonal,
and people will see it as spam,
but target a email to,
hey, I like to show about,
you know, the scanner lead thing,
and I, you know,
I just realized that,
that I needed to,
that I came across your show,
for some reason,
either it's your anniversary,
or whatever,
you know,
any idea why,
where you consider doing a show,
or are basically a one-to-one question,
rather than a mass mailing list,
it's a lot more likely
that you're going to get positive feedback,
as opposed to,
if we send out a mail list,
people will,
will, I guarantee you this,
unsubscribe,
from the mail list,
as a result,
and will not want to be contacted,
anymore.
And don't forget the files
that already lay on your hard drive,
and the modern podcast player
will jump any,
empty spaces in it or such,
so you don't need to polish them,
you could just send it in,
the podcast player does the rest.
So, I was just going to mention that,
in the last month,
we cleaned up,
I believe,
all of the windows,
1252 characters,
Latin ones,
they're also called,
from the database,
and replace them with UTF-8,
UDCODE stuff.
So, I can't see anything,
leftover,
but anybody does spot anything like that.
Character set issues,
let me know,
and we'll fix them, too.
Okay, with that,
students,
tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Hacker.
Hacker.
Public.
Radio.
Radio.
Radio.
Radio.
Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio,
at HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a
HBR listening like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
then click on our contribute link
to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided
by an honesthost.com.
Internet Archive and R-Sync.net.
On the Sledoise status, today's show is released on their creative comments,
attribution 4.0 international license.
