Episode: 3884
Title: HPR3884: 2022-2023 New Years Show Episode 10
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3884/hpr3884.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:29:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3884 for Thursday the 22nd of June 2023.
Today's show is entitled, 2022-2023 New Year's Show Episode 10.
It is part of the series HP Our New Year Show.
It is hosted by HP Our Volunteers and is about 173 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is 2022-2023 New Year's Show where people come together and chat.
By the way, if anybody wants to break the old record of the after show, which I started
off in, well, I remember that, yeah, that kept going for, what was it, 12 hours or something
afterwards, I think it was, then, yeah, you've got to go for about 16 hours and also, I
believe, Mr. Net miners finally went to sleep after being awake for like 36 hours, but
wouldn't it be kind of funny if you woke up, came back on hair, and I still shut up.
Imagine that.
Well, if I didn't have to go to work at 11, I would probably stick around for a bit,
so I don't, also, I don't know how to keep the thing open, so okay.
That's what she said.
Mate, ha ha ha ha ha, are you bad?
I just walked back over because I was cleaning my bathroom already.
What, what, what was the record, 12 hours or 16 hours, because he said in the chat, I don't
think it was 12 hours.
Well, there's a 24 hour after show, a 48 hour after show or 48, total, so I'm sorry.
On top of that, no, no, you have to show, you have to show 11, you had not, not the 26
hours.
We had the full hand, but the actual after show, and then you're saying 48, so it's basically
two full days of still continuous talk.
I didn't think he went to 48 in this.
That's fantastic.
I mean, literally, I don't, I don't just leave this open.
Well, yeah.
I'll show it down after.
I'm sorry.
Didn't tech and coffee pull like a year or something at one point?
Well, like, yeah, no, the hangouts would last forever, and then I think the most you
would get is it said, hung out with 325 people, there was like a limit.
So any time they got closed or accidentally canceled, this is tech and coffee hung out
with 325 people.
I remember the pictures.
You see the little tiny pictures of people.
I think the longest we kept a telegram open was just under a year before one of the
admins accidentally, and I will say that was not me, so almost a year, almost a year
we keep, well, because we keep, I took, but here's the thing, I took the right away from
all of you.
I mean, I think you might still have it, but most of the other admins, they can't.
So there's maybe four of us that can accidentally close a hangout.
So I know who to blame.
It's one of you.
Mr. Mogul.
Yeah, well, I try not to do mobile, because then that really kills that, that's the biggest
issue is if you're on mobile, they put that stupid check marks so close to the lead.
Oh, everyone hits it.
We'll all be fucking, and then somebody goes, what happened?
Every post, Mr. Mogul said we do that if there's no chatting, they'll stop the recording,
but quages.
Well, we do keep a persistent audio and video, but somebody keeps coming over here instead.
So, you know, I came over here because it was the party, it's fine, it's fine.
It's the party.
That's right.
That's why every time somebody went in a hangout, I instructed them how to use mumble.
Like you, Matthew, I mean, Kirin is already smart.
So he already came in here, he's following you now you're throwing that we're not smart.
I see.
I don't want to walk.
You are smart.
You are smart people.
Not at all.
How to set up a very archaic mumble on your system.
What?
You don't know what?
Me and the metminer were so lonely at the beginning of the after party, after show.
We had like an arrow, just us, it was kind of nice actually, but then luckily, Archer joined
us, and then, and then somebody else, and then there's, and then the rest of you.
And maybe, maybe not as hung over now, some of you asked, as of last night, so that's
nice day, as well.
Somebody in here made me drink whiskey instead of beer.
That was my downfall, but other than that, yeah.
If you take my advice, and you follow it up with water, and well, you drink it with water,
which I always drink whiskey with water, or if you drink it with powerator, gatorade,
it will rehydrate you, you wake up feeling fine.
All I know is there's a cat attacking my foot right now, and she won.
That's what, that's what, that's what, I'm sorry, yeah, netminer did, but for Coke, you
put a lot of water afterwards.
Hey, can, thank you for starting and stopping.
Are you there?
No.
No, yes.
I'm ashamed of Ken not being on much, but oh well, so bit, probably must have been marry
barely with his family, or something instead.
Or maybe he got, or maybe he got nagged for 10 years, because the 11th was the 11th
show, yeah.
Basically, get off that.
I was spent time with us.
And, and to be honest, Glenn, I'm probably going to go back.
I was just here, because people were here, and I accidentally closed it in an hour for,
uh, I woke up around six, 30, and I think that's about the time they close here.
And I noticed that the app was still running on my phone, and it said, there was, it was
my phone's basically erred out, so I closed it.
So apparently, I don't know, maybe if I stayed in at the full time.
Oh, it clipped, well, then, the character's been getting out, been good, and said, for
the last five hours, four hours, really, I don't know, sorry, five, you know, just
nearly five hours, I should say.
Yeah, 10 around, because it's right now it's almost 10 a.m. here, yeah, but around six
on that, I noticed, I came back on myself at like 10, 10 past 10 in the morning, GMT,
due to UK time, yeah, so you'll five out behind, but, uh, exactly, but yes, the, officially
it would have, we closed the actual show closed at 12, and then this is the app party.
That's what's supposed to be more fun.
Uh, if you know, if you know a good conference somewhere, or, um, or speaking thing, or whatever,
generally speaking, the conference, all those talks are going to the stands, that can
be great, but the app party can be even better.
So yeah, so yeah, they have to check in the app party, especially late at night, when
you'd sit in there drinking, or whatever, and you'd eat in crisps, and it gets to full
fit.
Well, I had that once, with some, with, uh, a conical guy and so on, uh, to full 30 a.m.
and you're like, okay, are we going to bed now?
Oh, wait, we're checking out all those later ones, don't we?
Um, I've never really dared to sleep, I go to conferences, I'm, I'm dared to have fun
for the most part, you know?
I mostly don't even have fun because I ended up working it.
I have fun with jazz or some, whoever I'm hanging out, but I don't even see most of
the conference.
I see the conferences I'm assigned to.
So I kind of learn new things because of that.
So I don't see as many things as I want to, but yeah, but that's the bad part about working
the conference.
That's why things like frozen get recorded a little bit as well, because you can't be
everywhere at once.
So much going on at the same time.
Yeah, I mean, I don't even get a chance to, and then people come up to me like, hey,
nice to see you again.
Wait, who?
I don't know who you are.
I don't even get stuck at stanzels somewhere, talking to someone, it's like, I always mean that
speech or thing.
Oh, well, no, I'm not.
I remember, because I did, I think at least three of the Liverpool ones.
Um, I think there's only three of them, but, um, and remember the first one, I was up
on the stairs and, um...
I can't be talking about you, aren't you?
No, I can't.
I was up on the stairs.
I can't be, I can't be, nothing compared to say Foslem in Brussels, oh my.
Yeah, I kind of like the smaller ones though, but even here
Because he is the happiest time until 300 or so people, yeah, and then
Forced them they're talking they used to say 5,000 is an estimate
5,000 people came and then they say 8,000 people are actually 20, 23 is coming
Probably more like 10 to 12,000 people coming out of specs
Yeah, it's not been on it's not been on in person the last two years only virtually
So that should have helped the numbers do up. I think I actually do want to go to pen you can
In Ohio, but other than that
Because that one seems coquite fun. I mean, I went to the virtual one like I don't know
I'm it's I just kind of like I like it because I know most of the people there and it's small
Yeah, I can't so yeah, and someone I usually volunteer for
Well, you may have to for 2020 free because I don't think they're going to pop
Organizers and it would be a shame if it's not on one there
I'm gonna have to hit up but there's two or three people
I know they're working on the Scottish, so I'm gonna have to hit them. Well, yeah
Well, what's it called? Malib Malm, what's that guy called?
There's at least two Scottish guy one Malib Malm, I was he called a really famous one, not famous, but
Yeah, there's Scottish people. What were the names?
Um, you got Chris Fiddling
Em something wasn't it?
Yeah, there's a couple of them one of them one of them one of them. Yeah, yeah
It's super original
What was
Maybe it should be an album, bro
Yeah, I mean, I mean, it's always been in England too far, but I would love it to be in it, you know
Because I just got to the Scotland. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it doesn't, but it was then a excuse to go to
Bastion, man. I can't see the text chat properly because my computer was it's bastion something. What was that?
Not sure somebody messaged me. It says Sebastian something may I something a constructive criticism
What for me?
So
I want to give you or maybe talk about feedback on my things though, or I don't know
I mean that shirt you're wearing is quite awful though. Well, my shirt. I'm dismissing
My I can't see you. I'm actually wearing
public
Co-publet money that was an FSF ET shirt that I got and toss them obviously
I'm wearing no place like one
Zero that one and which I have to explain all the time when
But oh, yeah, classic one isn't it and all you can have the RM was it RM hyphen rf slack. Yeah. Yep. Yep. That's another one
So I do you guys keep talking about
Tekken coffee. Have you explained to people in here what Tekken coffee is or have I just missed that?
Oh, we did down we did last night. I don't know
Tekken coffee. It's basically a coffee morning with with loads of women actually like tech wow
Wow, that sounds good. Although I don't like coffee, but I think you can have tea at coffee morning
You have no place to have
I put a link in the we were um, we were a
Group with over half a million users at one point, but now we're just like a rag tag bunch of people in telegram
And I mean if you come in with anything besides coffee, it's fine as long as it's not like
Well, even the list it's fine. I guess well one of our late founders, dude. He he passed um
One of our late founders once described as it's like
Because people would come in like coffee snubs or something. I'm like I'm drinking like instant right now
But people would come in and they would be like oh, I'm here for the I'm like it's tech and any beverage you choose
It's just a casual place to talk about tech or anything your life whatever because it's more of a
Somebody described this as a hippie commune about 10 11 years ago. It's kind of like our cult
You just come in you hang out you talk about things. It's not really a cult
It's more like a hippie commune
But you know, but because somebody called us a cult if you mention Marty moose in our chat rose comes off and all praise Marty moose because he's our deity now
All hail Marty moose all praise Marty moose. I mean if we have to be a cult you have to have a deity cool
Is he started off as a Google plus hell group? Yeah, we we started off as hangouts
So I worked from home for close to 20 years
So I got really really bored and when Google plus came out I got an early invite and they entered a trying
They integrated hangouts with it at one time because it was an internal app they used so
We would every morning me and one of our other people who hardly hangs out with us anymore Joe
I would start a hangout he would join in a bunch of other people
We would post about it and Google plot what I would show as a post and Google plus went to start one and other people would join
So it got to the point where we had three going simultaneously because you only put 10 in a hangout and then
When groups came out and the first hour of groups
Yvonne one of our people are Evie
She um she created a group for us and within the first 10 minutes
We had 400 users and they'd just kept growing from there. So I don't know what it is
But it's it's just it's just a bunch of people talking about anything
Other than politics or religion those are two-band subjects
Because I mean really that's just one-band subject, but still yeah
Yeah, yeah, but but then we also because we had members like complaining about that
We create blend manages our thunder dome. So thunder dome you can talk about anything you want. There's no rules
I mean we can do people when you say manage
Let's that's very loose. I never look okay
Well, you've done anything really. I mean it's mostly me and jazz going and delete people if you think I mean
There is no rules, but like when you start like getting creepy with the girls in the room then we kill you
And this guy Alfredo is with us for a long time
He's married with kids was hitting up on some of the women in there because I don't know maybe he's got a horrible marriage
Whatever, I don't know don't care, but I'm getting kid. I'm people are reaching out to me
It's like this guy is like really getting creepy with me
I'm like and I reach out to him because I'll stop doing it
I'm like, okay, then he started doing it again. I'm like, oh, I gotta kill you. Sorry
Forget if anyone has to kill him might as well be fearless leader
There's no fearless leader I threw myself in with the rest of the admin. So I have the same right
I probably have less rights. I think jazz has more rights
If you have any problems in there just sit up either
A lot here and probably has no rights in there. So Karen or jazz because I can't I can't I can't kill people
I just let Rose. I think I'll count Elbrus sounds
Interesting doesn't it 2023 so there'll be 2020 either obviously that did not happen
No, I mean it would have to have those start planning you like mid-life
Well, I don't need to plan, but hey, it's the first of January
I'm not sure it might be I mean nobody's nobody's
It would be like summer up to or October but if it's gonna happen some anywhere
Well some of the key organizers and I've helped organize usually I'll know I know people and I haven't heard anything
But then again, it's not unlike them not to tell me either until like
Well, I know
I know who wants I know some of these sort of interested in having no
And then I promise not to tell usually, but that hasn't happened. I'll let you know now
Yeah, if nobody's told me and told me not to tell I wouldn't say any that wouldn't even be saying this much
But nobody said anything to me
You got cancelled fair enough
2021 it got cancelled fair enough
What we were trying to do a hybrid in
2022 it got cancelled fair enough, I guess really, but 2023 come on. This is now the normal year
The most compared to like 20,000,000,000,000
I mean I'm in Florida, so there is no
Well, there is COVID coming in from China possibly if you're not careful
I think there's going to be some slight vague
Well, you have to have negative tests coming to English Airport, but um
Well, I follow like the CDC deaths toll thingy that they post from time to time
And it's still pretty high here in Florida because nobody wears masks nobody cares. I mean, I'm
All all all like I kind of said before none of this will matter because we're in a weird time
I mean, I mean they could I was reading that they're gonna that the rush the Russians want us apparently
Sell a boat pass pretter. Not just the boat
But a boat with those nuclear bombs on it right to kind of show that yeah look a little we could do it fast
Yeah
So I'm gonna point out something I posted the page um if you follow some Facebook
There's maybe nobody managing the Facebook it won't anymore. I mean, it's there because Facebook exists
but um
The mass is on one is somewhat new. I mean in the last month and I
Usually really um into other admins manning until more people
There would be work to be a good excuse to go to Edinburgh for Okam though
Edinburgh they say it's really nice. I've been there
I wouldn't love the end there because I go there all the time while when I'm there
I go there at least once or twice and I'm usually staying in Glasgow with jazz
Hmm. Yeah, I got a friend up from Glasgow as well. He went to Okam for twice now, but um
Yeah, it'd be perfect excuse to go to Edinburgh
Yeah, Edinburgh's posted a lot of pictures. I'm asked it trying to get into pixel fed
I've had a pixel fed account apparently for a couple months now. Keep forgetting the postings up there
Also, if if it goes to Edinburgh it's the first time the old camp is not in England
Yeah, and it would be cool. I mean, I think it doesn't need to be like standard somewhere. It could be in Wales even
I think I think they're something about Wales and then it's a bit like well, you can't do for me, but
Like I haven't been in Wales, so it would be really cool if it isn't Wales. I'd love to go to Wales
Wales is not very far all from where I miss literally over that, but I'm not getting well
Better, better journey on a train or a car, but there's a
Yeah, not that far away. Yeah, we're
Quite nice for its mountains and things in the summer walking and stuff. Yeah, excuse me
I'm gonna make another coffee. I can hear you guys, but I won't result be nowhere near my
I think somebody else is here
I
Here not I am here
Who was that?
It's me Scotty happy new year
Welcome to the after party Scotty, but that means
You'll stop now and you have to stay here for another 12 hours to break your records that we have
Oh, doing this is the the really large show that gets broken down throughout the year. Yes, yes
Oh, okay, so
Mango are you the one that manages the show?
Yeah, I do the editing of the show. Yeah, yeah, I was trying to get in contact with you the other day yesterday
To see if you could use some assistance with the editing
Maybe the audio editing using isn't the hardest part the hardest part is
Listening to all the audio and trying to get some show notes for it. I guess I can deal with that as well
Hi, we're having help
You're on matrix. So you're I know you're at the the HBR room you can either hit me up in the HBR room or
Hit a private message and and matrix and I'll try to get an audio
Okay
Yeah, although isn't there way to cut the like the white noise and all that's the anyway, which helps to some extent begin with doesn't it
Okay, silence. Yeah, okay, silence is huge although we although if you can get up before August
So notice that last year was coming up around August again
We get if it can come up before August that sounds good. Yeah, I'm gonna try to put a little more effort into
Getting it done before
August or June or July whatever I got it
Yeah, so I could definitely use some help. Usually the audio editing. I usually just it's
It's more of you when I do the audio editing. It's I have to take all of the so I right now. I have
But is recording every three hours. It starts a new recording
So I have to take those and then kind of um, oh
I push each
And all of it and then I have to kind of run one and because it just randomly stops starts and stops
I have to kind of figure out where to cut it off and then cut that one off and then
Starts going so I have to sit down and look at the entire recording almost as a whole
I mean, it's a guy like you really can't stop and then restart of the this the whole project of cutting up the audio because if things get
Off by a few seconds here in the area kind of screams everything up a little bit
So I just it's it's I have to take time and just sit down and go through the entire thing and then whatever that is
It's going to be the audio files and then from there
It's usually a massive pain about to sit down and listen to all that not necessarily the fact of listening to all
But it's listening to all that and then being in a spot where you know
You can listen to it and put down notes at the same time because they're several years
But I've sat down and I've listened to this audio
multiple times
You know the entire show multiple times or parts of multiple times and I just was never in a position to be able to
Write down any links or jot down anything for the show
And this is going to be a big challenge because I started some show notes at the beginning
putting stuff in the ether pad at the beginning of this
Yesterday morning and
There were nobody else put anything in the afterwards. So well actually
Now wait wait wait wait wait one thing was okay for our recordings. What can fun during you start to stop by she's not
Recording to script
Actually net minor in me did try and do the time zone thing
That's why there's some hours in the america and bit where there's nothing but that that might actually help you a bit as well and also
Um, I hope you're going to put your show up
What you just said now well sorry you can have to hear yourself say that and that's going up as well
No, yeah, the recording is still going
The
What if if Ken's using a script to the net school. He's recording mumble
The one thing about recording and mumble is and if he's starting and stopping that's good if
But we found with mumble recordings anything past a certain amount of time the
Audio starts to get all screwed up like we couldn't just set one mumble recording for the entire show
Because after a while the audio gets all wonky
That's why it's usually good to start and stop it every once in a while whether it's manually if there's a script to do it
I don't I haven't
Yeah, so there would have to be a seal probably a seal I version of
mumble, which I think there is or there's a way to do a seal I version I have used before
So I don't know as long as we haven't lost from the good content then oh a lot of good content. That's fine
Again, I am using so I'm doing the stream at the audio stream as well. So
There's audio stream is going through
Icecast and an icecast is being broadcasted through an application called but and with blood
I can set it up to record I've set up right now to record our start and stop and start recording of the stream itself every three hours
So every three hours it'll just automatically start start and stop
So yeah, you guys should be good. Yeah, hopefully I'll be recording should be fine
It's still shows that it's recording so it should be good
Hopefully if not hopefully Ken's got it back up on it as well
So between the two of us we shouldn't have lots and lots of audio
Yeah, what I wanted to attempt to do is like say take a couple of those three hour bits and break them down into a smaller segments to
populate the show roster I guess
No, all the audio everything that's being spoken has to go into the podcast
Well
Yeah, and again, the hard part is is it's going to
I have to sit down and take like the entire show and then break it up into segments
Because you take each one of the three hours do truncate silence on it and then kind of run them all together
So because it's an it's not a magic like it could be in the middle of somebody because of the way this thing starts and stops
It could be in the middle of somebody talking that it
Stopped and started the next three-hour
Big oh, we'll pop the mount which is fine. Oh, you find the better hasn't got the mount
Right, well, I have to stop
When it stops though, then I have to take the you know
I put it in audacity and I line it up with the next one
But then I cut it off at a point where that night discussion kind of seems like it would head stop there
It seems like a lot will place to stop there and then that part becomes it
And I understand you're saying because I know
Can really need the they really want shows right now and it'd be cool if we can get this thing out fast
But it's unfortunately the audio editing part of this is a bit of a pain
Yeah, that's that's why I was looking to volunteer to help out with that if I could get some of the um the file segments or whatever
Like the first six hours or something like that. I'll sit down and start editing
It into blocks that are smaller in three hours
Uh, okay
I'll see what I can do the recording still going and then I get a
uploaded just something I'll probably upload it to
My next cloud and then make that available. All right. I'm a message to you over in
Matrix, okay
So which you guys got any plans for 2023? Yeah, yeah, yeah, well
Um, I'm doing a music speech and my public speaking group on the 12th. I had to lay out from the members
Locked in that power for what the matter you speak then I'm going away to fuzz them big bustles open source free software
event again yet. That's going to be amazing. It's being your February
They're going to go to some group or two over there as well for the public speaking or some there
I've got another speech about some do I speak about stem people when I was talking about that before
um and
Go away well actually my older brothers getting married so then moving away as well
I have to get rid of them on that island uh as well
Probably later on in the year and going somewhere else hopefully in the summer
I'm just trying to get a passport from the delivery people after wait now because stupid new year
But it's actually sorry, so stupid new year now new year is great for their
HPR new year show, but new year is bad for other things because they could close it
Yeah, any new tech you plan on purchasing me. Oh tech. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
I've done that all right. Well, do you think you win for yes, I've crowdfunded that already
And after waiting for about May that's that's going to be good mini PC a
um
Game thing
Compared sort of PS3 games and other things and it I've got the old from the older vices as well
um
I have got the ordered boy mini. I've crowdfunded that the payment to come out on the floor
I've somewhere I've got the original going to talk to them. Let me take a small car size gaming thing
And also I couldn't buy the original pine tab when that came out was it came on that out on that when they
And they might spend on that
Fortunately, but it sold out in four hours, but luckily the pine tab too is coming out
Probably in March and I expect I'll be able to get hold of one of those
So that'll be good as well
Pine six pine 64. Yeah, are you lining new tech to buy or
Oh, no, and also things to do in the new year like you said
Who only pens for the new year and also tech to buy in the new year. So let's do it. Yeah
Or anybody else you say
Well, I used to be an Nvidia dude um and after the stuff came out about EVGA
Uh, I was looking at a 3080, but now I'm looking at either the
6900 series or one of the 78 or 7900 series, but I'm not sure yet if I'm going to do that
Well, I did one you in the video card that you mean all uh, yeah, a new video card for my desktop
I see what why for gaming or just graphics blender
Yeah, um, I'm
I'm doing some 3d modeling stuff that would help gaming is always something that I'd love to have time for
And I did get a really sweet deal on a laptop that has a 144 Hertz display
And a 6800M which does a really good job, but uh, hello
I always kind of like having a desktop, you know, that's that's
Normally where I would do my gaming
So still bugged can anyone hear me? Yeah
Like yeah, I didn't know you'd left a channel, but you were
We still started
And what are you doing for new yet?
The guy just rejoined what are you doing for new yet and have you only new tech to buy that was the question we were asking each other
What are you doing for new yet? Have you only new tech to buy? That's what we were just asking
Well now we can't hear you, but yeah, I think he ended up breaking himself again
Oh, he's not always keep out again. Oh, they're really now I can hear
Right, right, we were asking or he asked it for anyway, but right what what you doing for new yet?
I just rejoined and have you only new tech to buy that's question
For me, uh, I like the sound of the parent tab to I think that's gonna be a great guy
Did you hear me just say that will he or had you broken up for them? Yeah, I heard I heard the parent tab to
But after that everything got a little choppy and in my audio just stopped
I was wondering if you quit talking or something happened
No, you don't know as you obviously
That's right. Yeah, I got a Pine Book Pro then that the laptop thing thing but as well and but yeah
Pine Tab 2 and I got to the pine phone explorer and the
But I had a pine phone braver and I'm glad to put me in an operating system on that and I've got the pine book explorer
But annoyingly they do this thing with a battery where was it hard to open up?
I think I have to open up properly and I've got my gyro on there
Free installments link, but you have to like open up and get this thing off the back free with a plastic as well
But yeah, I'm fine, but I couldn't buy the original pine tab because it came out on a Wednesday when I had
There's no money for it and then I got money in on the first day, but
Um, it sold out in like four hours something stupid. So
Too late, but yeah, I have to got update since it's been updated looks like it's gonna be quite good
It's gonna be really cheap as well. I have a feeling they'll be selling more of those as well
I think there was a problem making the original pine tab as well. I've read somewhere hence not making them again
But yeah, pine tab 2 that'll be awesome
Um, I'm also looking forward to that. I'm hoping that battery life is a reasonable and that
Loading new images onto it isn't going to be so, yeah, finishy
Well, yeah, it's an arm laptop. So you can yeah, you can put different operating systems on it and stuff on all
And I'm actually an arm tablet, I should say for that radiation. Like it's got pine 64 inside
Yeah, I heard I have not purchased a parent book pro, but from what I've been hearing about it
Apparently loading images onto it isn't as straightforward as just plugging in a
What do you call it a a thumb drive and you know like you were with an x86 PC?
Yeah, one way you have to use necessary card to breathe flash, I think or you don't know the phone the pine
phone explorer
At the pine home braver. Yeah, I think it's a little bit different from a
PC, but not by much really
Okay, yeah, because that was one of the things I was worried about
I didn't want to purchase this thing and then I need to buy like a developer kit and
Stars, you know
Some developer kits these things were new, but that's for people who actually want to work on the hardware and stuff
Not really users as such
Yeah, I'm not the I'm not that big into it where I can work on it
I'm also interested in the pine note, but that's still not not user-ready as well. Yeah
I saw that as well as it said there's a pine note Braveheart edition, but it make it very clear that's for the developer isn't it
I think it means there's no operating system. I bought that where I got the pine note phone Braveheart edition
No operating system, the basic post market testing and you have to
You have to
I'm not talking to
Yeah, because you have to have to be able to just load my hooks up on it and go again
You're popular
It's my dad
I don't want to talk to him
I hanged up on him yesterday
He started saying the same rubbish on the phone at the end, and I just thought
I'm not I'm not interested. I'm doing other stuff
And he just tried to call me back again. In fact, yeah
Um, I've seen some other Linux tablets being advertised over or not
There there's a few youtubers that have been speaking about another ARM-based Linux tablet, but um
If it's not from a company I can trust I am not messing around with it if you remember what happened with the uh the jing tab
Oh, yeah
All right, oh the jing tab was without the jing tab. Yeah, that was the other ARM-based Linux tablet
I tried to get a new the tablet before as well, and I I think could did I or did I do that?
I can't remember
There's something I lost money on because I crowd funded as well, and there was another tablet something else
But that you're about gpd win four as well looking to that. That's good
I've got I've crowd funded that on what is the well, it's a crowd funded
But it's like I pre bought it really because they released loads of devices in the past and they've always sold them
They always come out for real. They always go back to in the go-go. I guess that's where the market is
Um, probably like gaming and mini PC. That's good um, or you can use a mini PC with a keyboard
You can have Linux on the steam steam OS or something else or windows 11 whatever so mini PC as well
um
But uh the um the steam deck seems like the best Linux tablet out there now
I don't think so in fact because because steam deck I think first of all I think you stuck with steam OS and that's it
You can't run anything else on it
But if you get a gpd, yes, it's called winning the name I know so windows right but that that's don't really don't you think this is from windows device because that
Well, here's a window like
You can run windows you can run windows you can run anything on on there. It's open
Well the gpd win your one the pocket stuff and the um the new win for you can put the next one
They can have what you can have steam steam OS and you'll look at some other links this through or you can have windows 11
And you can have I think you can I think you can actually draw boots it or multi-boot it as well
And I've apparently seen deck you can't do that
Uh the steam deck is clean
The issue is is that it comes at max with the 512 gigabyte ss and you have to mod it
Uh, there's been a lot of people who are mounting external uh
NVMe SSDs
To get like two terabytes or even more than that um because there is your chip on the board right underneath
Where the SSD goes that if it gets really hot you pretty much fry your
Steam deck. So what people are doing is getting an NVMe SSD extension
Externally mounting the NVMe SSD and then running them with literally anything you want to try to run on it
I think even macOS is run on it
If you find the indiegogo pace dp win for right they have a comparison chart table as well
Commaring it to say the steam deck and something else I think as well
And it sounds like that's still the better device, but the but but also I've got some past dpd devices myself
So I know for example, they're through devices. I know from personal heartbeat by one
What I think the gpds are great devices at the thing for me is the price of the uh
Steam deck you really cannot beat it
Um, but yes the gpds. I would if I had like 11 or 1200 depending on which model you go
Um, I'd I'd have one in a heartbeat
Uh, I don't know I don't remember my previous ones being so expensive
I can't remember what I paid for them the pocket the blabbered xdm
The win the original win gpt win, but but yeah, this this gpt win full definitely that's more expensive
Like a thousand pounds something. However, it's supposed to be able to run a a game or ps3
Maybe not ps file you put the emulation, you know as well to the hardware specs are quite good in there
And also I guess there's an inflation. I mean there isn't they saying inflation in the UK on food and whatnot
I think America and probably all over the world and some you know
So there's money is not quite what was worth
Um, you know, I mean at the moment. I think you've got the same problem over there
But things are more expensive. Yeah, but the money hasn't quite gone up is it in wages and stuff
um, but
The um, yeah, no, I mean steam deck is I don't have one of those, but I that's good as well. Sure
Um, yeah, I say dpt win full with work for look at as well
Yeah, I didn't get two steam decks for the price of one of those
So I'd I'd kind of side with the steam deck on it and
Even even if you couldn't run anything other than the steam OS
I mean, it's still Linux under the hood or you have to do uh, well, I assume I don't own ones
I don't know, but I assume you could just uh disable the
immutable file system and then just run whatever you want on it because it'll be just uh arch at that point
That doesn't seem down does this team have a keyboard though. Oh no, you just uh
Well, you can plug in your just plug in. Yeah, yeah, you can plug in the USB cable. Yeah, type C
I think you plug in uh, yeah, you you can either buy that dock or there are cheaper docs that work with it
Um, you just plug in to the dock and then use keyboard mouse. You can print you can
I mean it's a computer
Yes, well deep, but deep, lots of DVD winners for it win and for one, two, three, four, but they have a keyboard built in
So that's part of the device as well. Sure, sure. Yeah. Yep. On the DPD
It's called keyboard built in and they and the game controls. Yeah, the analog thing and etc
And I think on the fourth one when you don't want the keyboard you can actually kind of slide it back into the rice somewhere out of the way
Like I'm playing games. I don't want to keep all that uh
Yeah, I'm interested in trying out that steam deck is just right now
I'm not going to mess with it. I'm focusing on a few other things, but eventually I'll try it out
I'm hoping they release a version two of it where you can get a little bit more storage onto it or or make it a little easier
The base price is $3.99 and I guess that's the cheapest one and I think the highest price one is 500
Give me this in dollars. I think it's gonna be about like a Google $3.99 actually like this
Into pound, but I think it'll be about
250 maybe you know about 300 bobby
Yeah, they're pretty close close these days
Yeah, yeah
What's these a $3.99? Yes. Oh, yeah, actually, no, I can't do them
Yeah, yeah, no, well, it's cheaper than a GPD then, but um
The GPD stuff is still great. I know I know
Yeah, I like I like what I see with the GPD, but it it's a bit out of my price range
I mean, you know, if I'm going to buy a device and especially with the small screens on them
I know I'm not going to be able to use them for long
So, you know, having having the ability to sort of just use it as something else. It's fine
People kind of say that I sort of go from Luxelau, but it's got a small screen
So back, but that you can up the resolution in the software bit so it's block looks a lot bigger with the text and stuff
And and also actually six isn't screen. Yes, it is small. I know, but I've done it. I've had I've had no free on there
On the original D3 win even yeah and things like that put that on fun
I've had normal minutes this throws on there working or mostly working. I've had, you know
The small screen and actually that big red deal once you get used to it
But I think with the GPD win full set and that anyway, you can also connect it
I believe I hate to do a mile something into a TV. So there you go. They've got a big screen empty
Yeah, that that's one of the things I like about them nowadays
I mean there most of these devices have some sort of docking capability
And actually access a larger display. So either one that you get I'm thinking
Hey, sweetie, sweetie calm down
Yeah, so either one that you get I think it's going to be a wonderful experience
But the price is different. It's going to govern my decision the most these days
Or maybe
You've got a daughter. Oh, yeah
Yeah, so
So you're a family now and you've got like look at you have to pay for your daughter's stuff. Yeah
So as so something that's what a thousand dollars something is a bit high then
Because you're thinking I've got to do my daughter's clothing and food as well. Yeah
It's not that's not like you're just buying for yourself. Yeah
You're buying for your family as well. Yeah
Well, yeah, yeah
Even even when I'm buying for myself if it's something that's going to be stationary like if I'm upgrading a server or something like that
I wouldn't mind going a little bit
More on the device like a server in home server because I can upgrade it over time
So I can I can go very high on the motherboard and then you know kind of go a little bit cheaper on the CPU this year
Wait a couple years and then upgrade it et cetera, et cetera
Yeah, with with one of these devices. I don't think I'm going to get that kind of flexibility
I think that's the one other thing
I know I've learned where you know computers laptop as well
That when you buy these more specific Linux e-type laptops as to buy it. I mean finding great with it's working
property, but when you start dropping it by mistaken
I broke the charging socket on one of these Linux company laptops
I bought that I bought and
Sent sent to my friend for fixing and then he said going like oh
No, I can't just get a new charger in I was like what why not because it's a bit different somehow prepare the Dell HP and all this and nobody
So they said whatever I was like really now I went to the manufacturer a guy who got from without wanting now anywhere
And he's like oh, maybe send you a new motherboard, but the
Company doesn't sell these laptops anymore and it's like oh geez, so
I've given so you've got my well, and he's just
He's just moved house and it's in the band now I believe somewhere because of the crash
truck driver hit the band that was moving his stuff over
Second time, which is not great
I hope the bet being as well. It's on my date one there still some some rick some like uh
But I might but I'm after just take the SSD out get it out and just be like oh well
Yes, it did cost me like
700 pounds and something this laptop, but if I can't turn on properly and stuff, I guess it's basically used us now
Got a different one one now anyway from a different than it's company style laboratory labs in the
England and Surrey, and it is more like a netbook this laptop, but but it's quite nice
So they've got cool boot on it as well. I had a choice AMD buy also cool boot. So I went cool boot
I'm also looking at
Framework for some of their reusable boards
So as I guess as new users are upgrading their devices and they still resell their old motherboards
I'm looking to purchase one of those and run it as you know, just a little small headless server
I imagine it'll be similar to running like a nut as a server except with this
I have a little bit more storage options hopefully and a little more flexibility with ram
Again, hopefully with that. I've seen some things that made me a little bit a little bit nervous about purchasing one
The ability to run these boards without the battery
Which requires some sort of trickiness. I saw that in a video. I think I um
I think it was a Linus tech tips video or something like that
He's one of the backers or investors in the framework and he was demonstrating how you'd have to
I guess update the bios or something like that in order to run the board without it being connected to the battery
Not sure if that's going to be the case for later boards
But um those are the kind of some of the things that I'm not looking at now that in cases for the board as well
It doesn't appear to be any cases being sold to house the board. It seems like everybody's
3d printing them or or purchasing a 3d printed one
From somewhere because I haven't been able to find any links. At least not using duct tape go
Yeah, there there are
You would have to use like a not a print farm, but basically a service
Um or find a friend and you know hand files and here's the size and have them
um
If you if you ever need it um, I have as George likes to say a
A really bad issue with buying printers and uh, I have several so
If you ever need something printed just uh hit me up. Thank you for the offer now now all I gotta do is uh
Monitor these boards a little bit closer. I'm um nervous about purchasing one just because of that battery issue at the moment
Trying to run this thing headless without a battery requiring all you know
You'd think that they kind of thought of that since that's one of the main selling point
To get rid of the e-ways and then be able to run it as a server
Yeah, and that's yeah, they're they're still kind of in their fledgling
Well technically not really, but I
To me, I would love to have a server with the not gigantic battery backup underneath it like I do now
Um, so like even buying a spare battery to put under you know inside the case
They do make cases or have design cases for that um, that would be a for me a built-in battery backup would be great
Which is usually why I use laptops as you know for test servers or whatever and then I have my main
NAS that does all the storage because you know, you can fit 40 terabytes in a
Uh, a desktop server where you can't fit 40 terabytes in a laptop as easily
Yeah, well, I agree 100% with that and that's kind of how I'm trying to set up my my system now
My main server or my main backup solution is open media vault right now running in a a desktop PC
And I just want to have that thing loaded with drives running nothing but the backup software
Excuse me the uh, the NAS software to do it and then
For my services. I want to run them on a smaller device work that that's more flexible like that uh
That boards from a framework
So you were talking about from work and compared it to run in a nook um, I have uh
I was playing around with some little mini AMDs that uh are kind of like the nook, but they have the old surface pro
Uh, I think the AMD chips in them. They're not very powerful and they don't have a lot of memory and they're very easy to to bog down
someone
HP Lovecraft turned me on to uh
The HP g2 mini
That's like a little thin client
They're tiny
The one I started running with just 8 gigs of RAM and you can max it out to 16 support an nmv SSD both
Um, and I have a couple projects uh, I'm running with those
um, all headless uh, and they're working great for me
I don't know if they would fit your use case um, and I know net miner just purchased purchased one there was a
a refurb
uh, recertified and he got it at a great rate. He got a g3
Yeah, I was speaking with him about that yesterday
I'm I'm waiting for him to dig into it a bit more and then I um
Hopefully I can catch up to him again and get some gets again an update on that because I'm looking at those thin clients as well
And just you know that seemed bang for buck ebay with the thin clients looks like a very good deal
It's just some of them some of them don't come with chargers and um, I'm a little
I'm just watching it for now seeing what the options are but I I am uh, I'm keeping an eye on that market as well
It was going to be the most flexible uh, yeah, uh, I'm I'm well in the uh
Uh, give you feedback on what I'm doing with mine uh, if you want and compare them to the
To the little AMD's that I got I think there were 1460s AMD ASX 1460s
For the most part, they were great unless I transcode stuff and plex and then they they could just the cpu and memory max out and they stop working for about an hour
And that's with the knock-like device or is that also with the thing client as well?
That's with the look-like device the thin client has a more powerful GPU and instead of being
The little AMD's that I got they were like right around 200 dollars a piece and I bought them right before the pandemic
I got like four of them I think four or five
And I'm running different headless projects of servers with them and
instead of using raspberry pies and
They were working great except for plex um and
The problem being they're the old surface pro chips. So
Uh, well, we're in the original surface pros. So they're it's a four core AMD
And they're running at like 1.2 or 1.4 gigahertz and
The maximum memory is like eight or 16 gigs of RAM and it just
I think I have eight in the ones that I got and they just don't uh, they don't cut it with anything graphical or converted audio
Yeah, I I have not used plex, but I'm thinking about trying out jelly fan. I don't have a lot of
Visual media. I do a lot of audio books. So my my use case is more simplistic
For me, it's mostly gonna be next cloud in other services like that
Audio bookshelf is what we've been playing around with on the on the Linux logcast for audiobook libraries
And it's called audiobook show
Show audiobook show. Yeah, I'm having a problem because I'm trying to run it
Um, uh, I'm I'm having problems accessing my NAS drive with that application
Um, uh, I need to figure out how to configure it properly for it to see the NAS
To see the mounted discs that are the audio books on my NAS. Are you running a uh, right? Are you running a uh
A true NAS system or or Linux based uh, NAS uh, Linux is NAS. So I'm running one of my running um, I got the Helios NAS
um, the 64 bit Helios NAS the second project that they did
Uh, it is uh, amazing. Uh, they had problems
Um, the pre-orders were completed right before the pandemic and then they had trouble
Uh, fulfilling the orders and they canceled
They delivered on all the
Orders, but they canceled making more of them due to supply chain issues
But it is one of the nicest little NASes I've seen and it was only $300
Uh, it has five drives and uh, it's got their custom board in it
Um, comes with a battery backup inside
Um, I think it was um, Armbein that I'm running on it
Um, well, it's Armbeats
Yeah, yeah, it's uh, uh, it's uh, uh, uh, it's got a five drive SATA
supports an NMBE um, uh, 64 bit Arm uh, board that they custom made Helios
Yeah, I'm not opposed to arm. It's just for longevity. I'm always thinking, you know, with that X86
I can run this thing uh, to the end of time at least from now that's you know, that's the way it seems
With Arm, with especially for those um, I guess more boutique
Distros or whatever that that you have to run on them. I I'm a little
I'm a little nervous about purchasing anything arm to run as uh, in production
Uh, they the company uh, I think they guarantee uh, either five or ten years support on the hardware
And the first NAS that they made uh, everybody loved it so much they sold out and uh,
It was hard to find people selling them uh, uh, used
And they were usually more expensive than what they were new
Uh, and I one of the biggest issues with the first batch they made was that the case that they shipped with it was just 3d cut
Plexiglass uh, which isn't good for uh, uh, it's not stable for for a NAS hard disk to be inside of
There's too much movement. Yeah, I was about to say vibration
Yeah, so the the new one they did the the the the little device was uh, was amazing
I bought two of them um, uh, and I need some uh, I'm gonna have
Somebody who likes working with smaller things uh, build the second one for me put it together
Because I messed up something. I have one of my disks isn't working. I need to get that fit before I have a
A raid problem. Yeah, I like those small form factor systems and even the builds of um, I've been checking out some uh,
Nice cases online recently they have these uh, NAS style cases that are built in the same style as um
Uh, like the Synology boxes and things of that nature except you just build them yourself with like a micro of many ITX
And they look really nice, but I'm never gonna get my hands inside of one of them hands inside of them
I love that, but uh, I hate my Synology
One of my brothers friend sold me on Synology and I think it's the biggest piece of garbage
Yeah, I'm never gonna purchase a Synology. Anything like that where I have to use your operating system and and your hardware
And I'm very limited in what I can do with it
I'm never gonna make that purchase these days at least not with uh
Technology that I run on my network
Yeah, I made that mistake because the helios NAS is the first NAS I've had actually running in my home network properly
Um before the Synology NAS I bought uh, via
The via boards they had come out with a custom uh, low powered
NAS board that uh
supported eight eight eight saturdays and uh, uh, you know, supportive linux and free bsd and all this stuff and was supposed to run with free
NAS uh, but it did not um, and there was another company that made a custom case for it that uh was really nice
To fit in the bottom
Absolutely there is very tight, but it runs on almost no power like when it's running hard it
I think they compared it to uh, the power consumption of a printer and power save mode
um, uh, and it worked great except uh, when I
Finally got free NAS installed on it. They'd switched to skip and uh the board had a
Uh, uh, soldered on one one gig of RAM and uh, that was just not enough to run ZFS
Yeah, see that's that's another thing with all the soldered on bits
I mean all of that just it's a turn off these days
I need to be able to run whenever I make a purchase for my network
It needs to be something that I can manage and I need to be able to sit on it for I don't know 10 years before I need to make
A new purchase or like a full overhaul of that purchase
Yeah, uh, I
I have to say again that the the g2 mini
the hp minis uh, the the little thin client uh is is amazing uh, I have uh
Three projects running currently and uh, uh, I'm gonna start a fourth project when I get back to the states
So, um, can you load any other operating systems on it like if I just want to run the boom too on it
Is is there uh, is there something boring me from doing that or
No, no, uh, it was
Very easy. Well, uh, the first time was very easy the second time I had problems
I have three different multi-boot USB discs. I have uh, I think you me easy to boot and
uh, Venki a USB discs
USB drives
thumb drives and they're each uh, I think 128 or 256 gigs and I have like 50
50 ISOs on each one and uh, just could not get them to boot could not get them to boot
um, and finally just burned uh
Took a 16 gig
USB stick and re-burned a single ISO and it booted right up. So I might my USB stickster
Messed up with the multi-boots. I'm gonna have to start over on them. Uh, but yeah, yeah
The issues I have were something wrong with my USB sticks uh, burned to fresh one
Uh, I think one I put grudelix on and I'm gonna make a multi-medial workstation and I've uh 19 inch Huey on
Uh, drawing screen monitor you're with the pins. I want to start doing graphic design
Another one I have actually I put the bun to on it um, and uh, I
X4 I'm I'm uh, using I think X to go to connect to it for my laptop and I'm just running a
nicotine plus it's a part of the uh windows
Peer-to-peer for music called uh, SoulSeek. I think it's called SoulSeek
But the Linux clients nicotine plus uh, uh
So I have one one is just dedicated to that uh, and then the other one has a diet pie on it uh, headless
um, and the fourth one I'm running uh, something headless on. I forget what I installed
You know host maybe uh, why you know host? I have it running on one of the AMD's also the little AMD minis that it's running great
I have like 40 applications 30 applications installed on a headless
uh, audio bookshelf is not working
On that uh, but I have like open project and open note and I know some blog softwares some mind mapping softwares
probably next cloud
um, my wire guard is running on why you know host on little uh, AMD mini
I've a lot of running on it. I've been trying to max them out and max them out to see how much they can do
So do you do you container up your uh,
the applications or are you just running them there?
So why you know host uh, that does that I'm trying to do more container stuff uh, one of the AMD minis that I have is running proxmox
um, so I have a couple things uh containerized running on it um, uh, I've been trying to do proxmox on a
linode instance and on a vps but I've purchased around thanksgiving
minix and a look uh, for a big sale that was going on and uh, I was like, uh, I can do that um,
but I'm having problems bridging uh, the network for the bms to the
So they can access so they're accessible through the internet. Yeah, I'm still learning about containers now
And I'm messing around with Docker at the moment when I'm when I get to a comfortable state
I want to test out the podman a little bit see what what all the fuss is about over there fuss is about over
Yeah, so podman is uh, red hats uh, by an area replacement for Docker because Docker they didn't know what was going on with it for a little bit
um, it didn't look like uh, anybody was gonna uh, be maintaining it um, uh, so red hat just switched to podman
um, so
That's what I'm trying to do at work is uh, uh, do some stuff in podman
Uh, but just not not enough time uh, so I'm I'm trying to play with both of them at the same time
I think net miners doing the same thing
Yeah, I think we're all in that boat trying to find a time to uh, keep up with these things
I um, I'm starting with Docker just because that's where the books are at the moment
I've got several books on Docker and I it's it's a little bit rough trying to find a book on podman
I've seen documentation, but nothing like uh, an actual book written on it
Yeah, net miners there's like a $60 book that's coming out the beginning of next or beginning of this year
um, uh, on podman um, that's supposed to be a uh, uh, how to for everything
uh, uh, uh, but yeah, yeah, if you want to uh, work on any projects or bounce ideas
uh, back and forth that's something that uh, um, honky and minnex
have stuff running in Docker um, and then a net miner and I are trying to get into it too
um, I mean I can do the simple stuff I can pull down an image and you know, do the hello world in
bash I can you know pull down a basic blog and have WordPress running in a in a minute
but what I what I don't know how to do is create every create everything so
I can destroy it and bring it back up, you know, um, and have it still connect to the same data store
have it you know, use the same keys for uh, certificates and for uh, uh, ssh configuration and all that kind of stuff
That's my goal I'm like missing too many steps to to do it quickly
Yeah, I've been wondering about all those things because when you're learning about it
they give you those easy sort of steps uh, you know, creating the hello world and everything
to get you for me with using the command line to create these uh, containers however it's like okay
the things that I ultimately want to be able to do I don't see a bridge for how I'm going to get
there using some of these these uh, easy examples for one like you mentioned uh, reconnecting with your
storage outside of the container. Currently I don't I don't draw you know, mentally I can't see
how it's going to work but I I understand that it does work just from where I am now and I can't see it
that I don't know how to do it but it would I don't know how to do it but you have those like
I don't know if I use the ammo files or playbooks or or whatever but uh, you would just tell it to connect
to the same so if you have one device that has a multiple docker instances running um, so uh,
what I would do is have a data shares on my NAS and then uh, have that shared on the device
that docker is managed on and then the docker you create however you can you can figure it so it
can point to that specific file share or or folder on that device and then it doesn't use it internally
in the virtualization uh, once it started up it uh, you can figure it to connect back to
another path outside of the containerization. That's one of the things I'm kind of nervous about
doing is we're running anything on the NAS. I'm very nervous about it. I want to use the NAS
just for transit, you know, to shift the backups to on the front but not actually run anything off of it.
Yeah, well, you can also um, uh, with um, um, you're some your links can be symbolic or logical
to create a logical link. You can have it access the file and delete the file but it's just a copy
of the location of the file. Does that make sense? What that be the same is how um, how is that
different? Well, I'm assuming you're still doing that on something like NFS, right? Yeah, yeah,
I would do it on NFS, yes, but you could do it locally also. One of my previous jobs, we had a
web sphere and we weren't allowed to access the logs directly. So when they, they changed some
configuration and web sphere. So when it wrote the logs, it wrote to them in two locations.
What it would write them, but it also created a, a hard link to the, to the, to the file and uh,
we could uh, view, view them, we couldn't save to it. And if we deleted it, we'd be deleted the,
the logical link to the file and not the file itself. It all sounds very safe, but I know me,
I'm going to mess it up somewhere along the line. So I just didn't ask the way that I'm using it now
protects me from myself. I just, I just wanted to just have like something like our sink in the
background that reaches out grabs the files without me touching it. And the NAS will do its job
while while I'm doing my job. Yeah, so I understand that and I'm probably being a little too
dangerous with what I'm doing. I see a lot of great things working because when I, when I first
built this server, I was thinking general purpose file, general purpose file server where I could
actually run a couple of EMs and everything on it and just kind of have it all, all eggs in one basket.
But after a few issues, I kind of get, I lost the, the will to continue with that. So one,
something, uh, something a little bit more simple. I don't mind experimenting on my desktop and
blowing that up from time to time, but it, it just, uh, it's not the same when you do it to the
backups server. Not on your dedicated data store. I don't always, but when I do, it's in production.
Yeah, especially when you're dealing with large disks and raid. Oh my goodness, like it, you know,
I, I can't sit down for another, you know, X amount of hours sink session. I've been interested in
ZFS for a little bit, but, um, with the drives I've had, with the drives I currently have, I've,
I've heard too much conflicting information with ZFS to go that route. So I'm just going to stick
the Linux right now and manage it all. I'm guessing with a OVM, they're using a MD admin to,
to manage the raid. I haven't actually jumped in there and checked the logs or anything on it,
because again, I, I kind of want to protect myself from the device by not messing with it,
but I'm, I'm going to just kind of peek around at the logs to see what they're using.
I think that's what I used with, because I've used OpenMediaVault NAS for free.
Yeah, I love how simple it is. And, um, you know, for my use case, it just, just works there in
the background. It was pretty good, um, and setting up a simple somba for the misses to just
dump stuff on. If that really helps, trying to get her to, you know, use any kind of backup
and follow away a plan has been difficult. Those somba has been
the saving grace there, where she, she sees it as just a folder on her laptop.
They can dump stuff in it and it, it'll be taking care of.
Oh, did we miss a, a New Year's? Or is this a,
was who the gentleman that just came in? No, no, no, it's a, uh, 11 o'clock,
10 after 11 p.m. my time. Um, uh, are, are we, are we passed all the New Year's?
Yeah, I think we're in a post show. Okay. Yeah, that, that, that's what it is.
So about that, about that, uh, drawing tablet, you said you were looking to get into it,
or have you already purchased a digital tablet for drawing digital tablet?
So it's not a tablet. It's a 19 inch monitor, uh, the drawing screen.
It's, uh, we on, and I, I bought it in 26, and I think, um, and never had time.
I was trying to get it to work with the Raspberry Pi, uh, because that was what was in my budget,
um, uh, for my goddaughter to get her into graphic design. Um, and, uh, uh, she ended up, uh,
never having time to work with me on it. And then went and got a, uh,
Wacom, uh, 12 inch tablet, um, and started using that instead.
Yeah, I was, I was going to mention that Wacom's been, uh, working out wonderful for me.
I use one of the, uh, cheaper ones, the Wacom Intuos. Uh, it's an older model now.
But I mean, it still works just fine. And I've been using it mostly.
Pattern of the screen. What, uh, like the drawing pad, or the one that actually has the,
uh, uh, monitor screen. Oh, it's just the pad. It's, um, it's, I see the screens,
but if I was actually working as an artist, I'd probably want it to screen.
But because I use mine for simple things like signatures and things of that nature.
I'm not an artist at all. And I, I would touch up some images and get like teeth whitening
and things like that with it. So, you know, small things that I can do, but I don't generate art.
I'm, I'm a faux artist. Uh, but yeah, I can't use a touch, one of the touch pads like that.
I've tried before in it. Uh, the, the, I think Huey on and UG have both been getting better,
better ratings than the comparable Wacom products. Um, and, uh, uh, at a much smaller price tag.
And they, they use the same Wacom drivers, uh, which are now, uh, in the links kernel everywhere.
The last couple of years. Yeah. That's one of the things that I, I was very happy to learn about it
that the drivers are in the kernel, because, uh, especially on any good gnome based, uh, any
gnome DE based DE, like, uh, popping all that. It works perfectly fine. Uh, I like the way that it
works. How you can, um, set the, the tablet to map to the, uh, display, especially when you're
using multiple displays is, uh, it, it, it, like on windows when you're using it, it's weird.
It's, I haven't been able to find out how to map it to a single display. And that way,
in windows, I have to turn off one monitor. Otherwise, it tries to, you know, stretch all the monitors
across that single little pad. And it's real weird trying to get anything done like that. I imagine.
But yeah, yeah. So I, I, I had a, uh, think, think center, um, that I was trying to use with the
drawing screen and it worked, but the, the lag was just terrible. It only had four gigs of RAM in it.
It was a, uh, a recycle, a recycled machine, uh, which was not cutting it. And, uh, I think
the Karuta Karuta in it with the mini, uh, the HP mini G2, uh, uh, 32 gigs of RAM. I
got it 32 gigs with an NMBED in it. Uh, I, I need to get adapters to, uh, plug the monitor
into it. I don't want to, it's VG, only is the data, the DVI port, whatever the, whatever the output
that you get to it. Uh, but before it looks like it's going to, so have you been able to create any
art yourself lately with it like a recently or just hadn't touched it much. I did a little bit,
when it went to the, uh, think center, uh, with the lag that I think was turning out. And this is
with Karuta. It was still even, what, uh, what the e were you running on it? Except the e, uh, but,
so Karuta, I think it's, it installs butter FS by default. And it just like four gigs of RAM. Oh,
right. Well, yeah, I guess that's one other thing to consider. That's where with some of these file
systems, they feel like many operating systems these days. Well, I mean, that kind of are, I'm
saving their data and stuff, you know, in more rated ways. I mean, if it keeps you from losing data,
I don't mind it. But when it comes to projects like these, I can see the, uh, there'll be a little
bit of frustration because still, even with four gigs of RAM, I don't imagine you'd have that much
trouble just using a tablet. But once you mention the file system, I figured like, oh, yeah, but,
yeah, yeah. Oh, and I want to do, uh, um, multimedia stuff on it. Um, in Ohio, we have a Python
conference, Pi, Ohio, um, that's usually hosted at the Ohio State University. And, uh, I saw,
see if I remember her name, Jessica Carson. Uh, I think she's, uh, professor or somewhere on the
East Coast, uh, Northeast, um, and technology and music or something. And, uh, uh, I don't know if
she created or works on or just uses this program called Fox Dot, it's an expansion on, um, Sonic Pi,
the audio processing libraries in Python, Python app, Python program. And, uh, uh, when she was
given her talk, uh, she was getting feedback from, from the audience, from the participants,
uh, and, uh, editing the music live. So it plays live while she's adding new loops and new beats and
new audio tracks, audio sounds to it. Uh, and it was just captivating. Uh, and I, uh, she, she posts
each one online, uh, when she does talks, uh, or teaches classes. And you can hear just the different,
different songs that, uh, just from, you know, different feedback from, from the audience or from,
you know, students or whatever, um, get. So I want to do a lot of that.
Music is, um, um, I definitely cannot create anything that could be mistaken for music. So, um,
completely. I bet you could. Unless you consider punching a wall music, then, no, I, I just,
I can't. I tried. I was using that. It was called L-M-M-A-S. Everything is music. Everything is music.
No, I don't want to be told me. Oh, okay. Oh, okay. No, no. Do you should check out Fox Dot? See if you can
find, uh, Jessica Carson and Fox Dot, uh, and, uh, uh, just, uh, I think anybody could create music
with it. I'm gonna, I'm gonna hold off on it for a little while because especially using Python
right now, and I'm also learning a little bit more about Python. I started a while back, but I had to,
because of other things that were going on at the time I had to postpone it. So I started back,
jump it into that. And let me just mention that Python documentation is awesome. You can get just
the entire standard library, uh, in the, in the EPUB format right from the site. So as I'm going
through my books and doing the, uh, different examples, and I want to jump in and figure out what
these different, uh, functions and everything are. I had the standard library right there with me
offline. It's, it's fantastic. I love it. My, my problem with Python is the same problem I had with
Java. Uh, I can understand how to do it in little pieces, but how do I start my full-blown application,
um, you know, kind of an an agile flow where it has only one or two things and build upon it. How
do I build that application and design it properly? So I'm, I'm nowhere near there yet. What I started
with is I took a, um, I took a, uh, a bulk file renamer that, uh, it's written in Python,
connects with, uh, GTK. And I want to strip all the GTK elements out and just make it a command line
tool. And that's what I'm working with now. I'm just kind of flexing my Python muscles dealing with
that. That's cool. When I'm, when I'm done with that, I'm, I'm gonna, um, start working with, um,
I guess, the called twis, you know, the terminal UI things. And, um, I want to take that same program
and build a 2E for it or try to. So you can still just run it as a command and a command line,
or you can use the, you know, command line interface to manipulate it. That's the hope anyway.
Yeah. I, I actually, uh, helped somebody with, uh, uh, uh, fixing their Python application for,
for a class. I went through and, uh, told them how I would have done it, where I would have, uh,
made changes and, uh, what I thought he was doing wrong. And, uh, uh, he fixed, he fixed his,
and I just rewrote it, uh, on my own. And I was surprised at all the Python I remembered
from when I was using it when I was piping on two six, I think two, three, uh, but I felt very
accomplished. Uh, I'll be back in a minute. Yep. Well, while he's away, I figured we're still
recording. I'll just mention a couple things just because we're recording with this project that
I'm using, uh, that I'm using is my test, uh, project. It's called bulky. I think, um,
the Linux Mint guys are the creators of it or the main painters of it now. Would whoever created
that, I don't know, but it's called bulky. And that's what I'm using to as the base for my learning
exercise. Also, uh, with the different versions of Python, because it's, I mean, the language is
growing quite a bit now and I'm, and again, thanks for their documentation. You can pull down
the earlier versions and kind of compare the changes and the functions and it, it also has all the
release notes in there as well. So I mean, you get a lot of information, especially when you're
learning. It can be a little bit overwhelming, but I'd much rather have more information than
less. Yeah, I don't know if you could hear that in the background. It's my daughter back there.
She's, uh, singing while making me a toy pizza. Okay, you, using Python with all of that
documentation, it's fun. But what makes me a little bit nervous is some of the things I've heard
about, like, uh, put the language growing as fast as it is. I started my project with, uh,
310. And, you know, it's like, we're going into 311 and then eventually it's going to be 312 or
whatever. Maybe they might just, you know, jump to a four eventually. And it's like, okay, you
know, right now, I'm comfortable here in 310 and I want to maintain it there. I don't want my
environment to become polluted with all these different versions and have to manage that just
yet. So that's why I was also looking at Docker. If I, you know, move my project into a container,
maybe I won't have to worry about that. I could just kind of maintain that version in that container.
And, um, yeah, that's what I was hoping for anyway. But, uh, turns out with everything I was doing
at the time, the whole CDL thing that I was doing with Python with Docker was too much. I,
I couldn't manage it. And I started to crash mentally. So I had to pull back on a Docker thing
and the Python thing for a little bit just to make sure that I got the CDL thing out of the way.
Now there's other thing. There's a lot more going on outside of the, uh, that, but yeah,
I'm still trying to juggle multiple things, uh, technology wise and life wise. Where's my toy piece?
Well, right now, and I think she's in the state of, um, look like she's pressing the blues,
blues stickers to a orange thing using her Creola drawing pad. So I think that means it should
be done in just a bit. Yeah, is it tasty or is it going to be crunchy? Well, she seems to be pressing
all of her weight on it. And, um, I think that means it might be a little bit crunchy. I'm not,
I'm not sure yet, but I mean, uh, I'm still excited for it. I mean, yeah, I'm excited for you for
that. I'm, I think I'm just going to put one of the frozen ones in my oven. Yeah, I'm,
yeah, I'm going to probably end up opting for the same, but for now, and it's kind of
kind of entertaining seeing what she's doing here. Yeah, I'm sorry. I've been cleaning my house. I've
been listening to you guys. It's kind of cool. I'm, I've been using mint for about 11 years now,
so I do lots of good stuff. I'm not as advanced as you guys, but even though I've been using Linux
since the 90s, you guys are going way above me and a little thing though. I feel the same way to be
honest with you though. It, ever, I started using Linux back in 2019, like the end of 2019,
around September of 2019. And everything I've done so far, don't get me wrong. I see lots of
improvements. I believe I progressed a lot. However, I still can't see myself as anything other than
a new because there's so much more to learn. And every time I think I get to a point where I've
completed a thing, I'm afraid to look back because there's so much more ahead of me.
And one of the other things, man, keeping up with documentation as well, whenever I'm learning
anything new, like before now, like right now, I've got everything centered around Joplin, but before
I found a method of keeping up with my notes and documentation. Holy crap, it was so terrible.
I would spend all this time learning something. And I felt like, yes, I truly have a real firm
grip on this topic. And then maybe I'll stop for like, you know, I won't need to use that,
that particular technology for a couple of months or so. And then it'll pop back up again,
like say, sad or all, you know, I'd not use them for a few months. And then when I have to use them
again, it's like, I'm an infant in that project again. It's like, oh my god, wait a minute.
I thought I knew so much. Like, you know, I'd have to go back to one of the previous projects
and kind of comb through it, looking at what I've done. And then it's like, wait, did I actually
write this? Are you serious? Like, you know, so I really needed to get my documentation down.
And even with the documentation, you got to learn method that's right for you. I tried seeing what
other people have done for documentation. But for me, it's weird. I have to use more of examples
and just, you know, like short bursts of information. I, I worked for multiple tech companies
over the years. And one of the things I was always in a database. And so I always, anything that's
object-oriented and a searchable database I used, and I put any fixes, anything that I could use.
I didn't care about anyone else, which just like, I'm going to run into this again. I need to find
this. So I was doing that in Lotus Notes forever, because I worked for IBM. And, you know,
when I transferred over to Linux, kind of, personally, because I never used it professionally.
You know, just trying to keep all that straight. Anytime I, so I've been using various things.
I mean, I'm a big fan of G-Nodes for everything in there, because I'm a simple guy and I can
transfer that stuff between me. G-Nodes, I don't think I've heard of that. Is that, is that a
markdown type editor? What type of note application is this? It's like sticky notes.
Is that the one that Linux Mint uses? I don't know if it's specific to Linux Mint. I think it might
be a known thing because of the G thing. So it might be, but, but what I like about it is I sync.
So I use things other people don't use. Let me put it this way. When I worked at IBM,
I kept a keep pass database because I would bring my own IBM thinkpad with me. So it looked like
one of theirs and we used blackberries back in the day. So I just put it in my blackberry and just
sync it up to the interwebs and talk to people and do whatever. But because that was running
ZUSA Linux at the time, that was my preferred method. I was using a thing called keep pass, which
still exists. And I keep all my passwords and other important things in there. And then I could
sync that up to a server I had at home and then I could sync it up to say my blackberry or anything
else and keep passwords. So I've been doing, I still do that. But one of the things that I do is
something like Geno, it's the same thing. Nowadays, I don't use a NAS at home to store them on it
per se. But more like I'll use in sync with, and in sync is the Romanian. But it's a piece of
paid software that you can use in Linux to sync up to your Google Drive because Linux hates Google
Drive. Well, it did when I was using originally. So I would use in sync and then I can sync up
all those database, including Geno, my keep pass and everything to all my other machines. I have
two or three laptops. I have a couple main machines here that I work off of and stuff. So it's,
I like to have everything in one spot and have it all have the same stuff. And these are simple.
I'm a simple guy now. I don't work in technology anymore because I kind of retired myself. But
I think I've become dumber. And the dumber it is, the easier it is, the easier I am. So I'm listening
to you guys and I'm like, whoa, we out there for me. No, I think we all head toward that more
simplified method as time goes on. You know, you start off with this super complex thing and
then eventually you migrate towards something more manageable, especially depending on how much time
you want to sync into it. So I think that happens to us all eventually. One thing I want to ask
though, you're, so you're using just regular keep pass or is it one of the variants the like,
I'm using keep pass XC at the moment. And I, I, I'm a little bit, I hear that you sync your database.
I'm a little bit nervous about how that works, right? Like it, it sounds scary. I understand
it is kind of scary, but because I just keep pass X on my Linux boxes, I've used a couple others.
And then I use an Android version because I run Android. So because I'm using Google Android,
I can see my drive. So I tell that version to use the one that's on my drive and I use the other
one. But then again, I have a pretty long password in there too. I don't use the, the extra file
thing, but I have a pretty obnoxious password. And it's not a word. I mean, it's a word in my head,
but to anyone else, it's not a dictionary hack. So, and I worked info sector a while. So I mean,
I try to make it really difficult. And I don't even have, because of that, I don't really have
multiple password. I mean, I don't reuse password. I haven't done that in years. So I don't like,
I might have a similar password, like a couple, yeah, most of my passwords are like 26 characters,
minimum. So they're obnoxious. I mean, good luck. You're in Vladivostok if you pack it.
Yeah, I think once you're using a password manager, that's going to take you out of the low-hanging
fruit category, because there's no point in using a password manager if you're just going to use
the same password. You know, whatever. This is horrible. I was just dating this woman, probably
about three, three for you, just before the pandemic. And I was over at her house. And one of our
members at Tekken Coffee had the same thing too, because they've, like, showed it as a Christmas
present or something. But there's a book they sell, like in probably Barnes and Noble or something
that says internet passwords. And nice little letter put on your bookshelf thing. And I'm like,
are you insane? I see those. I know what you're talking about. No.
I was like, I'm looking at the thing. I'm like, I'm looking at and I'm like, you know, I can own
you right now. And they don't use 2FA too. A lot of, if you have that, you're not using 2FA on
anything. 2FA is available. I use 2FA and pretty much anything. If they offer it, I use it.
They don't offer it. I just make a real complex password. Well, I like key pass. Make
a really complex password. And, you know, you can torture me. I don't know. I don't even know
what that password is. Yeah, I think that's, that's one of the things that has happened to me as well.
I don't have a clue with any of my passwords are anymore. They're all way too long. And I just
don't even try anymore. It's like, okay, you know, I got bit warden and key pass managing these.
And good luck. You know, I, I'm never going to admit. It's like phone numbers. I used to be
remember every phone number I've ever used. Now, I can't remember any of them. They're just
contacts now. And the same thing has happened with passwords. I got, I have no clue what they are.
Well, actually, because I used to be an RSA admin for my company, the phone number thing,
I always loved because people couldn't make up a pen to save their soul. And I said, do you remember
your old phone number? The perfect pen is the last four digits of that phone number because
nobody's going to guess that. Nobody remembers phone numbers. But you always remember your childhood
phone number. I'm to say, and I remember my, my late wife's phone number when I used to call her,
you know, when her dating, I remember my best friend's phone number. I could go up to a phone now
and dial those. But I mean, I'm bad with name face recognition. I'm bad with just numbers in
general. I mean, they're like, if it's not, so I base a lot of my stuff off of stupid things.
The pen I used for my bank is a pen that Albany Savings Bank gave me because you could make
your own pen. They gave it to me on my ATM back in 92 or something. But because it's something that
means nothing to me, but I remembered it for some godforsaken reason. That's become my ATM pen for
my current bank account because it means nothing to me. If you stole my card and tried to like
reverse hack me, good luck. I don't even, you know, that means not somebody's birthday. It's nothing.
I, I just have to go in on this conversation about passwords. So, uh, well, 35 now, but age 15,
I can remember like every single password. I don't know how many email accounts I had, lots of
hot mails, etc. And now, and then for about a last few years or so, it's been like, yeah,
what's the password for that? What's the password for that? And then, of course, I'm using different
passwords because I'm not, you know, I'm not silly. But at least you can get a password reset email,
but any problem with it, if the right account gets hacked, the pack broken into, let's say, um,
then you're going to be locked out of other stuff, anyway, probably, it's like that. That's
what the two fear orphanage, two, two, yeah, orphanageation, that can help a bit while making
some more secure. But yeah, it's annoying. It must be an age thing. We, we're getting old,
so all of us, so we forget our passwords. I don't even try these days. I mean, I make no
effort to remember them. When I generate a new password, if it looks complex, there you go. That's
the password now. Do you guys remember geocities? Oh, yeah, geocities and angel fire. So, geocities would
issue you a really obnoxious, and I think a seven character password. So the password for my key pass,
and I never changed the geocities password. But back in the day, they gave me this really obnoxious
one. I used it. I could remember it. I took that and added some numbers and a couple of extra
characters, and that is my key pass password. And it's a nonsense thing. It's nothing. It means
nothing to anyone else, but I've typed it so many times from like 1992 up in things that it's in,
I could never lose it. I could probably get, you know, some sort of memory disease and still know
what that is. Yeah, but that's the good thing about it. You, you know that one, and that's the only
one you need to know because it controls all the, it has access to all the others. What's juicy?
Exactly. Hey, I dropped, I dropped off for a minute there. So what were those passwords again,
and never mind if this whole thing is being recorded. Well, yes, exactly. Yes. What's the,
what was the password? Well, the password that I used is the pink code for the bank account.
55 W zero R D capital P, a couple of pounds, that's like I would do that. Yeah, I just, I just
used the word password because nobody's ever going to figure that out. And most of passwords
will pass where manager by the way, yeah. Well, first of all, not only would you need that,
but you'd also need the 2FA to get into my Google account, which has a really obnoxious password.
For some guy, I know that password. And it was generated in a password thing. So I know that.
And then you would need a 2FA. So you'd need to grab the 2FA off one of my 2FA devices. And then
then you could probably grab the database and then you could torture me for the password,
which is really obnoxious as well. And it's in England so that yeah, and that's a talk show.
We don't do that over here, but some other countries will. So yeah, they'll talk to you quite nicely
for your password. And don't forget the user here. I don't know if you can hear that, but that's the
sound of UB keys. Yeah, with key pass, I could not get the UB key thing to work over on Linux.
So I opted for using that file thing that they use. And I haven't tried to break it yet,
but I assume that it's pretty secure. I've been using Linux Mint with it,
and Azus Viva book I bought in November. And you know, completely wipe Windows off of it,
usually kills people. Like all my friends were like, why don't you just say, I'm not stupid.
But that has a fingerprint reader. And that was a living hack to get it set up.
I'd love to say I'd like the story about the book as well as someone told here.
And also, yeah, password one, two, three is probably in that book.
Maybe you see something. Yeah. Yeah, with passwords and trying to get other users to use better
passwords, they're afraid they're going to have to learn too many new things. And it's like,
look, no, it's going to be super easy. If you just try, you'll be all right.
The best one. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I've just thought of something years ago now.
While the borough came up to me and he said, sir, but then while I long explanation, but I'm
knocked out with Twitter. And I was like, okay. Or somebody's got any of these. And he's like,
what do I do now? I was like, oh, yeah, you change your password. So he said, what all of them?
I think he used the same password and all kinds of things. Yeah. That is girlfriend of time.
So I mean, things we do. And I'm not too, too deep in it. But for our community,
we have multiple accounts, like maybe 20 or 30 accounts. And we use sort of an online,
we won't say which one. We use an online one that at least four of my main admins have access.
So like, and then we can, if somebody wants to master on account as an example and post against it,
we could just give one of our lower admins that access and just say, hey, look, you can now log into
mass it on and do things. No, that, that I would be a little bit, they have to be trustworthy.
We have to have, you know what I'm saying? Like, most of these people I've known for 11, 12 years,
but it's just kind of like, there's two or three of us that have massive access. But this is for
just, you know, our, an online community. Yeah. And we used to have half a million people now.
Yeah, when, when it's a small group, I understand it's a little bit more secure, but I trust humans
to be human, you know, yeah, no, but I got to, I get to know the person for a while before,
you know, I'm saying like hang out with them, do things, whatever, you know, but it's, yes,
the two, two other people that have the same level of access as me. And I call it the drop off
a cliff scenario, because who knows what's going to happen to me? I could jump in front of a bus for
no apparent reason tomorrow. So then, you know, then I had the only access at one point. So only two
other people have the same access as me. So if we all died at the same time, it'd be horrible. But
but some of the people have some access. Like, I don't care about our Facebook entity. I don't,
I give two craps about Facebook. Facebook is horrible to me, but we have a Facebook entity.
So the two or three people that want to manage that by all means, here's your access to that one
little level of our, our, our, you know, our database. So you just have to make sure that, you know,
all you guys don't write to work on the same bus. Yeah, well, we're all in different countries too.
Like one, one guy is somewhere else and I'm here in the States, you know, so they're in different
spots. So one guy is somewhere in Asia. I won't go any further.
You have the note pad over here, writing it all down. No, no, no, no, no. Yeah, I saw one of those
books that you could buy. This is my passwords. And I just had one word. Why?
No, because people are people, right? Okay. It's my same argument with buying a laptop, right?
You buy a laptop, you use windows. That's what you know. I mean, it's the same argument. People are
people. They don't know any better. They think, oh, that's a bringing idea. And then I'm like,
that you're putting it on your shelf. Anyone can see it, but they don't think they don't go that.
If you bought that, you don't go to that extent mentally to think about security.
Yeah, that is, that is the least secure way of doing things. Yeah, somebody ever gave me that
as a gift. It would go right in my, like right now, it's first of the year. So I'm putting good
little boxes on the side. I'm cleaning my house. So there's good little boxes. That would have
just gone right in there because I'll ever use it. But somebody could have you saw it, not me.
I almost won't try writing fake ciphers in it. So people would try and figure out what my passwords
were. No, no, I wouldn't. When it comes to stuff like that, haunting the bad guy sort of thing,
you know, I'm a little bit nervous about that because if you get one that sticks around long
enough, he'll eventually get you, you know what I mean. So it's like, you remind me of when I used
to, I traveled quite a bit in my day. And I've never had this happen to me, but I saw this in
probably on an episode of odd couple or something. Somebody had a fake wallet. So I bought, I had an
old wallet. And I carry that like, I'd probably keep $20 in it, like real money. But then I had my real
wallet, like saying a cargo pocket because I was wearing cargo pants. And, but if somebody comes up
to you, give me your wallet. Like, here you go. And I had like a bunch of like, you know, stupid plastic
store cards that came out of wallets that have no meaning. So like if you looked at it at a glance,
it looked real until you took it apart and found out you only got $20 in it. That also happened on
an episode of South Park. I don't do that anymore. So I guess if you robbed me on the street, you'd
get money. Maybe two credit cards. Well, I don't, I don't have this thing called money
anyways. So you wouldn't, you would never get much from me. Well, if you travel overseas,
like say, Germany or England or something, there's very little, little cards used. Like Germany
loves cash. So it's like, you would need cash. I mean, I'm used to that. And I don't really,
you know, I'm going to say in the three years here, I haven't used that much. I've used
my cards. I've got to correct you from England. And yes, I was there when some German guy was
saying, how in Germany, you need or head on the stream, whatever, that you have to have loads of
cash account. And well, he used card over there a bit. But no, England's definitely gone a lot more
cards recently in recent years. It's like, in fact, no, you can still get cash machines. But,
but yeah, you really need money most of the time now. I'm going to say, I always get cash anyway.
So I hit a post office when I go there. So I bring whatever with me and I hit a post office.
I don't get some weird exchange rate from some side risky places. But, but I always bring cash
only because if you're on a pub somewhere or something, it's much easier. And then I'm using
American cards. So if you don't tell your credit card, and even if you do tell your credit card or
your bank that I'm going to be in the UK and these spots at this time, so they don't freeze your card,
half the time the cards get frozen anyways. And God forbid, you are the master card because they
hate master card view. So, so in essence, you need money. We are master card. Let's see. It's called,
it used to be Euro card. There's something over there, but you're not even in that anymore. But
master card will be a different name over there. There's, uh, what is it, debit card weights.
It's the devil's zero looking at anyways. I don't own actual credit cards anymore. They're
all linked to accounts, which is horrible. I probably shouldn't say, oh, I should get back to
cleaning though them. Getting tired. It's almost like I want to take a nap. Hey, all years on
Macedon, I'll follow you guys and not take coffee. I'm on Macedon. I'm at the GOS part, but
there's two of me. There's one that's in the Glasgow server. Do not follow that. When you
can follow it, people do follow, but that's my celebrity news resource thing. So, there's about
400 news resources and celebrities in there. I don't keep those in my, my normal account. That's
just so, you know, I can repose back to deck and coffee. I just posted my master card down in the,
in the, uh, thing there. I think I follow you. Wait a minute. That name is, uh, well, I remember
saying that I said, but I was going to say, well, Macedon, I could sign that. Plenty moved over
there. I don't know. There's just something out pointless. Things that are like tweets that aren't
tweets, but well, you can like build that thing following, but I don't know. I was going to say
with card though, I was thinking about Iceland and how you went over there in May 2015.
My mom's got a harrow card, but you know, a debit card, but then they were like, no,
Mac card credit cards in me and it's like, really? Don't get that in Sweden or in places like that.
Parents are going through the Americans as well, because they get a lot of Americans coming
over to Iceland, where that means. But yeah, I have to have a credit card or nope, you're not
getting the, you're not going to have a card, debit card, no good. I just followed you from, uh,
which game? Oh, hopefully my GOS credit card. Yeah, I thought I'd just heard something over there
and there was a station. Sorry, we, we use it. Yeah, that's what we have. Isn't a lot of B's over here.
Master master card, I think there is some in England to go max as the cat just now, but yeah,
B's is a big one. Oh, there we go. I should see two follows, one from Tekken Coffee, one from
juice. I'm sorry, I pimp out my cat a lot on my normal one, so you'll see my cat being like
aggressive to it. Here we go. Yep, I just got him followed back. Yay. And that's master done.
Master done. That's the only thing I use anymore. I mean, I got off G+, I tried a few other things,
I even tried me, were you for a while, that's garbage, it's full of racist crap. I had to get out
of that. You're not the only person that heard say that. I don't know, people got me
out of all these different things. You're like, try this and we created a community there. We had
a few of the people and most of my admins were like, well, the people that are joining are like,
Nazis or something like, okay, let's abandon it. They've made it more of it. And I follow
some HP Lovecraft stuff like Cosmic Horror, Rick and Morty, and then a bunch of Linux and
electronic stuff. I'll log in probably once a month to see if, because I mean, the one admin
that was really controlling it, he was in Tennessee, he passed away last year. So he was the guy,
he's like, I'll just keep doing the me where you think, but now nobody really wants to do it.
And I'll just log in everyone so I'll make sure we're not getting any like, bad posts. But
it's like once a month when I think about it, maybe twice a month, but I don't really,
you know, it's me who's, it turned into like a living heck of garbage for me. And we have a lot of
like five or six hundred users with a lot, but I mean, it's, you know, a lot for there. And
now I'm like, as long as one of our admins looks at it, but no, nobody can't. It's pretty much a
bad. It's like Facebook, you know, if you follow our Facebook, it's pretty much abandoned.
Our Twitter now gets all of our messages. And so we do have the, oh, yeah, yeah. And we have,
and we have Twitter mastered on mostly me and two others admin.
Someone said something about command line.
Command line magic. Twitter and mastodon. It's a great, great, great, great one to follow. His,
his handles, Theray, if I remember right, his name is Steve Sousa. That could be wrong.
But his handles, Delta Ray, I saw him give a intro to bash talk at the, in the end,
in excess one year, the first year they rebooted it. Yeah. And unless he was here or, or someone had
a direct link to his account, I normally don't try to search people because there's too many
impersonations out there. So it's a little bit difficult to find the one you're looking for.
And second account. I have second accounts is all that up there. And then I can, after
looking at the views for a while, I can go, yeah, that's a garbage account and it's deleted off.
But then some of these people followed me back. They're like, you know, celebs and stuff.
I'm like, ah, don't follow me. I even say don't follow this account. They're going to follow you
back. CLI magic. It's great. I think he does a YouTube channel. So he'll, he'll, I will,
I will add them to my amazing, my famous person account.
Amazing drain of commands that do either the most useful stuff or just the craziest stuff you
wouldn't think I'd do on. I'll take a look, especially if he's on YouTube. I definitely pop over
there and take a look at it. What I would I normally use is a mastodon and element. And uh,
mostly I'm just, you know, lurking in the shadows, uh, riling around for a HPR host. And, uh,
if I find one of them just sort of walking around over there on element or whatever,
pounce on them and try to get them to do a show with me. Hey, you know what? I'll do a show with you.
I mean, I'm stupid, but I'll do shit with you. Yeah, you guys heard him right. He's going to do
a show with me. I mean, the, the quickest interview you've ever done. Actually, I've been
interviewed at all camp a few times, but I don't even know how those. Apparently one of them
is kind of showing gum at the time. So it sounded like I was. Anyways.
Yeah, I'm on, I'm on element, uh, uh, both in the HPR and, uh, in the, um,
the Linux lug cast room. Yeah, there's a lot of people actually in the element H, the HPR
room on element, but I, I usually only see the same, uh, names over and over again.
I mostly lurk there. I feel guilty for not doing, uh, HPR. Not to investigate this element.
I've never heard of it until this moment. What is element? It's chat. Uh, it's the framework
that, uh, you know, the Adam editor. Yeah. I think element is the, uh, framework that, uh,
that and other applications are built on. And it's a basis, it's a basis to, uh, um,
to get into matrix and, uh, other, oh, matrix. We have a, we have a matrix account. Yeah.
It's okay. Got it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I use element. You go into matrix. I let my genius
here and do all this stuff. He's one of the events. He was in here most of the day. Yeah.
I led him deal with a lot of that. My, I'm just, I've gotten older and don't really care. I used
to be so much into tech. And now I just slam my couch and read books and listen to music a lot.
I've done almost nothing for 10 days. Uh, tech related. Other than help people, uh,
reset stuff on their phones here in Thailand, because nobody, nobody knows their passwords,
or they use their telephone number. Yeah. I know. It's all fun and games until you lose your
account. Yeah, especially with two F A these days, like if you ever lose certain accounts that
have two F A and you don't have a password or anything, well, you know what? No, I take it back.
Some of them do offer pretty, pretty, uh, pretty good account recovery. But you know what people
don't do is what I started doing early on in two F A is I would take a screenshot of the barcode
and add it to my key pass as an, you know, but, but now you can just kind of back it all up,
which is kind of scary, but you're back it all up. And what I usually do is I have, I have another
tablet here that I basically anytime I add something to I make sure it's also on the tablet,
because if my phone goes down a ditch or something, there's my two F A's. Oh no, I don't rely on
the phone for two F A. I have an Apple phone. So there's, there's some two F A tied to it just
because of Apple, but outside of that, everything goes through, um, independent apps. Yeah, don't,
but yeah, I got you words can be, you know, used against us. Um, but yeah, yeah. Yeah,
no, I mean, I use very, you know, I mean, any one of the authenticator apps, they, they all cross
acting, Microsoft, Google, um, the Apple one, I think they all use the same protocol.
Well, with some of them, I don't use them because they, I guess they do it for convenience,
but they don't allow you to manage the key yourself. They try to make you scan a barcode and then
they'll manage the key. You don't actually get access to it. And that's what I don't like.
If I'm, if I'm knowledgeable enough to use a, you know, an authenticator, I'm knowledgeable
enough to manage the key because there's, there's a good chance to have more than one authenticator,
you know, if, if, you know, Google was to shut theirs down or whatever, I don't want to just be
hosed because that was the one service I was relying on, not to say that I'm using Google, but
as an example, so if you have more than one authenticator and you have access to the key,
you can manage that key on, on the multiple authenticators.
Yeah, that's the point. That's kind of how we do it in one of our
database. I'll show them. Does anybody use scroll from, um, uh, developed by Steve Gibson from
Scourty now? You too. I didn't hear all of it. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, security application
called Squirrelsqrl, uh, written by Steve Gibson from the security now podcast. Anybody use
that? No, I hadn't even heard of it. It's another thing I've heard first, first heard today.
So I'm behind on my security. I'm behind on all my podcasts, uh, but, uh, uh, it, it seemed, uh,
he's gotten some security people, uh, validating double checking, uh, looking at his code and stuff,
and, uh, it sounds like, uh, a perfect authentication thing where, uh, you can regenerate stuff
from your Scourty account to sign back in. You can, you should off, uh, old keys and I don't know.
I, I started trying to use it, uh, on my own, uh, uh, playing around on a webpage to use it
for authentication. And just now, I didn't have the time to get very far, uh, to delve deep into it.
I was just curious if anybody else had, uh, tried it out. No, I hadn't actually used that, um,
and I'm guessing the keys were, are the, uh, for like the TLTP, are these different keys? Um,
I don't remember. Uh, you could use it as a login for login services. Okay. Yeah. So it's
probably the TLTP keys. Yeah. No, I hadn't actually used that one before, but when I'm, when I'm
making a, a choice to use an authenticator, that's one of the features that I'm looking for.
Not that, you know, that handholdy scan a QR code method, but the, the, put on, put your
pants on one leg at a time, type a key in or copy your key in and manage it per account.
Keypass is, is one of my favorite, uh, or to be more clear, keypass XC is one of my favorite
password managers because it gives you just a lot of flexibility and you can manage it offline.
But, but when it comes to syncing across multiple devices, it's, it, I do it all manually,
just, you know, manually moving it over to the other device because the idea of hosting that
database, yeah, I can't do it. I can't bring myself to putting that file outward.
Anybody else might have access to it. I'd much rather lose it than allow it to get out.
I understand. Yeah. Now, I mean, I, I think if somebody can figure out what my password was,
I mean, I guess, you know, if it's the Soviets and Russians, I mean, but yeah, I mean,
I guess somebody could, could take it and eventually crank it, but, you know, by that point,
I probably would have just gone through and all the ones that are still alive, I would have
probably changed it by that point made anyone. Well, on that note, uh, one of the things that
happened recently, uh, last past users have had their, you know, their, uh, vaults leaked.
So that's awesome. I love that. That's one of my favorite things in the world. Um, yeah.
Because I've had people reach out to me and it's like, this keep past thing. You keep talking
about it because we have a techie telegram thing going on. But it's, how good is that? I'm like,
I've been using it since like 2003. I like it, but I don't know if you're going to like it.
It's not as fancy, shamancy. Yeah, it lacks some of those creature
comforts that people like the ability to sink through, uh, multiple devices and all of that that
they're used to like sinking in the browser and all of that. You're not going to get that,
but in a way, that's for, for me, that just equals more security. Uh, you know, I don't have to worry
about it leaking anywhere. Any device that I'm going to use this on, I'm going to load it on.
And not only that, there's the, you know, the, the special file and everything you have to use
to unlock the database, all that good stuff. Oh, yeah. So it's, it's all about security. And with,
when I'm thinking of security, I'm thinking there should be just a, a small hit for the convenience
factor. Otherwise, it's not true security, you know, right? So the same thing like unlocking your,
your door to, to a facility or somewhere, if, if you don't have to reach into your pocket and
take your key out, then put the key in the door and turn it a certain way. And all, you know,
all the steps it takes to actually unlock the door to get in. Then I mean, it's, it's not secure.
There has to be some, some bit of inconvenience to getting in there. Now that you know,
you've seen certain movies where they do the gag. The person has like a hundred of those
sliding latch locks and all that across the door to keep it secure. I wouldn't go that far,
but I mean, there needs to be something there. Oh, yeah. No, definitely. Um, I mean, I've used it
because I was using another one before key pass. This is when I was working at IBM in 90s or
something. I was using some sort of one and it was something I found online. It was probably
Windows based or always two days or whatever it was. And I was using that, but then I couldn't use
it anymore. And I would, this is member zip drives. I keep mine on a zip drive and I'd bring the
zip drive to work with me, but stupid me. Remember the click of death you get with zip drives?
Well, I think it ruined one of my discs and it ruined my drive. So then I can no longer access that.
So I found the key pass. I think probably in mid 2000s, because I was using this sounds horrible.
Don't judge me, but we use Lotus one two three at IBM for the longest time from the millennium suite.
And I kind of kept my passwords in it. Well, it's better than writing them on a piece of paper.
I mean, I hate to say it. And it was, it always went with me. It traveled with me on a floppy.
So, you know, and there was maybe a copy at home in a desk drawer that was maybe not locked.
Don't judge me. I don't do that anymore, but it was more, it was much better than one of my jobs
when I physically worked in an office almost 20 years ago was to go around to people's desks and
flip up open drawers and flip keywords upside down, look behind monitors or underneath monitors
for little notes about passwords. And I found I'm going to say in my years of doing that hundreds.
And I'd have to make note and it would be a security violation at that point. But it was my job.
I felt bad, but that was part of my job. My manager said, like, you're really good at this.
So go around and make sure people are on sticky notes or little notes. And I don't know how many of those I
found. I had to make notes. I took the note. I would put them on my manager's desk with a little note
where I found it and who they need to talk to. Hey, it's easier now. All you have to do is look
for the book that says my password. You know, I felt like doing that. But you know, you want to
know something. This is about the time when the movie office space is popular and somebody posted a
PDF of the TPS report. So on those people, I would actually put that under keyboard like just to see
how tacky they were. I put that under thing. And you don't know how many people went up to my manager.
What's this report? I have to fill out. I'm like, um, yeah, you know, you can't work anywhere.
Yeah. Why don't you just, um, come in on Saturday too. Oh my god. Yes. The lotus thing I had,
I hadn't not done anything like that before, but I do understand, you know, before you learn
about the different options that are available, I mean, everybody's done something they're not
exactly willing to, you know, boast about when it comes to security. This was, I'm going to say
mid 90s as about when I was getting into Linux too, because I was going from hours to warp to
windows at work. And I was not happy with windows. So kicking and screaming at that point, but we used
load as sweet. And mind you, I mean, there was no way to really encrypt that. I mean, I, I, I did
tarball, and I made it so you couldn't get into it. So it was password protected. So for the day,
it was probably better than anyone else was doing. Yeah. Now here's the thing that we, but we're
in that same boat today. We just don't know it yet because 10 years in the future, we don't know
what technology will be available. So, you know, encryption today seems secure, but 10 years from
now, it'll probably be laughable how insecure it was. So, you know, with, with our votes,
if they get out today, it's not a big deal to us right now. But as, you know, depending on who's
going after you, I would say, if it's, if it's a government or something coming after you, you're
probably in trouble. But if it's just, you know, lone, lone bad guy out there, you got some time,
you know, but I want to scare you guys, but I worked for a bank for almost 20 years doing IT
before that IBM, maybe for that other IT places. But when I worked for the bank, I would log into,
you know, we would net up or log into somebody's desktop. And I'd log in and I would say, okay,
I need you to put in your password with that. And they would open up a spreadsheet in front of me,
copy the username and password. I'm like, are you fudging that? And I'm launching this. This is
a security violation. I'm watching it happen. I would have to mark those tickets. I would just,
just a little checkmark into ticket, you know, user might have security issues. I would let the IT
security people like look at that. But I'm just like, um, no, you're handling money for people at
this bank and you're keeping your corporate passwords in a freaking spreadsheet. Mind you,
I was a bank. I think some of it is because they don't know, though. I mean, most people devote their
attention towards, you know, their own needs and things that they that they want to do in life
or whatever, or their social media, they don't really think about how can I be more secure.
They rely on the systems around them to secure them. So they rely on Apple, you know, Apple
doesn't give viruses. Therefore, I don't have to worry about it. They're not thinking about all the
other ways that they can be, you know, made vulnerable. So I think we, we got to kind of ask people
to be more in tune with their own. So you got, you got to manage your own security every now and
again. Oh, you actually, I pretty much, I think everyone should audit once a year, like what
there's stuff, what they're using anymore, what they're not, um, any accounts. I mean, I still
keep the passwords in my key pass, but I move them into a derelict folder, you know, or something,
you know, because I feel like, okay, I've killed this account. But this is what the login was just in
case, maybe I killed it, but they didn't kill it, you know, or whatever, um, stuff I hadn't used in
years, whatever, but I think it's good to go through, change the passwords at least once a year
for a lot of the main stuff. So stuff you don't use that much fine as long as it's a complex password.
But I mean, I go through and I've changed, I'll change my Gmail like once a year. I'll change
some other stuff. I mean, just because you should, I mean, not saying that somebody's going to be
able to hack it because it's complex, but still. Yeah, you think it's complex into those
quantum computers come out that can break, um, 256 big encryption in like three seconds.
Yeah, I'm going to have the plague from hackers come after me or something.
Yeah, it quantum computing is catching, catching up to us, but there's only,
there's only a few people who have access to them right now. So it's, you know, again, it's one
of those things a matter of time, not, not if, but when will be made more vulnerable by the
usual bad actors. For, for now, as far as rotating different passwords, I might need to get
something to drink. My throat is a little. I'm with you on that. I'm, I'm looking at this empty
coffee cup in front of me and I'm thinking more. I'll be right back. There's lovecraft away.
How are you doing, verbal? I am doing just fine. Can you believe I'm in Thailand?
I can't believe it. Hey, good on you. I still can't believe. Hey, what's the temperature there?
I think right now it's 70 degrees outside. We were further north the last four new years,
but I think 14 degrees Celsius around 60 degrees, low 60. I kept telling everybody I was still hot.
They were freezing. L's, L's brother, bot fireworks, as did everybody else around where he lives,
like professional fireworks, a big ones must have 60 of them that they set off. And we were like
15 meters away from all these huge fireworks going off. It was. So that, so that was your final
destination moment? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I said final destination earlier. Yeah, yeah. I just saw
all the stuff that could go wrong. I've met people who like have shrapnel embedded in them and stuff
from volunteering to help with professional fireworks. And apparently something always goes wrong.
Yeah. Oh my god. But they're running out to lighten them with a lighter and then run
in a way real quick as they're starting shooting off into the air. But there were so many people
off in the background like everywhere you looked on the horizon. There were fireworks going off.
And then right at midnight, the Buddhist monks wherever they were at were all chanting at midnight
was something out of a like a baraka or samsara or some creepy horror movie.
No, I think I think the creepiest thing for me would be when like they lie in some fireworks
then a fuse goes out and they know it's like, you know, one millimeter away from exploding in
a sense. Let me go light that and just went out. Well, it's like when they thought they were done
going off right now to like more that we're standing right next to them. And I'm like, are you sure?
Hi, Bobo. I'm just going home. Hey, El, how's it going?
She's very tired. I flew back from Kuhn Ken and she drove back. So, I now worse?
Hey, Kuhn Ken, that sounds like the opposite of Ken Kuhn.
Yeah. Yeah, that reminds me of when I went to Mexico this was years ago and we were going to go,
you know, to Ken Kuhn, right? And I don't know. I think it was like maybe a 10 minute flight from
the mainland. And you know, we're in line to get on this plane. Then they said, oh, the plane is
full. You have to get on the other plane. I'm like, well, how long before the other plane
gets here? And it's like, oh, it's right over there. I'm like, where? Where? I'm looking for this
big plane. It was like a little 12-seater. I'm like, oh, my God, I'm going to die.
Yeah, the North West Linux Fest. I heard that you have to fly and hop on a puddle jumper or
something to get from one airport to the your final destination. But yeah, here in Thailand,
it's like an hour flight from Bangkok to almost anywhere else in the country.
You know, the thing is when you ride those puddle jumpers, you know, the pilot, the co-pilot,
they have like headphones and, you know, well, hearing protection on them. Like, you don't have
anything. Like, what about my hearing? You don't have to worry until you've done it like 100 times.
Yeah, it's the same as an x-ray tech going behind a wall, you know.
You know, like, well, just put on this little lent apron while I had behind this like two-foot
thick wall. So the x-ray thing is one, one thing, but when I had my radiation treatments,
I didn't realize that the first time, but the second time I went into the room, it was like a
four-foot steel door that they close behind them and go to another room with cameras to turn on
the device to bombard me with radiation. Well, that's because they didn't want to turn into the
incredible Hulk. Yeah, yeah. I very quickly realized how serious the radiation was when I realized
what kind of locked room I was being put in. Yeah, that's that's scary. Hey, do you watch any of
the Jeff Gierling videos? Who? Jeff Gierling. He does a lot of pie stuff on YouTube.
It's not ringing a bell, but maybe. Well, anyway, I guess he's had like, I guess recently he had his
second surgery. I guess he has an IBS and Crohn's disease. So he's going through another,
he did a video of his surgery. I'm like, oh my god, it that sounds horrible.
Yeah, out of everything I went through the intestinal surgery was the worst.
Having my small intestines sticking out of my abdomen for three months was horrifying. The moralizing
just was awful. But you're done. Yay. I sure hope so. Yeah, so this guy, this guy was saying
he had to get the the kendo surgery. Oh my kendo surgery. What is that? And he's like,
I guess they sell your butt clothes because you know, you're not going to be using it for a while.
Oh, that sounds horrible. They didn't sell mine clothes, but I didn't use it for three months.
It was the weirdest thing. What are we on now? You mean the topic? Uh-huh, I just got back.
Butthole surgery. Oh, what? You did not come back at a good time.
You say that? What even? What? Butthole surgery. No, I was I would just tell an
tendency that Jeff Gareling, he does a lot of Raspberry Pi videos, just did a video where he had
another surgery. And he said one of the things that he had to have done was they had to close his
butt hole up because I guess he won't be using it for a while. That sounds horrible.
Oh, right. Yeah. I know. Yeah. Jeff's situation is I try to support him and watch those videos,
but I can't do it. Uh, the the idea of seeing someone, you know, he's doing it with a brave face.
And I like I'd like to support the cause, but I just can't watch the video. So when laying
in the hospital like that and it yeah, I just can't understand the reason though, you know,
he's got that he's doing the fun raisers and all with it as well to bring more support toward.
Was he he has Croons, right? Exactly. Yeah, I might that there was terrible. I didn't have mine
sewn closed, but I had my my entire rectum removed, um, lower anterior resection for cancer. And
I had my small intestine pulled out of my abdomen for three months. And it was just absolutely the
worst thing ever. And it was really weird, not not having to sit in the bathroom for three months.
Because I would have the urge to go. But uh, it wasn't connected. Yeah. I wonder, is is this a
hereditary or I don't understand how one develops? I think you have to be a curse by a demon.
So mine was cancer. So that's different than, uh, than the Croons disease and ideas stuff.
Um, so there's uh, different factors that can increase your cancers of colon and rectal cancer.
Oh, one of the biggest ones is lots of processed meats like Italian meats,
salami, salami, um, pepperoni, uh, sausage, things like that. Um, uh, but for the most part,
they'd say, we don't know. Okay, yeah, I was about to say, because I might be in trouble,
then I kind of love Italian heroes. Um, as soon as you're you're at that age, uh,
have that camera stuck in there. My brother, my youngest brother went in because he's having the
same problems I was having. And he had, um, polyps in the same area. My tumors were at, um, but since he
went in for a colonoscopy, they cut them out to biopsy them and they were positive for cancer.
But then he's done. He just has to go back, uh, every three years instead of every five years
for follow ups. Yeah, I think that's one that with, with men and men's health, we, we normally
don't talk about it enough. So a lot of things kind of, you know, we, we, we, we, we die with these,
uh, with these secrets that we don't necessarily have to, you know what I mean, we, our health is not
a secret. We don't have to stay quiet about it. We should actually speak out more to, you know,
let everybody know that, that thing that's on the back of your mind, that's actually quite normal
and other people are dealing with it too. I tell everybody, uh, have your picture taken.
Yeah, you don't want to wait. Yeah, you're right. I'm now on the five-year plan. I was on the two
to three-year plan. So, but because they keep catching whatever, it's like last time they were like,
that was pretty much nothing. Come back five years. Which I imagine that's a good, that's a good
thing to hear, though, you know, you, you can put a little bit more time in between. Oh yeah,
I would encourage it, paying for this. I was on the one-year plan, and my surgeries were finished
in August, I think, August or September, and I just had my first yearly follow-up colonoscopy,
a week before I flew to Thailand. And, uh, they, uh, it was, it, everything looked well enough that
they immediately changed it from every year to every other year, hopefully because it looked good
and not because of some insurance policies. Yeah, that's another thing that's getting scary
these days, man. Insurance and with all this new monitoring that's going on now, you know,
I'm just imagining the worst for anybody with a health condition and say like 10 years from now,
it is going to be brutal. I don't think the laws have really caught up with all the different
levels of monitoring that's going on. And the insurance companies, I don't think they are even
required to expose what they're using to, to base their decisions off of, though, for instance,
you know, if you're wearing an Apple watch or whatever and your watch is reporting, you're not
getting the 30 minutes of exercise per day or whatever. What happens if your insurance company is
basing decisions off of this monitoring data and you get dropped or you're told you have to change
your way of life in order to continue coverage because of this data, but you don't, you don't know
that they're using that data against you. I know that's why I don't have a point of watch.
Well, it's, it's even more than just the smartwatches that are doing the data gathering now. I did
just want one second. Yeah, I have a, I did a story not too long ago on how Facebook and Google
are using, they created a product called Pixels that they, they market for healthcare industries
and the healthcare industries are using Google and in Facebook or Meta, you know, the parent company
using Meta's Pixels to basically capture user data on the healthcare websites and their
monitoring users using Google and Facebook. So they're collecting all this data and Facebook and
Google don't have any hippo requirements. So when they get a hold of your data, I mean, they can do
anything with it and it's not just with that healthcare provider that you're, that you're, you know,
logging on to hopefully discuss your situation with you, you don't know who else Google and Facebook
are just communicating on this data with. Yeah, and the worst thing is, you know, these insurance
companies are like, well, we don't want to really cover you because you're sick. You'd have a pre,
can, you know, pre-existing condition. I'm like, um, what? You just want to rack in money,
you know, with healthy folks that, you know, I mean, it's like they're really in the risk management
business basically. Yeah, right now, it's, it's bad now, but I fear that it's going to be just,
I mean, terrible in the future. Can you imagine being at a concert or something or whatever
and the security cameras are watching you drink a soda and you get a notice later on
telling you that your diet is out of whack and how it's going to contribute to, you know, some
butterfly effect and that that involves healthcare, right? So because you drink this soda today,
you're going to have probably have a heart attack ten years from now. Therefore, you have to
reverse that by using XYZ activity or else we'll drop you that kind of thing. Can you imagine what a
world like that's going to be? And especially when the laws don't really, they're not built to
protect the consumer. They're built to protect the money basically. Whoever's donating and
providing the most money, that to gets the protection of law, the consumer, the only time when we
get it is when we start to grow to frustrated, at least here in the United States, I can't speak for
any other country. But once we start to grow a little too frustrated with things and we start
to do things like vote. Suddenly, you know, you might get a little bit of a lip service to your
issue by your local senators and congressmen. But only lip service. Yeah. No, only actions they'll
take will be for themselves to make sure they get their campaign contributions and that their
family members are, you know, magically awarded the contracts for construction and other things.
But as far as you and your actual health care issue that you're trying to survive with,
and the issues surrounding that with insurance and all, no, you'll just have to live with that.
Mr. Axe. Hello. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
Well, thank you very much. I've only got a couple of minutes. I just, and in fact, that's first
of my time, this bit of software on my part here. So hopefully you're milky. Yep. You're loud and clear.
Good stuff. Good stuff. Yeah. That's, uh, my team's just a bit ready. It's, uh, yeah, that's fine. I,
I, that's fine. It goes Mrs. X. I just, but, uh, just, uh, just a bit of the tea. So, yeah, I thought
Meg will be longer than that, but obviously not. How are you doing anyway? Oh, well, I'm okay. I'm
kind of eating a chocolate bar. I know that sounds bad after all that. You know, you know,
you're insurance companies listening by the way. You're going to get a notice for that.
Well, actually, this is one of those super expensive no sugar ones. So, probably not. I'm just,
say, but you have, you have an addiction. You must have eaten. You're, you're, you're, uh,
your social score is going to be impacted by your, your dieting choice.
Oh, yeah. I'm going to go hide now.
So, Mr. Axe, just in case you were wondering what we're talking about, we were, uh, we were talking
about a little bit of a little bit of conspiracy theory surrounding a health care and, uh, with all
the monitoring that's going on using smart watches and all that kind of stuff and how that's going
to impact insurance and stuff in the future. And that stemmed from, uh, a men's health and,
you know, different conditions that men normally don't talk about, but, you know, maybe we should.
And they're, you know, that's where it all came from.
Ah, you see, you see, it's funny. I just, I just saw, uh, I was just looking at your, uh, your name
there and then, who's that? And then, because I recognise, I recognise that voice. And then,
when I was spelled and I thought, oh, I, that's that. Then, that's some guy on the internet. Oh,
yes, it's you. So, yeah, yeah, if I know that, um, like your podcast, by the way, uh, but, um, yeah,
well, who knows where that was going to go? And I think our UK government sold off, uh,
sitting on England, the sold off, a whole pile of medical records, uh, to, um, I believe, to,
the, uh, to medical from medical uses, well, well, for a while. Well, they say it's for research.
So if I don't know very much about it, but, uh, you could imagine that, uh, it could be used
for insurance companies and all sorts of stuff, uh, I'm sure it's probably a bit more of a problem
over there in the States, but, uh, yeah, I don't know very much about that sort of things. But,
yeah, you could imagine that that might well be a problem in the future. Anyway, I can't hold the
folks, uh, as I say, my, any second name, I'm not just going to be coming through the door and
I think, but, uh, at least, at least I can see I got on, uh, once this year. So, uh, for, for,
for the New Year show, before you go, real quick, if you had to buy a new single board computer,
which brand would it be? Would you, would you go up for the usual Raspberry Pi? Would you choose
one of the other brands? Yeah, well, I think, uh, I've only got experience in the Raspberry Pi
and just for simplicity and because it's so well, it's supported in one or, I think I just, uh,
go for the, for the Raspberry Pi myself, basically. Of course, make a great answer. I have an Arduino
implanted in my head from an awkamp years ago. So that's what I would go with. I would go with
what is the current version of the O-Droid C2 is. Uh, I know it's, uh, end of life for a while now,
but I love my, uh, audio cut out there a little bit. Oh,
the O-Droid C2. I liked it so much better than the Pi3.
Yeah, my folks have a good one, man. I think, I think I'm going to leave too. Uh, we're getting ready
to go to, go to bed. How dare you sleep? Have a good night. Have a good night. Thank you for
showing that. I have to come for studio for the New Year's Eve, uh, post show. Please come
again later. Thank you. Oh, and, uh, was it, uh, Geels? They said he's willing to do a show with me
later. I had to forget. Yeah, this is Geospart. I mean, if you, if you followed me on my real name's
George Joshua, I'm a lot of people now. Maybe I don't know. Some people might not. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know. I was in here right now. I know Ken. I mean, I've worked with 10
before. I don't know. I don't know anyone else in me. Nobody knows me. I'm still. Yeah, I don't know
what we don't want to do show on. I mean, I've been, I've always wanted to do a show on like,
like my path to lyrics or something. And I was going to do that in a podcast I was in, but
I never got a chance to expand it. Yeah. Well, a show with me isn't going to be that difficult.
It's going to be pretty, pretty simple. I have not done like interview style shows. We normally
talk about whatever. Um, on the last show that we did with DNT, like we didn't even think of anything
really, um, just sort of just jumped in and started to show. That's kind of the best way. That's
kind of the way a lot of the shows. We, we always had a format. We had things we would discuss,
but then it was just basically a bunch of guys talking. We girls sometimes, but mostly guys,
unfortunately, but, um, and, uh, because we did this in, in Google Hangouts or other things for
years, we just said, why don't we just turn this into a podcast? That's kind of what we did.
Yeah, that's the best way to do it. Um, the only, the only thing I'd probably do differently
these days are probably slap a time. Let me know what it like. If you're going to do it often,
and especially with the amount of time you'd have to spend doing the, uh, the edits and stuff like
that slap a time limit on it, like, you know, no more than 20 minutes per episode or whatever,
something simple like that. And just, I mean, go for whatever it is. Just toss it out there.
Oh, you definitely want to do under 20 minutes, because I can get boring.
What was that? I felt a split while you were talking. Exactly. See what I'm saying? See what I'm
saying? I can get real boring. I put people to sleep. I used to do courses for, um, inside,
IBM and inside the bank, I used to work for, um, you know, I teach some of the new people
like how to do certain things. And man, I mean, the only thing that woke them up is like,
I would come up and I'd be like, well, your mouse, your key, but while your mouse,
you're never going to use again, because I did a lot of mainframe. So I was like, that mouse
means nothing to you anyway. So don't get attached to it. And then that would surprise them,
like, well, everything is arrows and tabs and mainframe land. Yeah, imagine because all of that's
going to be just, um, terminal base or whatever they're going to have, like, that, uh,
that incurred style UI. Yeah, we used, um, I think called PCAM, um, and IBM, it was giant. It was
a couple hundred megs. I mean, it's huge, but it was an emulation to a 3270, which was the
terminal back in the 60s and 70s. It was a really long terminal that they would use to, um,
it would be a slave to a mainframe. So you would pretty much hardwire that into a mainframe,
somewhere in the world and, and it would talk to it. Um, but we had 3270 emulators called
PCAM, um, trying to think of also makes 3270 emulation, but it was basically just mainframe
communication and, uh, and, uh, but, but the mouse didn't work any. Like, if you're trying to click
into a field, because you're looking at it, because you're on, like, maybe a window's nt system
or something and you're clicking into the field to like, the mouse doesn't work. I'm like, of course,
it doesn't work. It's because mouse, the mice, the mouse didn't exist for that. So you basically have
to, you know, tab down or use arrow keys or whatever. Yeah, I was thinking that arrow your way down
in space to select. Yeah, pretty much, but I'm sure now, like when I was doing mainframe for the
bank, they were using, um, okay, the name of the software, but I mean, I rarely did mainframe
anymore. But when, when we logged in, it was a whole different thing and you could kind of click
into a field, I mean, eventually, it's almost like when you click there, it took a second or two
because it was kind of doing the motions of trying to figure out where your mouse was in the old
school way. I don't know. We're all going to, we're all going to funnel back to the command line
eventually. Uh, I kind of, I kind of, I kind of installed all my software now. I mean, every once
in a while, if I need to look for something, because I don't know what the exact package name is,
but most, most of the stuff, when I rebuild the system, I kind of know the packages in my head.
So I just bring up the command line and, you know, just start typing everything. I built most of
all that stuff into scripts now. So new system, just load the script at the beginning. It'll automatically
jump in, do all the whole app install, pull down long list of packages. And then sets, I've recently
went in and started tweaking it a little bit. I hadn't tested the new tweaks yet because
it would require a new install to test some of this. But I imagine it works. I used the fine
command, do with with the exact option, do set the permissions for certain folders, both the
directories and the files within the directories. So like say the SSH directory or whatever,
want to go ahead and make sure that those permissions are set from the beginning from install. You
know, I mean, right after a clean install, and same thing with the, you know, folder, uh, photos,
videos, music and all of that, make sure nothing in there ever gets executable privileges, you
know, the read and writes really all they need. Wait, and you only started using Linux in 2019 and
you're that far advanced. What the? That's kind of cool, man. Again, we need to talk because I did
some, some of that stuff for a while, but it just seems like I keep forgetting to back up the
whole package. So I just do it off my head. Yeah, some of the packages themselves, I don't
actually manage them in the backup because I figured some of the packages change a little too often,
and I don't want to, you know, be running a deprecated version. So I'll just pull down the new
package. But for there's a offline dictionaries that I use, like the Moby Dick, this, uh, Dick,
the source and some of the other, the source packages that surround, uh, Dick and Dick D.
So it, you know, I managed those offline just in case because Ubuntu stopped carrying Moby Dick
the source. They said it was deprecated, but that's another thing that kind of bothers me.
How is it that an offline the source? How does it become, you know, so dangerous because nobody's
adding new code to it. It's an offline the source. You know, what, what weaknesses can it have?
Ever since we got this software as a service mentality, it's like, okay, if you don't update it and
about, you know, within, you know, six months, we can't give it to people anymore because it's
dangerous now. Like that's not how software works. I mean, some of this, you can just run forever,
it can be, you know, completed. You don't have to continuously update it, especially when it's
meant to run offline. Yeah. Yeah. And just a lot of things back in the day we used to use for
recording some, our video sessions and doing stuff. And because somebody didn't maintain it
anymore, it lost the ability to be in the newer version. And it just, yeah, I guess if somebody
doesn't run with it or doesn't maintain it, they just kind of, I think that's probably what
happened. It was like, Bob decided that he has a life now. Yeah. I would, I would agree with that
if it's an active project. And this is an element of a project that fell too far behind
to continue with the project. I could agree. That's kind of, that's kind of with the same thing with
like GNOME and how many of the features are, you know, made into extensions. So that way,
the main project can constantly move forward. But those who want their particular feature can
manage it themselves using an extension. I'm okay with that to an extent with this particular
package that I'm referring to. It is an add on that does not, it, it's like adding new words to it.
You don't need to really do much more with it. It, it just, I don't know.
That sounds like a perfect project for you to pick up on you. Well, I would, I would love to,
I really would, but it's written in C++. I don't know C++. There's always online courses. I'm sure
you could watch 10 YouTube videos and pick it up. Yeah, learn, learn C++ in 30 minutes.
Yes. Yeah. There's a lot of, a lot of great tools out there like that. And now I'm
maintaining those offline and as a part of my backup, but everything else I've just pulled down fresh.
Yeah, I mean, you could probably still install the package. It's just not part of their package
manage. You got that wherever it's house. Yeah, I just grab, I keep the devs now and of them
because I mean, I don't, if it's not being updated, there's no point in continuously building it
from source, not right now in any ways. You just pop that dev in there, use a DPKG and have it,
you have it installed. Well, a couple of years ago, you remind me of something a couple of years ago.
I like, I still have burners. I saw blue ray and DVD burners hooked up to my machines and K3B is
okay. Bracero is complete garbage in my head. I have, there's any people that maintain it. I
apologize, but I can't use Bracero. It just drives me nuts. K3B is okay, but there's issues,
especially when you're burning glue rays or something. So I bought Nero for $50 or $40 back in the day.
It's no longer maintained, but they had a Nero for Linux and it was a dev file and I still use that
dev file and the key that they gave me on on my machines because it's the best piece of burning
software made for Linux because it's just an import from the Windows version probably from
gonna say Windows seven days. So yeah, probably a little before that. I mean, Nero, Nero's quite
old, especially if they made a Linux version, man. Oh, it doesn't exist anymore. I mean, I just
happened to have, I put on my Google Drive, like when I buy stuff or put things, I just put the
dev file or whatever. Like I did the same with them, Karel aftershot or whatever. I'll just throw
them up there because I don't know. You know, I come back and like, you pay for this stuff and
you're like, you come back and like, oh, we don't maintain it anymore. Good luck finding it.
Yeah, that would be a nightmare and I'm a little frustrated because I think a lot of this
happened with the software as a service model. They want to continue to get more money for software.
I'm perfectly fine with paying for software, but I just want to I just want to own this software.
I want to buy it and use this version that I'm comfortable with and when I'm ready to upgrade
to a new one, I don't mind spending more to get the new version, but to just constantly keep changing
it over and over without my, well, it some of it doesn't feel necessary because you get into
like that feature creep issue where great, it's nice to have those features if you need them,
but when you don't need them, you're just now fluttering up my UI and everything with all this
stuff that I'm never going to use. And now this this program is far too heavy and it just
feels and cumbersome versus, you know, the older version that I'm much happier with.
Sorry, slight pause there. I'm responding to a friend named Scotland sent me pictures of
the nice walkies taken up in the hills and I'm not there and I'm on a punctual wall right now.
Or hygiene? I like going up and I love walking. I try to walk like 10, 20, 30,000 steps a day if I can,
but I mean here in Jacksonville, it's horrible. So, but when I go over and hang out with him and his
family and stuff, we go up to the highlands and stuff and walk around. That's all nice. She
walk up to you. It's nice and there's nice views. You take a camera out with you when you go.
That's some of the best medicine. Can I have about, you don't want to know? I have an addiction,
my late wife told me I had an addiction. I have probably close to 200 cameras surrounding me right now.
Well, are we talking DSLRs or? No, I probably only, listen, I'm trying to think I have one,
two, three. I probably have about 10 DSLRs. I have two mirrorless, but as far as I film cameras,
I still have a, I still have a dark room upstairs in my guest room. So the dark room days.
Well, yeah, I only learned to do black and white and I learned that in college in 84 maybe. So
that's all I've never learned color. Can you believe that? I only shoot black and white even with my DSLRs
too. I actually purposely put them in black and white for a lot of them. I carry two or three
pocket cameras in my walks during the day because I don't want to carry a DSLR all the time.
So this little night con and Sony, I usually keep in my side pockets and both of them I have set
for black and white. So when I pull them out, this automatically shooting in black and white.
And I was at a, I go for coffee and I meet these people in the morning and they were like,
I don't want to take a picture with one of your cameras. I pull the camera out and he's like,
can you put this in color? Yeah, but maybe, but you know, it's like, you know, I don't know. I just
know black and white. I love black and white, but I do shoot in color because a lot of people
when they see my photos, I like, look, see a case when I will shoot in color. It's just that I have
a black and white eye I think is because I've been shooting black and white for years. So I just,
that's what I like. Well, depending on what you're shooting,
mono does give you an extra bit of that. Well, not really deaf, but it has certain character
that it brings out to the forefront. Now, I really like it for certain things landscaping,
not so much, depending on what it is. Like once, I saw this area where it had been raining before.
So it was a lot of mud. What's the water dried up? And then the mud dried. So you get like that real
crack plate look on the ground. I shot that in mono. And from the angle that I shot it at, you
know, the depth of field, you saw the the foreground nice and sharp. And then it sort of faded off
into the back. And you saw the ground look, it looked like the earth was shattered in the image
with that in mono was just it was beautiful. So there are some things that would shoot mono, but
most of the time I do raw with the raw, you get the option to shift back and forth once you get
on the PC. And what's what software do you use when you're when you're touching up your images?
I use a couple different things. I use Corel after shot. That's a paid piece of program. They make
it for Linux. And I also use dark table from time to time. And I do shoot raw myself as well.
And actually, I also have another addiction. I mostly like Pentax. I've been collecting Pentax
cameras for a long time. I have my original K1000s, my P30s and stuff here. But that that also
irks most of the local photo people. They're like, why are you shooting with a Pentax? Why do you
like, because I hate Canon? I don't know. Yeah, I've been using Canon mostly for years. I was
thinking about getting into mirrorless for a little bit here, because DSLR is the great. I love
the quality of them. I love the control, but it kind of big. You know, if you can get a Pentax
Q, that's a good mirrorless. But they have spent like get it with at least two lenses. If you can
find them somewhere, some people have two or three lenses, because the lenses are really expensive
for the Pentax keys if you try to get extra ones. Now, one of the things I'm kind of, I don't know about
yet, how are they standardizing the threads on mirrorless? You mean like the barrels for putting
the lenses on? No, but there's a company I buy. Now, I shoot manual, right? So that's the same
here. I'm all manual. So I don't mind losing the controls of my lens. And I don't mind putting
an older lens on a newer camera, which kills the functionality of the camera. So Pentax came out
with the K, basically the K fitting. And that's what they still use that came out in the 60s after
the M49. But that they gave to everyone else. So like you can get like an East German Pentacon,
it's got a K fitting. You can get like all these different cameras because they kind of open-source
that. They said, look, we want you to buy our glass. So we're going to allow other companies like
now Rico owns them. But Rico was one of the big companies that wasn't Pentax that was using
the K, the K fittings for all this stuff. But like like Minolta has a smaller one, Nikon has this
different one. But you can get adapters. And they're very, they're not expensive the place I get
them for. So I have adapters that cross fit all my cameras. I mean, I do want a couple of cannons
and Nikons too. So I can take like my older lenses, my M49s, my case and fit them on a newer Pentax
or Nikon or something. Of course you lose. Because I don't care about like making sure
like all the electronics fit. I just get the ones that are generic. It's going to go this, this,
and there's no electronics. It's just the fitting. Yeah, because when you shoot manual anyway,
you don't care. I mean, I'm just going to manual, you know, I'm just going to focus it myself
anyway. So we're good. Now, depending on what you're shooting that may not work. But you know,
if you're shooting sports or something like that, you're going to want the authentic lens
without the adapter. But if you're just walking around shooting nature or portraits,
anything like that landscaping, yeah, to be fine. See, I just shoot what here's the other thing too.
I've probably, I don't consider myself an artist or a great photographer. My dad was a good
photographer. Me, I mean, I just like to shoot. I shoot what I shoot. I like cameras. I have a
slight addition. I like cameras and I like taking a camera out with me and shooting. Now,
I'm going to say, I'll come home and I like some of the stuff I like and I'll post it. But,
you know, if somebody hates it, they hate it. I don't care. It's as I shoot what I shoot and don't
care what anyone else thinks. And that's why whenever somebody asks me, hey, can you come and shoot
my wedding? I'm like, um, sure. And then I have to watch a YouTube video or something. I'm
how do you shoot a wedding? Because I don't know. I make, I post people from like street
photography or something. I make people do, you know, I'm just like, do what you're doing. Don't
do anything. But now you got to like, oh, like get pictures of the rings, make sure everybody's
you're like in a picture. You got to go around and shoot relatives. I mean, I hate that. I hate
that. That's why I have like, no, don't ask me to do that. Don't ask me to do that anymore. I'm not
a pro. Yeah, I shot maybe three weddings during my time. And I, the very last wedding I shot,
when I sat down to edit during the shoot, I mean, I kept noticing it, but it's, it's when I got
down to the editing phase. That's when I started to notice the groom was a seriously close to one
of the bridesmaids, which was the sister of the bride. And there were so many images. I was sitting
here thinking, I can't send these. I, I, this is going to be a problem if I send this. So, you
know, I'm trying to make this decision. Do I really, like this guy is sitting here,
eyes, lock, holding hands with the bridesmaids. And you would, you would think she was the bride
from the way he's, you know, and here, here, I'm, you know, trying to get some nice b-roll
and everything, shooting the entire event and, you know, walking around, getting different shots
with different family members who hadn't seen each other for a while. And in the background and
in other places, you just constantly see this guy with, with this bridesmaid. And it, after that,
they got divorced shortly after they got married. It was like really quick and less than six months
later, they were divorced or separated. I don't know what the process was, but they were separated.
And after that, I figured, no, no more events like this, no more large events because in dealing
with children, that was another thing. Children running around messing with the gear. I've had flash,
flashes knocked over. And just when you're trying to get people to, you know, hey, you know, look,
I understand your kid is a free spirit and all, but you're not going to pay for this when
you break. So I'm going to be the one stuck with the bill. Could you please help out? And it was
just too much issues. That's why it's like I've never wanted to turn pro. I love cameras. I love
do things. But if somebody is telling me what to do with a camera, then it's no longer me.
Now I'm shooting. Here's the camera. Go ahead. You know, I don't know. It's crazy.
It kills the passion for sure because I felt my passion, my love for a die when I was doing it
as a profession. And eventually I was like, no, you know, this is meant to be medicine for me.
Whenever I pull out my camera, it is beneficial for me to do. So I feel good when I use my camera.
And it doesn't necessarily have to be a particular thing I'm shooting at. They just whatever
makes me feel good. Squirrels was a big one. I love shooting squirrels. That was like the best medicine
I could ever have. But when I was doing it as a profession, oh, it was brutal. It was killing me
on the inside, even dealing with family members, especially when you would have large events,
and you'd have the host, the person, your client would hire you to, you know,
and you'd go through the whole, you know, set up and everything. And they'd have you understand
what they wanted you to shoot. Basically, you're following them around getting shots of them
and different things that's happening centered around with them as the center, right?
You'd have family members constantly jumping in the way of that. Hey, get me over here with this guy
and all this is like, look, you're not the client. You should speak with the client.
Well, I'm here. I'm here and all of this crap. And they would literally just jump in the way.
And with weddings, especially, we had certain family members, especially when it's time for the kiss.
I'm like, look, we've already talked about it. Make sure everybody's aware. I'm going to be shooting
right down the aisle. You know, could you, could you please just make sure that they understand,
don't crowd. I need to get in the way and get this shot. As soon as it's time for the kiss,
everybody's up with the iPads and the air and everything. And I'm like, are you serious? You know,
it was too much. You're being hailed. Yeah, not much. I get it. Somebody asked me, I don't mind
going out with other photographers and we're shooting kind of the same thing and we're giving
each other ideas like, maybe you should do it this way or whatever, but that's the extent of my
shooting something somebody else tells me to shoot. Yeah, I still love photography though. I
still get out there and shoot a little bit with it, but I'm sorry, that's my daughter now. She
sees me using a microphone ever since I got her and they're doing a couple of shows and stuff
she wants to get involved. That's okay. It's okay. How old is she? She's three now. Oh, awesome.
We did a little bit of recording during the, the pre-show, the pre-new show and we sat down. I
don't even know if it actually went through or not, but I think it went through because I was
to also testing out Nois Torch during the time someone that did a show on a project called Nois Torch.
Oh, that's another new tune for me. The first time I've heard the words, I was this old when I
first heard the words Nois Torch. Yeah, it's think of a noise gate at the system level,
so it's independent from a particular program. So you can set up Nois Torch, which gives you a
digital microphone and a digital microphone. It has a setting in it that you can set up for
your noise gate. You select it from your system menu and that way now whenever you open up stuff
like audacity or mumble rather than selecting your default microphone. So I have a blue Yeti.
Rather than me selecting the Yeti as my default microphone as my input device, I select the Nois Torch
digital microphone as the input device and it gives me some noise gate at the system level.
Yeah, definitely. I just reset up this mint box because my other one I hadn't, I let it
sit. Like I had to update it, but I didn't, I didn't distra update it for like at least three build.
So I just rebuilt it the other day and now I'm just trying to get it all back and now I'm missing
apparently they don't use PA UV anymore. So now I'm trying to get everything off. I don't know
what I'm doing anymore. So that's usually what I use. I usually use that to control all the
individual thing. I don't know. And then I have a little baringer. I used to have a multi mix
eight on my desk, but that thing was like the size of a Sherman tank. So I bought one of those
little baringer single mic thingies for XLR. I don't know. You would think I went to school for
audio production. You would think I'd have a better rig system. Yeah, I didn't, I didn't learn
anything about audio until I started doing YouTube and I wanted to just make my video sound better.
After that, I like once I stopped doing YouTube, then the only thing I did with the audio
guest waiting. Oh, yeah, somebody's hungry here. I'm going to have to go take care of that.
Not a problem. I probably should go for a walk because I'm only at 659 steps and I usually have
about 15,000. I've done nothing today, but clean and pack stuff and good world boxes and talk to you
guys. It has been a pleasure speaking with you. And if you're on here later on, I don't know how long
this recording is going to go for it today. I have to check the timing or whatever if you're back on,
not chat with you then. If not, I'll send you a DM or something over on
mastodon and we can try to set up a time to get together and do a recording, do a show.
Definitely, definitely. Yeah, well, I have a good one and hopefully I'm probably just going
to disappear for a while, so I'll probably keep my entity in here. Okay, have a good one and go eat.
Thank you. Take care. YouTube. It seems very quiet in here.
Just about everyone left. Oh, this might be family over there. I think so. I don't have anything to
add. I might be sitting prox mox ox up on my laptop. It does about it. Cool. Yeah, I'll have to move it
to a closer to the router so I can use the internet for it. Ethernet. I don't have much experience with
prox mox, but a guy I do the lug cast with Minix. He's been running prox mox and he loves it.
It runs right on the bare metal, so I was wanting to try it out.
And he's got like five different servers running on it. He's running it on the
small, like a mini computer. Not like a single board computer, but just a small computer.
I haven't been using this laptop for much, so I thought I'd just repurpose it.
There you go. I'm just because of power consumption. Most of my servers are on single board computers.
So I got like a run a jelly fan server, which I want to just put it on.
I know lots up ahead. Nice to work on up pretty well.
Have you run prox mox before? No, I just saw videos on it. Okay. If you have any questions on it,
Minix, who is sometimes in the HPR matrix room, is the one I was talking about, who runs it,
maybe able to help you out. Okay. Check that out. What about the lug cast room and matrix?
Oh, yeah. Obviously he'd be in there too. I've got you're in the lug cast room matrix.
What do you do, your trail to me?
Well, with not much else going on around here, I guess I'm going to shut it down.
Bye, everybody. Thank you for participating. Happy new year. I look forward to doing it again next year.
I don't think we sent any records this year for the after show, but I always love it when there
is an after show. There's been a couple of years where you know, we're lucky to get anybody to
let me get to the end of the show. So that's always awesome. And thank you last year for
lovecraft for helping me out with the show notes. And I'll probably hit some people up for some
help this year. We're on the health and talk to everybody again next year.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. Does it work?
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording
broadcast, you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our
sing.net. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on their creative commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
