Episode: 3364
Title: HPR3364: Part One - all the covid crap
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3364/hpr3364.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:57:09

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3364 for Thursday the 24th of June 2021.
Jid's show is entitled, Part 1, All the COVID Crap. It is hosted by Clinton Roy and is about two
minutes long and carries a clean flag. The summary is my new coffee pot COVID motivation.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an Honesthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
So I'm currently listening to the feedback on the article show and I'm feeling like I should
contribute a show. A long time ago now I bought a new coffee machine for home. On the basis
that I was going to be working from home for a while and I was really missing my daily hits of
actual coffee. I drink maybe four or five cups a day depending on how early I get into work.
I do try to have all this coffee in the morning and am pretty good at not having any after lunch.
Now I do need to recognise where I am Australia. Overall we've had a pretty good response to COVID.
Fatalities have been very low by world standards. Having said that I live in the part of Australia
that has had the largest number and by far longest lockdowns. Our longest one was 112 days.
I've also travelled back home and got caught in a lockdown in my home state of Queensland over
Christmas. Eventually the lockdowns ended. We were allowed to go back to work and I started using
my home coffee machine lesson lists and I lost motivation to do this show. Then of course we had
another inevitable hotel quarantine leak and that spread to Victoria. We're now looking at a
breakout of around 60 cases and Victoria is back on lockdown so this is my fifth lockdown
and I'm back to working from home and once again I'm appreciating my new coffee pot and once again
I have motivation to do a story on it. What I really want to do is disentangle the two topics.
This episode will deal with all the COVID stuff. The second episode will only deal with coffee.
So this COVID rant ends here and now I need to start writing the script to the second part of the show
for lockdown ends.
You've been listening to HackerPublicRadio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it
really is. HackerPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated. Today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
