Episode: 3946
Title: HPR3946: Planning for a planner, part 02.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3946/hpr3946.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:47:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3946 from Monday the 18th of September 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Planning for a Planner Part 2.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 36 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Scoti and Bumblebee discuss disbound planners, agendas, ink pens and more.
Previously on Hacker Public Radio.
So it depends where you go.
The ones that Dollar Tree that have capped, not great, in my opinion.
Alright, I'm just going to put this out here that she's totally wrong and believe nothing she has to say from this point forward.
We return to normal broadcasting or something like that.
Well, that's another thing since you mentioned the ruler.
That's a good point too because what I do is so happy Planner has, they have these dividers.
There are many dividers.
So they're like a quarter of the page.
So they're not a whole entire page or like a quarter of it or so roughly.
They're made for like bookmarks.
That's another thing is really good to have with these is they put them in the disc biners to make it as a bookmark for your pens that you make color coded.
So let's say you use black, blue, red and I don't know, yellow.
Okay.
I use several different colors, but let's just use those.
If you don't use those colors all the time for the same things, you want to also have a key.
Because before you know it, you might just be adding different colors for different things and totally forgetting what you know that red was made for really like appointments.
And then black was just normal and blue was made for, you know, household stuff or whatever.
And that's what I use for that.
So I use like dividers or I use bookmarks.
So they have lots of bookmarks for the disc bound.
They're actually really easy to make.
Again, if you buy the whole puncher, you can make covers bookmarks, dividers.
You name it really easily.
I have three binder, three dividers in my book for my specific one.
One is for the actual months.
One is for notebook paper.
And one is for scheduled events.
So I have flyers in my book.
So what I'm understanding with that whole punch, like if you were to get like the plastic material that that a bookmarker, whatever is normally made out of, you just punch it and then stick it in the ranks.
Absolutely.
What, believe it or not, I use Dollar Tree folder.
I got a folder from Dollar Tree.
The plastic one.
That's exactly what I'm talking about.
I cut it to the size that I wanted, whole punched it and used it as one.
I'm totally in it.
Where did you get that?
Where did you get the whole punch?
The whole puncher that I got specifically, I bought from, I believe I bought it from Joanne's.
That's another store that I did mention earlier.
Joanne's, for people that didn't know, Joanne's has a contract with Happy Planner.
So Joanne's will get the newest stuff and more quality than in quantity than any of the stores.
Yeah, they always have a ton of them in there.
I noticed that's where I see a lot of them at.
Yeah.
I see Ross also has some in there, but Joanne's is like loaded and they even have all the accessories.
Because they were the first ones to start selling it.
So they started selling them with Joanne's besides their website.
Yeah, because I'm thinking that's, I want the plain guts though, like line paper guts or whatever.
Do they sell that?
Be more specific.
Do you mean like the planner or just line notebook paper?
Like basically line notebook paper that I can put inside these rings.
Or can I use regular?
Absolutely.
Okay, yeah, because that's what I want.
Absolutely.
I like to draw my planner out because I've just been doing it with notebook for so long.
I kind of want to keep that going and it allows me to customize to what I need when I need it.
And with this whole punch, I can just punch out a bookmark and be good to go.
And same thing with dividers as well.
So you can actually separate like, you know, have the divider for like these are the old months.
I don't want to have to go back to them unless absolutely have to.
And you know, or this is where I'm going to keep notes at versus the actual calendar material.
That kind of thing.
Yeah, that's fantastic.
Yeah, because I have, I do scrap paper a lot.
Let's say I, you know, was in class or whatever and I didn't have time to search for the date of date or whatever.
I can just flip my page, my flip my book to the back of the book, quickly write a couple notes down and then close my book.
And then later on that day, I can move that page.
It happens all the time, believe it or not.
And I have that ability to do that.
Yeah, I know.
Other planners, you don't.
I do have four school.
I go to Walmart, wherever you can buy them, just regular loose sleeve binder paper.
The one that has three holes, my book is not the big planner.
The big planner, I believe, is the pages are eight and a half by 11, I believe.
But the small planner is seven by nine inches.
I just get that paper.
I cut it to that size.
And then I whole punch it.
And again, loose leaf paper is not as thick as the regular happy planner paper to be mindful for that.
But what I'm just doing notes for school is very simple.
What's the significance of that?
When you said that it's not as thick as the happy planet paper, what should we be on the lookout?
Should we choose to use loose leaf anyways?
What problems would we run into since it's standard?
Um, obvious ripping because it is thinner paper.
So you just have to be more careful with that.
But since it isn't a dispound, it is safer that way.
But it's just, it's just like if you have it in a notebook.
You know, if you have, if you have it in a spiral, if you have it in a binder, it's still thinner paper.
It's more see-through.
It's just the paper itself.
Hmm.
Well, okay.
I thought that it might fall off the disk faster or something like that because it's thinner.
It does happen sometimes.
So I make sure I put, when I do mine, I make sure I have at least 50 to 100 in the book.
So they can hold themself together.
Exactly.
And then I definitely, definitely make sure I have it when I'm traveling with it.
I have the bound part facing down.
I know that sounds really goofy.
For some reason, when you have it facing, it, like, puts so much pressure on the tip of the, the cover.
So I put the bound downwards, not upwards.
And that seemed to help.
Okay.
Now, I don't know if I explained that right.
Yeah.
Like, the source is sitting with the rings at the bottom.
Mm-hmm.
That's what I do personally.
And then make sure it's like with other objects, like just leaning up against something.
Now, have you ever tried the rocket book?
Nope.
Never even heard of it.
The rocket book was supposed to be this great little idea where you had a book that you never had to throw away.
It was basically laminated pages.
Each of the pages had a QR code on them.
You would get the rocket book app.
And you would use these special pens.
There were, there were not exactly dry, raised pens, but something similar.
You know, some kind of ink you could wipe away with a microfiber cloth.
That kind of thing.
Okay.
You were right on the book.
And once you got your notes and then you started filling up the book, basically you used the app, scanned the page.
You know, it would take like a picture of the page with that QR code on it.
Okay.
And categorize it in the app for you.
And then you could just wipe the book clean and start all over again.
Okay.
I have heard of some.
I have not heard of that brand specifically.
But I have heard of some like that.
I don't oppose of the idea.
I really don't.
I oppose of it.
I think it's horse-asker.
I bought one.
And I am not happy with my purchase.
I'm very interested.
The reason why I agree with that is I wouldn't want to spend all my time erasing everything for one thing.
And then two.
I don't know.
It's just something about like if you have to erase it with a microfiber cloth.
Is it really staying on there when you close the book?
That would be my thing.
Like if you close the book, if it's made with the dry erase marker or type of whatever.
Does it really erase?
Like those are racable pens.
They don't really have many of them anymore.
But they used to have these are racable pens.
I remember those.
I feel like when you erased, you still saw some of the residue.
Like worse than a pencil.
Here's what I'm going to point out with this whole concept of the rocket book.
One, the pages were like some sort of laminated card stock page or whatever.
So in order for you to get the pen to write on it, you had to be pretty forceful.
And it would write sort of half onto the page.
So it would be very, very sketchy.
Like almost like your pen was running out of ink.
Okay.
Two, if you ever left the pen in any kind of temperature differences, it would ruin the pen.
I left the pen in the car one day and it ruined the pen.
And you could only use their pens.
There were no alternative pens.
Well, some people said you could use alternative pens.
They talked about something that you could use.
But there were constant reviews that talked about how those pens ended up ruining the book.
Meaning you wrote on the page with that pen and then you could not erase it.
Now, the last thing I want to mention about it, because you had to use so much force to get the pen to write on the book,
even though you were able to erase the ink off of it, the impression was still on the page.
I am not happy with this book.
The only reason I kept it around is just to remind me to hate it.
Because it's a great answer.
Well, the thing is, that's a lot of the books that I've noticed.
I actually bought this one book that's spiral and I don't like spiral, but I love the guts of the book.
So I ripped out every single page of this book.
I just whole bunched it and shoved it in my book.
That's the thing about there's so many planners to try out.
And I, like I said, I've been, as soon as I discovered this planner,
that is all I've ever done.
I've been talking to you about it for God knows forever.
When you were talking about planners, I was like, go to disc planner, it's wonderful.
It's literally changed the way that I organized my life.
Things that you normally would forget, it's just wonderful in my opinion.
But I was remembering something I had told you a couple months ago.
Remember those, I told you about those clear sticky notes that I told you about.
Lear sticky notes.
Yeah, I was trying to tell me about that, but it sounds cool, tell me about it.
So they have these clear sticky notes.
So I use, in my planners, I use tabs, I use these things to bookmark items,
I use removable tabs, blah, blah.
Well, like I said before, I'm in school.
Sometimes I will get, I have these clear sticky notes.
I'll send you a link to put down below.
They have them at, the only place I've seen them so far is at staples.
It sounds like packing tape.
Like you just use packing tape.
No, no, it's like, it's a little bit matted, only a little bit.
The one thing I love about it is I can put it on, I put it on my textbook,
one of my textbooks, and I traced out one of the diagrams.
Is it perfect? No, because you're tracing it.
But then you can put it in your book.
So let's say you have like, you want to trace out, you know, a floral print or whatever.
I mean, I don't know how much you guys would use it for, but it's great for students.
Like, I have my tablet, and it doesn't ruin my tablet.
Like I put it on my tablet, and I gently use it with pencil.
And then when I took it off my tablet, I then put it in my book and my notebook.
And then I traced it again, and I was able to color it in, do all the things.
And it's like, it's more vivid in there instead of having the print.
Staples, that's where I bought them.
Clear sticky notes.
So my guess is they got like a little bit of adhesive at the top, like a regular sticky note.
But then the rest, the part that like, hangs down or dangles is clear.
Well, all of it's clear.
The whole entire thing is clear.
I put it down, you barely notice it.
Like I said, it's matted.
It's not shiny. It's matte.
So when you write on it, it doesn't feel like you're sliding.
It feels like you're writing on legit paper.
And then on top of that, they have no, but they do have two different types.
Well, I mean, no, because it's paper, so it's recyclable.
It's not plastic.
Oh, it's paper.
It's matted.
It's like paper.
It's not.
Wait a minute.
Hold on.
I think it's plastic.
You're saying like paper.
It didn't.
Yeah.
It doesn't feel like plastic.
It doesn't feel like plastic.
So I don't know.
You've got to send the link to this.
Before, I got to get a link of this because I mean, this sounds cool.
Don't get it wrong.
I'm interested.
Unless we're killing whales.
That's your deal.
But, you know, then there's two different ones.
There's one where the adhesive is just at the top.
And then there's another one where the adhesive is at, is all four corners.
You know, now that I'm thinking about it, I'm wondering about like a page protector.
And if you could use one of those dry race markers on those, you think you can.
I don't see why not.
Because that might actually be kind of cool.
I have a laminator.
So I laminate a whole bunch of crap.
I laminate anything I want to be reusable.
But I guess you could do like, if you were doing like a bunch of math and stuff like that,
you can have a bunch of just wrapped equations right there.
Laminate it in the inside of your journal.
I guess if you wanted a custom calendar, there will be another thing.
You know, since you're going to be using it for the year or whatever,
you could have it kind of laminated and stuck in there.
Absolutely.
Okay.
So I'm going to send you the link right now.
Yeah, because I definitely got to see.
And please don't send that that a scammer.
Is he going to like it?
Who is an accident?
I have the wrong one.
I'm going to have to wipe my computer after this.
I'm telling you.
It's not a scammer.
It's just Google being all dramatic.
Yeah.
So this is the one.
It just doesn't.
It doesn't feel like plastic.
I got to put my rocket book away real quick.
I can feel the theory.
I can feel a theory bubbling up inside.
I'm going to put that away.
You throw it in the trash.
No, I'm putting it in the top of my.
I have two filing cabinets.
I had one beside me at my desk and the other in the closet.
And I put it in the one by my desk.
So every time I open the top cabinet, I see the rocket book
and I can get mad all over again.
Pack rat.
I can want to look at it and remember never ever.
Because when you when you see the marketing behind it,
they marketed it so well.
So it sounds like an excellent idea.
Like one.
One notebook and you never have to buy another one.
Yeah.
And you can use it with technology, right?
So basically take a photo of the pages.
And then our, you know, basically save your photos
when you're back up hard drive of these things
that you wrote or whatever, right?
The one notebook and you're good to go.
But boy was, ooh, it is terrible.
Oh, that's so funny.
I have several ideas of things that I have made
that some that have just turned out fantastic.
And you learn as you go with a lot of the planner.
So the one recommendation I have,
I don't know how many people will buy stickers.
Now, we buy this less is more.
Okay.
Less is more.
Yeah, you're the one to talk about them.
That's why I learned from my mistake.
But on my defense, I use all of it and you know I do.
That's why you, that's why you should do less is more.
Because you do use all of it.
Yes.
For me specifically, I'm a crafter.
I'm big on crafting.
I'm big on art.
I'm big on girliness, ballbloss.
So I knew I wanted stickers.
They have packets for the happy planner that are like
the basic beginner, blah, blah, blah.
One that basically have a couple of flowers,
a couple of hearts.
They basically, you know, may the months,
they have some numbers in there, etc.
You know, call me here, blah, blah, blah.
Stuff.
And then just get a regular planner.
Because if you go to all out, you will waste your money.
If you end up hating it or if you end up just not using it or you don't have time.
Example, the planner that you do, you do what we call
us like planners, you do a bulletin planner.
Basically, you use a notebook, you design your own blocks,
you do your own thing.
That's kind of, it's from scratch.
You know, your own DIY planner.
Mine's a Frankenstein planner.
Mine is just a whole bunch of crap shoved into one.
I prefer my planner to be everything.
I also like to make my planner cute and pretty and blah, blah.
And you have that option with Happy Planner specifically.
But they do have some that are super plain.
They also have some from Happy Planner that are undated,
which a lot of people prefer to date their own planners.
Yes.
The only downside that I have is it's not something you're going to do in five minutes.
It's something that you're going to sit there and you're going to be committed to being there for like
20, 30 minutes just dating the whole 12 months.
No, no, you don't even, here's the thing.
You don't even date the whole 12 months.
You date what you need when you need it.
So I'll, I'll know that, you know, okay, this month's going to be a busy one
with several things that are coming up right now, right?
So I'm going to automatically go ahead and get those few out of the way now.
But then I'll, I'll sprinkle some blanks in between there,
just so that way as things come up, you know,
you're just going to fill this out real quick.
That way I don't have as many empties at the end of the year.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
Because for me, I am more busy during the regular, I guess we'll say school year,
than I am during the summertime.
Like, I guess I can write my work schedule or doctor's appointments or stuff like that or chores or whatever.
But I'm not going to add my school life because I don't do school during the summertime.
I primarily just do it during school year.
Summertime section is much shorter.
There's times I take them out.
But I also do fillers.
There's sometimes where I don't have anything and I'll just cover it with a sticker.
Because I might have done something on, you know, Monday through Thursday,
but I didn't do anything Friday in the weekend.
But other people may not like it that way.
So I can understand like specifically with you, you want to make it.
Just rip it out.
You have that option.
Yeah, I want, I want some, whenever there's a page in the book,
that's because something needed to be done that day.
That's what I, if there's a blank page in there,
that means I have just wasted the opportunity to, to journal something, you know what I mean?
So I hate, I hate the idea of just, you know, end of the year and putting this book away.
And there's so many pages in there that I could not take advantage of.
Now with this, this new approach here, where I can just get blanks and kind of, you know,
manipulate them the way I need to.
And, you know, I can get this blank one that you're talking about.
What is it called?
The blank cat?
Is it just a blank calendar?
Yeah, it's, it's literally just boxes.
It's just, just think of.
Oh, so they don't do a lot of some stuff?
No, they do.
It's just boxes.
So think of how a normal calendar is.
How will be hurt?
Let me open one up.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
So they'll have six by seven boxes.
That's how it will work.
So then it will be completely empty.
There's not dates in them.
Nothing because you don't know how the dates are going to work that month.
And for that year, because you know, every year is different.
I mean, like obviously Thanksgiving is always on the Thursday.
Mother's Day and Father's Day are always on a Sunday.
But Christmas is always on the 25th.
So it could be on a Tuesday one year or on a Saturday or on a Monday.
It doesn't, you know, that's why they have it in that type of section and that type of...
I was thinking about more like for the days, not that, not the full month of you.
Do they have the blank ones for the days in the section?
Do you mean the weekly is or do you mean specifically one whole day?
Or I guess it would also be the weekly as well because in other words,
it gives you the day and a few lines for you to jot down notes.
That kind of thing.
Absolutely.
So what they do is they'll have...
It'll be blank.
So I'll have...
Let's say you're doing the horizontal lines, like we talked about.
On the left side, it'll say Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
And then on the other side, I'll say Thursday, Fridays, and then Saturday, Sunday,
will be next to each other in smaller blocks.
But there'll be no date.
There'll be absolutely no date on this.
Is there an image of this?
Could you link to that as well?
Absolutely.
I'm very interested in that one.
Absolutely.
If I don't do a regular notebook where I just have lines and I draw it in myself,
that one will...
I'll be able to throw a few of those in with it.
That's very much my style.
But I'm going to tell you the parents' sticky note that you shared.
$5.19 for 36 little notes.
Are you...
Have you gone mad?
No.
I looked it up to see if there was anywhere else.
I just happened to find it at Staples.
I also had a coupon for them.
So I only got them for $1.50.
But I found them on Amazon for $150 sheets for $4.
So they're cheaper.
I looked at the material, Mr. I'm apparently killing the wheels.
They're made out of pet material, PET.
And they're 100% water resistant and they're 100% recyclable.
Pet plastic is not single use.
It is 100% recyclable.
That's what it says on Google what pet stands for.
Well, we understand that Google is not to be trusted.
Well, you know, I'm about to not send you this undated pages with your scam links.
Or I'm going to make sure I send you a scam link with that and tell you what it is.
Be forced to click it.
No, no, it's fine.
It's fine.
I just opened it.
It's really fine.
I'm on it.
And as soon as I click on it, I disconnect from the internet.
Your whole computer crashes.
Start smoking.
You'll smoke just like your gravy did.
Well, I got the fire department on speed down now.
So it's okay.
Sounds about right.
Yeah.
The great thing about Happy Planner is you can just make it your own.
That's the thing.
You can make it 100% your own.
You can make it however you want.
If you have kids, you can have their kid schedule on there.
I've seen people use it for like soccer tournaments and X, Y, and Z,
not just as a regular planner, but they have like more involved.
They actually started making a teacher version for the Happy Planner.
Like it's a huge one.
It's the big planner.
And it's specifically the teachers version.
I actually bought one one year for my schooling.
I changed it up about like I put stickers covering certain parts of it.
So I can make it for school specifically because I like the how it had horizontal blocks.
Instead of the vertebral blocks, it was wonderful.
It was wonderful.
And I still have the cover.
Literally, it's right next to me.
And I use it as my notebook for school.
And it says school days on it.
And it has an apple, glasses, and a pen and paper on it.
And it's really cute.
It's adorable cover.
And it's for the teachers.
But I just use the cover to hold my paper for my notebooks.
And it makes me remember that this is...
Yeah, it's awesome.
So they have so many different ones.
They have some for parents.
Like a specific one for parents.
So you really just have to like go out and look on specifically
what is good for you.
Like what are you a journalist?
If you are, then I recommend for happy planner specifically horizontal lines
or they have another one called the dashboard layout.
It's still horizontal lines, but it's all on one page and not two separate pages.
It's kind of one week congested into one page.
Let me go to look this up real quick here.
Look at happy planner, the dashboard layout.
Because that didn't make my sense.
I couldn't really picture it.
Yeah.
Oh wait.
It's just...
I think I see it.
No, I don't know about that one.
Okay, I will send you a link.
Yeah, it looks like it's got too much going on for me.
I mean, I kind of like the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday thing over there on the other side.
That kind of looks pretty good.
Like I could just write notes into that.
And I could write my own dates on to them, which is kind of good.
If it's the same one, I mean...
So they're all named differently.
So the horizontal layout is primarily for people that do journaling, like myself and you.
They changed a lot of them.
So a lot of them are all different type of styles nowadays.
So the one that I'm staring at right now is called the dashboard layout.
And I'll send you this link on one side.
It'll have like bulletins for the week.
And it'll have like phone calls to make or errands to do or things you need to buy, etc.
On the other side, on the right side of the page,
we'll have eight squares that are lined in each square for you to make notes.
It's for note taking for that.
Same thing for the regular horizontal layout.
That's what that part that you're talking about.
That eight squares on the other side.
Yeah, that's the part that I like.
I want that for everywhere though.
Like for both sides, like you want two weeks at a time or you just want lined blocks.
I like lined block because no matter like I don't even...
Honestly, I don't even need it to have the Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday thing on it
because Monday might be jam-packed.
But then I might not do anything again until Wednesday.
You know what I mean?
So Tuesday will be empty.
So that's the space I didn't use.
So I'd rather not have it labeled where I could just label it myself for whatever I need.
So I think regular just horizontal lines might just do me better
because I'm really picky about that.
I can see that.
I mean, the only thing I can think of that you can do is just white it out.
I mean, I have white out that I use, but...
Oh no.
Preferably the white out that I use is not the liquid white out.
It's the rule.
Yeah, they don't even sell the liquid one anymore, do they?
Yep, they still do.
I remember kids used to get high off of that.
Kids can get high off at anything.
Which I always thought was weird, but I mean, you know, hey, whatever.
Each trail, I guess.
Yeah, you know, I don't even know how you would know to do that.
But sure.
Everything is accidental.
You're right.
If you think about it, everything's accidental.
It just happened to happen.
Didn't think about it just, you know, I wonder what this smells like.
Do you imagine that, though?
One of your friends just sort of lean over to you in our class
and just sort of, you know, get close to tell you to come here and you lean over.
And it's like, oh my god, I am lit as...
Oh my goodness.
Over here, scratchin' and sniff.
Here, scratchin' sniff this.
And that was another thing.
That's why they sharpies stopped doing those smell markers.
Because kids were literally smelling them way too much.
It's still a sharpie.
I don't know if you remember those smell markers.
I remember those because they used to smell like that.
Terrible.
They smelled...
How does color smell?
Wait, they were supposed to smell.
They were supposed to smell similar to the color.
But really, they were just really fuming.
You couldn't really get away from it.
They smelled terrible, in my opinion.
I always thought they smelled awful.
Yeah, they do.
Yeah, I'm thinking I'm just gonna...
Because like, especially with happy planner,
I think they just do too much.
Like, I'm looking at...
It's a very feminine base.
I told you that.
It's very feminine.
I can't even stand to look at it.
I just need to get off the website.
How do I exit?
I'm gonna send you a link of the horizontal line
one that I was telling you about earlier.
And this is the horizontal line.
This is one that I found that was the most.
This is undated and everything.
And where it says,
November at the top and the person put the dates on there
and wrote Friday,
that's all that they did.
You can zoom in to see more of it.
But the only thing that's wrote on there
is Monday through Sunday.
But everything else is done yourself.
I like it.
How it's nice and blocked.
But I don't want the Monday Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
kind of thing.
I just want blocks with lines.
The only thing...
I don't know if they have it with happy planner themselves.
But I know that they do.
I think your best bet is to look for
a...
I'm gonna just get lined paper.
If they just got lined paper,
the rest I could do myself.
I could just write in what I need when I need it.
Absolutely.
But the disc thing I think is a good thing for you.
So my recommendation is to get...
just get one of the notebooks from happy planner
and just take out 90% of the paper.
Last time I bought one of the notebooks.
They actually sell just a regular notebook.
Yeah, I was telling you about that earlier.
They sell. They call them happy planner notes.
Without all the girly crap all over?
Kind of.
It has no planning in it.
But again, I told you happy planner is primarily feminine.
I said that or mentioned that the first time.
Happy planner is very, very feminine.
I can't even find a notebook.
It's called happy planner notes.
It's not a notebook.
Just notes.
I'm gonna whip a thing.
It's got notebooks and journals.
And I'm looking at dot grid, dot lined.
There we go.
Line looks good.
What's lettering?
Let me see what that's all about.
Oh, no. See, in this super pink and all kinds of crap.
They have some that are just white.
Like, I'm literally staring at the one next to me.
And it's all white.
It's nothing on it.
It's just white.
But the only thing is the dots on it are like a sage green.
That's it.
So you can get some that are chill.
You really can.
But again, happy planner specifically is a feminine brand.
It's owned by three women.
There's two or three women.
Yeah, I might have to pass on that because I swear.
I don't know what's going on.
Like, I can't even look at it without feeling like it's doing too much.
So just stick to the dis bound specifically.
And I recommend that for most people that dis bound.
The reason why I like heavy planner isn't because it has pink.
Yes, absolutely.
They have them on Etsy.
They have them on Amazon.
They have everywhere.
You can get dis bound.
But I believe happy planner was the first set of people that started doing dis bound.
Well, they may have been the first to really get started.
But they got a little too much going on.
They're not inclusive.
It's for women that want to be pretty.
Which are judgmental self.
I'm just saying.
I am very proud of these people.
Like, they've done really well for themselves.
Like, really, really well.
So I'm all for it.
And I like buying.
I like buying their notes because you can get.
They're sometimes their planners.
Like, their covers for the planners are just sometimes they're hideous.
But then I'll love the guts from the planner.
But the, like, the cover is just terrible.
Not, I don't want to say hideous.
That's just mean.
But some of them are like doodling or something.
And I'll just buy a notebook that I love the planner cover for.
And then there you go.
I just, they sell the lined dis bound paper refill.
11, eight and a half by 11, the line paper for for a disc notebooks.
Where it Amazon?
Yeah, I'm looking at it on Amazon.
It looks like 250 sheets.
What was that link for $23?
What?
I told you the paper is really expensive.
That's why I buy just the notebooks because the thickness of that paper is really expensive.
Look at me.
We run away.
I'm not.
Look at this one.
This one is a daily.
So it's all like it's a daily plan.
I mean, it is a really specific.
I don't know.
Yeah, I know this because it's going to go from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m.
I'm limited in the amount of time I can schedule.
And what if there's one thing that cover that is say is going to happen at 8.
It's got multiple parts to it.
So it'll have to be written all the way down until like 10 or something like that.
So no, I like that they have that option.
But I just need lines with with lines I can make whatever I need after that.
Dude, this one that I'm looking at right now is exactly what you're talking about.
Plus, it's dis bound and it has a cover to it.
Let me see this last one to you.
This is, yeah, this one's pretty nice right here.
Yeah.
It's 11 bucks.
It takes about five years to get to you.
But do you see the delivery time?
Where?
Let me show down and see there.
Usually ships.
Oh, my God.
It's a whole month to get to you.
I'm going to pass on that.
All right, ladies and gents.
Thank you all for listening to this episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet and I'm here with.
Bumblebee and thanks for hanging out with us and hopefully you learned some stuff.
All right.
We'll catch you guys in the next episode.
Bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording broadcast, you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, 4.0 International License.
Thank you all for watching.
