Episode: 3835
Title: HPR3835: Retro Karaoke machine Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3835/hpr3835.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 06:17:35

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3835 for Friday the 14th of April 2023.
Today's show is entitled Retro Cariochi Machine Part 2.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 16 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Archer 72 fixes misplaced belts and figures out what really happened.
Hello, this is Archer 72.
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
In this episode, today I'm going to attempt to repair an Entex Cariochi machine where
the tape player gets stuck at the very beginning.
Go to play and it just automatically shuts off.
I was told that there was a way to tension the belt to get it to work better so that
wouldn't do that.
I did have one working tape so I know the player does work.
Well, it was in a hurry last time when I did this machine so I have to go back and put
the belts in the correct place this time.
I slide the tray back out, it's a tight fit in there, and I didn't even clean the pinch
roll with it for one of the rollers last time so I don't know where I could do that.
Let me see if I can get this in a part of the air.
Okay, I'll pause this, and if I remember right here, four screws holding the assembly together,
I don't drop them, I just dropped it, hold on.
I managed to get the first one back out of there, so there I'm throwing screws again.
There we go, I dropped and I picked, found the next one, dropping screws on the floor.
I'll have a magnetic screwdriver.
Let me see if I can do this last one without dropping it.
I should release the mechanism away from the face plate, and from the last episode there's
a string that goes around a set of pulleys, hold that out, and I think there are three
more screws to get this assembly so that I can get it in.
I know for sure one on the bottom.
The other one holds the frame, let me see, I got the right one out, there it is, so that's
loose enough, it's not loose enough to get to that wire belt, so that's not good, I
remember, there's another one that's next to the tape release, that's not it, which one
holds it, I'll put that one back, I don't lose it, I'm going to use this other one next
to the tape release, I thought there was only a three total, I'll lose it, there we go,
there's one bottom, one side, and that's still loose, there's one more, I can't remember, I don't
take it back too many times, I have to get it just far enough so I can get it in, I
want it in belts,
I just succeeded, taking off the tape release mechanism, I don't want that one, I'll be back,
I don't want it in, I don't want it in, I don't want it in, I don't want it in, I don't want it in,
I got that back together, one, hopefully this is it, one tiny screw, hello,
you slide it out, to the tape release, I think that's the third one,
oh that's just a tiny one, tape release is back together, and it's still on the part,
and that wasn't the right one,
the bigger screw, hopefully that, that's the job, now that just holds the rollers in,
the roller is meaning the pulley, I've done this before,
that was me dropping my tape player, trying to figure out how to get these things apart,
yes, let's try this again, this one screw on one side,
the top is a bigger screw, and that looks like it holds it to the frame,
let's see if that one gets,
oh I have this zip tied,
now that gives me access to the wire belts,
now I can get the elbow straight out, because I took it along,
so now I'm trying to do this the right way instead of firing it,
the gummy belts, I'm going to half though, this will help things run better,
now that's all black now, I need to bring in some more Q-tips in this properly,
this one I should have done in the last episode,
now I have to make a run for more Q-tips,
I'm going to spin the flywheel by hand, and painstakingly get off all the,
I didn't the first time,
maybe I'll cut this out later,
should make it run better in a long time,
maybe I should stop and take a picture,
the secondary poly on the flywheel took a little bit more work,
I used a diamond file to get down in the groove,
now I have to find the correct belt size for this one I missed last time,
so I got everything back together and the tape still stops in the middle on some tapes,
and I found out that if I open and take off the door,
and I have to push a little bit on the right hand side to see the tape better,
then I can get it to play,
but in the end I didn't need to take this machine apart to clean it correctly,
so that was a good thing,
and thank you for listening to this rambling episode,
I hope you enjoyed it,
and I hope you would like to make a show of your own,
bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio,
does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBO listener like yourself,
if you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com,
the internet archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
