Episode: 3365
Title: HPR3365: Diablo 2 Portable and Modding
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3365/hpr3365.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:57:32

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3365 for Friday, the 25th of June 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Diablo 2 Portable and Mudding.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 8 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, I talk about Diablo 2 and Mudding.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge
by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello everyone, today's episode is going to be about Diablo 2, Diablo 2 Mods, so kicking it all school.
I don't know how I got into this, maybe I wanted to play Diablo with my wife, maybe,
Diablo 2 with my wife, maybe. I don't not exactly sure how it started.
I do remember us playing Diablo 2 a little bit and then maybe we stopped playing it for whatever reason.
So that's where kind of this came about.
First things first, I created a like a portable Diablo 2 Lord of Destruction or Death,
or whatever the biggest latest expansion or whatever complete build is called.
Anyways, it's a little under 2 gigs, I think, 1.5 gigs or something like that.
No, not 13 gigs. 1.8, so it's a little under 2 gigs.
That includes the Diablo 2 already and like Diablo 2 files all in the right place.
There's a registry patch in there to actually make the game run start and there's also
this thing called Mod Plug Why, which is for mods and the mods that we'll talk about today are
median XL and that's pretty much it for now.
But the Mod Plug Why, it's MOD space PLUG and then the letter Y, no spaces.
So that kind of is like a mod manager essentially, I think, for Diablo 2.
Try to remember of course that it's been quite a while.
The other thing you'll want, the other piece you'll want is borderless gaming, which will
create, instead of like in a window mode, you'll see that you won't see the border and it'll
allow you to run the game in kind of a full screen mode. And then the other piece here is called
I want to say it's not median XL, it's something else to do full screen, full screen stuff.
Let me see if I can view this file.
So borderless gaming, borderless gaming, borderless gaming, a mod plug.
I think the stuff inside a mod plug Why is also the part that does the
full screen stuff. So there's a mod plug Why, I think that allows you to do the screen resolution stuff.
And it will, it will let you change the resolution of Diablo to ridiculous size where you can pretty
much load the whole map into like a single view. It's sort of cheating because the engagement
distance and the view distance is a set length. It's like a 100 by 600 max.
Excuse me. But with this resolution plug in, you can see far much farther distances than that
and stuff. Trying to see if I can find, again, this was a while ago, 2019, something like that.
There's a registry patch. I run the registry patch and I kind of do in this live.
Borderless gaming, I install, I do the registry patch and then I run borderless gaming.
And I want to say the plug Why stuff is for the resolution check or whatever.
It allows you to change the resolution to a ridiculous size.
And then borderless gaming, again, makes the windows go away. And then what you also want to add
to that is once you've done playing the regular game, you can install this thing called median XL.
It's median space XL. And it's a mod for Diablo 2 that basically changes up a lot of the stuff.
It makes it kind of the replay, adds a little bit of replay value. People are still just crazy
going on about it. People still play it. Let's see, their last update was three months ago.
82821, 1-82021. They take donations and stuff. Different skills, different
items, new quests, new locations, RNG maps. Crafting is a little different.
In general, you can play online and stuff like that too.
We just played it local. Your character is saved online in like a hash form, I think.
Anyways, it's all free. And you just need the actual Diablo 2 key to play and install the game
or whatever. Well, you don't actually need this key. You just need the install files.
If you have a disk with the installation files, I think you could probably still manage to do it.
But the install probably asks for a key. You probably still need a key, but you don't necessarily
need the key to be active. So you could use an old key that you gave away or something like that
when you're playing it with median XL because it's a different steamer. It's not blizzard
posting it as far as I know. So anyways, we played it for quite some time. We made it through
a fair amount of the game. And then, you know, just like any Diablo game or Grindy game, it got
just too grindy. But it was fun for a while. We played it for quite a bit. The way the
items are set up and the way the healing is set up is not as nearly as bad. Like with the
regular Diablo, you had to take like 50,000 bottles of healing potion and bottles of mana potion.
And you know, click those rapidly and make a macro to automatically do it for you.
But this mod likes you. You don't need to heal as much. And it's kind of, if I remember,
there's some kind of mechanic in there that makes it so you don't actually have to heal
and carry tons of potions around with you everywhere you go. But it can be kind of daunting
to have to click all the time. But it's not nearly as bad as their original Diablo.
Anyways, that's pretty much all I could say about this mod or Diablo 2 mod. I've got a video
that I can post in the links to shows. What it looks like, you got save files and save file editors
so you can go in and hack up your character or people have provided save files with the characters
already max out or whatever. And they'll have all kinds of crazy stuff. So like you'll just be
walking around and stuff dies around you. There's a AOE. Anyways, hope that helps out. It should be fun.
It's fun to play, local. I don't have to play the online, maybe an Excel stuff. But anyways,
you all have a good one. Dig it easy.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded
by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status, today's show is
released on the create of comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
