Episode: 3579
Title: HPR3579: PINN is not NOOBS
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3579/hpr3579.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:41:31

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3579 for Thursday the 21st of April 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Pin is not NOOBS.
It is hosted by Archer 72 and is about 11 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Multibooting Resbury Pi.
Hello, this is Archer 72 and in this episode, explore one option for multi-booting a
Raspberry Pi from USB.
This is not going to start looking into this Multiboot because I was trying out a Raspberry
Pi the 64 bit.
It came out on January 28th, 2022 as a release version that your previous had been in beta.
I originally just wanted one system on the drive, but I tried to compile Retro Pi and
it was not, Retro Pi at the current time is not ready for 64 bit.
So I found another program called Pin, PIN, PIN, and it stands for Pin is not NOOBS.
And it provides a way to have multiple operating systems on the same drive.
The way I found it, initially, to do this is to go to the SourceWorst site and download
it as a file and extract the contents onto a path 32 partition on the drive that you
wanted to have it on.
That worked out fine, but I also jumped over to GitHub and turned out they just on the
side of the page they have the releases and you can write the image to your drive, go
from there and that gives you the entire list of operating systems.
And I would also recommend being attached to Ethernet so I tried a couple of times to
get the systems on there and they failed a couple of times because I was on the Wi-Fi.
There's another way to go about it and there's a website in New Zealand and you get to
select whether or not you want a USB drive, SD and USB or just your SD card and it allows
you to select a size for your SD card size if you don't have the 8GB, 16GB, 32GB or 64
you can put in a custom size if you know the size of your card and you have to set it
in megabytes.
So go ahead and set it to a 16GB, also in my other smaller flash drive and my pie is a
Model 4B so I'll select that and then it brings you to a list and a pretty extensive list
of there's minimal, you know, get Arch 4, Diet Pie, Diet Pie 64, Gen 2 64 Lite Raspberry
Pie OS Lite 32 and the 64 bit.
Under the games you can get Laka, Recallback, Recallbox and Retro Pie, under utilities there's
not much under there so it's data partition I don't know what that's for, we're testing
there's Raspberry, sorry, Debian Pice, Debian 64 Pie 4 and Raspbax with LXCE based, based
on Ubuntu 1804 LTS, under General there's Gen 2 64, Cali Linux, both 32 and 64 bit, Lineage
several different versions of it, 16, 17, 18 and 19, Mangerile KDE RP or Raspberry Pi 4, Mangerile
XFCE for Pi 4, Raspberry Pi OS 32 bit and 64 bit, Risk OS, Risk OS, Twister, Ubuntu 2010, Ubuntu
2010, Ubuntu Mate 2010 64 bit, Ubuntu Mate 2110 and Ubuntu Mate 2110 64 bit, scrolling
back, that was a long list so let's go back to the top, in Amita you can do Libre Elect
Raspberry Pi 4, under this one M-O-O-D-E mood, you can play audiophile music quality music playback
on the Pi and then there's OSMC Pi 4, Pi Core Player, it's a squeeze box audio device,
Filumio is an open source audio file music player, put XB in on there and there's another tab
file for legacy, for Raspberry OS, old stable and light, so it originally came here for
this, oh there you go, General, I wanted 64 bit Raspberry Pi, that's the right one,
so there, starting out with the Pi 4 64 bit, I wanted media, so I was trying to go,
it's going back and forth between Libre Elect and OSMC Pi 4, I don't remember what I ended up with,
off to look later, but for the purpose of going through this menu, I'll put Libre Elect,
and then for games, I did like recall box, you can check that one out, but don't like playing a
Retro Pi, so I'll do that, and those selections require roughly 7,900 megabytes or just about
8 gigabytes, so that'll fit on the 16 gig selection that we did, and it gives you an option to change
the system sizes, but it's equal, and you just have slider bars, and then next,
and it gives you an option down to download the pinlight.zip, which is what you put on the fat32
partition, and then recovery.comandline, CMDLIN, and the instructions are to unzip pinlight.zip,
replace recovery.comandline and the pin directory with the downloaded file,
copy the contents of the pin directory to your fat32 format and media, boot your Raspberry Pi,
select all systems, install and enjoy, and at the end, if you find it useful, then you can buy
them a coffee. This looks like the option isn't PayPal only, but it's a nice way to give back for
to the work that they did on this site. So, screenshot that so you can see
that looks like I'll put those instructions into a text file, let's put them up on the notes.
I'll post it on YouTube and I'll post the link to that on the show notes. Once you boot up,
you newly created Flash Drive, just check the checkboxes for the operating systems that are
in the list, and for mine it was only three, and it took about 15 minutes to install.
It just depends on if you're hooked to Ethernet or Wi-Fi. It could take up up to three hours,
is what I was doing first time before I was failing on me. I'd like to find out how to do it on
the single operating system to have the retrapie on a single operating system alongside the 64-bit
possible using Docker, but I might have to do another, I'll post it on that at a later date.
I guess that's all, thank you for listening, bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HBR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording broadcast,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Posting for HBR has been
kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the Internet Archive and our Sync.net. On the Satellite
Stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
