Episode: 3188
Title: HPR3188: Thrift store quick fix
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3188/hpr3188.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:27:58

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3188 for Wednesday 21 October 2020. Today's show is entitled
Thrift Store Quick Fix. It is hosted by Archer72, and is about one minute long
and carries a clean flag. The summer is
fixing up a dog coat for the cool weather.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello, HPR listeners. This is Archer72.
The HPR needs shows, and you can pick up any recording.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hello, HPR listeners. This is Archer72.
The HPR needs shows, and you can pick up any recording.
This is Archer72.
The HPR needs shows, and you can pick up any recording device, and any audio will do.
My wife and I thrift a lot, so we bought a little doggy sweater because in the Midwest, it's getting a little cooler out.
We had to fix it up a little bit. The Velcro is not sticking on the one side on two spots.
After I ripped out the stitches, I flipped it over, kind of cleaned up the fuzz a little,
and then resold it with the non-loop side up.
So then I had a surface to hot glue replacement Velcro.
Now we have a fully working coat for our dog, who is a corgi minpin mix.
Thanks for listening.
Bye-bye.
You've been listening to HECA Public Radio at HECA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLife, 3.0 license.
