Episode: 3905
Title: HPR3905: Presenting Fred Black
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3905/hpr3905.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:46:34

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3905 for Friday the 21st of July 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Presenting Fred Black.
It is hosted by Falky and is about 18 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is I have a short talk to present Fred Black.
Hi, this is Falky and I think we should fill the gaps in the HPR schedule.
I'm not alone in this.
I have my son with me.
Present yourself.
Well, I call myself Fred Black.
Don't really know what else to say.
I think you could tell the listeners a little bit about the school system in Sweden, especially what you have done.
Yeah, you start first class at 7 years old and at 6 years, when you're 6 you start with a school class.
But it's not called like first class, it's called pre-school class.
So it's not like pre-school, which you have like below school level.
It's like it's literally called pre-school class.
But that's a long time ago.
Yeah, so that means that first class you start first class at 7 years old.
Which means that you're always a year older than for example people in Germany would be in a specific class level.
So he left the ninth grade now that would in Germany where I went to school would have been the tenth.
Yeah.
What do you plan after the summer?
Yeah, I'm going to go to high school or college or whatever you want to call it.
So a program called the International Baccalaureate or for short IB.
Can't do like whatever you want, but everything is in English.
So you are practicing a little now.
You can call it that.
I hope your English is better than mine.
No, I would say that.
But I think we left the school aside now.
We have holidays.
So what else do you do?
Well, obviously a lot of computer stuff.
But I don't really know that much about computers.
You don't know much about computers.
What system do you have on your laptop?
I have Manjaro Linux with I-3 and I-CVM as window managers.
But every time I install a computer, Volky helps me.
When setting it up, that kind of stuff.
Last time you did pretty well yourself without me.
Come on, I still need a lot of help with that.
But you're learning.
Yes, I know.
So we are sitting here without two thinkpets.
As he said with his I-3 and I'm with my sway.
So pretty the same, but with Wayland.
Yes.
And what are you using your computer for with your I-3 or sway?
I-3, I-3.
I play a lot of games through Steam.
And then Minecraft, of course, then just to rush text documents with them.
I'm on the vanside.
I'm only e-mix-side.
Yes.
You see, we have the editor wars in the family.
But no, to be honest.
I'm using evil mode on e-mix.
Yes.
Is that all you're using your computer for?
Pretty much.
Like the browser.
But I think you also have audio files on your computer.
Podcasts?
No, I don't really use my computer for podcasts.
I have that on my phone.
That's why he's sitting with his phone all the time when we are on the bus.
No, I just use my phone all the time on the bus.
So you see a teenager?
Yes.
But I think you're listening to podcasts too.
Sometimes it's gone up a little bit again.
But I listen to a lot of music.
So it's like, yeah.
It collides.
The time I could use for listening to podcasts instead of listening to music.
I'm somewhere, for example, in the HPR feed.
I do you call it HPR?
I don't know.
I just like to do it.
I'm somewhere in the middle of January.
No way, the second, the beginning of February.
With all your podcasts.
So yeah, I might listen to this episode at like New Year's eve or some time.
So you are even better than me.
You're not only listening to the New Year's show.
Sometimes in summer, as we all do now, you are listening to the New Year's show from last year.
When the next is short.
Yeah, I might do that.
But don't you...
Didn't you tell me you're listening to podcasts?
I don't even have it in my head.
Yeah, there are some mostly...
The ones that I just, that I've come across through YouTube, like animals to the Macs, where...
Which is this?
It's podcasts by a guy named Corby and Mac, say, for God's word.
Where he was from.
Somewhere from, yes.
He talks about animals and people who dedicate their lives to them.
Yeah, animals.
There's a lot of animals, like turtles and different...
Different species of turtles and taurses, alligators, e-mews.
Yeah.
Yeah, he's just super interested in animals.
Then I have them just shortly about another YouTube one, Anthony Pedelia, who just interviews other YouTube celebrities.
And yeah, he talks about whatever.
Then because I'm interested in vinyl records.
Oh, yeah.
Now it begins.
I listened to a podcast called The Vinyl Guide.
Yeah, by the way, both of those podcast animals to the Macs and The Vinyl Guide include a lot of ads.
You're not...
Yeah.
You're not as allergic...
Yeah, I might become...
I might become...
If the ads become way too like...
Yeah.
But those ads are like animals to the Macs.
He mentions his Patreon and that...
Oh, there is like some bonus material that you only get if you are a Patreon subscriber.
I stopped listening to many of podcasts I had before.
I don't listen to Skeptic Sky to the Universe anymore.
I don't listen to BBC World News anymore.
I don't listen to...
There are so many English-speaking podcasts I now don't listen to anymore because I can't stand all the ads.
And I have so many German-speaking Swedish-speaking Norwegian-speaking.
We might come back to that later.
Because without any ads and that's because most of them are from public radio stations in Scandinavia and in Germany Austria and Switzerland.
I have two.
Which are those?
We can talk about them another time.
But I think Swedish-speaking Norwegian.
Yeah, we might go into that.
One that I know you listen to too.
Yeah.
It's not can happen with Swedish or Danish.
It's a podcast where Norwegian person, Swedish person and Danish person, they all are a journalist.
Yeah, a journalist.
Sit down and talk about stuff that happens in the countries.
They're a point of view on issues, on different issues in the countries.
And they're not like...
They haven't just agreed on, oh, we just speak Swedish or so.
No, they speak Norwegian.
Who is a woman?
Speaks Norwegian.
The Swedish woman was also a woman.
Speaks Swedish.
The Danish one is a man.
Speaks Danish.
And they understand each other, even though the Swedish woman...
She sometimes uses Danish and Norwegian words.
They will understand her better.
She is asking if there are words that aren't so quite familiar and Swedish as they are in Danish and Norwegian.
The last episode I heard, she literally almost talked Norwegian but in Swedish pronunciation.
It can happen.
But it's really funny to listen to those three.
And they have political issues but also more...
What would you call it?
What people are talking about besides politics.
It can be quite funny.
It's also very serious.
Especially when something serious is happening in one of the three countries.
Or when something is happening outside the three countries that is...
It's somewhere connected to the...
Connected.
I think they also talk about American politics.
They also talk about the war in Ukraine.
Yes.
Out of their perspective.
How they are like...
What you...
Yeah.
I think we can wrap it up here.
We have already nearly a quarter of an hour.
Could you think about...
Have your own show sometime on HPR?
I might.
For example, I have a small project where I created my own language.
I might do a show about that.
That's interesting.
Yeah. I might do a show about that when I come a little bit further.
Like when I have gotten some basics.
You don't want to become the new token.
Or do you?
No. It was like...
It was a project that my mother and friends started.
Where she proposed the idea.
Oh, let's create a new universe.
I came with that idea where...
I don't really like when it's like...
Oh, they are in like Germany or something.
And the book is an English.
But then they translate what they say into English.
But they are supposed to speak German.
And it should be in German.
Yes, I know that you have to be able to learn German.
To understand German to read that book.
But yeah, it's kind of frustrating.
Okay.
But wait.
I nearly forgot something.
But you played an instrument in the beginning.
Yeah.
What?
Now.
Is there someone out there who knows what it's called?
We're just curious what you know about that.
Do we want to give hint?
No.
Let's make it next show.
The next show that someone of us...
No, no, no, no.
No, no.
Someone, some other show.
And say what he, she, they...
What they think it could be.
And describe the instrument and why it could be this instrument.
Yes, let's do it.
Good bye.
See ya.
