Episode: 3667
Title: HPR3667: 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3667/hpr3667.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 03:19:58

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3667 for Tuesday, the 23rd of August 2022.
Today's show is entitled Hacker Public Radio 2021-2022 New Years Show Part 2.
It is hosted by Hong Kimagoo and is about 188 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is, the H.P.R. community comes together to chat.
Apparently there's some issue where every time anybody posts anything,
it's a little ding that happens on mumble goes through.
I have no idea how to stop that because the way the stream and everything is set up,
well the way the stream is set up, that's where it's going through,
is it's just broadcasting basically any sound that goes through,
that would come out of my laptop speakers.
And I don't know how to silence the ding.
I'm sure there's something in the settings.
Well wait a minute, it's not doing text-to-speech, is it?
Let's test that.
And then I don't know, I don't know, it's been a while since I've played with mumble.
I actually just compared mumble on my...
Yeah, I heard it over the stream.
I'm using mumble so I'm not even worrying about that.
I still doing text-to-speech, is it?
Yeah, I hear it.
But it's doing the text-to-speech.
I think it's in the messages setting,
at least on the mumble client that I'm using on Papa West,
which is the Ubuntu-based.
So correct me if I'm wrong, it's 1604 UTC right now, right?
You are correct.
All right, just trying to follow along here on the show notes to add my blog.
Oh, you can put it anywhere, we've got one in your room.
All right.
Oh, I think I...
Yeah, I'm hearing the text-to-speech through the stream.
Or wait, no, I'm listening through the mumble,
so I should try through the actual stream itself, my bad.
Oh, I think I did it.
Yeah, I'm not hearing text-to-speech of anybody's through the stream.
Excellent.
So, for future reference for other people, I guess,
go to configure settings and messages.
And it shows Ubuntu checkboxes,
and we're on the right-hand side where it says sound file,
just, I just, I didn't click all those boxes.
Good to know.
So who's doing a show on that?
I just did it.
I think Ken's doing a show about mumble,
does he?
Well, of course, did he just write up a page about it?
No, but yeah, we should do something to add this information.
Maybe to the page, so it's this sort of permanent thing you can get to easily.
Not a bad idea.
I never knew. I've never looked at the config page before,
but it seems to shut up all those incredibly annoying
beeps and pops and stuff.
Yeah, it sounds like we're only using a fraction of what mumble can do.
Yeah, yeah.
I'd just go on the principle that the less I poke around things,
that's like, to break it.
Being an in-better breaker of stuff.
I'd be a little bit over-cautious, though.
Now, the trick is not to start switching things around right
before you're about to record a show.
Yeah, and also keep a record of what you've fiddled with.
So you can unfiddly and then you need to...
Yep, you need to do a screencast of things as you're doing it.
Right.
Kind of like the legend of when on TLLTS,
Dan was compiling the kernel and brought down the entire show.
How did that or the catpeed on the root, was it?
Yeah, something like that.
Did you have a Tomcat that tended to go into your night in inappropriate places or something?
I believe so. We may have to hear from him soon if he connects.
I don't think I've heard him saying he would, but he usually does.
Yep.
Well, so far it's from pretty quiet morning here.
I have just one of my three sons here.
They're all my children now, so they're the two youngest are in their teens,
my eldest 20.
So he'll be coming over later.
My middle one just left to go to the gym and my youngest is still sleeping.
So yeah, it's kind of laid back here.
I think it's about to get a little more noisy in my house.
My two were at basketball practice this morning.
They have a tournament game starting tomorrow at 9am.
So that should be fun, but it looks like the car just pulled up.
Sounds good.
My son, I think I said earlier on, is it work today?
He's working from over there.
He's a stensibly at work, and my daughter is getting ready for an interview on Tuesday.
I forget which job she's been job hunting for several months now.
She's going into a very strange interview.
They want her to do a maths test and an English test prior to the interview.
It's like sort of a school child type of test, you know?
It's odd that a job interview would meet that sort of stuff.
No, that's interesting.
And it is quite odd too.
Well, I've heard some places where people can make change and stuff.
You know, some of the basic skills seem to have been overlooked by people.
Yeah, maybe that's what I said to her.
Maybe they've had bad experiences in the past.
So job is a communications officer.
She's just had a done an MSC in science communication.
And it's for a college of animal welfare, I'm not even sure where it is,
London, I think, though she can work remotely if she gets it.
But it's a bit unusual these days, isn't it?
Can you show us how you show us this writing?
And you show us you writing your name.
So we can prove that you just don't write an X or something.
It feels like, you know, some sort of Victorian thing.
Well, actually, what they're saying is that expensive degree that she just got
may or may not actually mean anything.
I think that could be, that could be exactly is.
They will use the degree to keep the rabble out.
But after you get the degree, they don't know whether it's worth anything.
Yeah, they must have had some less than powerful intellects doing in the past.
Well, I can guess.
Well, also those questions and the fact that she would cooperate with that shows that
she's willing to put in the effort.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a certain element of compliance.
If we ask you to jump through this particular hoop, will you do it?
So yeah, yeah, it's not sure that's a good thing, but we'll see.
Well, go ahead.
No, I was just going to say, she also just reminded me that she's asked me to go and find her
Scottish diploma certificates from school.
They want to see them, they want copies of them as well as, you know, it's usual to,
if you say you've got a degree, you should prove it.
But these are the Scottish higher education certificates she's supposed to present.
I'm inclined to say, do you really want this job, you know?
Well, also the person hiring her may use a lot of this paperwork to cover their, but
yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
The sort of processes that HR sections want you to do in particular in academia can be bizarre
and extreme.
I always saw the instance where when I joined my last, last university I worked at,
I was involved in interviewing and stuff.
One of the standardized form that went out to, to applicants was,
had a question in it that said, last day school attended.
What that meant was, last day school was opposed to, I don't know, night school perhaps.
But everybody read that as, what was your last day at school?
So they wrote Friday or something.
So it took years for HR to recognise this was stupid.
And why did they need to know this particularly anyway?
And so, and to, to, to, to take it out, just, just a piece of nonsense.
Well, funny.
Well, I have a couple of things.
One, I take the regular transit bus from my neighbourhood.
The routes changed a little bit, but they're, the spiel that they're using is the same
spiel that a private bus company was using when I was a kid.
There's this one place where the bus crosses over through a signal intersection
and then they go down about half a block and that's where the, where the current bus stop is.
At one time, the bus would cross the intersection, stop in front of a certain business
and let people out and then people could cross over at this, at the signal intersection.
Now, they're using the same spiel to say, well, if you want to change to another alternate bus route,
you get out here and cross over, but the stop has been moved away from the signal intersection
and they haven't changed the spiel from when I was a kid.
It's always been this way. It's tradition.
You can't change these things.
Also, speaking of Massachusetts has got some interesting traditions.
One, we have our own GED that they call MCAS, which has been found to have incorrect answers as
correct answers in it. It is a, it is a secret exam and when people start passing the exam,
they add more material to it.
And this is an exam that you have to pass in order to get your diploma.
You can graduate high school and do everything, but if you do not pass the MCAS test,
you will not get a diploma.
Now, the thing that they're avoiding like the plague is the GED that would actually tell people
across the country what is actually going on. Also, a few years ago, they took young,
certified teachers. These were people coming out of the teachers' colleges and gave them
a cold exam for the first time since kindergarten.
Failure rate was about 40 to 50 percent.
Yes, I can believe that.
Well, I was a C student until I got into junior high and then I was an A student and
anything that I put any effort into. Now, I didn't suddenly take a smart pill. I just did, however,
I was able to, because they will tell you exactly what's going to be on the exam, I would load my
head up with a bunch of data, put it on the exam and then move on to the next subject.
That worked great in high school and probably would have worked okay in community college,
but when I went to college, my lack of study habits or lack of solid foundation became
glaringly obvious. It used to be a bit like that in the UK. I think Scottish school exam
system is different from the English one. I took what they call A levels in England, late 1960s.
You got a curriculum, you got a little booklet because these were curricular built by various
high-status universities like Oxford and Cambridge and stuff. You had a curriculum that said,
not timing, but the content. The course content would be this subject broken down to these
parts, etc, etc. You could actually use that as a guide to work out what you needed to cover
and what you didn't need to cover. It was an excellent way of structuring what you did. Plus,
also there may be previous years exam papers available, but of course I think I can't do
remember. It wasn't much, so you would do rehearsals of exams to the umpteenth degree.
So the people I was working with at that age all did this assiduously. We would be testing one
another with this sort of stuff and we became a bit like learning to do crosswords or something.
It's a puzzle that you practice in order to become good at. It's nothing to do with
your inherent intelligence other than the intelligence to to fiddle with systems and stuff, I suppose.
But yeah, so we all did really well at that because that sort of process where many of us had been
classified as idiots at school because you know it was just not a structure that appealed to us.
Oh yeah, I mean, I went to school in the 60s with draft riots and everything and they would cover
the Constitution every year in our history classes, but they wouldn't talk about the Civil War where
they actually had draft riots and what not 100 years before. Whatever you do, you can't teach
anything that's relevant. You just have to teach the same old shit.
Oh very much so, very much so. My daughter, she went through school, spotted that quite early on,
very, very angry that the subjects were being steered away from and even the ones that were being
handled were not being handled very well. She was a great critic off of a scholastic system,
which I think councilor, I think, is applauded her for being so so perceptive of the crap that she's
being dealt. And if you think she was given crap back then, whenever that was, with this critical
race theory and stuff that they're pushing. Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, we would often
discuss what element of your learning is critical, it can involve critical thinking because you'd
think that critical thinking would be an element of a science stuff. She would she trained in science,
she was a biologist, but there was never any teaching about how to think and how to analyse things
and how to spot the rubbish amongst the diamonds, you know. And that's a common thing, they don't want
there, if you believe in, they don't want people to be that perceptive, I think. That was our
conclusion anyway. Well, yes, well, if you look at our entire narrative in the US, it's all there is
one narrative that the media and the government and everybody is beating the same drum. And
you know, we had like outrageous
quarantines and whatnot and whatnot when the government just throwing its weight around. And
there's no scientific basis, they just decide today we need a quarantine period of 14 days,
tomorrow it could be 20 days and last week it could have been seven days.
Yes, it's the same here, it's quite arbitrary, I think it's just whoever the latest scientific
advisor has been or maybe harking back to advice earlier on when less was known about it,
about the the way the coronavirus spreads and those sorts of things. Any more of stuff.
Any more, the quarantine times are a balance between necessity and, you know, actual safety.
So safety is taking a backseat to necessity. I think the quarantine time officially got moved
down to like five days from 10 days. That's what I had. Specifically because we need people to work.
Yep, yep. Of course, if that number's wrong, then you get people to work, if you then get
people to work and spread whatever they've got is the downside of that. But yeah, that number is
absolutely wrong. I think the infectious time for corona is something like 28 days or something
but it's it's saying what's happening here anyway in the UK is that if you have corona,
then such and such should happen. But it doesn't say if you have corona and you vaccinate it,
which will be a whole different ballgame because the viral load will be less in most cases because
the immune system's handling a lot of it. But you still have it, you still be infectious,
but not for as long. You know, it's not an absolute worry. And it's probably also different between,
you know, different people. So yeah, yeah, that's also a factor. So there's a guy I've been following
on Twitter, Michael Meena, who's an epidemiologist and a virologist and a clinical medical man.
And he was very vocal at the start of the pandemic, talking about how, first of all,
that cheap testing and plentiful testing of the lateral flow type and that sort of stuff was vital
and it should be there now. Well, don't you know, keep your numbers low by not testing.
I love that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If you just look the other way, you won't see that man being
so it's not happening. Hey, I know. Also, all of this, everybody's got a mask and everything.
The best studies say that masks are 20% effective. 20% effective is better than 0% effective.
Oh, yes, it is, but I mean, everybody has been treating the mask as if they're, you know,
armor. Yeah, you caught your right. I've seen that too. It's a very important thing.
That plus distancing, that plus ventilation, that plus not being in building to lots of other people
and minimizing exposure time. Yeah, yeah. All of those things together make a big difference,
but you can't just point it one and say, oh, that's not 100% so we will not bother with that.
Exactly. Also, like seat belts and, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Condoms are not 99% effective, so nobody should use them.
As thin as all the way, right? It's a really bad thinking.
It's funny because the way this all works, it's not really that different to the idea of
defense in depth that we see in information security and whatever. It's pretty much the same thing,
in my opinion. Dealing with an external threat and mitigating it as much as possible,
so exactly. Well, I think what happened with the Christmas season is the fact that they're
the old rules knocked out a large part of our transit system. I mean, aircraft, you know,
airlines and whatnot was was a wake up call to some
also like New York's you've got to be vaccinated, even if you're a medical professional,
so that they let go. What was it? 20, 30,000 medical professionals because they wouldn't get the shot.
Yeah, even for medical professionals. Well, I know they were also not
taking an account, any kind of other conditions or the fact that you may have had COVID already,
you know, natural immunity, stuff like that, they were just saying everybody who hasn't got the
paperwork. Well, they have to be able to draw the line somehow and the vaccine seems like a good
place to draw that line and yes, there are people that can't get it, but for whatever reason,
immune compromised or whatever, but if that's the case, then should those be people be working
in high risk environments? And the natural immunity, there's been a lot of research done into
the efficacy of natural immunity and how long it lasts. And according to the research that, you
know, I've vaguely skimmed over, so I'm no expert, but the vaccine is supposed to be more effective
than natural immunity. That's my understanding as well, yeah. And yes, people still get sick,
even if they're fully vaccinated, have their booster, whatever, it's just they don't get
as sick and they don't stay sick for as long. Well, also, I think people, I think you're getting
the random nature of a lot of these orders as reduced, the kind of trust you need for people to
get their vaccines and to get, you know, sensible care. Well, remember last winter at all of those
little shacks that were put out so that people could dine outside in COVID safety instead of
dining indoors with heat and ventilation and potential sterilization of the environment and
stuff like that. If I, I was seeing some of those, everything from inflatable bubbles to little
shacks put on the sidewalk. And all of them were to keep people out of restaurants where
where the environment could be controlled, including, you know, sterilizing surfaces and whatnot.
Because you know that those little shacks or bubbles or whatnot, we're not going to be
nearly as easy to deal with as an ordinary restaurant. Well, I am going to have to leave you all
and go and hunt for this certificate that my daughter needs and tell her if I can't find it so
she could look as well. So I'd better, better stop now and say goodbye to everybody. It's been great
talking to everybody and maybe catch up with some, some of you tomorrow, impossible. Okay, Dave,
see you later. Take care Dave. Good talking to you. Cheers. Well, we'll look forward to hearing from
you whenever you can get back. Okay, okay. I'm going to see if I can switch to my laptop because
I need to charge my phone. So I'll be back later. Happy New Year Indonesia, Thailand,
Jakarta, Bangkok, Hanoi, Phnom Penh. Happy New Year, everybody. This is Short Fat Ball Guy.
I'm just curious if anybody's tracking HPR users in different time zones and see if we cover the
whole globe. Well, I don't know how to tell where people are, but this is my second and more
complete experience. And we we will sweep the globe if people can stay awake.
I'll do my part. I'm definitely not doing 26 hours. Well, I'm doing what I can since I don't
know if I'll be back next year. Where are you, by the way? I'm in Boston. I don't hear an accent.
I'm northern Kentucky. Well, I travel. Are you anyone?
Short, try to put yourself on push to talk because your audio is bleeding, bleeding back through
the system. Gotcha. I'll go dig for that. Thanks. It's time I.
Well, short, if you're listening, my I travel from Maine to West Virginia,
hitting all the states between and and it sort of flattened my accent. Also, I've done a lot of
reading and part of it could be I'm a slightly autistic Ashburgers syndrome that should have
some effects. 10 minutes about 10, 15 miles south of us is where you start to pick up a Kentucky
accent. I used to pick up the West Virginia accent from being there only like a week.
Right. I've got a cousin who, depending on where she's at, is how her accent goes.
Yeah, my dad was from West Virginia up near Morgantown. I miss that country terrible.
Definitely. Definitely pretty parts. I like the Appalachian area.
Well, also my grandparents both in Maine and West Virginia are very welcoming.
My parents made it quite clear that even the place where I was raised was not my was their home,
not mine. My dad, my dad was Eastern Kentucky and we could drive down there today, not
haven't seen those people for five years and tell them who we are and we'd be inside swapping
stories in minutes. Well, when my parents divorced, the West Virginia side of my family went
virtually silent, except one guy who was my dad's brother who used us to keep track of my dad,
who moved up to Maine to drink himself to death. We're going to pop out and run some errands.
I'll be back on in two hours probably. We'll have a big crowd later.
Yep. Well, I'll hold the fort. That's the, yeah, I've got 20 minutes before the next happy new year.
Well folks, at 1730, Zulu will be welcoming Mandalay and Miramar Nikoko's Islands into 2022.
This reminds me of my days back when I was a security guard at a condo complex.
Yes, I am one of the rare people who has actually been paid to watch paint drive.
But I'm sure you have some interesting stories, don't you?
Yes, I'm going to describe an environment and then show you how to use a pistol in this environment.
First, overhead or pre-crow's concrete slab, the walls are center block. The floor is
cast cement. There are very few doors and generally it's ricochet city. One new year's Eve,
tweedle D and tweedle dumb come in here into this hall and get into an argument.
Tweedle D is carrying a pistol in a shoulder holster. He opens his jacket, tweedle dumb looks at the pistol
and therefore misses the sucker punch that is delivered shortly. In a heavy ricochet environment,
that is the proper use of a pistol. Use it as bait for a sucker punch. Now carrying a pistol to a
new year's Eve party is stupid but at least he didn't do anything but flash it and then use his
natural weapons to make his point. He also had a young lady who lived in a two level condo
whose mother was a nurse who worked overnight. It was our job to try to limit her access to
gentlemen callers. The security force celebrated her birthday or 18th birthday almost as much as
she did. With a two level condo you could be at the main door downstairs and people could be going
in and out on the floor above you and we did not have coverage to cover both entrances but then
our front gate was a speed bump and a stop sign. Thanks for sharing the entertaining stories.
Well there was a time that one of our guys, well somebody came through
guests of one of our residents and I believe that I was hacked by a federal agency.
We had a jogger come through asking for directions or otherwise keeping me occupied and then a car
followed one of our residents' guests into the site. Since this guest was a, well he was
allegedly connected with unofficial financial organizations or what the English would call a
turf account bookie. It did seem like that I was being handled by some law enforcement agency
unofficial. Also we had a state patrol officer who came in wanting to just check on an alleged
girlfriend and I had to explain to him in simple words that there are two ways that he could come
on site. One give me the girlfriend's name I would call her up and he could have a late or early
coffee with her or give me the person's name and his official reason for needing to speak with her
legally and then I would lock up the gatehouse and escort him up but I was not going to allow him
just because he was in a state patrol car in uniform to randomly cruise our facilities.
There were two ways that he could get in and the third way that he wanted to get in was officially
one of the reasons I was being paid was to limit random access to to the facility. Well happy new year
Miramar Kokano's islands Dagon Mandalay and others that I can't pronounce. What's the topic?
Well the topic has been random stories from my history as a security guard and happy new year
to Mandalay and I hope the road's still there. The road to Mandalay being one of the many road pictures
of Bob Hope and Bing Crosby. Welcome back. Thank you. Work calls probably going to be happening all
day. Well if you can solve the problem from where you are that's pretty good. Yeah I think it's
just that my boss is bored fix that problem. Unfortunately managers have this instinctive belief
that they need to manage. No today's not officially the holiday that'll be Monday but yeah they're
still not going to be a lot going on today. Still not going to be a lot of people that are actually
working today everybody's on vacation. I suspect those that are officially working today may not
be maybe conserving energy. Yeah security guards learn a lot about conserving energy.
Yeah I was a security guard for a while. One of the interesting things that happened I was
we had a detect clock and a large mag lifelike that we were supposed to carry around with us
often we left the mag flashlight alone because it was a big you know five cell sucker.
Well three long ones. Yes and then it was this pot pot you know this 10 pound pot metal
detect clock on a long leather shoulder strap and they still call this unarmed security.
Yeah because you weren't allowed to carry a gun. Yes but I suspect that any emergency situation
that clock would make a damn good mace. Working for me. Also we this complex the part that we
were working for was on one side of a divided driveway. The original plans for the complex was
that this entire peninsula was going to be filled with condos and that didn't really work out.
Well we were supposed to secure one condos on one side of this divided road and we were not
supposed to secure condos on the other side of the divided road which meant people coming through
could just say I'm visiting the non-secure side of things and there's nothing we could say about it.
Also the backside of the property was not well fenced either so if anyone could get around
our security or our ledges security but then again this site had a two-foot high fence around
its pool just high enough to slow any rescue attempts and not high enough to keep anybody out.
Hey Mordancy. How are you doing? How are you doing? How are you doing?
How are you doing? I'm surviving and yourself. I'm still here. The answer hasn't killed you yet?
No. Yeah well that my inner DJ was just playing. I'm still standing in the back of my mind.
I'm damn glad of it. My cable modem arrived last night so I will be able to switch to a higher upload
on my cable. Just higher upload speed? Upload and download but for Plex so if we do any sharing
or what's that called watch together for movies or shows it should work better.
Actually I haven't been able to access your Plex days. The other night I was running a lot of
updates and it was a second down all the CPU and memory on the little mini ARD.
Itho is currently unavailable. I reconnection. Still showing is unavailable.
It's the command line magic hero Delta Ray really on the line. Yes I'm here.
Awesome. I want to say Steve. Last name Sousa? No my name is Mark. Mark. Okay. I don't know if
you remember me. I took all the notes during your intro to the command line. It ILS. I still have
them in my little hacker public radio book I carry around with computer notes. That's awesome.
Thanks. Did you happen to see the matrix command I posted recently? No I have not. I don't think I
have a Twitter running anywhere and never got connected the mastodon after identical switched over
to decentralized. Yeah I finally eventually switched away made a mastodon account to after
some requests for one and I've been posting to both but I was about a week ago or so I posted
right before the movie came out. I figured out how to make the matrix effect and the
terminal happen and fit the whole command into a tweet and so it ended up becoming the most
popular well most favorited command I've ever posted more or proof that we're in a simulation.
Something like that. That's awesome. I have to look for it. Of course a whole bunch of people
thought I ain't run that after the log for shelf vulnerability. That's probably the case with half
the commands I post. I tried to post like a screenshot or an animation along with it so that people
get a sense of what it is. Otherwise everybody thinks I'm just trying to hack their system. Do you
live in the Midwest in place? Glumptial. Cool. I'm in Bloomington, Indiana. So you probably went to
Ohio Linux Fest a bunch then. Yes. You were actually worried doing the talk at OLF after ILLF
and said you weren't sure if anybody got anything out of it and I pulled out my little
Barnes and Noble journal refill book that had all the those the first thing I used it for was
to take notes on your talk. Awesome. Great. Great. Almost every every person I meet doesn't know
CD will take you back to your home directory. Oh, do they not know that? I didn't know that.
I don't always see anything in there and it takes you back to home. I apparently had never done
it by accident before and it always done CD space tilde. Have the stuff I post is just if you go
back and read the man page and you'll learn about it but you know people who are longtime veterans
of commandliner are often shocked. They're like I didn't know about control R to search action.
Yeah, I need to up my command line for I'm still still somewhat crippled by my windows upbringing.
Not sure if anybody here has seen it but there's a new it's an upgrade to the curses library.
It's actually a whole rewrite of it. It's called not curses three. I think is what's called
this guy he wrote a new version that takes advantage of what are called sixels. It's something that
digital made back in the 80s or 90s that lets you basically create graphics inside the terminal
and so he wrote a curses library that lets you take full advantage of it and he was like
you're able to play videos in the terminal and stuff like that and he made this really great demo
but I think when you watch the demo you're not you're like is that happening in the terminal or is
it just the video editing and he's trying to like hype it up or something but from what he said that
it all happens in the terminal which is pretty amazing and I'm looking forward to catching on more.
Okay, control R is pretty cool and I did not know about that one. I always use history and grip.
And you can press control R repeatedly to keep going backwards. The opposite of it is control S but
of course usually on a terminal when you press control S it stops the terminal flow so it looks
like your terminal froze up. You have to press control Q to resume it so I guess you could reassign
it to something else but by default it's control S. The wonders of software flow control.
Joe, tread the library again. I connected the...
Yeah, I get it in there now. I'll talk him up. Thank you. I see that you have the first
episode of the Book of Fet. I do and under the helmet. I've got the first episode of the Book of
Book of Fet as well. I don't have the automation for it yet but I'm looking forward to watching it.
I enjoyed the episode and the special was interesting about how Book of Fet was created back in
the original series. Maybe I'll check that out on your server. But Mark's YouTube and Twitter
and Macedon channel or command line magic is great. Everybody can get something out of it. Sometimes
it's serious. Sometimes it's funny but they're always great little tweet-sized command line
commands. That was command line magic. Yep. On Twitter it is CLI magic. Well to be honest
after doing this for 13 years I've started to run out of ideas or just you know when I think
of something I'll think I've already done that or people have heard about it or something like
that or you know after doing it for 13 years you just start to list over again and you automate it.
Yeah I can do that too. I've always been surprised when I repost something. I don't get a
whole bunch of people saying like oh are you posted that before? That's a repost seems like just
the nature of Twitter and Macedon is that people just don't see half the stuff that I post.
You're behind CLI magic. I'm sorry what was that? You're the one behind CLI magic. Yep. Oh
yeah I should probably do an HPR episode on it. A long time ago CLI 2 interviewed me at ILF
it was like 10 years ago. Now you own. I also get a lot out of a command line food.com
and explainshell.com. Explainshell you can paste a snippet of code and it'll break it down
for you what it's doing. Now we are welcoming Bangladesh and Jakarta and several other places that I
just can't really pronounce. Happy New Year folks and we'll be racing towards the Nuts Paul
time zone, Kathmandu and a bunch of similar exotic locations. I was just looking through my bookmarks
and I remember CLI magic folder and I forgot about this website called regaxcrossword.com
where you you solve a crossword puzzle by typing in regular expressions. It's kind of funny.
Quite a bit there too. I have that bookmark now. And then there's also vim-adventures.com where
you can learn to use vim by doing an adventure game. Hello. Hello testing wanted.
You can hear you. Not a whole lot going on right this minute. Hello mad sweetie.
Hello I think you can hear me quite good now. I had some problems with my audio earlier.
I had to mess around with mumble a little bit. I've been used that all year and have
still have problems. Yeah. After a year of using like zoom and stuff like that it's a little bit
jarring to look over to the mumble window and not see like a muted microphone next to your name
and you're like oh my gosh did you just hear everything I was saying but then you remember oh yeah
pushed it fine. Yeah I saw there's an option you can set the time between when you double tap.
I presume that's milliseconds. I'm I wish that somebody would teach the mumble guys that not
everybody has got perfect eyesight. Yeah it would be nice if it made a little pop.
I hit a high pitch pop when you go on when you're on mute and a low pitch pop when you're off so
you know where you are. Well I'd like to be able to adjust the font size a little bit.
Swinging your audio is leaking. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes I can but you're also bleeding audio
even when you're not talking. Oh goodness. Sounds like water or sounds like water in the background
maybe air. Okay. I find it thing. It isn't bad it's just we try to limit that kind of thing.
That any better? That seems near quiet. I still a little but it seems a little quiet and now we
welcome Nepal, Kathmandu, Pokkara, Dharan etc. 2022. Yes we know you're still leaking audio but nobody
I can't hear it. The only way I can tell is by seeing the icon. He's just said that because he knew
it was from the news from the court and he's got that go. We're now arriving in India,
Sri Lanki, New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Megalo, Happy New Year folks.
It's my audio still noisy. I don't hear anything currently. Good. I think I fixed it with some
noise. It makes canceling. None of the icons are flickering out of turn. Well there may be a
little leakage here and there but we got much much better. But I think it's the mixed echo
cancellation setting and the audio input panel and mumbo. I guess mumbo's got a mumbo somewhere.
That's free software. It gives you all the knobs to turn all of them. So I have to go do some
chores now so maybe I'll be back later. See you later. Well you're always welcome. God we should do
this once a week. Never mind once a year. I am not hearing anything and don't know why. Perhaps
because nobody is saying anything. That would do it. Thank you. Why is nobody saying anything?
Moment. Perhaps we've got nothing to say. I've been trying to carry my end. Well, Happy New Year,
everybody anyhow. Happy New Year. Well it looks like I got my signal. The noise level a little low.
Hello Swiss. Hello can you hear me because I just tried to hit this push to talk thing. I can hear you.
Very good and that's a lovely accent. Typical Swiss I guess.
Actually milder than some. There's a guy on YouTube who's well he may be playing it up.
You mean Andreas Spies? A bit. Yeah. He's got a little thick. He does
IOT stuff and he says here's the guy with the Swiss accent and he puts it on pretty heavy.
Yeah but well basically what you hear in the background is really his accent from this region
and yeah more in the mountains like if you look a little bit around sometimes in his videos.
I know the guy too. I follow him as well and yeah some people and not from the bigger cities or
such tend to speak with really strong accent so I guess it's it's quite true.
Yeah you sound more like my friend in Sweden. Well it's also a same sort of thing around here.
The more country people have a tend to have a local accent.
There was a time when I would listen to podcasts where I had the feeling that I started
that I was able to tell whether somebody is from Texas or or more and New York area or such.
How is this for you? Do you do you can easily distinguish that or is this a big mixture
over in the US? Sometimes you can. Also some of the Canadian dialects sound like Texas or
they don't sound you know they're hard to detect. Yeah they sound a bit like Texans there.
Well they're hard to localize. When I went to Vancouver for a couple of months
in the beginning they always expected well I wasn't Vancouver so they always expect me I come from
Montreal or such because of the of the accent so when when you're in Canada and you don't speak
there properly English they expect you from the French part. Well you don't sound French to me
but I'm married a Montrealer. Well and and I would say that your English is better than
many much that I hear from native speakers. Thank you I try hard at least. So what time is it
in the US? I'm in the east and it's 145 pm or 1345 if you prefer. Yeah it's more the way we win
Europe and this is the beautiful weather like we had today in Switzerland with no clouds or how
does it look over there? Well here in western eastern Tennessee we've got it's a little overcast
but it's bright and is it snowy there or is it too soft? No we do get snow we don't get a lot of it.
um we get maybe five or six snow falls a year.
No more than an inch usually and it's gone in a day or two. Yeah I'm up in New England. We
north of here we get more snow. I'm near the coast so less snow not not much to speak of this year
but my brother's always threatening that we'll get four feet in April.
It's interesting because I don't know if you also listen to the podcast from the guy who fixed his
generator and yes to keep the to keep the power up and running and so yeah I guess you really have
to live a little bit on the countryside or or what is your feeling when you when you need a
generator or when you look for it in your area. Yeah generators are less common down here although
I'm in the fringes of the Boston area but yeah. Yeah we don't have any out here that I know of. I
mean it like I said eastern Tennessee I'm about 22 miles northeast of Knoxville and we're we get
most of our power from the various excuse me the various dams in the Tennessee Valley Authority
project that was a FDR project so the electricity is pretty close to us and they have a big business
of keeping it running. So you have water power over there. We have some water some of QVA is
coal though which is really negative. I didn't understand that what do you mean?
coal okay okay you still have coal. We still have coal are you kidding West Virginia would not let
let us let go of coal if we tried. Okay I mean I just knew that you have a lot of nuclear power
plants. We have very very very few nuclear power plants. Well I thought it was in the number of
the 50s or the 60s. Well it's an awfully big country too. Okay I agree yes. You burn coal over there
a lot of nuclear plants had had meltdowns and breakdowns and it got to be really unpopular so we
didn't keep going unlike France. We didn't keep building them. Yep and the last one I remember being
built they were just about to test it to see if it was quite proof the way it was designed and
they found out it was built upside down. And since then it's nothing happened. No we haven't had
very many nuclear power plants come online. I don't remember the last time a nuclear plant came
online. There's one down in Plymouth I think that's still running. Well yeah still running but I
mean in terms of new ones coming online I don't remember. For your information my grandfather
was a coal miner and a mine owner. If you were net miner it's just the reason why you have that
that was it mostly. Yeah more or less. So net miner is basically half half of your dad.
Right my mother was from Maine and down in West Virginia I still between Maine and West Virginia I
still think of those as my hope. Net miner you're usually also on the on the lock cast right?
Yes I'm I'm one of the I'm probably the old man of the group.
Just out of curiosity and I think honky magoo does one on one side on the lock cast and I think
he does as well sometimes podcast on the on the HBR does he have different nicknames?
Well I've got a couple podcasts myself. I got on Mintcast three and a half years ago and
stayed on it for two and a half years. I've got I got distra hopper digest and I also have just
this year or like April started doing full circle weekly news. The distra hopper digest I heard you
mentioned it now and then in in the mintcast of course but and if I'm not wrong did you did you
fill up almost your whole SSD with like 100 different distribution? Oh no I didn't do that there
were jokes that I was going to but the most I've had on a on a single drive was 10 and I literally
had repartitioned my hard drive or my SSD to go to 12 and while I was doing that I changed my mind
and dropped to eight and it's currently down to four but people keep joking I've got a hundred
on one machine and never happened. Okay this is a this is a running running gag. Yes I just looked
up nuclear power in the US according to Wikipedia who is never wrong there are 93 commercial
reactors with a net capacity of 95.5 gigawatts. 93 yeah but but you can have less less plants right?
Less what? So you have a reactor you said 93 reactors but sometimes a plant has like two or three
reactors so you could have so you have less in quantity around the state. I do not know apparently
there were two new reactors under construction in September 2017. Okay it takes about 39 reactors
have been permanently shut down. Okay I have the age I guess there's 24 operating commercial nuclear
reactors at 56 power plants in 28. There you go. I hadn't gotten that far down with the pd article yet
this is from the US nuclear industry. Oh gobsite. So it's 56. Like I say it's not that popular here.
Guys can you can you open the sorry can you open the document which is mentioned on the HPR side
this what do they call it they call it for the for the notes. Please fill in the show notes
he said oh easier pad could you open it or is it just me where it doesn't work? What document?
When you go on the on the HPR on the hacker public radio.org and a name page then he has in the
a little bit after the half it says add to add to the show notes. Please help fill out the show notes
and I was curious what it looks like and it doesn't open. Add a show notes. HTV show notes got
uGai etherpad loading. Am I in open? Okay then then then then I'm in. Then my matrix
blocks too much. Okay thanks. See do I I do not have my VPN on I'm going to fix that. Now I've
got my VPN on. I mean close it and see if it opens again. Oh I close the whole page yay.
Well I have to try another browser. What browser are you using? Usually Firefox.
Well I'm in Firefox and I just open it even with a VPN on. Yeah but are you familiar with
micromatrix? No I don't know my hermatics. You really need to spend some time to get familiar with
it is very complicated but once you get familiar with it is really nice. It blocks really everything
not just cookies it blocks a lot and yeah sometimes when it doesn't work and I'm tired of trying
out then I go into Vivaldi and there I have everything open. Okay well I'm finally going to start
getting brave enough to put together a pie hole using an old Raspberry Pi I was given that I never
used I'll not never used I plugged it in to make sure it worked. What do you you never used it
or it never worked? No I plugged it in to make sure that it worked and then I never used it again
because it was really too slow. A Pi 2 is not fast enough to really use much considering I was
looking to use it as a desktop computer and the Pi 4 is just barely adequate for that.
I think both my both my Pi holes are Pi 2. Cool everything I read says use a Pi 0 3 or 4 and I'm
going okay and everything I read as I have to use Belina Etcher to burn it to the SD card.
No you can use whatever you want to burn it. Please please stop using Belina Etcher.
I have never used Belina Etcher the one time I tried to install it I had an app image and it didn't work.
Okay I know now what I put into the show notes and guys I know now why I couldn't reach the show
notes on Etherpad because my web browser tried to do HTTPS everywhere and this HTTP.
Okay I had a Pi 0 before the Pi 0 W and I had it connected via micro USB and ran Pi hole on it
and used the shared internet setting to bridge it and was able to run Pi hole with it just plugged
into the USB on my laptop. Well I'm old and I tend to move very slowly I was still using
Windows 3.11 when everyone else was on 98 SE. 98 SE was good but when you say you run it on a
on a Pi 2 how much bandwidth do you have in your in your home? I've got fair bandwidth I'm on
Xfinity Comcast. What is this best effort? How much is it? Well that's a good question now isn't it?
Yeah I guess you have done a test now in 10 or no. I have done now and then but not lately and memory
is not one of my best features let me see what I got here. Okay speed of me have to accept their
cookie start the test. I have 103 megabits down and 10 megabits up over Wi-Fi on my phone through
my cable internet. So right now I'm not doing as well as that but frequently I am I'm usually over
100 right now I'm at 66.39 and upload is just short of 13. Can I have a pause here general
and we have a we have to welcome Pakistan back to us Kent and Islamabad and and others to
the Happy New Year day. Thank you for your patience. I have patience? Well more than some and
less than others. Go ahead we have a whole 30 minutes to the next time. Oh now I see I was
wondering why the easy pad is so occupied and this is because there is all these time stamps in it.
Yes this show follows New Year's entering different time zones from Christmas Island and then it
will end up damn back at Hawaii or something. We're taking the long way around. All right was that
bad company or what? Sorry? I'm sorry. Take the long way home. I don't remember who did that.
Yeah I'm I have that there there's a part of me that I call my inner DJ that will always
grab different song lyrics like my brother whose bounces are on most of the continental US. I always
think of him with the Johnny Cashews. I've been everywhere and the answer is super tramp.
I had to go look it up. Where do I I see that some of the guys have have the microphone deactivated
and I have while doing the installation I did this push to talk but where do I now see whether I
use that or not do you are you familiar with mumble can I see that or is this once you have done it
in the configuration it is just there. Well you should have a push to talk a little square window
I did. I've changed mine to voice activated and then open my volume control box and I'm using it
manually. Of course I'm in body which is not the easiest thing to use sometimes and sometimes it's
here pleasure. But it doesn't show it to you then later on while you're using it. It is not
obvious that I push now the button to speak. Unless my I see now my guy gets blue is it that
because my my name is now in in in bold letters and and I'm blue that that I see that I that you
hear me. Different clients may have different things but we usually have a little icon and when
you're talking there is some kind of the icon changes. I'm going to let go of my push to talk
and you should see a change in in the icon. Yeah now I see it now I find it out very
least sorry guys for disrupting. My little icon in front of my name gets a turns blue and it gets
this thing when I push the button. Okay so I just didn't want to interrupt them if it is
well I didn't understand how that works. I tried to snap install works flawlessly. I'm on the
flat pack because it works better on some systems but it not only turns blue notice there are
sound waves on both sides of your head. Sound waves? You'll see you'll see on the side of your head
that there are these little parentheses. parentheses type things that that appear when you're
talking. Yes yes I got them too. Yes. Oh and this was managed with the sound wave. Okay good.
Also the kind of questions that you're asking are exactly the kind of questions that need to be asked
but to help the others that are going to be listening to this down the road. So you're actually
doing a great service to our community by by asking the questions that you're asking. You
weren't intruding at all. I had rather a bad conscious because on this page on the entry page at
the moment they also wrote that as a preparation to use mumble you can listen to HBR 3503.
Well as I said earlier this podcast especially is interrupt driven between the
imposes we have to salute the new year. Everybody's welcome to jump in. Tell us where you're
calling from and all sorts of interesting information. In interesting information I am making
I have the intent of rejoining Mintcast with the next episode. I have fallen to number 10 on the
frequency of guests of cohost list and I want to at least move back up to 9. Well I'm sure you're
going to be welcome. Now yes our Swiss friend reminds me of a of a big event in my life.
1997 I went to mass general and I had a Swiss fellow helped me with a thyroid problem that I
was having at the time. Well she was a mass general fellow but she definitely wasn't a fellow.
Very very lovely young lady. And where is the relation to Switzerland or I didn't get it?
She was a Swiss. She was doing postgraduate or postdoctoral studies at mass general on
endocrine systems. I raised my hands over over my head and my face turned all kinds of pretty
colors and within a month or two my thyroid had been removed by a cancer surgeon. Wow yeah
that's that's something that's staving memory. Well my thyroid had been reduced 10 years earlier
but it was causing a crooked my neck. Literally it was crowding my windpipe and blood vessels and
such and yes I've had my throat cut professionally twice. Wow okay does does this
does this still hurt? Oh no it it heals up pretty quick but I'm just saying although the first time
they were using basically staples to hold the they in order to get at the thyroid they have to
basically have a circular cut around sort of around your collarbone and when I woke up from
that surgery I had this railroad track of staples around my you know the front of my neck. Friend
of mine had helped me get up so I could go to the use the restroom and one of the nurses came in
and was not very happy with me. Too much pressure. Well she said she said you're supposed to stay
in bed and I said leave me. If there'd been anything wrong you would have seen scorch marks on
the sheets as I went back to bed. Okay so it went fine in the end. It went fine and the second time
they instead of staples they were using these little tape things and my surgeon got a little upset
when I took off the otterlera bandaging and he said you took off too much. Well unfortunately
he may have known which was the otterlera and which was the inner layer but I didn't and it's not
like I was going to pose for GQ anytime soon. It's it's it's incredible how much how much improvement
you see in the in the hospitals I mean there are times when you when you broke your leg then you
got this this white thing I don't know the name in English around it and and nowadays they do
this thing with plastic and you shall move it very early and then things like that it really has
changed a lot I think. Yes you're talking about the old days of heavy plaster cast versus fiberglass
or whatever they're using today. Yeah when when when I broke my leg I got this white this white
cast around it and you had it for six weeks and there was no way around it and off to six
weeks they took it away from you and now they have this thing they can you can open and close
so you can take a bath or whatever not like it wasn't the old days so and then they say to you
put some weight on it much earlier than you did in well you shouldn't have done it in the past
and so on so I think it is really we did quite some improvement in in the last 20 years if you
if you see it here and there. Yeah friend of mine had a series of cataracts some years ago and
every time she went in for surgery for the cataracts it was a smoother and faster procedure
and faster recovery there's a lot of stuff that's changed since back in the day. Yeah fully agree.
Of course back in the day when I was a baby I was in Boston floating hospital I'm told
which was actually a hospital on on a ship and that's that's where I that's where I was treated.
Now it's now all the hospitals are modern super fancy building.
Have you been your whole life only in the US or did you leave the country at some at some moment?
Well yes I've spent most of the time in the Boston area but with occasional
forays into civilization in May or in West Virginia the liberals around here well I find myself
to be a refugee from the country. A refugee from the country from the countryside or from the US.
From the countryside my my folks were small town I was raised as a 50s kid in the 60s very small
town leave it to be ver you know very very much out of step with the with anyone around here
this part of New England is very very liberal. Just as an FYI the O in country is silent in
American English at least if you're talking county which is a smaller portion of the political
unit then you use it but when they are is there its country. Great thank you wasn't the where of
that. It makes no sense English is tough. My pronunciation may not be the best. Also done in
West Virginia the counties handled the countryside between the towns here in New England the county
is more or less a extra layer of government but the towns of but each other so the county
system is is less really functional. While in West Virginia there was a small town near my dad's
farm but he was not in the town so he didn't pay town taxes he only paid county taxes.
Right down here in Tennessee we even have county mayors I never heard of that before moving to
Tennessee. It's really interesting because there is a nox county mayor and a noxville mayor
and it was a fun. You get down to Louisiana they don't have counties they have parishes.
It's really fun because some people say well some people never leave the US in their whole life
and but they say they lift in different states or in different areas and they say this is like
moving into a different country because country because things can be totally different from one
to the other. Yeah well you see the places where where I'm comfortable firearms are common and legal
and things are pretty conservative church-going type stuff while here in Boston they're very much
against firearms ownership even legal firearms ownership and and a lot of the people who
are making the rules are making them pretty arbitrarily and anyway. It's all the Unitarians and
Irish. Let's go for stereotype shall we? This is the end of the way to go. Another question
the audio at the begin and at the end of the of the HPR podcasts now. Do you like it better than
it was before or what is your what is your take on it? I don't do enough HPR to know the other folks
here probably make no. Not me I hardly ever listen to HPR but they have been very useful in our
podcasts because they've allowed us to use their mumble room from time to time. Oh okay so you're
not a typical HPR listener in that case. Well my partner in distra hopper's digest is a regular HPR
guy but he's not here right now. I would think Hockey McGoo would be the person to answer that
question and he's only chiming in every half hour apparently. I think he has to be in because he
does them the recording recording as well as Ken. I expect that Ken would be also recording it
I'm not sure but lost. Ken has had connection problems and honky is somehow tapping
the audio with from mumble without using the mumble's internal recording system. It's above my
big rate. Yeah there is a link on the page where he says if somebody does add a record as well but
I just scrolled it through it on the HPR side and I wasn't sure what it is meant to be if it is
kind of a bash script or something like that. There is a long long line about the middle or end
of the page. Well anyway he's using a new method this time that supposedly as long as he's
got a connection here his back end stuff will keep creating files and rotating them every
every so often. I'm pretty much an experienced novice with Linux. I stayed with DOS for
a very long time and then I jumped to Windows Windows 7 especially but when they started playing
around forcing you to go to Windows 10 I jumped to Linux. Yeah I played around with Linux a lot
from about 2002 but I tried from time to time to go 100% Linux and I think between 1004 and 1204
I did that's Ubuntu numbers and then 1204 Unity wouldn't run on my hardware and I wasn't
experienced enough to know how to get a different desktop on so I went back to Windows for a while
and likewise when they tried to force me to Windows 10 I saw all the security holes open and closed
down all the ones I could and still had too many open and reverted to Windows 7 and found that
left all those holes open that weren't open before and so I said through this and I went to Linux
Mint 17 at that time and I've been on Linux ever since only. I'm earning mint right at the moment
it's okay I find not being able to do updates through Synaptic to be a bit of a pain.
I run all my updates in terminal so that's not an issue. Okay there is a program that you need
to look for it's called UCare System Core. It's if you're using a devian based distro it will
it's a great terminal update system and it also trims your kernels.
Okay I've never needed a particularly trim kernel but that's I'll look into that what's the name
UCare System Core. Okay most of what I run is devian or Ubuntu based I prefer Ubuntu based to
straight devian based devian always feels like a straight track it to me. Well the what I mean by
trimming your kernels is every so often you'll get a kernel update and after a while you can have
six or eight different kernels in your in your grub boot menu or what have you it will it will allow
you to have two or three automatically and it cleans up the others so so you don't get a lot of
dead kernels. Well I use auto remove fairly regularly and with Mint and most Ubuntu based that's
pretty safe because it usually leaves the current kernel the previous kernel and the original
kernel. Well you've got to remember that this is a UCare is probably a script so it's probably
using auto remove in the background but for those of us who don't have the command line food to do
that or who want to be able to do updates over SSH this is a this is a very handy little
updated and maintenance tool. Netminor what did you call is that is the name of the tool.
It's called UCare system core. Is that spelled with a wire are you? It's spelled with a U,
C-A-R and system core. If a dash in between or all in one word I believe it's all one word.
Try to type that in the easy pad UCare so it's UCare system basically. I've never heard of that one.
I found after a while some bash command. I can show you in easy pad because it is quite large
and this does analyze how much kernels you have installed and then it writes you the pseudo command
that you then can enter by yourself and it will clean out all the old kernels and then at the end
you do a small set of pseudo the auto remove but there I also have a little bit longer one.
Okay I put a discussion on the tool in the channel. The tool itself is hosted on GitHub.
Is UCare system dash core? Thank you Link. I put that same link in the in the show notes.
Do we have a link to the GitHub page? I can get that half a second.
There you go. Thank you sir. You're quite welcome. Yeah I don't use it as much as I should but
it has been my favorite tool on a lot of Ubuntu based system.
Well as I said I play with everything but I seem to settle on Ubuntu based because it's
freer than Debian based and I'm quite comfortable and apt. I just don't get this minus
cap s y used stuff on Pac-Man but I am currently also using an arch derivative called
Arco Linux and it seems to be very comfortable for me which is interesting.
I have used several arched distros and this is the first one that actually uses grub and will share
with a Debian slash Ubuntu based system with men jar would either control the grub entirely
or if an Ubuntu based system held the grub it would not boot it would boot the black screen
and I'd have to actually use bios boot to it and Arco Linux has not doing that to me.
What is Arco Linux? Arco Linux is an arch project that they basically want to get
beginners into arch and the more you progress the closer you get to real arch they claim.
I haven't gotten to that point yet of course has several desktops just like any arch system.
I'm using Matei. I also installed UK UI. I installed plasma and um LXQT and I could not get them
I do not know right now. I could not get the plasma stuff to update. I don't know why I think
maybe their plasma repo was messed up or something but Matei works like I just like I'm using
Linux Mint Matei for all intents and purposes. Yeah I'm an XFCE guy. Well they definitely have
that. I was burned out on XFCE it might be good now but it's only been a few versions now
that they actually improved the graphics on XFCE and um it was pretty ugly for quite a while.
Everyone's going use MX Linux. I use MX Linux and it's just uh blew my eyeballs out.
So we are on the next are we already in the next time zone?
Ah 1433 should be if there is a half-hour time zone. No I don't think it's a half-hour time zone yet.
Oh well baby it is 230. 2030. Yep 1433 like I said. Oh here I'm sorry.
You should go to me or in Europe. Who are we welcoming this half-hour?
We're welcoming Afghanistan, Kabul, Kandahar, Missouri, Sharif, Kerala.
And if the Taliban lets those people have any modems, welcome.
Yes well. Happy New Year everybody. Hey Nat minor. Hey honey.
Hey there we are. Well that's why I think of him as Mr. Biden because like a real president
wouldn't have screwed the pooch like. Looks like I came just in time.
Look how we're missing his martincy. Oh yeah I see Joe's in here too.
Is he been on? No it's earlier. That's since I've been on any out.
Now Nat minor has been holding the fort down since the beginning.
All right that's great. Martincy was here. He seems to be doing all right although I guess
this is the calm before his next storm. Yeah been pretty rough.
Oh I've got the Jitsi server up too. Well that'll be fun.
I'm not going to connect to it right now because I'm kind of back and forth.
I'm work de-Christmas-ing the house. So it's taking all the Christmas stuff down.
Cleaning. I just kind of keep popping and popping in back and forth.
When they time I go downstairs I kind of put the headset on.
Listen to what's going on. Say a few things and then pop off.
Yeah I'm kind of doing the same. Just doing some housework.
I'm just wearing my boxers so I'm not going to be on video anyway.
It'd be super popular though.
It'd be that or the exact opposite.
That's a bit of TMI I think. Yeah most definitely.
Although since I am the king of no camera I shouldn't throw any stones.
I dropped off for a while. Talk to you later guys.
Nice talking to you. Yeah we had talked in the matrix room.
We had talked about funk while I've been using that lately.
It's really it's really well done for how early in the project it is.
I'm enjoying it. Well I have bad news. Betty White just died and this is real.
Wow that's crazy. What did that happen?
Because my wife was earlier today. Oh wow.
Because my wife was talking about her last night and how she's just turned 100.
She's still 99. But she was turning 100 soon.
Yeah January 17th 1922 to December 31st 2021.
So she was only 18 days from her 100th birthday.
Wow dang. With a television career spending over nine decades.
White has worked longer in that medium than anyone else in the television industry.
Earning her a Guinness World record in 2018.
I remember when she was playing an older woman in Golden Girls and that was like 30
about 30 years ago. Maybe not only about 30 years ago.
All right guys my wife is complaining that I'm not spending enough time with her.
So I'm going to probably just mute my mic and go away.
Don't expect to hear from me for a while.
All right. Yeah well the lady interrupts her.
Hey Joe.
Joe has opened his mouth.
How's it going Brad?
Going on the zappel. Yeah.
Yeah. It's going good.
It's going good.
Apparently talking about Morton.
She got him in here.
Sorry Joe.
Collette I was disconnected earlier.
Well like I said I'm muting and going away for a while but I should be back.
I really love my new think center.
Yeah I've got a think center.
It's maybe not a new one but.
Well this is a refurb so it's probably five years old anyhow but.
Yeah I've got a nice refurb but it's pretty good.
The only thing I knew is that I need a DVD
mount for it and it's all proprietary.
Okay see you guys later.
See you Moss.
Yeah we summoned Morton C out of thin air.
Hey Danny.
Happy New Year buddy.
I mean the next sorry.
It's fun.
Everybody knows the gig is up.
The secret's out now.
It's my secret identity.
Yeah.
We have yeah we were we were having a great time including a gentleman from Switzerland.
Have you all watched the movie yet?
The space marine movie.
I watched it.
Yes it wasn't as good as I remembered it being the first time I watched it.
The funny thing is I think it's actually better than what I really thought.
I really started watching it and I had a little expectation at first and then
the more I watched I'm like all right this is actually pretty good.
Well I got till next week Friday to watch it right?
Yeah yeah yeah today.
I uh I didn't expect much just because I didn't really know the lore and stuff.
I thought it'd be kind of confused but it explained enough in the movie to let you know
what's you know what's going on.
Maybe not the whole warhammer lore but at least enough to see what's going on in the movie.
Yeah if we want to put a business together making miniatures or live uh uh
costume stuff for people like uh components that are actual size there's tons of money in that.
Oh and uh in the warhammer universe?
Yes they are like beyond uh cosplayers.
It's haven't seen the cosplay stuff.
I've done the miniatures.
I've never seen any of the cosplay stuff.
It's really big over in Europe you should uh so I've heard you should uh check out a
couple YouTube videos on it.
Cool.
Also uh yeah well there was somebody who was going through the warhammer 40k lore like a
podcast or YouTube or what?
YouTube channel and I guess some of that is is pretty deep weighted.
Oh yeah there's a lot of uh lore uh a lot of books and uh each each group has their own lore and
all and like just layers upon layers upon layers of story and yeah there's a lot.
Also it is deliberately disjointed.
What do you mean?
The lore has built in voids inconsistencies and just sort of black areas.
It is not designed to be a seamless history of like we would consider from normal history.
Well yeah I'm sure that's done on purpose because the whole idea of the game is you're supposed
to be kind of uh doing those battles yourself.
Well what I'm saying is it's not um like other I briefly did some tabletop
marine games it it's not one one coherent thing.
You're there's a lot of room for improvisation and for a continued correction and expansion.
There was an old uh thrash metal band bolt thrower.
They did a whole album that was uh realms of chaos.
It was all uh warhammer stories.
It was great.
Yeah if you can't find it I'll throw it on the plex.
All right I think world eaters my favorite song on that album realms of chaos.
That's the report.
Oh has anyone gotten a chance to get out and see either Spider-Man or Matrix?
See Matrix.
Yeah that's all Matrix uh one of the guys that is available digitally right?
Right that's on HBO Max.
I've been seeing it advertise it just and my co-worker said it sucks now so I don't know
if it does or not that's what he says.
What he says?
Matrix?
Yeah uh one of the guys that did a talk at uh uh
OLF is from Columbus and his company.
I think was called um our remember what it was called uh uh but they uh
rented out the gateway film center down near the convention center
and uh had uh uh free tickets for uh uh the matrix uh the night it came out in Columbus.
What did you want to do?
What did you want to do?
What did you want to do?
What did you want to do?
What did you want to do?
Um was a little worried at the beginning with all the references
back to Hollywood redoing things and making money on stuff and metadata and all that um uh
but it didn't uh it seemed like the uh it it seemed more like uh uh uh
comments back to people who hadn't seen the original trilogy
you know to say that we're redoing this um uh
kind of dissed a standard so it's a standalone movie but there was enough stuff in it
the reference back to the other movies that was uh
entertaining and funny if you'd seen the first three.
Yeah yeah and funny if you uh didn't like the first three uh
kind of sad if you did.
I have no opinions by the way.
Yeah it wasn't it wasn't great.
I didn't like necessarily dislike it but it just it wasn't great.
And like you said that that whole beginning where it kind of makes fun of it's well
but it almost like makes fun of itself.
Yeah but I thought it was a little bit weird but again I also forgot that apparently they
uh they both uh him and Trinity both died at the end of the island.
Yeah let's go back and rewatch shot.
It's funny I thought I rewatched it somewhat recently.
Well they did make reference in the movie to that that they had died but that so and so it
kept them uh had resurrected them.
Yeah Dugi Houser.
Yeah really.
I appreciate it.
Dugi Houser the main character.
I did enjoy that.
Yeah yeah that's the first thing I said to my son.
Yes he was a lot nastier in how I met your mother that probably set him up for this
wool better.
Did anybody see uh what was this Christmas movie called Ape Christmas?
What Christmas?
Ape Christmas it was about uh uh him trying to get a uh um
and a tendo as a kid?
No no.
Watch Dr. Horrible sing along.
Well I cannot watch any Christmas movies they have no relevance for me.
Anybody see Black Friday?
The Bruce Campbell movie?
No.
What was that about?
Uh the Friday sale and like uh uh uh uh uh store that he's running that looks like it's
invaded by deadites.
It looks like just uh uh evil dead side project or something.
It looks funny.
Is it S-Mart?
I don't remember.
I don't want to have to find that but it's on my clex.
I don't have to watch that.
Whatever happened to Bruce Campbell anyhow he was such an action figure when he was younger
and then the next time you see him he's
Actually all Mark instead of S-Mart.
It's all Mark instead of S-Mart.
And it's not dead-outs.
I like them in uh um um burn notice.
Burn notice was a burn notice yeah.
Love Burn notice.
And the side movie.
Burn, burn, burn.
But I had no idea that was Bruce Campbell for the longest time because he
looked so different from when he was say
Briscoe County Jr.
That was very true too.
That was pretty good too.
I still have not watched Briscoe County Jr.
But I watched Burn notice specifically because Bruce Campbell was in it.
Did you see there was a side movie?
Yeah.
Same action.
There's a same action movie.
I believe I saw that okay.
And like Bruce Campbell lost all that weight and
basically didn't look anything like he looked like during the series but
he was supposed to be 20 years younger or whatever.
Anybody watch Ashteeville Dead?
HBO series?
I know watch the episodes of it that I wasn't a big evil dead fan in the first
place so I didn't keep watching.
Loved it was so mad they canceled it after three seasons.
I watched the first two I still got to watch the third.
Watch the first season I started the second season.
They'll have it.
I still have all the episodes of Briscoe County Jr.
saved on my hard drive so that was a good show.
They never should have canceled that one.
Yep.
With Christian Clements and almost playing a normal person for a change.
Which one I see?
Did not hear what you said there.
Oh I was asking which one was Christian Clements?
Christian Clementson is the he's a little bit on the round side.
He's tall.
He's got extremely white blonde hair.
He was on Boston Legal for a long time playing Asperger's really severely Asperger type person.
He's been on a number of other shows playing different levels of Ashtee.
He was actually on what's that show with the autistic doctor, Asurgeon.
No, not House.
The kid, Freddie Hightower, as the actor's name.
Based on a Korean medical show, but I watch it all the time and I just blanked
anyhow.
He was on that as a guy who was in denial about being an Asperger.
So he usually gets Asperger rolls and on Briscoe County Jr.
He was more or less normal.
He was just playing a regular lawyer.
Well, an 1800s lawyer.
Right.
I'm probably talking about it.
Still, Julius Randall is who really made that show.
Yes, definitely.
Well, hey, I guess you're not going to have to worry about doing any editing this year, Honki.
Why is that?
For this show, should be on a new year's show.
Why wouldn't I have that in it?
Nobody's recording it.
I'm recording it.
Oh, are you?
I don't see you.
Yeah, I'm recording the stream.
I'm providing the stream because I am an icecaster.
But it's the same URL that we have for the show notes,
except for it's at port 8,000 slash.
Good Lord.
That's a good one.
Thank you, Lord.
I have it somewhere.
It should be on the HPR site.
Hold on.
Yeah, Joe was just seeing that there wasn't a mumble recording going on.
Well, there was a lot of issues earlier when Ken was trying to record directly on here.
Wasn't working.
It was just causing dropped or the audio to be extremely
phylonish.
So, yeah, I thought he was recording the stream as well.
And I know I've since I have the, I'm running the icecast server.
I'm using a client for icecast called Butt.
And it has a built-in thing that I can record.
So, I have it every, it's doing a, starting a new recording every three hours.
So, hopefully, hopefully that's working.
And wow, do we have a lot of people listening to the stream?
Trust the system.
Well, let's see, do they give me a toll number at the top?
No, so I'm going to have to see one, like 20.
Where is it being streamed to?
YouTube?
No, no, icecast.
Oh, I was just wondering where people were listening to it.
Are they actually tuning into the icecast server?
Yeah, the icecast server pops out of your URL.
And honestly, normally, if I had HTTPS set up to it,
you probably just log into it straight through a browser.
If not, it's better to pump it through like a VLC.
Oh, okay.
I tried to get my wife involved and she doesn't seem to be interested.
So, so who was it that also have a think center?
I have a couple of them.
What models?
What model?
M58 desktop.
And what is it? 83 tower.
I recently got one refurbed for free.
And I'm having problems with it.
I don't know what model it is.
Okay, I got a refurbed M700 through eBay.
And it's a joy little bitty thing.
It's supposedly a desktop, I guess.
They usually show people buying brackets
and hanging them on the back of their TVs.
Well, I need to try to get something
grabbed out of the post office before the weekend.
So, I'm going to have to break off here and clean up
and I'll catch you later.
Have a good one.
See no matter.
I may just leave the channel open.
Be safe.
Yeah, I got this little bitty think center.
It's about the size of an external DVD drive
and it's replacing a Z800 workstation.
So, that's a huge difference.
So, if anyone wants to buy a Z800 workstation,
I've got one, but the shipping is going to be enormous.
Morten, see, what's wrong with your Lenovo?
Your little thanks center.
Well, it wasn't doing anything when I booted it up.
Oh, the power light would come on.
No beat from Zelda.
Two of the installing.
You're really low.
You're really low, aren't you?
Yeah, very muffled.
How about now?
You sound good now.
Two of the three memory sticks were bad
and now I'm having problems booting
after installing to a hard drive.
And I can't get back into the BIOS.
I'm assuming I need to switch EFI,
one or off for legacy mode or something.
Well, the first thing I did since it came with Windows 10
was to install Linux to it.
And it was a bearer to do that
because they have a different BIOS
than they have on their laptops.
And I had to get together with Leo
and a couple of other people and figures it.
There's an interesting combination of things I had to do
to get it to start booting from my USB stick.
And I published it to itsmoss.com if anyone's interested.
What do I look at the show notes?
So hockey heavy tried out that funk whale yet?
Not yet.
This week it's been surprisingly hard to get
down here to work on anything.
It's pretty neat.
And it's like it's fairly professional
like when you compare it to the desktop interfaces
for how Google Play music was or Spotify.
It's very similar.
Your wishes, my command, Joe.
It pulls in all the album artwork and all that stuff.
What was my wish?
Your magic words were put a link in the show notes.
Oh, it wasn't my words.
That was mine.
But thank you all the same.
Oh, I'm sorry, it sounded like Joe, honky.
Well, actually I put a link on the mumble page
so it'll have to be transferred to the show notes.
The hardest part about funk whale
or the most time consuming is just tagging your library
correctly.
And so I didn't realize how disjointed mine was
until I brought it through a tagging program
and realized, oh my god, it's just a big mess.
Because a funk whale needs that metadata
to show your library correctly.
Right.
But I installed it through Docker.
The multi-container set up and
everything went smooth except for the proxy settings
just because my proxy situation is a little bit different.
Once I got that working, everything rolled in just nice.
And then once I get everything packed correctly and uploaded.
I've uploaded, I'm going by letters.
I've uploaded A through E so far.
And then just kind of doing a letter at a time.
Once I get everything done, I'll make it public.
Nice.
Then you can see how terrible my music case is.
Oh, and I haven't, I haven't
died into the federation part either yet.
You can see other pods, I guess they call them,
funk whale pods, follow them and stuff like that.
They could follow you.
Depending on how they have their library configured,
you can either listen to it.
If they have it made public for other pods,
for other servers, I guess.
Or if they make it, they only make it public
if you're registered on that particular server.
So it just depends how they configure theirs.
How terrible is your taste in music?
Got a house fan, are you?
There's not, I don't, there may be some house music on there.
When I stopped collecting music was maybe 10 or 11,
maybe 15 years ago.
So that's kind of where my taste end.
That's kind of where I'm at.
Yeah, and from then I just switched to YouTube.
And I didn't do what's the, I don't,
what's the big music streaming service?
Modify?
Yeah, I didn't do Spotify,
but I did, I had a Google Play Music account.
And that eventually morphed into YouTube music.
And it also gives me access to YouTube premium, I guess.
So I just went ahead and kept it.
Google Play Music going?
Yeah, just like all other Google projects,
they don't really care about.
But it has got me diving back into my old libraries
and listening to music again, which is cool.
There's a lot of stuff to forget how much I liked.
And so I've been, and the Android app is great.
For phone, the Funkwell app, it's, it's really well done.
So I use that a lot.
And you can use it to subscribe to podcasts and stuff like that too.
So it's, it's got a lot of features.
If anybody didn't know what I'm talking about,
it's Funkwell is kind of a decentralized music hosting service
that you host yourself.
Kind of like Spotify, but it's federated.
So you could communicate with other servers,
kind of like Macedon, used the activity pub protocol.
And it's just for music though.
So you upload all your music,
or you can make an account on somebody else's server
if you don't want to host your own.
And they have quotas on how much you can upload and stuff.
But if you host your own, you know,
you give yourself as much bass as you want.
I think I have, I have all my music hosted on a separate drive,
which is a 256 gigabyte SSD, I think.
So I've got plenty of space.
Anki said he'll be back later.
Probably the right.
This weekend is dedicated to PeerTube.
So I want to get that up and running.
And that's kind of the same way.
It's a federated hosting service, but for video.
And it also, if your network needs it,
you can, it gives you a peer-to-peer streaming capabilities
to relieve some of the stress on your network.
So I'm currently installing that.
I have to get that configured.
But yeah, if you want to decentralize
kind of your media life on Quile and PeerTube,
but both good ways to do it.
PeerTube is cool.
I could, what I plan on doing is just hosting videos
of my different electronics projects and build projects
and stuff like that and posting those to my PeerTube server.
And it has live streaming stuff like that,
kind of like OBS and other services.
But it's mainly meant it's like a YouTube alternative.
But you know, it's decentralized.
So it's just dependent on the users.
There's no central authority.
So you get to take the kind of the good with the bad.
You know, there's going to be some pretty nefarious stuff
on the PeerTube network.
But that's just the way it goes.
You guys saying earlier that Betty White died?
Yeah, that's what Moss was saying.
I believe in the Bible.
That's one of the signs of the coming of the apocalypse.
Right, she's older than sliced bread.
Yeah, that's kind of, I mean, even as old as she is,
still like, it's one of those kind of running jokes
is to show out last everybody.
Weeks before her 100th birthday.
2021 claims another one.
Oh, yeah, she's, she's, she's get awaited.
It's one more day.
You know, she would have made it to 2022.
Guess that's not how it works.
I, I got on Fleab's blog with the last post that I found on there
was him describing, you know, getting ready for his trip.
His road trip gets to be living on the road for a while.
So, Fleab, if you're listening to this,
you need to update your blog.
So we know how your adventure is going.
Joe, anything you've been working on?
I mean, patient, really?
Any 3D printing?
I need to get up the 3D printer up and running.
I was able to pick up some filament on one of the give and take sites.
So I have a bunch more filament that I got for free.
All ABS.
So I'm going to need an enclosure for that.
Then I have a huge amount of PETG sitting there waiting to be used.
And I think two and a half schools of PLA still.
I've got plenty of printing that I can do.
But I don't know what I want to 3D print next.
I've been watching videos of those those build it yourself.
Those CoreXY printers, like the Voron and those things are pretty impressive.
Yeah, it looks like a lot of work.
A lot of work.
But I think if I were to get another 3D printer,
it would be something similar to that,
just because the trade-off for the work is quite pretty good.
I mean, considering the speed and stuff like that,
I like how they can handle really fast prints.
I imagine I would learn a lot during the building process too.
I have a volcano and a heater block and a V6 hot in my desk right now waiting to be installed.
The volcano is pretty cool.
The heater block, it comes with a bunch of different nozzles.
The biggest one is 1.2 millimeters.
That's pretty big.
Yeah, I think the biggest one.
I might have some one.
I think most of the large ones that I have are like 0.8,
but I haven't even switched away from what is it 0.4?
Yeah, 0.4 is usually the fault.
I'll probably end up putting on the 0.8 nozzle.
I won't be going too crazy.
But even that is when you go up double the size like that,
that's actually a quadruple of the surface area coming out of the nozzle.
Brow out a lot of extra heat.
Yeah, definitely.
Bring your speed down just a little bit.
But that's why I got that new heater block,
that volcano heater block to handle the bigger nozzle.
Because now with the default, just the end or three setup I have,
just pushing PETG E through there,
I'll get some skipping sometimes even when I've got it at like
2.45 for the nozzle temperature.
So I imagine this will help.
Is anybody excited for CES this year?
Not as much as I used to be.
I'm not saying the kind of coverage from like, you know,
podcasters and tech podcasters at CES like I used to.
Maybe I'm not looking forward as much,
but I'm not seeing like really good coverage of it by people that I like.
Maybe you're just not as dull then as used to be, you know.
Maybe I'm good old.
Yeah, my interests have kind of shifted from like consumer gadgets to like
more like components that you can use in your own builds and stuff like that.
Like that, like some of the single board computers I'm really interested in there coming out
soon and stuff like that.
But they're not going to really be a big CES staple.
Same thing with like gaming consoles and I'm kind of stuck in the past where it comes to that.
Compute even computer games, you know,
I tend to play stuff that's already been out for a long time.
I got it even.
I didn't even look at the steam and the winter sale holiday so.
Yeah, I haven't either.
I have a couple of games that I think I have marked the send me an email
if they go on sale and I know that I'm waiting on.
I ain't eating as Wonderland, but that'll be a couple of months from now.
I think where that comes out.
Yeah, I haven't even been playing Wonderland all that much lately.
Oh, since I'm talking about games, what I have been playing though is that
that new Android PS2 emulator, AtherSX2,
I haven't really impressed with the performance from that thing.
What games are you playing on it?
Right now, right now I'm playing that X-Files game
that came in on PS2 just because I'm a big X-Files fan.
It's actually pretty decent.
It's got a lot of the, you know, it has the Dekavni
and a Jillian Anderson or the voice actors on there and a lot of references to the shows
and you're figuring out mysteries and you gotta kill zombies and things like that,
but it's actually compared to most games officially licensed games.
It's actually really good, especially if you're in the X-Files.
So I've been playing that and I've got some ARKGs on there too.
I might delve into later, but just for, you know, if you ever played the desktop PS2 emulator,
PCSX2, it's based on that code, so you have a lot of the same options and stuff
that you would have in that emulator.
So, yeah, it probably looks very similar to RetroArch then.
Yeah, so I recommend it.
Now, the only bad thing is he's only distributing it on the Play Store.
He doesn't have like somewhere, you know, he has a GitHub,
but it doesn't have a code on there, just like Docs and stuff, but
so, and you can only get it from the Play Store if you have,
if he, I guess if he's decided your processor is beefy enough to handle it, so,
but I've been impressed, so, and I use a little Bluetooth controller with it and it works great
with a controller.
And you're doing that from your phone, so which phone are you using?
I'm using the Galaxy S20.
So, yeah, that should be beefy enough.
Yeah, I tried to push up the, what is that called when you, when you double or triple the
resolution. I tried to push that up, you know, past three or four and it's,
it's some big time slowdown, so I keep it on one or two.
Okay.
But you have, you have the note 10, right?
Yeah, the note 10 plus.
Yeah, yeah, that should be good enough too.
Good being.
Hopefully.
If not, I'll have to, you know,
an emulator on my pie.
Are you, I think pie?
I think pie?
Your pie phone too, you could just install it natively in a native emulator.
Yeah, maybe.
Not sure what the performance would be like.
Probably pretty bad and a lot.
But, um, no, I think most of the games that I like playing are even older than PS2, so,
I think what, um, GTA Vice City came out on the PS1 and then, um,
armored core masters of arena came out on PS1.
So I definitely shouldn't have any problems emulating those.
Yeah, the, the PS2, I think, was the last console I actually bought.
Or it might have been the GameCube.
It was around that same era, but that was the last time I was into consoles.
But that was like various handhelds and stuff.
Yeah, well, emulation is still great on the PSP, so.
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
Yeah, I have a lot of, uh, nostalgia for that era.
Plus everything before it too.
I have a bunch of PSP still that I repaired.
Yeah, so have you been putting those on eBay or what?
Well, I had them on Facebook Marketplace and I kind of got tired of dealing
with people on Facebook Marketplace.
I need to put them up again, but I tell you, you know,
bring me a load of wood by and I'll hand one to you.
Modded and ready to go.
Like 16,000 games.
For people wondering about that, he means firewood.
Yeah, you pervert.
Other than that, I've been working on much,
you know, I got those grill lights built.
Ready to go.
I ordered some more of those cob chips and, and then, uh,
besides working on Funkwell and PeerCube and, and I have that new computer
that I got from Macedon that somebody gave away.
Not far from me.
I picked that up.
The i3 computer.
I haven't figured out what to do with that yet.
I do have a couple of projects in the pipe.
I'm, I have a PS3 in front of me that needs the, um,
DVD, DVD, drive, the disk drive, uh,
taken apart and, and fixed so that it actually pulls discs in and, and back out.
And then, um, I need to check the model number and see if it's,
if it's modable, so it can work as an emulation station,
but a lot of them aren't, so probably not, but I'll definitely get that fixed.
And then I have a Xbox 360 that I need to order a disk drive for, um,
and, and replace.
And then I'll have a whole bunch of working Xbox 360s just sitting around.
And yeah, um, I have one pair of hash threes that needs, um,
a new battery and then two pairs of hash threes that need,
probably a full cable replacement across the band.
I, I just fixed some, um, LG tones, uh, true wireless earbuds,
fixed a pair of those, and nothing exciting on that, um,
basically the glue came apart on them, and so I glued them back together.
Oh, I know. I was going to ask you about that, uh,
that open razor software. Have you used it? Have you tried that yet?
Yeah, I did. I did, uh, set up the open razor software, but, um,
it did not work for the razor nari ultimate, uh, I got a little bit up.
Yeah, it's working. I just don't have any other, um,
razor devices that it would work for.
Yeah, I don't, the only razor device I have is that razor kishi,
the phone controller, but, uh, so I can't really test it on anything.
I think if I dig through my stuff, I have one of those, um,
one of the USB sound cards that's supposed to provide, um,
what 7.1 audio for certain other razor cracking headsets.
I'll check that out and see if it is in the list, but I have to find it first.
Oh, one thing I found out, uh, recently is that clonzilla, uh,
the cloning software has built an SSH support,
which was really cool because you can just, uh,
boot to a clonzilla USB and then you can clone your drive via SSH.
So you don't need a monitor or anything like that and clone it over the network.
So I did that a couple of times on my, um, uh,
the rock 64s, I think they are because, uh,
those are in cases that you have to actually disassemble the case to get the SD card out.
And I didn't want to do that.
So I tried booting into clonzilla and it worked and I could SSH and then
LSBLK and find the drive and, and just clone it via SSH over the network.
It's pretty cool.
Been doing some, uh, server backup maintenance lately.
Radio Shack is rebranding as a cryptocurrency exchange platform?
No way.
Yeah, really?
Yeah.
Why?
Just die already.
Because it's a hundred and however many years old and they want to keep it going.
They should, they should transform into like, uh,
a parts warehouse, like, uh, deal extreme or something like that.
But they have, you know, a local shipping instead of shipping from China.
That would be what I would like.
You know, well, I, I always liked Radio Shack.
But, you know, there aren't enough tinkerers out there, I guess, to keep them in business.
I mean, that's, that's a niche that they could fill though, you know, for sure.
Yeah, yeah, I, I agree.
I don't, I don't agree with Joe.
I think that, that is a niche that needs filled and could be if they would push it that direction.
I mean, even considering, I mean, I get what Joe's saying about not a lot of tinkerers out there,
but there are enough to at least sustain a business as an online business.
So I would agree with that.
But not the, they could do.
The reason I always liked the Radio Shack in the past.
They could do that to pause in areas, you know.
Yeah, the reason I liked Radio Shack in the past was it was a place that I could physically walk
into and, and, you know, buy the things that I needed.
If I needed a resistor at, you know, right now, I could walk in there and pick up any resistor
that I needed.
So yeah, I think the maker movement is big enough to where they, they could come back and do that,
you know, and they, it'd be sustainable.
Now I would, would it be attractive to like, um, investors, you know, public investors, maybe not,
but I mean, they could, they could sustain their business like that.
Look at, I mean, whenever time I go to Micro Center there, they're kind of DIY, obvious,
you know, section is, is got full of people, you know, looking for components and stuff like that.
Yeah, I haven't been a, uh, Radio Shack fan ever since they got into cell phones and all that
stuff way back in the day.
Well, most of your electronic stores, once they start getting into that whole
chain selling of, um, you know, cell phones and have a wide selection of DVDs,
then it's time to start looking for another store because they're about to go out of business.
Yeah, I mean, there are already so many stores to do that, you know, from your best buys and stuff
like that, but you don't need any more of those and, and people are more than likely going to go
to a bigger store like that to get a mobile phone or to the carrier store, rather than Radio Shack
in their first place. Yeah. It's just stupid decisions all the way around.
Well, once they start doing that type of thing, it's because they're trying to make deals
with big businesses in order to keep their business alive.
Well, they're not alive anymore. Right.
Or just barely look what happened to like comp USA or fries or or well, okay,
I didn't see what happened to Fry's. Fry's just closed one day like to have empty shelves and
then they were closed. But Fry's was never into the heavily into the DIY sector anyway.
They had a lot of components. Right. It wasn't like, I mean, I worked there when they first opened
up and they had one little wall with like electronic components like resistors and stuff.
And then the rest was like modems and, you know, graphics cards and things like that. But they
didn't, they weren't really that kind of niche either. But they, I think they mainly suffered from
just poor management and poor inventory management and like, towards the later years when I would
go in there, there would just be crap thrown everywhere and there's shelves would be hot of
wet. Yeah. And then the staff was worse than useless. Yeah, when I first got to Texas in,
was it 2016? It was, Fry's was nice. And then it just slid downhill. And it was better for me
to go to my cross-center. But no, like, was it comp USA and what was that other one?
Tiger Direct had stores for a while. Yeah, it wasn't the one. Well, Tiger Direct kind of bought
up comp USA and then comp USA did the whole cell phones DVDs. I'm out of business. You got some good
deals towards in there though, didn't you? Oh, yeah. I did. I did. I got like, what was it?
Eight different power supplies, like high end power supplies from their bargain bin for a dollar
piece. And they all work. They were just store returns. And like, somebody had kept a bracket out
of it or something. A bunch of thousand watt and 850 watt power supplies. I still had the powers
of flight test or somewhere around here. Those would make good bench power supplies. Yeah, I
went through them. I sold a bunch of them either separately or in systems that I had built for
people. I don't think I have any left other than the one that's currently in my machine.
I've always looked at those build guides for building a bench power supply with the PSUs and
they look interesting. The only thing is that I've always wanted to have a good power supply.
It's an old one, an old HP power supply. But it's heavy and it's bulky and it's pain the butt to use.
But it works good, but I've always wanted one with a scope and a silver scope.
And those are pretty pricey. I've seen people use this little scope on YouTube and all that,
but I really don't have any idea. Yeah, I would like to have one that they had the
power supplies with the scope built in. And those are really cool. They're also pricey though.
Yeah, Ben Heck uses one all the time. All right, I'm going to eat some lunch and
chop off for a while. Let me come back to eat it. I got some leftover, not ravioli, but like
tortellini. That's pretty good. That's good. Good stuff. And it got us like a Greek salad.
So we're now to eat the other night. That's why I'll be eating. So anyway, happy New Year's
guys. If I don't touch you again, I'll see you next year on Friday. Yep. All right, Dr. Later.
Anybody else still on? I'm still on. Hey, Mordancy. I'm here evidently the town is going to have
the house inspected. That sucks. All right, I hear that. Well, I know what their goal is, and I'll
just have to fight the best rear guard action I can't. I believe their goal is to see me on the street
so that their developer can pick up the property. We're a very low price. Yeah, a low low price of one
net miner. Well, if it gives them a gold start to take back the money, they don't particularly care.
I'm going to have my lawyer handle contacts to the town, but I may have to bail out and see what
I can do to handle some stuff. Though coming back to this is probably going to be as healthy as
anything that I'm going to be able to do. Hope to talk to you guys later.
So Mordancy, what's going on in your neck of the woods? You got any projects going on?
I stepped away for a minute. I heard you. I'm working on trying to get that think center,
or think station, or whatever it is, the desktop working. I need to back up stuff and migrate
my podcast to my new phone before the old one dies again. What's happening to the old phone?
It's five years, six years old. The USB charging board has been replaced twice, so is the battery.
The SD card. The SD card in it is just as old, and it has 256 gigs of podcasts, and it's the only,
there's no backup, there's nothing I need to, I need a new podcast solution. Workflow.
Hey, y'all. Hello. Is my audio all right? Yes, it's actually really good.
I am hailing from snow covered Seattle, although I'm actually about to take off for just a second,
I'll be right back. I'm also working part time on the two proxmox servers I have,
ones in the cloud, which you're not supposed to do. The other one is on the mini AMD A6 1450,
one of the little minis that I have. I'm trying to get the Docker up and running and the certificates
to start doing all the projects like Minnex with the Whale Tale and PeerTube and Jitsy and Matrix,
and see how much stuff I can run on a minimal amount of virtualization.
Then for my website, I'm trying to get my getflow working using Bitbucket. I'm trying to push,
I'm doing something wrong, but I'm pushing stuff up to my Bitbucket source, and then my virtual
hosting has a feature that links into the get and will pull updates, but then I'm having
problems setting up the hooks correctly so it deploys it. So it's one of those situations where
I'm not getting it myself, and it's either going to take me six months or two hours of mentorship
with somebody who knows what they're doing. What sounds like you got a lot of fun playing?
Well, with the website, I tried that with RobertNeil.com for my resume site to get it
continuous deployment. I need to throw in tests somewhere to test and use the results of the test
to merge to the master and then redeploy, but that was always something I wanted to do and
could never get it working. I don't know, maybe eight years now that it's just been one of those
don't have time to work through all the, what am I doing wrong? What's the right way to do it?
My FX tech pro, the Linux phone with the keyboard should be here sometime this month.
Cool. I can't wait. Have you been watching cryptocurrency lately?
I've been watching it. What do you call that? Jump rope?
What's December? Yeah. The crashing always happens in December. I'm really hoping for a lovely bounce
come not like first thing tomorrow or anything, but first quarter. Yeah, I anticipate it.
I had discussions with people at work over the last five years telling them it's true values,
not been met once. It's, I don't know, about a 15% saturation use globally. A Bitcoin will probably
be worth one, one to a hundred million dollars in my, in my opinion, in my uneducated opinion.
Yeah, somewhere between one dollar and a hundred million dollars. Yes, that makes perfect.
Makes perfect. Oh no, I'm at one million versus a hundred million.
I was trying to have a conversation with my stepmother about cryptocurrency and she just
could not understand the concept of something or a currency that didn't have some kind of
backing to it in the way that, you know, fiat currency is supposed to. And it's like even fiat
currency is given value based on people's perception of what gold and silver is worth even though
there's probably no actual backing of it now anyway. Yeah, now it's like GDB usually. But the whole
thing started with the Silk Road and Genghis Khan and Genghis Khan replacing gold and silver with
paper, paper notes. So money is just a perception of value. I would argue that cryptocurrency has more
value because it's, especially if it's decentralized because it just goes where, who has the value,
the value rests here. Right. And you know, I tried to explain to her the fact that it's us that
gives value to everything and how much we're willing to pay for it. And as long as there's
somebody willing to pay for it, it has value. And then she's like, what does it attract by anything?
So it can't have any value. And it's like you really think that your dollar is actually back.
And most of the US dollar these days is digital anyway. So how's it any different?
Yeah. And what was the value behind seashells and salt? Back the value that people were willing to
give it. To give it. Yeah. Yeah. I'm nothing beyond that. But yeah, it was a few child conversation
for probably an hour of me trying to make a little different analogy so that she could wrap her
head around cryptocurrency. There wasn't working. There was a video, if you remember correctly,
about explaining cryptocurrency like a kindergartner. And it made a perfect sense to everybody.
I showed it to you. You know what I think it's funny is all the reactions to the IRS saying,
oh, everyone's saying it's real money. So we're going to tax it now. I mean, it's very much like
people want their cake and eat it too. Like, yeah, I completely it should be taxed. My
major problem with it is how they're going about it and treating it like trying to treat it like
capital gains. But you know, you have this group of day traders out there that are moving this
around date. How are they really supposed to keep track of the multitude of transactions that they
make in the way that the government wants in order to provide to provide them with the tax numbers?
It's absolutely insane to try and do it that way. I mean, people do that with stocks literally
all the time. You just have to build your systems to properly log things. Yeah, maybe. I mean,
if you want to treat it like money, then treat it like money. You know, don't do this half-ass thing
where it's like, oh, we want it to be treated like money. But then we don't actually want to like
have the consequences of it being treated like money. Well, they don't want it to be tracked
as the whole thing. And so if it's not being tracked, then they don't have to pay taxes on it,
which is stupid. It's trackable. But I mean, Bitcoin is trackable by design. You can see the entire
history of every Bitcoin. You'd see every transaction. Like, if you don't want to be tracked,
use cash. Well, there are other ways with cryptocurrency, not necessarily Bitcoin, but with cryptocurrency
itself, to not be tracked. Don't have to attach your identity to the money that you're playing with,
unless you're on specific exchanges. Yeah, well, if you think the feds can't track that down,
I got a bridge to sell you. Well, that was the whole point of the Silk Road and the scandal that
was going on around that. They were using cryptocurrency in order to do less traceable transactions.
Are there still ways to eventually track it down? Yeah, but you can still do transactions that
aren't attached to yourself. I mean, my early eyes, my biggest interest in blockchain is keeping
it clear, fuck what's the word I'm looking for. Keeping track of the origins of an item or what
the story of an item like it a museum, people want to know the, fuck, what's that word?
Unbelievable token? No, the idea is you have your ledger and let me let me Google word,
I'm brain-forwarding. We're right back in the shot. Hey, Joe. Happy New Year. Yeah, same to you, man.
Happy New Year from Indian Times on everyone. New Year started in US as well. No, it's like 3 p.m.
here. I'm still at work. Okay, Joe, you know what happened? A flight from Taipei to Vancouver,
went bankrupt times. A flight from Taipei, which took off on Jan 1, 2022, will arrive at Vancouver
on December 31. This came in the new because it crosses the international date. Right, right. So it
goes back in time. Yeah. Yeah, so basically a back to the future reference kind of thing was made
out of it. So this will be until what time today? Uh, like 5 a.m. tomorrow. So another 14 hours or so.
Okay, Mike. Okay, Mike. So how was your year? It's your in Linux. It was fun. Yes, finally, I also moved
completely away from window and settle on something. So next week, would you settle on? Fedora 35.
I do like Fedora. Since I'm like planning to contribute for them, so maybe that's one.
Bare metal machine is always the best. I guess for testing.
New Delhi, the capital, whatever to you, model. I'm in pile in the Midwest in the US. Sweet. My
dream country to come and settle in once I get the handle, hand over tech, like satisfying something.
Yeah, I don't know if you want to come here. I want to. I want to move to the US.
Well, get your degree or whatever, or if you don't have it already, I don't know if you do or not.
I'm a graduate. Okay, then apply at Bank of America. And then eventually, you can just
put in through them to come anywhere that we have places in the US, which is New York, Texas,
California. Heck, if you really want to go to Canada. Well, I know that Bank of America does have
a bunch of people in India and working as Linux assistants, so that actually would be a good foot
in the door. Even in support, similar to what you're doing now, Nishan, you could get on as support
for any of the batches that we do. And then, yeah, we have support to be in Texas in a couple of
years. Yeah, I look into that. Eventually, once I complete the LPIC on certification April 2022,
maybe after April. I need to work on my level two, which LPIC level two. Yeah, I thought for sure,
I was going to fail when I took a LPIC 101 and 102 together. I think the Southeast Linux best
years ago. And one person completed a single test before me and I immediately completed my second one.
And I was positive. I failed. I was like, there's no way I passed it. But I did pass both of them.
But what I'm looking at, it seems to be just like simple commands, which you need to remember
and different iterations. Do you have your certification? Sorry. Your ITL certification ITL? Yes,
I have ITL before. Good. Good. You have a degree and ITL certification and a little bit of job
history. You should be able to enjoy and support that you want. Also, I have ISO 9001-2008
audited certification. Is that helps? Well, Joe, you're working on a museum. Well, like I said,
it's only 3 p.m. But yeah, technically, the holiday is one day. Okay. But for my client, it's
today. Like, it was Friday. So they were no one declined on site. Yeah, there's not a lot of people
actually working today. There's about enough people to keep the batches limping along and that's it.
I am one of those people that's not working today. I don't work for Boofo, but yeah,
right now, I'm trying to get my contacts to integrate with my laptop. Because then I could
have a nice actual push to talk for doing this. Okay. So which bistro are you running for?
Contact. So I have active shooting headset for like, you know, going down into the ground range.
It's active hearing protection, but it also integrates with, it's up to integrate with your
calms. And I want to hook that up to my laptop because it's actually a really nice headset with
push-talk and all that stuff. And then they would make doing this easier. Is it Bluetooth?
No, it's a hardwired NATO. Oh, is it an army thing? The one with the wet, right or not?
It's literally the same thing that SWAT wears. Because usually I see them using those
in here, what do you call a microphone? So earphones, those like army people these days,
to reduce the weight and everything. Oh, I'm sorry. How does it hook up?
It's hardwired. It's analog. There's no 3.5 millimeter or USB.
None of those. It's NATO. NATO? Yeah. For it's literally military calms gear. I'm trying to
hook it up to my laptop so I can use it for doing podcasting and such like or for conference calls.
With NATO has a standard for its equipment. That's pretty cool. Now I got to know. Sweet.
Trying to look up a picture for the connector. Oh, pirate, what laptop hardware are you running in?
It's not, it's not the laptop side. It's the headset. If you want to look it up, it's
Pelt 3-M Peltware Comtac 6-C-O-M-T-A-C. Oh, that's a nice looking headset.
Yeah, Peltware come. Oh, it looks like the headset which you wear at a gun range.
If I'm not mistaken, what I can see. Yes, you can in fact wear them to the gun range.
But they also integrate with your gear when you're out in the field.
Sweet, are you army guy by any chance? I am not. Oh, okay.
Well, the picture I'm seeing shows what looks to be a 3.5 millimeter jack. Four pole.
It's more like a quarter inch four pole, but it's not quite. It's a military standard.
It's not a civilian standard. Okay, it's a TP120 socket. Yeah.
And then they do make $42 adapters, 3.5 millimeter jack.
Yeah, I actually tried one and I didn't work, so I'm trying to figure out how to rewire it,
so it does work. That could be fun. Are you taking it all the way apart and then using a
multi meter with incontinuity mode to check and see where the leads go?
Got my fluke right here. Awesome. It's a fluke 107, not the ultra high dollar one, but it does the job.
So I always say that I could buy the cheap cheap multimeters, but like when I'm underneath a house
or something, I just want it to work. I don't want to have to crawl back out on the house to get
it replaced me just because I bought a cheap one, you know, not that I wire houses anymore, but,
you know, I still buy the cheap ones because I'm a cheap bastard. Now, I like using my razor,
nori ultimate on here. So that way I could just have a mute button right on the headset,
reach up and click it. Yeah, I have a keyboard push-talk now, but I get this headset working,
like I've got, you know, a little shoulder mounted just clips onto your shirt or wherever
at your shoulder and I just clip that. Yeah, that could work for you. So Joe, what has been the
okay with these two lists? Oh, Linux, Nick guy. I haven't done a whole lot of testing of other
operating systems recently, but, you know, Garuda is definitely on the list, and I know our next
episode of a nit cast is going to be our alternate distros if our main distro goes away and what
we're supposed to come up with like five and they're not supposed to be derivative, but that's going
to get difficult for me to pick five that are non-derivative. So I don't know. For me, for
choice is Fedora. Right. And if it disappears, then I'll go back to the Ubuntu. Well, mine's going to
be mint. This is really difficult. Yeah, how do you pick five? It's going to be mint and then fedora
and then Garuda. And then Joe, I can vouch for Garuda. It has been amazing on battery life as well.
Like it gives me up to six hours on a single charge. That's gone hard off in arch. Yeah, and then
it probably MX has a poor fourth place. It's difficult because if we list Ubuntu and Debian,
if Ubuntu disappears, then Debian, you can't choose. I would assume that's what they're saying,
but it makes sense that if mint disappeared, if I wanted to go to Ubuntu, then I could,
then if Ubuntu disappeared, and I want to go to Debian, I could. I think we should ask Norbert
about the clarification. It's still confusing. We'll ask him tomorrow. Oh, actually, I'm traveling.
It's today for me and I'm traveling. I try to join in.
Well, Flora is my daily driver, but when I used to use CentOS 8 for like servering things,
like if I needed, you know, like my database or shit like that, but that went away here recently,
or it's going away. And yeah, I've switched over to free BSD for my server OS. How do you like
on free BSD? It does the job. It doesn't complain about shit. It just goes. Yeah. I mean, even kicking
around, I've even put it on a desktop and been playing around with it on the desktop. Okay,
pilot. You're just using the, you know, ancestor of Linux and it's really good to hear somebody
using Unix, even though Unix is outdated almost these years. Well, you can't really call BSD
outdated because there's still ongoing development for BSD. It just forked at a different point
than Linux did. And there are adapters that are built to make it so that Linux applications run
on BSD. I'm just not sure how well they work. I didn't know this. I mean, I thought Unix was like
relegated to the bottom after Linux. A lot of times with BSD, like it will run the same
desktop environments as Linux. Okay, so the major difference will be package manager and all that
stuff. I'm not really the one to ask on that. Okay, so Pirate, how's the free BSD experience so far?
Sorry, I tangled up in wires there. What was the question? How's the free BSD experience so far?
I mean, like I said, it's nice and stable. Like everything I want in this server OS for
database host or something like that, you know, just install Postgres and go.
What desktop environment are you using? I use Qtile, which is a tiling window manager written
in Python. So Qtile is there for Linux, also, I believe. So, okay, you can run it on a free BSD too.
But I was playing around with the free BSD desktop. I was running DWM. Yes, so Joe was right,
Unix can run all the Linux desktop on, most like DWM, for example. We were just discussing it
today. I mean, right now. Yeah, I got to stick with my obscure tiling window managers.
No, tiling window managers are fun. I used IE3WM and I would like this. It's supposed to suit my workflow
rather than norm or XFCE, for example. But I'm too scared to make even small changes to it
in the config, because I may break something. As far as BSD's running Linux, I know at least some
of them, I think nomad BSD may be one that uses Linux versions of Chrome and Firefox to provide
the DRM to give BSD access to DRM stuff that they don't support natively, like your Netflix or
what have you. I believe it was nomad BSD, which is an external drive BSD. It's designed to be
run as a live system on some kind of media, not as a traditional install. So that can become
my backup. Or I think nomad BSD. Yes, you'll have to look into it. But it certainly will be able to
or should reasonably be able to access your other BSD systems depending on what file system and what
not. I'm not very experienced in the BSD world, but I wanted to provide what help I could.
So let me know what is your basic system set up right now?
My systems are set up under Linux Mint, or a similar Bluetooth system, XFCE,
multiple screens, and at least one SSD for boot. A couple of my machines are dual SSDs so that I
have a boot and a fast drive for virtual systems. That's about all. I don't really have anything
traditional at the moment. Okay. I am on Fedora running on AMD Ryzen 5 550 dual laptop,
8GB of RAM and 512GB of SSD. All right. So I have reached the conclusion that I'm going to
need to do some analog circuitry to make this work. Yeah, that would be my guess. I mean,
impotent smashing and things like that. Oh, okay. Yeah. But that's no problem for me because I like
that shit. Well, you're a damn something. I don't know anything about Fedora or the RPM
distros. I've been strictly on a dev-based environment since I jumped from Windows 7.
Oh, that's fine. That's fine. Since I am like going to start to contribute to Fedora,
so I'm running Fedora. Nothing else. Like on bare metal testing is always good on bare metal
machines rather than using VMs. If you want to get into testing Fedora, Adam Williamson,
the Fedora QA team is pretty cool. Oh, yeah. I'll talk to the QA team once I come back from a
trip. It's a long trip. So safe travels madame and you'd be welcome in our podcast, the Linux
Logcast, which it originates on the same server on a different channel. Oh, okay. Yeah. I'm already
on a podcast, but I would take this opportunity to join. Thank you for the invite,
Holy shit. So I'm breaking news from Seattle. A local police assistant police chief for
Kent Washington, which is fired because he was putting Nazi symbols all over the place.
I've got fired then. No comments on this. With the police chief got fired because of that.
Assistant police chief for Kent Washington. Oh, I never knew they took such things. So,
I mean, I didn't understand why. Sorry, I would not comment on this. Also, that's the kind of thing
that he'll be lucky to get a job back in grocery somewhere. Pretty much.
Joe, is that the German symbol still illegal in the US or something like that from what I know?
No, it's not, but there's a very, there's a very strong cancel culture type of thing in the US.
Now, when it comes to Nazis and communism or anything like that, that's still very,
what's the words I'm looking for? Round on. Round on. Round upon. It's triggering. Yeah. So,
if you have someone like a police chief that is putting up Nazi propaganda, it's automatically
associated with that said police chief also being a bigot and a racist. And you don't want
bigot and racist in positions of power. I mean, to be fair, the two off you going power into
together, you know, I mean, people who are putting up Nazi symbols are probably actually bigot in
races too. Yes. To be clear, it's just a two-week system. He's just suspended for two weeks.
That's, that's so that they can build the canon that they're going to shoot him out of. Yeah,
even if he wasn't fired, he would be because of public opinion. But honestly, he shouldn't hold
that position if he's a bigot or a racist. There's too much inequality when it comes to law
enforcement as it is. The problem is there, I mean, you know, the saying isn't a few bad apples are
fine. If the saying is a few bad apples spoil the bunch, you know, if the assistant chief thinks
he can get away with that, then that means the entire fucking system's run. Same happens in
India by it. Then I bet. Yeah, I think the only place you're not going to find it is on the
backside of Ramoon until we land there. True. So Joe, for Mintcast, we do guys be gathering
at one time, same time, 1 a.m. Well, tomorrow it'll be 2 p.m. for me. Oh, it's 1.30 for me,
approximately 12.31. I'll be middle of nowhere at that time. Yeah, I was trying to do podcasting
from middle of nowhere all last week. Yes, madam. It will be a much prettier piece of nowhere.
The shot to do when you're there. The shot to do. I'm a dude.
Pardon me. Yeah, no problem. Everyone thinks that, including my clients at work. Thank you, Joe.
Well, your gentle person clearly and well-spoken regardless of gender.
All right. Thank you very much, madam. It's truly been my pleasure, ma'am. Oh, sir.
Same. So how many of you earlier, Mintcast, except Joe and Ma'am and Ma'am?
I used to be pretty active in the podcast community, but just got busy doing other things.
I am hosting it. I am also now a host on Mintcast with Joe and everyone else.
That minor is Anne Mordancy and Honki and myself are all on the Linux lugcast.
Oh, okay. What time is it? What time lugcast is it? It's on the server Fridays,
first and third Friday of every month at 8.30 pm central standard time.
Okay. I would have to check because I hope it doesn't clash with my work. I'll check in.
If you're working U.S. time, then it shouldn't interfere.
Because I have nightship like 8.30 pm ISD to 9.30 pm GMT 5.5 to 6.30 pm.
Too much conversion. Let me check. What should I keep as a base time zone for this?
Yeah, but you're talking to me central standard time. No, I'm talking about lugcast.
Yeah, central standard time 8.30 pm. Honki is usually running it and he is in eastern.
So for him, it would be 9.30. 11 am ET to 6 pm. 8 pm ET.
AJ Ruler. How's it going?
Hey, I got it working.
Oh, did you? What'd you have to do?
I had to run the signal through some op amps.
That's like fun.
So right now it's tied to a breadboard, but you know, now that I've got it figured out.
And then the other next part is I got to get the mic working, which is also going to
require some analog circuitry. But once I get all that sorted, then I can,
I might make up a little PC board or have a PC board made. I don't make them myself
and solder it up. So it's a pillow enclosure, you know, so it looks nice and neat and professional and
shit. Well, breadboard 3D printer.
Breadboards and PC boards sound fun.
I actually did not own a 3D printer somehow.
Do not excessively cheap or anything. So I can understand that owning one.
Well, until July, I was in a 200 square foot apartment.
I basically had my bed in a server rack and I had no more space.
Well, at least you were warm. The server rack will keep you warm.
Yeah, not warms up in white noise.
Oh, I replaced all the fans. So that part wasn't so much a thing.
Actually, a lot of my gear is fanless. It's not that it's arm. It's, it's, uh,
these little HP thin clients. If you watch on eBay, they show up for like 35 bucks every once in a
while. You buy one and you can put like 32 gigs of RAM in it and have her big and hard drive
you want. So it's, it's about the same price and performance as a Raspberry Pi.
But it's already in a case and you can actually upgrade the RAM and the hard drive.
Yeah, but it's going to be a lot harder to continue getting Raspberry Pi's and the prices
are going to start going up because of the chip shortage.
Now, that's the other nice thing about old hardware is, uh, it's already there.
It's the chip shortage doesn't affect it.
Yeah, but it does increase the value of it as, you know, the new stuff gets harder to find
and more expensive and more people want the older stuff like with the car market right now.
Did any of y'all ever do any kind of data science?
I did little bit like I coded Python to display the graph using data little bit, not much.
Just to learn how it works, uh, which Amiga J. Rulo.
Oh, that's old. Okay, everyone, I think I'll go and sleep.
I have, uh, I have to travel in nine hours now.
Well, uh, good travels and happy new year.
Yep.
Happy new year and it happens to be my birthday today as well.
Happy birthday.
Oh, and happy birthday, yeah.
Thank you.
Okay, Joe, I think I'll see you later, maybe.
Yeah, either tomorrow or next week,
December.
Okay.
Talk to you on Discord.
See you catch.
Uh, see you guys on that cast if possible.
Okay.
Uh, have a nice new year to you, everyone.
Uh, how do I disconnect this again?
Hit the X in the corner.
Wait, are you on your phone?
I'm on my Linux box, the Linux laptop.
Just close Wumble.
Okay.
Yeah, I uh, I've been doing a lot of analog electronics lately.
Uh, well, I love working on headsets.
I don't know if you listen to any of my shows, but yeah,
I know people I talk about working on different headphones so much.
Well, uh, what I really like to do is, uh, see if I,
I wish I could replace the sound profile they have for these things,
because it's kind of meant for, um, you know, on, or, uh,
a rural environment, and I'm in an urban environment.
And sometimes that, uh, it fucks with the algorithm of it on,
of the onboard a signal process.
There's a little bit.
Yeah, it's a little deeper into the software than I want to go.
Oh, I'm also kind of hesitant to, uh, crack these things open,
because a, they're expensive and being.
I don't want to, uh, if I crack them open,
and then I get hearing damage, uh, uh, yeah, yeah, that's, yep.
Yeah, um, I tend to buy a lot of broken headphones
and fix them.
So I think the most expensive ones were probably two pairs of DT-770s,
maybe.
For, uh, the audio listing just at home,
I generally just use a pair of audio techniques,
which sound fun to me.
Uh, 80, uh, the M50Xs, 40Xs, 40Xs, uh, I think they're M50s.
Let me look.
H-H-M50X, yeah, they're, they're a good headset,
studio monitors.
Yeah, that's M50s.
They do have a problem with the, uh, the hinge breaking.
Uh, I mean, I've had them for, I don't know, four or five years now,
and they're just as fine as when I bought them new.
Yeah, well, I, I get them broken.
So I see where they break a lot,
and it's always at the hinge.
It's the, the little triangle piece inside the hinge
that keeps it from pushing too far outward.
And it's a really simple, like, 3D print,
uh, either fix that or prevent it from happening.
Oh.
But they do sound pretty good,
and a lot of people like the, um, the M,
the, just the sound from the M30s are,
and the M40s better than the M50s,
even though the M50s are better for, like, studio listening.
You get better, um, mid-range out of the other two.
I mean, most, what I got them,
it was for sitting in, you know, offices and such,
like, for listening to music.
So that work could close back headphone then, yeah.
And they seem to be reasonably durable.
Like, obviously, if you're fixing them,
you know where they break,
so you know where the weak point is.
But like, like, so I've had them for like five years.
No problems.
Plus you can get, uh, low-cost Bluetooth adapters for them,
which I enjoy.
And anything with like a removable cable,
like it has, it, you know,
that's an increased value for me too,
because a lot of times,
I've gotten ones that were in perfect condition
that people said didn't work.
And it was because the removable cable had broken.
And so a few dollars for a new cable,
perfectly working headset.
Yeah, I like the, uh, removable cable.
I actually pull it just one time,
throwing the headset into my bag,
just absolutely, there's less things sticking out.
Less things to break.
Less leverage points.
Uh, I'm not exactly gentle on my gear either.
So like, when I say throw it in my bag,
I mean, literally, I just throw them in my bag, you know.
Yeah.
But, oh gosh, uh, let me see.
I see one, two, three of the M50s,
two of the M40s.
And I think I only have one of the M30s hanging up right now.
All right, well, this, uh,
device you were talking about adding the memory
and hard drive to instead of a pie.
Oh, um, so HP makes you,
at least, I think they still do,
but made these little thin client type things.
Um, the T6XX line, um,
I have a bunch of T610s and C6,
T, uh, which is kind of the like,
2014 era of them.
And then there's a few new ones, um,
but yeah, those are just the models I'm throwing out there.
But yeah, the like T620, T610, things like that.
You just, just scroll through eBay and watch out for them.
They show up all the time and I see,
I see one on eBay right now for $80 with the AMD GT T56N.
Yeah, that's, that sounds about right.
Like I said, just watch eBay, they,
they show up for way cheaper than that all the time.
Yeah, here's one on eBay, T610 for $45.
Um, the ones I have started getting,
there's a version that, uh, you can actually,
they're kind of rare, but they show up every once in a while.
You can, uh, it has a PCI cardic,
or PCI cardic slot.
And so I've been putting 10 gigabit network,
so that the, uh, connects to my,
nice little fiber network I've got in my apartment.
See, there you go.
Cheaper than apply, comes with a case,
and it's upgradable.
Those ones missing the power supply.
Oh, yeah, they often are,
but power supply, that's another like 10 bucks.
Just got to, the only thing is with the power supply,
they're slightly finicky,
and they won't, uh,
exactly the, uh, 19.5 volts, 65 watt power supply.
Like, if they're, uh, an HP also made an 18.5 volt power supply,
that, uh, it'll plug in, but it doesn't work.
I, uh, I actually just went and got tired of all the wallboards,
so I put a 19.5 volts, uh, bus in my server rack,
and then I just clipped off the, uh,
cables from all the wallboards and then wired them into the bus,
and mixed cable organizations so much easier.
Yeah.
So, since the, uh, last time I've been on a podcast,
I upgraded my network to 10 gigabit.
That's cool.
Dumpster diving and eBay.
Yeah, I think I need the, um, network cable that's run out to my garage,
upgraded, because the most I can get is like, um, 100 NBPS.
Yeah, in my mind, that would definitely be a candidate for, uh, fiber.
Just, if nothing else, you don't have an electrical connection.
And that's actually kind of where it started out was,
I wanted to put the oscilloscope on the network for data logging.
If I didn't want to have it hardwired to, like,
all my expensive gear, in case I had an accident,
they involved high voltages, you know?
Yeah, I wouldn't mind having slightly faster speeds just in the house,
but, um, it's going to be a while before fiber reaches my neighborhood.
Oh, I, I don't have a fiber internet connection.
So my, uh, network packets get to the wall very quickly and then they slow down.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, that, that internal networking can be extremely helpful for a lot of the things that I do.
The, uh, nice thing about coming from a very small apartment was I had basically no furniture.
So it was, uh, pretty simple to just run that, you know,
fiber everywhere in the apartment, just under the rugs and shit.
And so now I have tango a bit fiber run, even if I'm not necessarily using the link yet.
I, uh, kind of have this vision of running home assistant,
and, you know, controlling lights and things like that.
But also, like, being able to walk around the house and walk around my apartment
and have my music follow me.
Yeah, that, that's been a goal for a long time.
It's easier to do if you live by yourself, but, um, yeah,
do you make a motion based, do you make a Bluetooth based based on where your phone is?
How do you set it up?
Um, I am thinking either motion based or maybe like an RFID reader at the doorway or something.
I don't know.
I'm trying to avoid Bluetooth, let's be honest.
I'm trying to avoid too much extraneous signals.
Oh, okay.
I was just saying, you know, if you have Bluetooth turned on on your phone and it gets sensed
in a specific room.
Yeah, I, I don't, uh, I don't turn on Bluetooth on my phone.
Ah, but you could also do it using Wi-Fi?
Um, I could.
I don't know if, uh, I can do it easily with just one access point.
Yeah, you'd have to have a bunch of access point.
You'd have to have one access point per room,
and then you'd have to work on your power settings to make it so that
only the access point for the room that you're in is being used while you're in that room.
And that would be difficult.
I mean, I can make that work with a lot easier with my laptop.
I think that I carry my laptop around with me everywhere,
which is another thing I'm actually trying to eliminate is,
whether it's I want to have a network so fast,
isn't I can do X forwarding and it'd be usable?
Yeah.
Well, X forwarding with right, with the,
a proper amount of compression can be useful on a daily basis.
It's just difficult to set up and annoying in most instances.
But like, um, X to go makes that very bundled together and ready to go for you.
The, uh, I have an actually looked into X to go too much,
but it would be nice to, uh, be able to just leave the laptop in one place,
and it's like, I have multiple seats,
you know, multiple occasions where places where I would be sitting,
and be nice to just leave the laptop sitting in one place,
and then be able to use it from all the places I sit without having to drag it around.
Well, X to go is perfect for that if you're,
if you're planning on using a lot of pen clients.
I mean, I was using my home computer,
my, my server at home, like I was sitting in front of it,
from floor, from 800 miles away.
They just don't get a dog, Jay Rulo.
Well, for a cat.
Yeah, the cat would ruin that.
Parrot.
Well, right now I, uh, live in a place that doesn't have all pets,
so that's a more point.
Yeah, if I were to set something up like that,
I, I'd want to be able to just, you know,
have my Bluetooth headset and not have to worry about where my phone is in relation to me
and be able to walk anywhere in the house and use it.
Yeah, it's something like that would also be nice.
Um, but, um, have a, uh,
figure out some way to have an automated, uh,
how get, because like, I walk out of this room into the next room,
and I lose Bluetooth connection.
Yeah.
Well, or my 2.4 gigahertz,
the Razer Nari ultimate that I use for podcasting,
sometimes that I'm using right now.
I'd like to be able to use that anywhere too,
but that would be a whole different set up.
I mean, you can do the Bluetooth one with Bluetooth repeaters,
but Bluetooth repeaters are not cheap.
Right.
You said that, uh, it was 2.3 gigahertz that, uh,
but 2.4.
Uh, uh, okay.
That's also a very crowded spectrum around here.
Yeah, well,
most of your, you know, USB devices that are wireless are to,
in the 2.4 gigahertz range.
So yeah, it would be a lot of interference.
That's one of the main reasons why I'm hardwired or everything is just,
because like, there's so much radio waves going through here right now.
I'm probably a cancer zone or something.
And it interferes with your Wi-Fi?
Yes.
Um, have you done a Wi-Fi analyzer?
I assume you have.
Yeah, I, uh,
I haven't done any kind of Wi-Fi analysis also,
but like, like, I just hardwired everything now.
Right.
Okay.
And it's faster anyway.
Well, I was just thinking of ways to annoy your neighbors.
If you can't get a proper Wi-Fi signal, then, you know,
just up the power on your antennas.
I, uh, I, uh, also had a recent reason to try that here recently.
And it did not penetrate the flow of the building I'm in.
Like, it didn't, it, I couldn't receive it where I wanted to.
Uh, I might have to, uh,
get a highlight directional antenna and just pointed the,
the spot next time.
It's just a cone of Wi-Fi.
Yeah, J-Rulo, I'm not seeing any, you know, commercial Bluetooth repeaters.
Um, I'm hoping that there's a write-up somewhere to be able to build one yourself.
Yeah, I don't want to oversaturate the 2.4 gigahertz range
that all my keyboards will quit working.
You know, sometimes my, uh, phone chime will just go off.
And there's like no, there's no notifications or anything there.
It's just chiming at me.
My new Marola does like.
It's, uh, kind of annoying.
My last phone was a Windows phone.
I mean, I finally, if Windows is, I finally found it and actually used for Windows.
That's on a phone.
That's about all it's useful for.
Yeah, before that, I had a Firefox phone.
I liked Windows mobile when it was Windows mobile, like 6.5 and below.
But yeah, once it got, uh, I think it was 7.5,
it turned into that tiling thing and then it got worse.
Well, before that, I had a Firefox phone.
I kind of missed that thing.
Didn't know Mozilla made phones.
It's interesting.
They had the Firefox OS.
It was mostly designed for, um, like, what was it?
Emerging markets.
Yeah, I don't, I don't remember what they were, uh, wanting to do with it.
But they wanted a low-cost phone for, um, basically,
lower income places.
It turns out that it turns out that just cheap Android does the same job.
Pretty much.
Was it, was the, uh, Firefox OS?
Was that Linux-based?
Yeah, it was, it was Linux-based.
Uh, like, I liked the user interface of it.
And I kind of liked the idea of everything as just a webpage.
It just made, you know, it just worked really nicely
the way I was using it.
I'm going to have to drop for a little while.
I'm going to have to join a work phone call,
like to you guys in a bit.
Hello, hello. Can you hear me?
Nope.
Hi there.
Hey, how's everything?
Verbal!
Hey, hey, sorry.
I got a lot of stuff.
I was just, um, setting up my, you know, push-to-talk
because I hadn't, uh, used a mumble in a while
and the interface was different.
So I finally figured out how to set up the, uh, push-to-talk.
Yeah, it's, it's been a while since I've, uh, seen you around.
Of course, it's been a while.
I think the last time I was on a, uh, podcast,
you were also around, so hey.
Yeah, it's been a, uh, a long while.
Yeah, yeah.
I missed last year.
Yeah, me too.
So you talk about your game, Verbal?
You know, I actually got everything working and, um,
I, um, I showed it to my granddaughter and she liked it,
especially because I had, like, uh, some custom, um,
photos in there, um, but then as we, you know,
we went through the alphabet from A to two,
I think maybe around W, then W,
she kind of lost interest, you know,
because, you know, kids' attention span is, you know, kind of short.
I'm sorry, what was that?
Just kidding.
Yeah, all right.
Yeah, what was that?
It's actually, uh, pretty interesting, um,
using, I, I wrote this, like, learning game for her.
My granddaughter was five and I was, I was writing it
in this, like, game, game engine called, um,
low or love 2D and the, um,
the programming language that love uses is, uh,
Lua.
So it's interesting because I, I've never used, uh,
Lua before.
When you were talking about it and showed,
showed me the video of it, it looked really, really slick.
Yeah, it's actually pretty simple, you know,
hey, it's four or five year olds.
So, you know, and, and I don't, I don't know, uh,
you remember, but she likes to play things like Roblox
and Minecraft that, so, uh, at one point, uh,
Chris was saying, hey, um, how many, how,
how many points do you have?
And she says, I don't know.
I don't know how to read.
So we figured, oh, we have to change that.
So that's why I actually wrote the, uh,
learning game for her.
Hey, more to add to you.
What, what was that, um, like bare bones,
the Linux and distro, you said you were using recently?
Um, Garuda?
Garuda?
I thought it was, I thought it was something.
I've been using several.
Garuda is the one I put on the mini AMD,
computer that it works with the drawing tablet.
It's a, um, similar to, uh, Ubuntu Dement,
it's a arch to Garuda.
It's a real flashy, easy, already installed,
and set up pretty arch system, more so than Minjaro.
Oh, okay.
Because I was looking at, uh, Alpine Linux,
and it's, it's like, it's really bare bones.
I guess it's, uh, built on busybox and libc,
and so I've, I've kind of been trying to, uh,
resist the urge to, um, try that out,
but I don't know.
It might get the best, it might be the other,
the other one is proxmox.
So for virtualization,
I have it on a bare bones.
Hey, somebody wants to say hello to you.
Hey, Robert.
Hello, I got my, I got my card.
You don't have to say more.
Yay.
Good, good.
How are you right now?
Um, this week has been really rough.
Uh, don't feel that great.
Okay.
Your numbers were really good last week, right?
Right?
Yes, it is, uh, I'm hoping that drops even more, um,
because that was a three week drop and not the full month.
So I'm very happy with that, that, that drop number.
What, uh, what, what kind of pain are you in now?
What, what's causing?
What's causing it?
Um, and not pain.
I'm, uh, uh, I'm really nauseous.
Hence the card, um, the cold sensitivity is, uh,
way worse right now than it was the first time.
Um, um, and I'm, I'm shaky.
My, uh, uh, uh, you know, like,
if I try to hold my hand still at shakes, um,
and my, my muscle mass of my arms in the last three weeks
is just gone.
I'd, I'd big, big muscles and now they're, they're gone.
People have actually said stuff about it.
Well, it's noticeable.
Yeah, yeah, it's very noticeable.
But I'm still keeping the weight on.
So I'm not dropping anymore.
Have, um, are you getting enough protein?
Absolutely not.
So have you, have you been to the dispensary yet?
Yeah, I, I went last night.
I got some stuff for, uh, appetite and, uh, um,
RSO is Rick Simpson oil.
It's supposed to be a combination of stuff that has
anecdotally and in some new studies have proven that it kills cancer cells.
So, um, uh, need to figure out how I actually have to take it.
It's kind of confusing, but, uh,
it's supposed to be really, really strong too.
Was that something I had to dispensary as well?
Yes, that was at the dysentery.
All right.
I'm, what is it called again?
A Rick Simpson oil or RSO?
All right.
All right. I'm going to look it up.
I'll give, I'll give you verbal back.
All right.
So, um, yeah, I think I'm, I think I'm going to try out this, um,
alpine mix.
Yeah, I keep hearing great things about alpine.
I don't think I've, uh, used it.
Or maybe I tried to use it and had problems.
One thing I heard about it is that it's, it's, um,
used a lot with, um, doctor because it's so lightweight.
That might have been where I was trying to use it.
I still haven't gotten a doctor flow up and running.
I mean, I've tested Docker singly on a machine and gotten small things to work,
but not a full-blown workflow running off a dedicated machine.
Yeah, I'm just upset because originally I thought that, um,
I could use Docker to, um, say, run a Linux instance while a Docker.
Basically, I thought it was going to be like, um, virtual box,
but it basically has to be Linux.
You can't run like, um, windows from Linux or macOS from Linux.
Yeah, I think I, I think that it only runs on a bare Linux kernel.
If I remember correctly.
Yeah, we're looking up that Bart Simpson oil right now.
Rick.
Kawabunga.
I can't believe the Simpsons are still on TV after so many years.
Are people tired of that by now?
Um, I haven't been actively watching the last two seasons, um, I'm behind.
Um, but no, no, I still watch it.
No, all the Simpsons fans should jump ship and start watching, uh, Rick and Morty.
I can't stop watching Rick and Morty, the first calendar year.
I, that's all I played all day.
Why was a working was the stream on the adult swim channel, uh,
just Rick and Morty over and over again.
I've probably seen it each episode a hundred times now.
Uh, you know, Morty, you gotta stop watching those shows because it's gonna write your
brain.
It's so funny every time it is.
It's funny.
My son-in-law introduced me to that.
He says, hey, you want to watch some Rick and Morty?
Am I Rick and who?
Doc Brown and Marty McFly.
Until the season to sister there.
There you go.
Yeah, one of my co-workers just showed me the Doc Brown and Marty McFly cartoons.
It was, those are horrible.
What's so gnarly?
They were, they were playing around just trying to come up with something,
well, when, um, a gravity falls was canceled because they couldn't figure out how to
monetize it.
It had, uh, nobody was getting paid and then I had this huge market rating and no products for sale.
So there was no monetization and, uh, it kind of kills animated shows very quickly.
Oh yeah, actually, the shows are connected.
There's hidden things between the shows.
There's a character that they were going to put in all the animated series they did.
There's a guy with a red curly hair.
He's in multiple cartoons that they worked on.
Um, there's a portal where stuff gets sucked through on gravity falls.
The grandfather or whatever, a coffee cup and a pen and, uh, it pops out of the, uh,
portals when, uh, the ricks from the Citadel are chasing Rick, the, the first evil Marty episode.
Uh, okay.
Yeah, the, I will be just like an episode or two of, um, gravity falls.
So I'll have to, uh, have a look, watch it a little more.
I'm a watch, Danny of them.
I watched some, uh, you know, uh, hidden connections and easter egg videos on YouTube.
And there was another show, uh, called, uh, final space, which only got three seasons.
It was, uh, wasn't renewed for a fourth season.
Uh, it, um, kind of like in the same vein as Rick and Morty.
A little bit different humor and characters, but in that same vein of entertainment, I think.
You like slowly faded out and got quieter and quieter.
Oh, there's another show called, uh, a final space, which I think, uh, Rick and Morty fans would love.
Um, it, it only got three seasons.
It was planned out further.
Um, hopefully somebody will pick it up and let him finish it.
Uh, it was great.
One of the villains was, uh, David Tennant, one of the doctors.
Right.
Is that, uh, uh, the actor who played one of the doctors?
When Doctor Who is out here, if you're referring to, yes.
When, when it, uh, restarted in, I think, 2005, it was Chris, Chris Eccleson and then
David Tennant and then Matt Smith and Garibaldi and Whitaker.
So the second, I always catch on, catch one of the super popular stuff, like later on.
And then, uh, I'm always so far behind.
It's hard to catch up.
I haven't watched all the doctor who's yet.
I tried to start at the beginning.
I might just have to do like the newer episodes.
You mean the beginning in 1963?
Uh, no.
The ones I was watching were, they looked like they were probably from like the 90s or something.
Hey, we used to love the, um, the Doctor Who, um, movies that had, uh, Peter Cushing in there.
And, um, yeah, they, they were always, uh, really great.
I don't know how popular those are right now.
It's definitely a cold thing.
Doctor Who in general, but there are a lot of people who enjoy it.
Yes, it's probably more popular in England.
It was one of the few things I got to watch on television as a good, on, on PBS.
Now that makes sense.
It's a BBC, uh, show, isn't it?
So, isn't that, um, where it was at least?
It was with the public broadcast.
You can England, I don't think it is anymore.
I think they're privatized it.
Uh, in England, it's BBC.
Yeah, PBS here in the US is public broadcasting system.
They used to play a lot of, uh, BBC, uh, stuff because they could get it cheap or free.
Right.
Oh, launch is now in the oven.
Do you know where I can stream that, uh, final space show in the US?
Do you have Plex?
I don't have a Plex server set up yet, but I will not the server just an account.
I do have an account.
Um, uh, my emails, HBR, uh, mornancy.com.
If you want to send me your email for Plex, I'll add you to my library, to my Plex server.
Oh, that'd be awesome.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I think I'm going to create a new account with my new email.
Um, I find it easier with a, with a Gmail account.
I actually use a dedicated Gmail account for a lot of my media signups.
But, uh, um, uh, uh, it might buffer and be slow.
Um, I'm switching over from slow cable and internet to, uh, dedicated, uh,
access three cable modem and internet only, um, my cable modem arrived yesterday.
So I just need to figure out what I need to do to self install and switch over.
But before I say, yeah, I get, sorry, what was that?
Uh, until I switched the cable modem, uh, the media gateway to the cable modem, uh,
the upload speed might be bad.
Might buffer and stuff.
18 megabytes download here and like two megabytes upload is pretty horrible.
But I don't think I've ever seen the Peter Cushing,
Dr. Who movies.
I'm looking at that right now, verbal.
Yeah, they, they were pretty good.
But you, you have to remember, uh, this was coming from, uh,
me watching them as a kid.
So I don't know how well they, uh, held up over time.
But yeah, I think they were pretty good.
I'm a Dr. Who fan like I'm a, um, a Cosmic Horror and Lovecraft fan.
It really doesn't matter how bad it is.
I'll watch it.
Wait, what show are you talking about?
Um, verbal was talked about the Peter Cushing, Dr. Who movie movies.
I was talking about along with Dr. Who anything HP Lovecraft, Cosmic Horror related.
I will invest time and money into, regardless of how good it is.
Um, so if you're into Dr. Who,
might I suggest Blake's seven?
Well, shit, Betty White passed away.
Yep, got into especially the New Year's Eve thing tonight.
Yeah, I'm not sure how I feel about this actually.
Right, Betty's white, Betty White's continuing existence was kind of a bedrock of my soul.
How did Betty White's, uh, life affect you?
I mean, it didn't really just, I don't know, she's just always been there.
Yeah, I agree.
It felt really strange today.
Also, it's kind of cool that she went out on New Year's Eve.
I mean, she was always doing cool stuff.
Final Space is free to stream on Apple TV.
Um, it's available on Hulu with a subscription HBO Max with a subscription
and sling TV with subscription.
Did you say Hulu?
Hulu.
You said Final Space.
Correct, that's the name of the show.
So what is a final space about?
Um, here I'll read the description.
In the midst of working off of prison sentence, an astronaut named Gary meets a mysterious
planet destroying alien mooncake with whom he immediately bonds.
But Gary doesn't realize that this new sidekick is actually in demand by the
sinister Lord Commander who will do anything he can do to secure mooncakes,
untapped evil power.
They animated intergalactic comedy follows Gary and mooncakes adventures to unlock the mystery
of Final Space where the universe ends.
Thank you.
Looks like you have to have a live TV subscription on Hulu to stream it.
Do they visit the restaurant at the end of the universe when they get to that point?
I know, the end of the universe is Final Space.
It's another dimension.
So they're talking about space, not time.
Yes, but there is some time loops, time travel stuff that repeats over and over again.
Hey, I just pulled it up on Apple TV.
The animation reminds me of, do you remember the videos the gorillas did,
like Clint Eastwood?
Yeah, yield, waiting for food to cook, but you're hungry now.
Is it Mordancy?
Are you pronounced your screen name?
Yes, Mordancy.
One who is Mordent.
I posted my email in the chat section.
Did anybody else use in the Android client?
The, um, I'm using love, um, when I, uh, they call it, uh,
deafening, when I shut the sound off, and then I turn it back on,
it also unmutes me.
Is there any way to stop that?
Um, I'm figuring out, um,
okay, for sure, I'll take a look around.
I don't think that's, uh, something I'm using.
You have been invited.
I think I just enabled downloads.
So you should be able to download them off my server, I think.
I'm not to figure out how to do this.
It's been on, I've never actually used this before.
I haven't on my phone.
It looks you got, you have to like, uh, pay for subscription.
If you're in use, if you're an user phone, but I think they know you don't.
Nobody I know that uses it.
Base for it, uh, I paid for it for the, uh, uh, um, server streaming stuff,
but just you playing it as an app on a TV or phone, um,
or through the web page plex.tv doesn't require any bane, no payment.
Okay, cool.
Thank you.
You may have to go to more on the left hand side to see the,
my server is called Python to see the library.
Yeah, I'm not to play around with this a little bit.
I had never actually opened up the app and looked at anything.
I'll download it on my fire stick as well.
Hey.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
At Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
you click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons,
Attribution 4.0 International License.
