Episode: 3073
Title: HPR3073: Matchbox and Diecast Restoration
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3073/hpr3073.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:13:33

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,073 for Wednesday 13 May 2020.
Today's show is entitled Matchbox and Dicast Restoration.
It is hosted by Tony Hughes, aka Tony H1212,
and is about three minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summer is
a short episode about my new hobby restoring matchbox and other Dicast models.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge
by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
.
.
.
Hello Hacker Public Radio fans. This is Tony Hughes from Blackpool in the UK.
It's been a good while since I recorded one of these shows.
And today for a change I haven't got to script.
But I just thought I'd talk about something that we talked about on the new year show.
As I look at my computer desk, I'm surrounded by matchbox model curve
and the whole of my office and workshop is actually smothering models
and modelling equipment at the moment.
And we were talking about this briefly, new year's show.
And I said, or Ken said, stop talking about that.
That's a show, as he usually does.
So I said at some stage I would record a show to my modelling there, matchbox cars.
And this first episode is really just to talk about how I got in.
I've been following one or two YouTube channel started last year.
And one of the people I follow is a guy called Marty over in Australia
and he does a YouTube charty's matchbox makeover.
And I stumbled across this channel because I like watching these restaurants
or tool old electrical equipment and also doing a YouTube channel.
So I started to watch it and I thought, I never really got into matchbox as a kid.
We didn't have enough of a lot of money and even though matchbox were at the budget end of the model cars,
compared with Dinky and Corky for the bigger models,
they were still pretty much price range, the pocket money that I used to get.
So apart from one or two, I never really got into them.
I've always loved them as little models because there's so much detailing.
And I thought I'd send this guy in Australia a couple of models to risk because he was doing it.
I found a couple of models on eBay and sent them off.
But I kept one back thinking, have a go at this myself.
And I did.
And I'll put a picture of that model in the show now even though there aren't going to be many.
And that was the first one that I'd go at.
And it didn't turn out too bad, it wasn't perfect, but it didn't turn out.
And that started getting me hooked.
So I'm going to probably do a series of these little recordings,
just going over some of the things that I do when I'm stripping a model and how I're stripping.
For more information, these loads of YouTube channels out there.
I'll put links to Marty's channel in the show now so that you can go and have a look if you want to.
For now, I'm going to call this one a wrap and come back to the future date.
So this is Tony Hughes for Accom public radio signing off for now.
And see you again down the line.
And by the way, in our difficult times at the moment, keep safe folks.
And hopefully we all again to live events in the future.
Bye.
You've been listening to Accom public radio at Accom public radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Accom public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the Creative Commons,
Attribution, ShareLite, 3.0 license.
