Episode: 3925
Title: HPR3925: Uncommon tools and social media
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3925/hpr3925.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:28:43

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,925 for Friday the 18th of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Uncommon Tools and Social Media.
It is hosted by Daniel Person and is about 5 minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Daniel Person talks about some of the tools he uses for video production
and social media.
Hello, hackers and welcome to another podcast with Daniel.
And I'm going to talk about a bunch of different subjects and I'm doing like ShatGPT.
Really good at creating a bunch of words without any real knowledge behind them.
But the topics that I'm going to talk about are pretty random and I'm going to split them up.
So the first update I'm going to talk about is Uncommon Tools and Social Media.
So I've been thinking about this and I usually go to the normal tools and look at what everyone
else is using in order to figure out how my process should be to accomplish a specific task.
And before I ran Windows, I used Vmix to record my videos and I used Premiere in order to cut it
up up and work with them. And I felt like it wasn't really the best solution but it was a
comfortable solution because if you google on it and look at YouTube, you could find a lot of
tutorials to figure out how to do different things in these kind of tools. So that I thought
that was the best solution for me. But after a while when I think Windows destroyed my third attempt
at the same project by restarting my computer without my consent, I got so fed up with Windows
that I switched over to Ubuntu Linux and not because I'm really a Ubuntu follower or anything
like that. I tried to use PopOS, didn't like it at all, I've run a lot of devbians, I know that
well, I'm running into us at work but I thought for my own sake if I want to run games and have
a normal life then Ubuntu should be easy enough to run. So I switched over to Ubuntu so Premiere
was no longer an option to me and Vmix doesn't really run on Linux as well. So I went over and
running OBS which is a pretty common solution for now that a lot of the YouTubers are actually
recording in OBS even if they are using Windows so that is not that uncommon. But I also went over
to DaVinci Resolve which at that point was very uncommon and not really something that people were
talking about but when I switched over everybody started to switch over. Everywhere it was fed up with
the OBS and started to running DaVinci Resolve and I saw a lot of YouTube videos where the different
creators were talking about how you could go from DaVinci from Premiere to DaVinci Resolve and
there were a lot of guides around the topic. So I wasn't really that uncommon anymore and it
doesn't really matter for me if I'm common or uncommon in this case but I found that DaVinci Resolve
when I tweaked it a little bit added my own key combinations and so on so I was familiar with it
then it was very similar to using Premiere and the small tweaks I do to my videos is very easy to do
DaVinci Resolve as well then when it comes to social media I have the same problem there everybody is
on Facebook yeah I'm old so everybody that I know and everybody that I actually care about is on
Facebook and I gave up Facebook like five years ago ten years ago and then haven't been on
Facebook for a long while when I actually weren't using Facebook back in the day the big thing was
all these extra web games on Facebook and I got hooked on one game I think it was mafia worse or
something like that and I played it too much and I spent too much time on Facebook so I was actually
not doing my work which was not really healthy so I said to myself okay I'm not going to use
Facebook at all I'm going to use other social media and before I had a lot of people that
talked over Twitter and and so on but now that Twitter has just fallen off the
potential cliff and the other social networks haven't really picked up the pace and I haven't
really found all my friends and so on over at Mustardone and so on so now I actually don't really
have the social presence yeah I have my YouTube channel and I also have a bunch of people that
follows me there and people that I know through there and I also call my friends of course and
keep track on that but and I don't really have any way of posting things online maybe that is
more healthy maybe not but I'm actually thinking about going back to Facebook is it worth it to
actually start using Facebook a little bit every week in order to keep track on my friends
I'm not really sure I haven't decided yet and so that is some of the thoughts about
uncommon tools and social media that I have been thinking about lately
you have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work
today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording
or cast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is posting for HBR has
been kindly provided by an onsthost.com the internet archive and our sings.net on the
Sadois status today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
