Episode: 3038
Title: HPR3038: Solo Magic
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3038/hpr3038.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:33:51

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3038 for Wednesday 25 March 2020.
Today's show is entitled Solo Magic.
And as part of the series' table-top gaming, it is hosted by Clarty
and is about 37 minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summer is
all the magic without the gathering.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
You're listening to Hacker Public Radio. This is Clarty.
And in this episode, I'm going to talk about Magic the Gathering Solo Edition.
So there is no solo edition of Magic the Gathering that I'm aware of.
I've not heard of one. I think I did search for it online once
and did not find anything. That doesn't mean it doesn't exist.
But I couldn't find anything. So I turned my attention to coming up
with a way to play Magic the Gathering on one's own.
And the reason for that is because, as I describe in episode 2138,
Cheapskate Magic, or Magic the Gathering for Cheapskates,
whatever I called it, I play Magic the Gathering with a big box of cards
that I got from the bargain bin at a game store.
It is what they call the draft chaff.
It's the cards literally not good enough for players who go to Friday night magic
and pay money, 20 bucks or something, to draft cards,
which means you open up a pack of trading cards there in the store,
you open it up, and you construct a deck from a series of booster packs
that you open up there at the store.
And what happens is that people that show up show up so regularly
and they amass such a good collection of Magic the Gathering cards
that the ones that are marked common, meaning you get them a lot in a lot of packs,
they start to lose, like, completely lose value to players,
because you can only have four of the same cards in a deck anyway.
So if you have four of these cards, which you're likely to have,
if you open up four or eight booster packs,
much less 16 or 32 or 64 over the course of a couple of months,
you can't use them.
And among your circle of immediate friends,
you probably can't even, you literally can't give them away.
And so they leave them on the table and they go home
and the game store collects them off the table.
And when there's enough, when they gather up enough discards or draft chaff,
they put them on a table and sell them for cheat.
So that's what I use for my magic games.
And this works well for me, but it does limit the possible opponents out there.
In short, I'm limited to people who don't own Magic cards themselves,
which actually works out quite nicely, being in a small town in New Zealand.
It's actually a pretty uncommon thing to find someone with a stack of Magic cards.
So it's been working really, really well for me actually.
I've played more Magic here than I did in Wellington,
which is a pretty large city.
I mean, I didn't, like I say, I didn't go to Friday Night Magic.
So that's the format that I play.
It's, I guess, dirt poor magic is what I call it.
Should probably call it Cheapscape Magic.
Maybe I'll change it to that.
So anyway, either way, whether or not I was playing with a Cheapscape Deck
or a modern deck or a limited deck or whatever,
one wants to play Magic more than one does, right?
That's just kind of how games are.
You frequently want to engage in it more often than you have someone to play with.
So I posed this problem to myself several months,
actually more than a year ago now, when I was still in Wellington.
And I would sit down on some evenings and try to work through a single player mode of Magic.
And my initial attempts were misguided.
I kind of approached it as if though I had to sort of reinvent the game entirely.
Because I thought, well, you know what?
If I'm going to do this over, I may as well simplify it.
And so I was trying to really, really break down a lot of the conventions of Magic.
I mean, Magic, it's comically, like once you've, once you've played it,
you find it difficult to remember how difficult it was to learn.
And I do have to admit the website for Magic is they've got a really good,
sort of quick, quick-ish document on how to play now.
I don't think they had it when I was, when I was investigating originally.
But it is kind of comical because you look at the sort of on your turn breakdown.
And it's literally like on your turn, there are five different phases.
And each phase has two or more bullet points within it.
So, you know, you've got sort of 15 or 20 steps to remember every time it's your turn.
So it is a complex game. It is not simple.
And then the whole model of Magic is that every card practically breaks the rules.
So you've got this, this big sort of rule set of how things work.
And you've got every single card essentially breaking those rules.
And that's hyperbole, not every card breaks those rules.
A lot of those cards actually follow those rules.
But there are a lot of sort of conditions that arise from a within a magic game
that then cause each card to sort of cancel one another out or to affect one another.
And so it can be quite complex.
So my original idea was to take the magic cards and sort of analyze the data on it
and construct a game using the data I knew that I could depend on.
So if I sit to say that that didn't work, I had some, I came up with some great ideas for it.
And I'm still workshopping a lot of them because I really, I think I did get some really great ideas.
And that's, I think that's one of the major value ads of a Magic the Gathering deck.
Like I know that people say, oh, they're collectible and they're trading cards and things like,
I mean, they are collectible.
You can, you can go online and look at some of the prices for some of the rare cards.
So they're definitely collectible.
But in terms of just kind of what, what they add in terms of value for me is just, is exactly what it,
it's always added for me, even back in school when I didn't play Magic and just saw friends,
the cards front, you know, borrowed friends cards and just looked at the artwork.
It's this huge source of endless imagination and inspiration.
Any excuse to sort of spend time with Magic cards is probably a good excuse to be honest.
And a lot of people who play Magic sort of satisfy that, that, that urge, that yearning by constructing decks,
which is completely, that's a, it's a very, it's a great way to sort of get familiar with a lot of the cards and look up rules
because now you're thinking, you're reading a card and you're, you're, you're seeing this new keyword that you hadn't noticed before
or never come across before.
And you think, oh, what does that mean? It says it's a defender.
I guess I should find out what the rules tell me about that keyword, what, what, what function that will play when I play this deck.
But as anyone will tell you, the only way to really get a feel for a deck that you have built is to play test it,
is to actually put it into, into practice, get it out there on, on the battlefield, see what happens.
And while it's obviously I think ideal to do that with a human, I do think that there is some value to being able to simulate the process of a magic game,
nearly rules as written and, and just see what happens, see how your deck is interacting with itself.
And that'll help you detect things that don't really make sense in your deck, you know,
something that, that seemed like a good card when you were throwing it in the deck upon play testing you realize, well, this card gives a boost to all the zombies in my deck.
And oh, I only have like one zombie in my deck and the likelihood of that one zombie and this card being on the battlefield at the same time kind of not great.
So I shouldn't have, I should either, I should remove that or I should add more zombies in.
And you know, and that's the kind of thing that you might not really, I mean, actually you probably would recognize that if you just look through your deck.
But you know, that sort of thing where it, you look at it and you think, oh, that is good. That will be very useful.
And then you, you play it and you, you think that wasn't useful at all.
Or maybe it was mildly useful, but what I really need is a card somewhere in my deck to allow me to draw more cards because I'm having this problem of getting short on cards.
And I need to, to make sure that doesn't happen.
That kind of play testing is important. And sure, if you've got someone to play magic with whenever you want, then, then it's very likely that you can play test whenever you want.
If you don't have that though, it is helpful to be able to, to play a solo game.
So here's the thought process behind designing a solo edition of Magic the Gathering that I went through for something that's been working for me.
I'm not saying it's necessarily the final answer to this, this problem of how can you play magic solo.
But it actually, it's been quite satisfying for me and I feel like it's taught me a lot about the decks that I've been building and so on.
So let's, let's walk through this. So first of all, I don't want to assume that you're familiar with Magic the Gathering.
I mean, you've probably heard of it, but you may not be super familiar with the rules.
You don't need to be familiar with the rules for all of this to make sense. I just want to highlight some things because the rules, they're a bit complex.
And frankly, I could probably not do as good of a job of explaining them as just going to the Magic the Gathering website and looking at the rules online.
They've got a great little intro document. And if you're really curious, you can see that and it will break it down for you. It's very, very useful.
Okay, so in terms of the cards or in terms of the game, I guess, there are a couple of different assets that we have to work with when we're looking at the multiplayer version of Magic the normal version and this constructed solo version that we're trying to build.
And as I said, I think taking the cards and looking at all the data on them is not very useful. It actually doesn't do a whole lot for us.
And when it does work, you step back and look at it and you realize it's working because you're just breaking it back down to basic.
You're going back to the original rule set again. For instance, on the bottom right corner of any given card, well, any given creature or artifact creature is a power and a toughness rating, PT, power and toughness.
And those are two perfectly great good numbers to use in a game. Like if you're trying to design a game, you might zero in on that and think, okay, well, there's two numbers I could use and it turns out if you start using those, it pretty much does exactly what you think they would do.
You know, it indicates the attack and the defense power of that card. And there's no way of getting, you know, I've tried lots of different things and it just it doesn't make sense any other way.
So it's just it's silly to try to remix it when you can just try to adapt it as I've learned.
Okay, so assets that we have to work with first one is mana mana is the cost of action.
If you want to play a card in magic, you need mana. That's all we need to really care about. All we need to know is that there is a mechanic.
It is called mana and it is the currency of magic, the gathering. If you don't have enough mana, you can't play a card.
And if you can't play a card, then you're sitting duck here. It's a card game. If you can't play the card, then you are not playing the game.
So you don't want to fall into a situation where you are out of mana. The next mechanic that you need to be aware of is the creatures and the artifact cards.
Those are your heavy lifters. They are the cards that do most of the work in a game generally speaking. Magic the gathering is about two wizards fighting one another.
And in magic the gathering, the way that the wizards fight each other and you are the wizard, you and your opponent are the wizard in this multi player scenario, is that you cast these spells.
You summon creatures onto the battlefield that then fight each other to get to the other wizard.
So your creatures and your artifact creatures, artifact creatures are sort of like constructs and I don't know magical things that move around and attack or block.
Attack or counter attack. So those are your heavy lifters. Those are the things that you really want in your deck mostly because that I mean that in mana right because mana is going to let you actually play the card or summon the creature as they say.
And the creature itself is going to go attack your opponent. It'll probably get blocked by your opponent's creatures, but at least it'll give it a good go.
And eventually if you clear out the battlefield or if you're strong enough, you have some special ability, you might be able to get some damage beyond the creatures and onto your player or onto your opponent.
Okay, so creatures and artifacts cards that are important. The next kind of cards are instance and enchantments and sorceries. Those are where we're lumping them in together.
They are essentially things that in a surprising way break the rules or amend the rules of the game that is happening right now.
So for instance, there is no rule really. Well, there is a rule actually, but let's just say there's no rule that a player has to just randomly discard two cards during their turn.
At the end of their turn, they have to discard down to seven cards in their hand. So that is a related rule, but I mean if they're just they're just hanging out in their turn doing one of their, I don't know, 17 different actions that imagine the gathering turn involves.
That's not actually accurate. I don't think that's accurate. That might be accurate. Then they don't have to discard cards randomly, right? That's just not how the game goes.
Ah, but there's a sorcery card called unburdened whereby you can target any player and force them to discard two cards. Well, isn't that surprising?
So there are things that affect this current state of the game and those are enchantments. Those are sorceries. Those are instance.
I'm saying like instance in an instance, except I'm saying it plural. So it's instance and there are lots of those throughout the magic card sort of array of car of possible cards.
So you'll come across those and they're useful. There are things that people usually like to have in their deck, certainly to a lesser extent or in lesser number than creatures and anything that generates mana like land cards.
But but generally people want to have some instance and some enchants and some sorceries because they do help. Now there are other kinds of cards, but we don't need to worry about those. There are other mechanics. We don't need to worry about those.
The idea is that when you're playing magic, you have some asset. You have some sort of collection of mana and when you have enough mana in the correct state, you can play a card or you can summon a creature.
And so you put the creature down on the battlefield, which is the table. And eventually you might push that card forward and you kind of turn it a little bit to show that it's occupied.
And this means that it attacks your opponent. Now your opponent, if they have creatures on the battlefield as well, can block that attack. If they block the attack, then the damage that that card that the attacking card deals goes to their card.
Now if they have nothing to block with, then the damage being done by that card goes to them. And so they lose life off of their life counter.
There are lots of exceptions and things like that, but that's essentially the main mechanic of magic. You watch people play or if you want to know what it's about, that's kind of it. That's the part that matters.
You have cards on your battlefield, you declare which ones are attacking, and the other person has to figure out how they're going to mitigate that attack, possibly take some damage themselves.
And that relates to the wind condition of the game. What do you have to do to win a game of magic, the gathering? Well, the lead designer of magic, the gathering, says, and I've actually heard this from a couple of different places. It wasn't just him.
But there's this concept that, well, technically speaking, to get really good at magic, the gathering, you should have your own private wind condition.
That is to say, you shouldn't necessarily make it about ending the game with 20 life points, or rather with a non-zero number of life points.
Because that's the magic, the gathering wind condition. There are private wind conditions that you can have. Let me see just how many bonuses I can get through the use of enchantments during this game.
Let me see if I can end up with nothing in exile this game. Let me see if I can manage to get this combo attack to actually trigger in this game.
Whatever your private wind condition is, that's fine, and we'll come back to that later because it does matter for the solo edition.
But the multiplayer edition, if you go to a game store or a tournament or whatever and watch people play, there is actually one wind condition, and that is to end the game with cards in your library and a non-zero value on your life point counter, which is a fancy way of saying some dice.
Maybe a D20 that's counting down to track your life values.
That's the wind condition of the multiplayer version of magic, and those are the assets that we have to work with.
The solo edition of magic, I figure, needs to mimic a lot about magic, not only because if we fail to do so, then we're not emulating.
We lose value because part of the value proposition here was that you can use this solo edition to practice, to test your decks, to see what works and what doesn't work, and how good you're getting, and so on.
We want to mimic the mechanics of magic as much as possible, but we also want it to somehow work with just one person.
I was thinking about that problem.
The problem seems to be, like I say, the wind condition is that you end with cards in your library and a non-zero life point value.
But when you finish the game, if you play a game of magic, the gathering, when you finish, you feel and you won, you feel great, you feel really good, you feel proud of yourself.
Why do you feel proud about yourself?
Is it because a piece of plastic on the table or piece of resin or metal or whatever kind of dye you use?
Is it because that has a number on it and it's non-zero? I mean, that doesn't matter to you, really, right?
You can make that piece of plastic say any number, really, that's printed on it.
So that's not the satisfaction. Is it because you have cards in your library? No, that's not really that big of a deal.
You've got plenty of cards at home. It's not any difference that they're there or here. That's not something that's satisfying.
What's actually satisfying on an emotional level is that you've outsmarted someone, right?
You're excited because you played this game with someone and you proved to yourself and to them that you are more skilled and smarter and cleverer than they are.
Now, that level of satisfaction will never be attained by beating a very unclever computer.
I think on the computer, like the physical, like the, what do you call it? Like an electronic computer.
I'll admit it's a little bit different because you know that someone has sort of come up with some algorithm designed to do something.
Like maybe it's designed to try to beat you. Maybe it's designed to give you a good run for your money.
Who knows? We don't really know all the time. It depends on sort of the level of sophistication that you detect behind this process.
But sometimes you can get satisfaction because you think, well, I beat a computer that has, that I know, has an array of all possible moves.
And it's analyzed that and it's been fighting me with all of the, you know, considering all of the possible outcomes.
And it's been fighting that and I have taken it by surprise. I have beat the algorithm.
But with a paper computer, that's not happening, right? This is a, this is just a series of cards that you are physically drawing, putting on the table.
Like there's no, there's nothing, there's nothing behind that. So the, the satisfaction truly, truly does not come from sort of beating something when you're playing a solo, a solo game. I don't think.
But maybe it does. Maybe, you know, if you just play straight solitaire, maybe there's, there's some level of satisfaction about something. But I don't think so because even then it's, it's not the, it's not that you beat something.
It's, it's that you achieved something yourself that you were clever enough to make these cards fall into the correct place.
But that doesn't, it doesn't necessarily. And maybe you've timed yourself for something. So you've given yourself some other, other limitation to, to beat.
You, you've created a new win condition for yourself. So thinking about that in, in terms of solo magic, I realized that the, that one angle I could take for this design was to think about,
for instance, Tetris or Open Arena or Zenotic or, or whatever. These are games, you know, like Tetris, you're, you're fighting, you're fighting a series of blocks that are falling down and starting to gather on the, on the, on the computer floor.
In Open Arena, you're fighting other, other people, you're, you're fighting lots of people, hordes of things that are trying to, trying to kill you. And so you're fighting against them.
And in a lot of these things, the, the, the game, there is, there is no win condition sort of there. The game is going to end.
We, you know that you understand that and you're okay with that. You know that eventually all of this will be over. And that's fine because the win condition for yourself is survival.
How long can you go under these conditions? And, and did you go longer this time than previously than the previous games? And so you start sort of setting your own internal clock, right?
You think, well, okay, I know last time I only got through the first wave of, of combatants, but this time there was that big long pause where everything felt like it was kind of getting reset.
And then the second wave came in and so on. So, so there's, that they're, you're, you're essentially playing against yourself. And I thought, well, that's probably the way we should go for this solo magic game.
Because if, if we can do anything, we can, we can deal cards. We can make cards appear on the table. And that's probably the thing that we want is just an onslaught, a hoard version of magic, the gathering.
We just want an onslaught of relentless attacks. And the point of the game is how long you can hold out before you go down.
So, the idea came to me. And as with practically everything, or at least everything in my game design experiments, the, the, it all eventually goes back to dark cults.
And if you don't know what dark cults is, go listen to episode 2121 of hacker public radio. I talk a lot about dark cults there. It is a great game. But I think the, once again, like that added value of the game is the lessons that it teaches you about game design.
And one of those is this emulation of another player. And so I took notes from that, as I say, I always do. And I, I iterated on this idea of, of how an automated opponent could act.
And the first couple of times I tried it, I had a couple of things wrong. I won't go through that because who cares, I threw them out.
So ultimately what I, I decided upon were two, two separate decks for the opponent. The opponent had a creatures slash artifact creatures deck.
So that's kind of the thing that you would normally have in your deck. So about maybe let's call it, I don't know, it's called 28, 28 creatures and artifact creatures.
And then the second deck was, again, let's just sort of, let's just make up a number roughly and let's say eight instants slash enchantments slash sorceries. I'm probably a little off there, but that's more or less the ratio of considerable number, number of creatures more than instants.
But for a grand total only of 36 cards, presumably in that deck, there would have been 24 land cards. But the opponent is not going to have a risk, a constraint on mana.
So in other words, the opponent in this game has no currency. They get free everything. They get free creatures, free spells. There's no limit to what the opponent can do in the solo edition of magic.
However, rather than simply saying the opponent is going to do whatever it wants, whenever it wants, especially since there's no opponent to make that call, I figured we could sort of soften, we could introduce a new currency for the opponent.
And that would be a round counter. So each by round, I mean by a round of a game. So I got a D6, a six-sided die and set it to one and decided that on round one, the AI or the computer, rather, because there's definitely no intelligence there.
The computer would draw and place a creature onto the battlefield. Creatures in magic, the gathering, come out with summoning sickness is what is called, which basically means on the turn that you play a creature from your hand, it cannot also attack.
So there's a time delay built into magic already as it is, and we keep that, we maintain that. Now on any odd round, if there is a creature already out on the battlefield that can attack, it takes an attack.
But the one that just got played is not one of those that would attack on the same round, because it's got summoning sickness, just like in the multiplayer version.
On the even rounds, the computer draws and plays a spell from the spell deck, the enchantment, a sorcery, an instant, whatever happens to be at the top, it takes that action.
So that's the opponent, that's what it does. It plays an attack and then casts a spell.
Plays an attack, casts a spell, and it does that in alternating as you count, you just flip the little D6 over to the number to keep track of which round you're on, because you do start to forget pretty quickly, especially since your turn as the live player remains mostly the same.
I actually exactly the same. Everything pretty much happens as is. So you've got your deck that you've built for a multiplayer game, you're playing it, and the progression of your turn happens exactly the same as it always would.
You would untapp any tapped creatures on your table, you draw your card, maybe play a land, play an instant or an enchantment or whatever, and then you play cards, you summon some creatures, or maybe you make an attack, whatever it might do.
But that's pretty standard kind of process for the live player. And that's it, that's the game, that's the solo edition of Magic the Gathering.
I think after thinking about it for a year, it's a lot easier than probably that time justifies, actually. But that is kind of the goal, too.
It's not reinventing the game turned out not to be the wise move, and the wisest choice was simply re-implement it.
And this is obviously an implementation of a player who is being extremely aggressive. I mean, this is kind of, this is the most aggro-deck, or the aggro player ever, whether the deck itself is aggro or not.
But I mean, it's someone who's very, very, it's just a brute force version of this game. And realistically, this is not likely to happen.
So the play test maybe is limited in use, right, because you're not getting maybe the most realistic results, because the scenario that you are battling is so specific, like it's just so random.
You'll get a, you'll get a, you'll get a, a very, sort of weak creature on round, or no, you'll get a strong creature on round one.
And then you get a super weak creature on round two, and so, well, actually round three, right, because they only do the summoning on, on odd rounds in the single player game.
But, you know, so that's not usually, that wouldn't happen in real life, because nobody can play like a four, they call it like a four drop, or a five drop, or a three drop, whatever, how much mana it costs.
So no one is going to play a, a, a four drop on round one, quote unquote, four drop, because nobody can play, or no one can possibly have four land cards on their first turn.
That is not just not possible. So I mean, we luckily we approximate a little bit of a time delay in there, because that first round, round one, when they draw and put the creature out on the battlefield,
they cannot yet attack, because it's the first game, and there are no creatures on the battlefield. And in the second round, the opponent plays in a spell, which could happen in real life, I guess, depends on the power of the spell, I guess.
And then on the third round, they attack. So while relatively, maybe, maybe relatively a little bit unlikely, that's by no means impossible, like that could, that's realistic for you to be going into combat on round three.
So realistic to go into combat, maybe on round one, maybe it is, maybe not, certainly it would be very unrealistic to go to battle with anything, but a one drop creature on round one.
So there's a little bit of, a little bit of a lack of realism. And so there's not the, the cleverness level just isn't there. So there's a very specific one player game, where your opponent is just mindless and ruthless and doesn't really strategize.
The other payoff, or the other tradeoff, rather, is that some, in many cases, because there is no brain happening behind this relentless deluge of cards, a lot of times the descriptions of the cards, of your opponent's cards, just won't really matter that much.
You know, they'll say things that in real life would be really, really useful. Oh, here's actually one really good example, a Zorious Signet, which oddly is an uncommon card.
So there you go. That's probably the most valuable card in my deck. It's probably like 30 cents instead of 25 cents.
Because if you tap it, you get to add a white and blue mana to your pool. And like in real life, if you have a white and blue card, that would be great.
In single player game, actually in single player game, this would not be in the deck because it is just an artifact. So I guess that wasn't a perfect example.
But you get the idea that the point is that there are some things that just won't make any sense for a mindless player because, well, in that case, it has the mindless, the opponent, the computer doesn't have mana.
We've released that as a constraint. So mana has no value for the computer. So we would just have to sort of ignore that card entirely.
In practice, like I say, that wouldn't have actually been in the deck. So in practice, when something like that happens, sometimes there's an alternative ability.
So for instance, it may say something like, I don't know, add a plus one to all zombies on the table or look at the top card of your deck.
That doesn't actually work either or rescue a card from your graveyard. And so in that case, I would take the the ability that the opponent could do.
So for instance, resurrect something from your graveyard. So I would take something from the graveyard, put it down back on the table. And that's that would be the effect that that chose.
Now, other times, it just doesn't make sense either way. And in those cases, I typically just kind of ignore the description entirely because presumably there's some number of damage on that card.
And so I just take, you know, I just play, play it as if though they didn't care about the ability, the special ability and they were just using that creature for an attack.
And it all kind of evens out in the end, you'll find that for those one or two cards that don't apply to this game that a real life player probably wouldn't have in their deck anyway, or certainly wouldn't have played at that moment.
It's fine. It's just, it's, it's essentially no different than an attack that didn't land, you know, it's like they just pretend like it was a card in effect.
And a card with a two attack and you blocked it with that creature that's actually on your battlefield right now with a three toughness, two doesn't beat three.
So nothing, in effect, nothing would have happened anyway. And that's it kind of evens itself out. It's just something to be aware of that the abilities don't translate perfectly to solo, to solo gaming.
So the wind condition here is not whether you can beat your opponents. I mean, if you want that to be the wind condition go for it, but I'm telling you after several weeks of playing, that's not a wise decision.
The wind condition is how long can you go against a mindless, brainless, non-stop rampage of magic cards?
And what do you do with the resources that you have? Because you're still playing with a real deck. You're still counting on that man that you're still having to construct clever combinations.
And you're having to decide which card am I going to sacrifice when this dinosaur stampede comes along to trample all over my blood fired dwarf or whatever.
There are still choices to be made and certainly ways that you can analyze the effectiveness of your deck or the cleverness of your deck and certainly fine tune the cleverness of your own game.
And that's it. That's the rule set of my solo version of magic. Hopefully it was useful to you and interesting and fun. I think it's really fun to sort of adapt game assets that exist into either new games or variant games.
I've been having a lot of fun with it. Certainly this one has kept me occupied for a while. Glad to have finally sort of cracked that open for myself.
I am having a lot of fun with it. Hopefully you'll have fun with it as well. By all means, give it a go. Let me know how it turns out for you in terms of sort of effectiveness and fun level.
Try it out and let me know because I like I've I've essentially play tested this on on exactly one person and that is me. I've never I've not seen anyone else play my version of solo magic.
Before so I would love to hear your feedback if you if you try it and it just falls apart terribly or if you just find find it completely mind numbingly boring whatever I'm open to hearing all feedback. Thanks for listening. I'll talk to you next time.
You've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org. We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HP R listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hecka public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a light 3.0 license.
