Episode: 3066
Title: HPR3066: HPR Community News for April 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3066/hpr3066.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:09:06

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3666 for Monday 4 May 2020.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for April 2020,
and is part of the series HPR Community News. It is hosted by HPR volunteers
and is about 42 minutes long, and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
Dave talks about shows released in comments posted in April 2020.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com,
get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15,
that's HPR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
.
.
.
.
Hello everybody, this is Dave Morris for Hacker Public Radio.
Now I'm doing the Community News show for April 2020.
I was going to be with Ken, and we were going to do it at 3 in the afternoon,
local time, my local time. But Ken doesn't seem to be a round,
so hopefully nobody's ill or some other problem.
I've not heard from him at all, so I'm going to try and do this show myself
and hope that the end result will be appropriate to put up on
in Monday's slot, which is sitting there waiting for a show.
The way we normally do it, the weekend, and then we upload for Monday.
I have to say that things do with recording audio and me.
I've not gone too well recently, and I just fell down a hole I've never fallen down before.
I recorded an entire hour's worth of episode and went to look at the mumble.
I would use mumble to do it.
It's wondering if Ken was going to join me along the way.
I went to look at the end result, and it was completely empty.
A nice hour of silence.
I have no idea what happened there.
Not a clue.
See how we get on with number two.
Ken's had this, Ken's had this as well, I know, this type of thing.
It wasn't that I wasn't the president who pushed it up.
I know I was.
Good to see you, my lips light up and everything.
No, I'm doing this just using my recorder on an arm over my desk,
and I've got my two monitor set up, hopefully.
It's going to work this time.
I've got a cat here as well, I don't know if you can hear her.
So, we're looking at community news for April 2020.
Show number three or six.
Six is the one that you're going to be listening to.
And we've had one new host in the past month, and it's Dan Nixon.
We're going to look at a show that he sent in very soon.
So let's start by going through the shows.
This is what this episode is all about.
We review all of the shows that we've had in the past month.
And the first one, starting with episode three thousand and forty-three,
was from Archer seventy-two.
Short hand to the point episode entitled How I Record for HBR.
He's talking here about the tools hardware wise and software
that he uses and his methods for preparing episodes four HBR.
There was one comment to this.
He came from the lab bug.
He said bass and treble.
Thanks for this episode.
I love hearing how people record shows.
I might have to do one of these myself.
I'm curious as to why you retenuate the bass and treble by six decibels.
The final episode has a telephony feel to it.
We really possibly look at a hold of the original file before it's processed.
I'm not sure whether Archer seventy-two has seen this or whether there's been a transfer of files or whatever.
Dave of course is a perfectionist when it comes to audio processing.
So we could give some really good advice.
Next we have an episode from Mr. X,
which is entitled mock p snooze tip.
He uses mock p to play his...
I was going to say music but I think all podcasts and audiobooks.
But music is for all I know.
He likes to be able to run this setup in such a way that he...
It will play for a certain time and then we'll stop automatically.
He was describing how he does that.
And of course Mr. X has got a pair of radio headphones on.
So he's broadcasting to it from some fancy hardware he has.
Very interesting setup he has.
Next we have a hooker talking about OSS compliance with privacy by default and design.
He's talking here about the European data protection GDPR thing,
general data protection regulation and how companies need to be in compliance.
But what the effects are on the Fediverse.
When it was originally written with big companies in mind,
no real thought about privately run or open source Fediverse style things.
Very interesting.
Great notes as always on his personal site.
Then we had the community news which I was having audio problems with.
There's my notes on my software.
My microphone setup was all wrong.
And I sound as I was about a million miles away.
But anyway, there was a comment to that episode.
Maybe scrolling there probably.
Clack K said, first class ranting.
Thank you Ken for a forceful and enlightened rant on the archiving mentality.
The evergreen value of much knowledge and the need for self-contained show material.
I agree with not only the general sentiment but probably with every word said.
I'm glad you don't believe in editing things down.
So yeah, we always ask him to comments.
And there we go.
Next, Taj Saira offers us the result of his setup which is using mumble
and inviting people to come and join him with a joint discussion along similar lines
to the New Year show something where the subject is, well I guess general chat,
but around the subject of COVID-19.
It's called COVID-19 work from home stream and this is day one.
And on the show were honkimagoo CRVS Lyle.
It was next 1101 of years ago and Taj himself.
And it was really interesting.
I do enjoy this sort of thing.
40 minutes wasn't long enough for me.
Could have done with some more.
I'd like to hear about how Lyle got on making bread.
That's why he more about the bread making.
Very good, very cool show.
Next we had Clark 2 talking about alternatives to toilet paper under the health and health care banner.
He's saying that toilet paper is unavailable in many cases.
And there's a comment coming shortly as to why that might be.
But there's also being a lot of bulk buying with the idea of selling it to a premium I think
as with with other things.
But anyway he's talking about alternatives to toilet paper.
There's not a joke he says and contains no offensive language.
So he got a, got three comments to this.
The first one was from Nalo who says the affected episode.
I was playing on the sort of slight joke on the fact that
he was saying the affected area I think a lot.
Anyway he says toilet paper really is an odd invention.
I believe there was a time when it was first marketed that the public thought it vaguely is disgusting.
And as you suggest an unnecessary luxury.
One plausible explanation for the surge in toilet paper purchase is that in countries experiencing some form of lockdown
more people work at home.
Hence the demand from toilet paper moved from the office hall sale is to retail shops.
And the supply chain takes time to adapt.
In the meantime shelves will be empty.
Certainly heard that comment made elsewhere.
I dare say it's true.
Although the speculative hoarding stuff is definitely going on as well.
Nalo says there's a ruined Roman bathhouse near me situated on the inter-Nine war, Scotland.
It has a latrine and evidence suggests that they use moss to clean radio effectors.
Nice.
Bookworm says a word of caution.
I'm not a healthcare worker, nor do I play one on TV.
However I've worked in healthcare IT for 10 years.
The word of caution I would inject is in regards to the option of using a bare hand to clean the affected area.
I would say this is a last resort substitute due to potential health risks associated with it.
Hepatitis A is spread through fecal matter and food.
If one is not supremely careful, i.e. wash thoroughly more than a minute, then sanitize.
You can spread hepatitis A to yourself and you'll love to one very easily.
Fortunately hepatitis A is not fatal, mostly just uncomfortable, with mild fever that passes and diarrhea for up to 30 days or so.
Wow, that's pretty uncomfortable.
Tuterto says speaking of Romans, Romans also used Tersorium or Zylo Spongio, which is a sea sponge tied on a stick.
Those are in commonable use and just rinse in a bucket of water and vinegar in between the uses.
Also a big portion of humanity uses hands or rather a hand and water to clean themselves and actually consider using toilet paper,
and it's disgusting as it can't clean as well as water can.
Different cultures and all that.
Oh yeah, good comments.
I can say having spent a bit of time in the Far East, that a lot of the toilets there are merely holding the wall
and are hose piped with a, you can use to spray water or even a dip thing with a reservoir of water for cleaning.
And in fact the Western style toilets are seen as disgusting in many parts of that area.
I didn't take too kindly to it, but that's probably me being old and fussy and stuff.
And there's also the thing about you never pass anybody an item, particularly food, but any item using your left hand because people use their left hand to wipe themselves.
So it's seen as a, as a disgusting thing I guess.
It's obviously a mistake I made and then it's a really cold off for doing so.
Glad to tells us what computers taught him about reality in show called what computers taught me about reality.
And he, he's having a bit of a philosophical talk about computers and reality there, which I'm not entirely clear about to be honest.
It was never very good at understanding philosophical musings.
However, all about him. Next was Linux in laws series season one, episode four, and what's in a name is the title.
And they're talking about Linux in laws, which I'm just trying to read the notes here.
It's mainly sort of boilerplate stuff.
They talk about the legacy, its name, and introduced tech support from the dark side.
A new hotline helping politicians and other users in need of computer support to cope with reality.
Martin and Chris are talking about Linux outlaws and their legacy, I guess.
So, that's good.
Yeah, this, their tech support from the dark side was, was an interesting idea.
A hookah makes comment, great sketch, he says.
I love the sketch at the end, it was very funny and very creative. So, there you go.
Next was Taj doing day two of his COVID-19 work from home stream.
And he had honky McGoo on there with him, and they had a pretty good chat about all manner of things, politics and health care.
I could have done with the longer episode, I really could.
Honky, I think, was taking a break from work, and his phone connection was pretty awful.
So, I think he was struggling a bit.
So, it was really good to hear what was going on.
There's a comment on this one.
So, from Brian in Ohio, he comments, electoral college.
It's hard to believe a guy from Indiana would advocate the elimination of the electoral college.
You definitely would not need to vote if you live in Indiana, if there was no electoral college.
The US is not the democracy, it's a republic big difference.
Primaries and caucus system is a political party system and should not be confused with how presidents are elected.
One last thing, health insurance is not health care.
When you say universal health care, you're really saying universal health insurance.
You still have to fight an insurance company with universal health care.
Send lawyers, guns and money.
The SH blank bank has hit the phone.
Good show, entertaining.
Next was Ken show on in the series networking, where he's talking about locating computers on a network.
And he talks a lot about how you would find something like a Raspberry Pi that you've just connected to your network for the first time.
And it started up and been given an address by your router's DHCP.
How would you know what that address is?
There are ways that you could achieve it.
Other than actually having a keyboard and a monitor connected to it.
I certainly have been down this road, come up with some ways of doing it.
I think Ken's ways are more detailed.
And it's certainly the amount of information this show is spectacular.
You can learn a lot about how these things work.
The network works.
Very cool. I thought it was an excellent piece of work.
Some magnificent notes.
It talks about using in-map.
One solution.
And also mentions art scan.
Oh yes, I made a comment on this one.
Very useful, thanks I said.
Thanks for this.
I've struggled to find devices on my network in the past and eventually resorted using in-map, which I used to use at work years ago.
I used to be in charge of networking at one point.
But then somebody were able to go before me.
That wasn't part of my comment, that was just an aside.
I was not aware of art scan and I've just installed it.
It's very much more helpful when searching for that new pie just added to the network.
I've not noticed before that Raspberry Pi Foundation had become Raspberry Pi trading limited,
apparently with the arrival of the Pi 4 and that the MAC address base had changed then too.
So yeah, I kinda didn't point that out particularly, but I noticed in his listings and also in mind when I tried art scan.
Very good, excellent show.
Next we had the Audio Book Club, number 17.
And this was looking at reviewing the book Blood Witness by David Hitt.
And it's really nice to see the return of this show.
And I have to say it was lovely to hear 5150 again on this episode.
Really do miss having him around anymore.
They had some interesting things to say, but it doesn't sound like the sort of book I would be rushing to read or listen to.
But each to his own, they weren't fantastically supportive.
They weren't taking with it too much, shall we say.
But still, as I say, each to his own.
There was one comment from Lost in Bronx.
Welcome back to the Audio Book Club.
Really great to hear you guys once again.
HPR Audio Book Club has been missed.
Free Culture Audio Book Reviews Live.
He says, so that's good.
It's been, it has been a long time.
I don't know how long it's been since we last heard one of these, but it seems like a very, very long time.
It's good to hear it.
I'd love to know when this was recorded actually.
Did they say?
I didn't notice.
Next was a hooker with the show entitled Coronavirus Thoughts.
Where we are with this pandemic and how should we respond.
And the show notes, I think a hooker did his usual thing of putting in lots and lots and lots and lots of links and pointing at his notes on his own website.
Ken picked up those notes and attached them to the show, which I know hookers are happy with.
And it was really good to be able to read them along with his audio.
I enjoyed that.
And a number of comments.
First one was from Brian in Ohio.
Politics, he says.
It's a shame that a hooker takes a decent look at the pandemic.
And has to drag his form of left-wing politics into it.
Add hominem attacks make it feel good.
Don't add to the strength of your argument.
As far as chloroquine and its possibly usefulness in helping people recover from this disease,
he was linked to a national issue of health article about this drug.
And then it gives a link dated 2005.
This drug may be useful, but people with politics are getting the way I've seen that.
Who's rational?
Lastly, it's easy for pensions to stay at home.
To say stay at home, definitely.
Some of us need to go out and work.
There are many jobs you can't do from the comfort of your home in your pajamas.
Poverty is bigger killer than any pandemic.
The chloroquine hydroxychloroquine issue.
I think it's brought up in a moment.
But yeah, hydroxychloroquine is used in other contexts.
Is that the one that's used for people with lupus?
I don't remember.
Tell for tendists, it gives comment.
Freedom governments are governance and pandemic.
I prefer free software because I like freedom to do things I want to do and live the life I want to live.
He's an excellent podcast discussion of these rather difficult questions.
It makes reference to something from Alex Epstein.com.
You can download and listen about copy protection.
There are no advertisements.
However, be aware that the above podcast is not under CC license, but linking should be fine.
They take a somewhat hyper rational approach to the issues.
Some people might prefer an emotional perspective, but even if you disagree with their conclusions,
at least consider the way they methodically work through the key points.
Economics is about deciding the allocation of precious scarce resources,
and inevitably this must involve a trade-off, very similar to engineering.
What is happening right now is that the lives and livelihoods of young people
are being sliced away for the benefit of the older demographic.
It's about this ethical dilemma.
Very few of the commentators are willing to even give the slightest recognition of those being sacrificed.
Only those people who start with the understanding that a trade-off is involved
are genuinely engaging with the problem.
Brown and Ohio comments again, clarification.
Chloroquine is different from hydroxychloroquine.
My mistake.
There are medicine that can help people own immune system get through this,
and many other diseases.
Waiting for a vaccine is untenable for us all.
We will all end up in the economic toilet.
Her immunity is what we need.
Let's get going.
If you're at risk, hang back, six feet or two meters,
and let the risk take to get out there and pick up the pieces.
The hooker says herd immunity.
Her immunity is wonderful, and it's why vaccination is so important.
When we have a vaccine, and most common estimate I've seen is 18 months old on that one,
when we ramp up production and get it out to over 300 million Americans,
we'll be in a much better place.
Next is a hooker talking about a show about advice to new Fediverse administrators and developers,
and he's talking about...
It's a talk from the 2019 Activity Pop Conference,
and he's talking about peer tube, which is an alternative for YouTube,
and mobile is on.
Strange name.
An alternative for Facebook events.
I don't know what Facebook events is.
I've kept well clear of Facebook personally, but still.
Good.
Next was an operator,
with talk about Jitsy.
I think he's talking about installing it on a...
on his own server.
I found the study right.
I might have missed that a bit.
Anyway, Jitsy is pretty good application as far as I can make it.
I've just recently used it myself.
Friend and I were having a chat using it, and we could sew back.
And we use Jitsy meeting.
Jitsy meeting, is it?
I'm not sure what it's name is, but it's just case of multiple browsers connecting together,
presumably from their free server.
Operators talk about this.
It was interesting.
He got seven comments.
First one was from Huka.
Very timely, he says.
I was thinking about checking out Jitsy.
So this was a welcome find in my feed.
Thanks for doing this.
Half hat says,
Why talk about Jitsy?
I was wondering if I'm expected to listen to a podcast.
The first minute or so is the presenter explaining how they don't know much about what they're talking about.
What they are about to talk about.
It seems to listen as time isn't being respected.
Just me says,
I really enjoyed this episode.
As Jitsy seems to be making the rounds coming out on top of the open source alternative to Zoom.
This was really interesting and made me want to play around with it.
Thank you very much.
Mike Ray comments,
Why talk about Jitsy?
He's replying to the earlier comment.
To the person moaning about having to listen to or being expected to listen to a podcast about Jitsy,
in which those first says he doesn't know a lot about Jitsy.
I think HPM might not be what you're looking for.
And you need to learn where the delete or skip button is.
In the few shows I've done for HPR, I've always been very conscious that there are inevitably people out there who know more than I do about what I'm talking about.
Why don't you do a show about something and show us all just how smart you are?
The hooker says,
Why listen?
Why indeed should anyone listen to an episode of HPR?
The only answer I have is because it's of interest to you.
I think of HPR as a party with a bunch of friends, not as a college curriculum.
I listen to the ones I want.
The ones I want to listen to skip the ones I don't.
I'm not in the least bothered to think that there are people out there who don't want to listen to my shows.
Mike Ray again.
Read why listen.
These days I probably only listened to about 10% of episodes.
I don't know why this is compared to the near 100%.
I don't know why this is.
Compared to the near 100% I listen to when I first found HPR.
It's probably because I arrived at a peak right slap in the middle of the legendary hooker,
the office series,
exactly when I needed a leg up doing spreadsheets.
And also around that time, Class 2 and Dave were doing a lot more.
But at no time have I complained about any episode.
My mother used to tell us if you can't send anything nice, keep your mouth shut.
Nowadays I don't do any podcasts here because I become too conscious that there will be listeners
who know more about what I'm talking about than I do.
But comments like the one criticizing operator for starting his cast by saying he knows little about the subject.
He's not exactly encouraging to others, is it?
CRBS comments.
Read why listen.
Because by telling you that he doesn't know much about Jits,
the operator has invited you or anyone else out there to do a follow-up show if you happen to know more.
I recommend.
And Tutoto does a show next, formal verification with COQ.
And this is an interactive theorem prove which comes to its own programming language in Galena.
So he's talking about an example where you might want to write a function that calculates the blood type
resulting from a crossing of gene alleles.
And he talks about how you would do this.
So you can say things like the alleles types are type A type B type O.
And then the blood types are AB, AB and O.
And then the mapping between them.
Yeah, he points out that if the two alleles are type O,
then you get type O which is why it's the rarest blood type.
So you can state theorems about the code where you can say the type O and the type O gives you type O.
And thereby prove it.
So it is complicated.
But it's quite interesting, I found it's quite fascinating.
You can use this to emit Haskell code in which the data types of blood type O and blood type are declared.
And then code is generated to take blood type A and B and then produce the result of whatever variable saying B happened to contain.
I've done that justice.
I find this quite fascinating.
I don't really see any need to do this, but I found it's partly because this is a biological thing.
It's a biologist before I got into computers, as I'm sure I've said before.
But it was most intriguing, I've found this to be a fascinating show.
Day three of COVID-19 work from home stream was next.
And the list of people who are on it are not in the notes.
And the date is weird.
20-03-02, 2020-03-02.
That can't be right.
Surely it was the 20th of March.
This was on.
Anyway, whatever.
Should have spotted that at the time of the last.
Tad to walk if that was right.
But it was on it.
I made a note of this because I was listening to Dave Lee, Caroline Lee, and Ken Balamzon, later John Spriggs joined.
Then they left and honky McGuin CRBS arrived.
And honky's connection is awful, I wrote here.
And later, a visit from KDG, the Norwegian guy who's been on the community news from time to time,
because he hangs out on mumble from time to time and joins in spontaneously.
And then we had Taj and then K Wysher joined, which was good.
I wish there were more of those, actually.
I wish there were more of these episodes.
So this was one hour, 41 minutes.
And I enjoyed it.
It's like the new year's stuff, the new year's show.
It's as fancy and tender.
But yeah, I do rather enjoy it this time of show.
A few other people do too.
So next, quick introduction to SnapCast from our new host, Dan Nixon.
So when I saw this, I first think it's Snap.
I read it as SnapCraft, which is all about snaps and things.
SnapCast is something I've never heard of before,
but it's a sound and audio thing that gives you a sonos-like capability
that can play in multiple locations.
So your music can be playing wherever you wander about in your house.
That was as much as I got from it.
But it sounded like something well worth digging into in a bit more detail.
Yeah, it could have done a lot more information.
It was four minutes long, four, five minutes long.
I would have been happy to have a bit more to be honest with you.
Still, it was a great first show.
Thank you very much for that, Dan Nixon.
Thank you very much for your comments.
Thanks for the introduction.
It sounds like a various, like, it, it, it, it, it, it.
This sounds like very useful software.
Thanks for the introductory episode.
So I'm looking forward to more from Dan Nixon.
Next, we had Ken doing another quite detailed show
about setting up the local IMAP server.
And Ken has got his mail.
All of his mail, apparently,
copied to a mail doer structure.
And he's running an courier IMAP demon,
which accesses this so he could then point mail clients at it
and go and put around with his, with his mail.
And judging from what he says that he's, he's grabbing mail of various systems
that, and, and copying into this mail doer structure.
I knew, not, not quite clear about how he does that.
I was hoping he's going to be on, and I could quiz him more about it
from his landies top.
Anyway, I find this most interesting.
It's something I really like to set up myself,
because it basically means all of your mail is in one place
and can be scanned, as he says,
find and set an organ grapons over to find stuff.
I have done this in the past, or something similar to it,
having mail coming into one point,
and then being accessible from that point.
But I didn't do it like this.
So this is, this is quite nice, actually.
Something I'd quite like to build, build upon.
I have got a lot of mailboxes, and I use one,
MUA1 message, one, um, mail.
Use that agent to access it all,
using IMAP and pop and stuff.
And, uh, it would be very cool if, instead of it keeping it all,
and it's own, this is Thunderbird, in its own weird format,
that I could put it all somewhere where,
could be accessed, again, using Thunderbird,
but using the demon pointing out the milder thing,
because milder is cool.
I don't know, anyway.
Shouldn't, uh, whitter on, but things to, to get done.
Um, next we had a show from operator,
where he is interviewing his friend Mike Ivey.
They're talking about limiting children's access to dangerous
or disturbing things on the internet,
and, uh, implementing this type of thing at home.
Very interesting.
I enjoyed this discussion.
Mike Ivey sounded like a most interesting person,
like to hear more, uh, that is what he has to say.
Next was Clacker, doing a show we haven't heard from,
Clacker, much in recent, recent times,
and he was talking about Vassal,
which is a thing for playing, um,
board games while remote.
Vassal is the tool, Vassal Engine,
is the tool which lets you get access to various games,
which are compatible with it, presumably,
um, and they played Carcasson,
and, um, this was Clacker, a friend,
and a stranger who opened to join in with them.
And so it was quite a successful game that they,
that they played together.
I'm interested, I don't know the such things existed,
but there you go.
Then, there was this geezer.
Then there was me doing a show,
entirely pens pencil, paper, and ink.
Number one, because I had a lot to say,
and I wanted to just split them into multiple shows,
so I didn't bore people for too long.
Um, this was, how long was this?
This was about 15 minutes long.
The thing is, I'm really quite enthusiastic
about things related to pens and paper
and pencils and stationery stuff,
and how it always had been ever since I was a kid.
I think I got it from my father,
I think I said this before,
he was also very much into this thing.
He was, he was very easy to buy presents,
because he just bought him something cool
in the stationery line, he was very happy.
He was also quite keen on writing and drawing
and doodling and that sort of thing.
My son's also like this, he enjoys writing.
My daughter writes really nicely,
and she's also likes to draw.
So she's got a lot of drawing type pens and pencils,
and I pad with a stylus and all that sort of good stuff.
So the reason I'm doing this is because
I know there are other people out there
who have similar enthusiasm.
I just wondered if there were many more
in the HPR community,
so I thought I would do a few shows
about some of the pens that I have acquired
since 2006 when I last did one of these.
So judging by the comments,
I don't know, and there's no,
but you know, his feedback is a strange thing.
Next was Archer 72,
doing an intriguing show about how he got started
in electronics and done jobs in that area.
He put some pictures in which he was intriguing.
I love shows with pictures and he talks about
some of the jobs he's had in this sort of general area.
But he was into model,
model electric trains and all this sort of thing.
Quite cool actually, yeah, yeah.
Nice subject for a show.
So that's it, that's all of the shows.
There are a few comments that relate to earlier
earlier episodes.
So I'm going to look at those now.
They're actually four,
but we covered one of those last month
because it came in just before the show.
So I'm going to cover that one.
We have actually three comments from Clackett.
First one was on Claudio Miranda's episode on PyCore
on Raspberry Pi 1 Model B.
And Clackett says,
really tiny-core maintainer name.
I've never used tiny-core in this,
but years of listening to Linux,
I was probably have still taught me the name
of its maintainer by heart
because it's the most bond-villain maintainer name ever.
And you have to adopt a Sean Connery voice.
Do this.
Schringleau-decker.
Yes.
I remember that.
I do remember the Linux Atlas.
It did some great stuff.
Miss him.
Next comment is on the same show from Clackett.
And he says,
particularly tiny really.
On a more relevant note,
I love these minimalist approaches.
Friendswear is by Portius,
but that's still 300 megabytes.
Tiny by most standards,
but wouldn't fit on your card.
I think it's worth mentioning that while you said
it left a few megabytes on your card,
the core of the capital C is a mere 11 megabytes.
You tried for the longest time to keep it
low 10 megabytes.
I had to break the barrier,
but 10 years ago.
Still, the only distro that fits in an email.
It's my only face.
That's a thought.
I hadn't heard of NALO BSD before.
Thanks for bringing it up.
Clackett.
Also, Clackett also comments on
show 3034 from Taj Sara.
Had to bridge 300 RSC.
Everyone's a Matrix.org.
And he says,
App Service IRC.
Or cool.
And I was using Matrix plus IRC before.
Unauthenticated.
Free node was still OK.
But now, I know what to do
if I start using Matrix again.
I've been using XMPP and Bibumi,
but I didn't host my own.
And the hosted ones have not been reliable.
I miss IRC,
so I may come back to Matrix soon.
So that's all the comments.
There's nothing to be said about.
Nothing to be said on the mailing list,
but from my message,
it said we're having a recording this show now.
Oh no, not now,
but three o'clock in the afternoon,
but that didn't work,
because Ken didn't make it.
And so there's nothing else there.
The events calendar,
not much point into looking at that,
because it's all cancellations
or online events.
I'd like to know more about how people
are managing online conferences,
and how well they work.
But that's not much I can add to that,
just at the moment.
Final then.
Final thing is the any other business,
tags and summaries.
We've had 17 shows updated in the past month,
and the major contributor was
Windigo who contributed 15,
updated 15 shows I did two.
So thank you, Windigo,
for your sterling efforts there.
I'll try and do better next time.
So that's pretty much it.
There's nothing else that we can,
we need to talk about this week.
Ken is okay,
and we hear from him soon.
I'm going to sign off now,
and I'm not going to sing,
and you know a bit you're listening to,
I could probably radio,
and there's only me to tell you,
so no point in doing that.
So whatever,
hope you enjoyed it.
Hope it wasn't too tedious.
Just this one geezer,
witchering on,
but thanks for listening if you did.
Okay then,
bye-bye.
Music
You've been listening to Heckup Public Radio
at Heckup Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday,
Monday through Friday.
Today's show,
like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener
like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Heckup Public Radio was founded
by the Digital Dog Pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and it's part of the binary revolution
at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released
under Creative Commons,
Attribution,
ShareLife,
3.0 license.
Music
