Episode: 3156
Title: HPR3156: HPR Community News for August 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3156/hpr3156.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:58:29

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3156 for Monday 7 September 2020. Today's show is entitled
HPR Community News for August 2020
and is part of the series HPR Community News. It is the 170th anniversary show of HPR volunteers,
and is about 70 minutes long and carries an explicit flag. The summary is,
HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments dosed in August 2020.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com,
get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15,
that's HPR15, better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon, and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio Community News. This time, it's August 2020. Join me live from our Hacker Public Radio Towers,
in Edinburgh, is it? Northern studio, yeah, in order to feel the pangs.
Yes, it's Dave Morris. Hello everybody, hello.
So, HPR is Community Podcast Network. No, it's not a Community Podcast Network anymore,
it's just a Community Podcast full stop where a podcast that's contributed to by the community.
There we go, and that means every episode from Monday to Friday is submitted by a listener very much,
indeed, like you yourself. And this month, we already had the traditional summer panic where we didn't have enough shows,
but thankfully our regular hosts jumped into the breach as ever. But remember folks, we don't want to be having the likes of a hookah
and that Dave Morris guy and tattoo taking over this network. No, you need to stick your ground.
You need to come aboard with your show and submit it to HPR.
Every page has an upload button at all you need to do is press this show is put on once a month. It's open to anybody.
We do it now Saturday afternoon, Saturday afternoon UK time, I guess.
UTC in order that we can have a life.
And as always, Dave will welcome our new hosts.
Yes, we have one new host this month to announce and that's Cedric DeVroy.
Yes.
I did get the pronunciation right.
Yes.
Who are you asking, Dave?
Mr. I will butcher your name, fellas.
If Cedric had got it wrong, tell me.
Yes, and poor old Cedric fell into the old trap of telling me that he was going to do shows.
And now he officially owes me those shows.
So, yeah, it's tough.
It's a new mistake there, Dave.
Well, he stepped up, he's too so far.
He's done too so far, so this is great.
So, initial, what we'd like to do is make sure that everybody gets at least some feedback on the shows that have been submitted in the previous months.
So that quite a lot of the time people, I know myself, you're out in the in the garden or back in the days when we used to travel places.
You would be just too busy to get on your feedback, but you would be nodding.
Oh, that was a great episode.
And then the following day there's another episode and you forget to leave feedback.
So that's what the purpose of this episode is to make sure that everybody gets some feedback.
And it's, I don't think we've had a bad show yet, Dave.
I would say not.
Well, that one with the, I was going to say that one with the earbud, not your thing that I did to bring down the tempo one time.
But I still use that so much.
It's brilliant.
Yes, it had its own character and quality, I think.
And I triggered a, a few other tactile shows that really did this job.
Okay, so let's start with reviewing the community news show itself, which is the one from last month.
And there was only one comment.
So we're written as controversial as we should have been.
Do you want to do that or shall I?
I'll do it.
Okay, it's from them for two.
I've learned much and I'd like to share much as well.
It seems I've gotten most of the comments on my show of anyone here in HBO for quite a long time.
At first, they came after me for my show notes.
When that didn't work, they switched to attacking my titles.
I ignored that as well.
Finally, they are referencing me on other people's shows now.
Here's your three, one, three, seven.
A hookah has a comment from one of his viewers and he's addressed it to me, so I'm floater too.
And there's a squirrel who lives in magical forest, I pondered.
How could I address this to a human being?
Why would he ask me about what I thought about a hookah show?
A hookah got only one negative comment on this show.
And a hookah called the people who didn't follow his narrative stupid idiots.
I'm guessing from the commentary.
Study my work hookah and you get more negative comments over time.
I'm a firm believer that if you do, you too can have the most of the HBO audience out there for your blood.
And I'll never understand why humans would care about other humans not taking some vaccine.
It clearly makes no sense and forces me to climb up a tree sometimes to get away from the humans.
Thank you everybody.
That's from Zimplotor 2, who right now is very busy.
Presuming he lives in the Northern Hemisphere out there squaring away knots for the coming winter.
Yes, yes, yes.
I couldn't see that comment because I hadn't refreshed the episode because it'd been sat here waiting for this day since last month.
So I just shot myself in the foot rather effectively, didn't I?
No worries, but that will make some more sense later on when we go to the next show.
So not the next show when we hit that show.
Keeping track of where I am, how to keep track of where I am by Mr X.
And this one has spawned a few shows basically how he manages his podcast listening.
And I was actually thinking of doing one of these ones as well because they're.
They're bringing people out of the cupboards and that's what we like to hear show that triggers other shows.
So there are many ways of doing this and it's really fascinating to see how people solve that problem.
So yeah, it's a great idea, I think it's brilliant.
So the next one was quick tips using MPV with your YouTube links.
And MPV is the replacer to embler and I use it all the time.
It's brilliant. I also use on the Raspberry Pi.
Very, very nice player allows you to fast forward and reverse.
Also, you can go one frame at a time with the dot and you can go one frame back with the comma.
Did you know that did?
I did not. No, no, I don't I don't do this sort of thing.
I just watch things, you know, on on the website and stuff.
There you go. I use the opening in front of me here.
I use that a lot for watching YouTube videos, you know, where they put up the flashcards, you know, one single eye frame in between.
Just bugs me not knowing what it was.
So and then you have to rewind and try and pause and rewind and try and pause.
But with this, you can go back or be it slowly one frame.
It's technically from a video play point of view.
It's always easier to go ahead one rather than go back one.
So going back is always going to be more intensive, the process or intensive than going forward.
But it's a it's a cool thing that they do.
But this show was about how you would use MPV use in YouTube links.
And I think I did a show about how I download all my movies.
One time I got hit with a warning from work that I was watching to or that I downloaded too much stuff on my phone.
And then I put in a system to download the movies onto my phone for offline view.
Yeah, that's kind of cool.
But this one has got like Excel and stuff.
A lot of the old a lot of tricks actually.
But I don't think I would be willing to sacrifice VLC for this though.
No, I can't really say because I've not tried them.
So yeah, but interesting.
More as always pointers to things that I don't know.
So it's always good to have.
Yep, no comments on that show as such.
Tomorrow, on 2020, Daniel Pearson's.
Through this one in about going virtual in a having an event virtually.
And the work that they're doing on sulfur in order to improve this one.
And this has got two comments.
So I do the please.
Father Finch says great energy.
Hey, Daniel.
Great energy in this podcast.
I generally don't like live music.
That's not exactly true.
I enjoy live recordings of music, but rarely do I enjoy attending the shows.
This episode peaked my interest in checking out some of the virtual shows.
I appreciate your contribution.
Thank you for sharing your experience.
Father Finch.
And Katnobot replied.
TM L 2020.
Hey, Daniel.
That was kind of cool.
Just wanted to reach out since I'm a fan of the HP or podcast.
I just heard your review on the TM L festival.
Thank you very much for the nice view.
And I'm glad you loved the show.
We worked very hard on it to make it like this.
I worked in cybersecurity and of the operation, mostly monitoring for illegal streams, regards.
Cedric.
Cedric.
Shows, please.
Thank you.
Daniel.
Can you contact Cedric and arrange an interview?
Thank you.
Yeah, exciting stuff.
Awesome.
The need to do things virtually has really stretched people's inventiveness
to any extent.
And it's very impressive.
Some of the stuff that's going on.
It's just frustration for me for years to have this.
I've been saying, I've been saying in work where I work.
Okay.
The views expressed here do not necessarily represent those in my work.
Okay.
That there should be more done for that.
I can't really see how we think more enough.
Let's move on.
Yeah.
But it was great.
It was frustrating, Dave.
I went and looked at the, followed the links and had a little bit of a look around.
And it looked really amazing.
I didn't realize my kid to, my son particularly is a bit of a musician.
I'd heard of Tomorrowland and didn't realize it was virtual.
And he was looking over my shoulder at what, what was available there was most impressed.
Pretty cool, all right.
Okay.
Shall we move on?
Yes.
Yes.
Quick tips for May 2020.
Bluetooth.
How would you say that?
Car.
Car seats.
Car seats.
I was going to car seats.
Car seats, tweezers and waffles.
Car seats.
And this is a operator talks about Bluetooth.
We can put it in the van in the moon, but we can't make a car seat that doesn't make me want to murder people when I try to move it.
Been there to that.
How to sharpen those tweezers and waffles.
No comments?
Any comments from you?
Let me just check my notes.
Yeah.
I did like his idea of the food one, obviously, it was the one that really stuck.
I had to make in tons of these things and freeze them.
I've never actually done that.
It's quite, it's one of those things is obvious when somebody points it out.
But I must just give that a shot because there's hungry man around here from time to time.
So that was fun.
Yeah.
Very cool.
I really like these ideas of operator.
You just keep them coming.
Yeah.
He's sort of got a bucket of these things that he chucks them into every so often.
And then send them in.
That's a great idea.
I do appreciate you doing that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It took me a while to figure out what was going on, but now that we know what's going on.
It's like, and now something completely different.
Probably could do with just an interstation.
You know, fast forward or those Scooby-Doo.
Transitions, but other than that brilliant love them.
Matchbox restoration.
Yes.
This is Tony restoring the car from, yeah, from scratch, just basically cleaning it up.
A little model.
And when I think I used to guess I had a lot of these, and they were usually very secondhand
by the time I got them, you know, I would have done already all that now.
Probably.
Probably some landfill somewhere.
Oh, I don't see you there or a bug hole somewhere.
I can do it is before that was politically incorrect.
That's a shame.
But yeah, this is a Jaguar.
Old fashioned Jaguar.
I think it's really, really, really lovely at the end.
Yeah.
Is this the last one or the last one in that series or is there more?
This is the last one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So yes.
It's been a struggle.
As far as the pictures are concerned, I should say, because I had to invent a way of taking
the pictures and automating, sticking them in the show.
But it's worth it.
From my point of view, I'm glad I did it.
It was an interesting challenge as well.
So hopefully, I was thinking about that.
There is a way in some markdowns to include images as a model.
I do that.
I do that.
I do that.
No, it was more that here's a bunch of stuff just arrived.
How do we work out which is where and put them in order?
And how do we check see whether they should be found?
There are emails with pictures behind them or not.
And how do we then stitch them into the show, into the notes, I mean, in relatively logical
ways without a lot of effort, you know?
Yeah.
Exactly.
That was where I was coming from.
I don't want to comment too much on that because I happen to know you and Mr. X discussed
that later on.
And we can, we can, we can, we can discuss that next month, I think.
So, yes.
Coronavirus updates.
There we go.
And what could we controversial about that?
Where Ahuka gives us an update on the pandemic.
And Brian and Ohio has said some smart people may not take a vaccine.
My son-in-law had Gillian Barry syndrome when he was a child and now cannot take vaccines.
So, not all people would respond to a survey with, would you take a vaccine?
Yes or no, our stupid.
Also, 70% immunization rate would achieve this mystical state of herd immunity.
Lastly, why is the US distance six feet and others in the Netherlands one and a half feet?
Where is the science and any of this?
I wish Ahuka would be less dispiriting of people with different opinions,
calling people stupid, diminishes what he had to say.
What do you think it's central or hence, central or she's coming to?
Yes.
So, Ahuka says, why it matters.
I'm sorry your son got Guillain Barry syndrome.
Of course, it means he's not a candidate to get vaccination but that's precisely why it's so important.
The people who are physically capable got the vaccine because we don't want him to die of COVID-19 either.
But him it's other people's vaccination that provide protection.
The six feet rule is an approximation based on research and to have virus laid
and droplets will move when people are engaged in normal speech and similar activities.
If people are doing something like singing or exercising where they are breathing heavily,
six feet may be too close.
Okay.
Zem Flos or two, comments from the forest, the squirrel of the magical forest.
I most agree with you that COVID-19 has proven to cause damage to heart lungs, liver kidneys and even brain damage.
I think the part that I don't understand was your comment about watching some video that you admit doctors would not endorse or watch.
Clearly the medical community is divided on all the stuff,
which is not siding with World Health Organization, have been banned from Twitter and Facebook,
have their videos taken on YouTube, thus making these corporate entity rulers of the truth.
In fact, they are on accountable rulers of the truth.
If you're a physicist in this world and you disagree with Einstein in any way, express a belief in UFOs
or sometimes even show a realism for some of the things shows in Star Trek episodes,
you are shown the door.
Community will 100% throw you out the door.
There is nothing to debate over there.
But with COVID-19 that's absolutely not cut and dry,
there are no definite statements from anyone on COVID-19 as you pointed out
that they've already proven some of the statements made about some of the treatments
been talked about have been proven to be wrong and biased.
Part of the blame lies with bad record keeping.
Hospitals will take an automatic one, 12k from every COVID-19 patient they log in the system
and therefore just everybody had COVID-19 damage even if you had a terminal cancer
where hospice before you in type of things started,
they filed you as COVID-19 death.
Great Britain has recently admitted that they discovered the same thing happened over there
and thus their statistics and rubber keeping have been badly skewed.
We do not know about the 200k Americans that have in fact died from COVID-19 this year.
So far the data on deaths recorded every year in the United States is very so widely
over the past 50 years.
It's truthfully uncertain how many were attributed to COVID-19 more in the next chapter.
You do skeptical A, please?
Skeptical, excuse me.
Skeptical A says, condescending.
Too bad that everyone who isn't as brainwashed as you is stupid.
This is clearly overhyped and playing on people's fierce financial gain.
A man could died due to a pacemaker failure in the hospital listed
coronavirus in order to collect their check.
This became obvious.
But hey, what do I know? I'm probably stupid.
Bob says, fact check on one of your claims.
The UK did in lower their records by 5,000.
However, the reason was not bad.
Reckoning as claimed above was the same floater to one.
In England, the tally included anyone who has tested positive for COVID-19
and later died with no cutoff point between the positive test and death.
While Scotland only counts deaths that occur within 28 days of a positive test.
The official statement is there.
Classifications should be done as follows.
A death due to COVID-19 is defined for surveillance purposes as a death resulting
from a clinically compatible illness in a probable or confirmed COVID-19 case.
Unless there is a clear alternative calls for death that cannot be related to COVID-19 disease trauma.
And that's from the World Health Organization.
And that one is how everybody is supposed to register that that's all countries.
Whether the do or not is another question, of course.
Okay.
Brennan Ohio says, sympathy.
I wasn't looking for sympathy.
I was hoping you would see that falling into using pejorative statements
is exactly the cause of so many problems between people.
Using the word stupid stops the conversation.
That was my point.
And actually a very good point.
I had another listen to that episode myself and contacted a hookah about it.
So, but find a hookah comments clarification regarding the six foot distance of speculation.
I should have been clearer that this is a recommendation for when you were outdoors.
There is no such thing as a safe distance.
If you are indoors with somebody who has the disease.
If you are there for long, you will get the disease.
Then there are two links.
I'll just do them.
Zemfloater 2 sent detailed research of the COVID report, which was interesting.
And anonymous sent in conspiracy theories last week tonight by John Oliver.
So, those two videos are available on the interwebs.
Okay.
Probably enough said about that.
Shall we move on?
Indeed.
Indeed.
Linux in laws.
Reminiscing it plus weekly.
This is where the guys interview Simon Fipps or not Simon Fipps, but interview.
Random sports.
Yes.
Yes.
A hookah says, excellent interview.
I really enjoyed the interview with Randall Schwartz.
More of this would be great.
Claudio M says, agree with the hookah, great interview.
Fantastic interview with Randall.
I also thought the floss weekly transition was rather abrupt and also wondered what happened.
I also had no idea there was anything on their blog, especially after having conducted web searches right after it happened.
Great to hear from him again and the things he's working on going forward.
Brian and Ohio says, follow up question.
You guys missed a great opportunity.
The art of follow up question is dead when Randall said it was on the blog why he got fired by Leo.
You should have asked for those who don't follow the tweet blog.
Could you recap the events that led you to be shown to the door at Twitter?
Here's a link to the blog post and it's useless.
Leo's terrible tweet is is long dead.
Long live monster be antit radio.
Yeah, I'll do the anonymous listeners says volume.
Another great episode, but Martin, for the love of grace, will you please speak up?
You're always so quiet and mumbly.
I can't hear you unless I turn my volume way up.
Then Chris comes back on and blows up my eardrums and I until I turn it back down again.
Perhaps you could record each record on separate audio channels and then equalize the volume in person.
Thanks for the show.
Keep up the good work.
An anonymous sister.
I could not agree with you more.
I found it so frustrating.
I've said this said as much to you.
It's really, really, really had.
How do you put it?
Rob has sent in a diagram which does not come through in the comments because we don't accept HTML.
He just came through as a big blow of hashes.
I tried to make some sense out of it, but even I couldn't fight with the comments.
The point of it was that he does a diagram of Martin speaking, which is very, very tiny noises followed by...
The monochromic goes...
Loud!
Which is very true.
It's a great idea as a diagram.
Our comment system doesn't really work.
You know that I don't comment on people's audio as long as it's audible, but Martin's audio is not audible.
The guys really have to work on their audio.
You have to work on your audio, guys.
It's bad.
Yeah.
It cannot hear Martin.
It smacks of Martin being too far away from the microphone and turning around or from it.
You know, it's in one position and he's sort of moving his head side to side or something or moving around the room or something.
I don't know.
I don't know, but that's what it feels like.
It cannot hear it.
It is inaudible.
It feels the main requirement of HDR.
It just has to be audible.
Okay, guys.
Hopefully.
I don't know how many they have in the bag and hopefully they'll eventually address it.
MIDI CISX.
This was an interesting one about the MIDI spec from Clatu.
Another thing Clatu does, you know, famous author, actor, producer, D&D, Dungeon Master.
No, he's in the magician.
Yes, he's a magician probably.
But he's a magician as well.
Yes.
Go ahead, Clatu.
Be even more brilliant.
You do, Brian?
Yeah, Brian and Ohio says the voice.
The intro voice for that show was the best.
How has it done?
And I ruined it by saying it was one of the Google text-to-speech's ones.
And it was added as part of the show upload process.
Yeah, because of the e-speak thing, I was putting different ones on trial.
And during an update to GTTS, CLI, for some reason, it picked the standard voice changed.
So some of the episodes have this new voice.
Some don't.
Okay.
It sounded good.
Yeah, it did sound good.
Yeah.
The main problem I have with those voices is that the phrasing is very odd.
There's all sorts of pauses in odd places.
And it's just so irritating when I smack it.
And unfortunately, by the time I spot that, I have gone back
and refixed some of them.
But it became the most difficult to re-speak.
I'm just prefer to go back to e-speak.
People here, to e-speak.
Don't ride in, Mike.
I love e-speak.
I like it.
Yeah, I like it.
I'm fine with it.
Yeah.
I listen to more e-speak over the day than I do my wife to be honest.
She speaks, talks to me the whole day through.
Okay.
Anyway, Dim selection tools was another show by a hooker in the Dim series.
Awesome.
And this basically shows how the selection tools work.
Easy peasy, lemon squeezy.
No, it's good.
This is good.
It's just like the labour office stuff.
I use and know these things.
But then hooker comes along and points out things.
I didn't have a clue.
It just, you know, it lifts up corners and says, look at that.
Oh, I didn't even know it was there.
Yeah.
That's wonderful.
Absolutely great.
That's brilliant.
Following day, Clatou, lessons learned from magic, the gathering game design.
And this is a fascinating show that I listen to on my way into town to pick up some stuff.
And I never thought that I would find this interesting.
But there you go.
It is.
Yeah, it's quite intriguing how you would design or redesign games of this sort.
And yeah, talking about Blackjack and Monopoly as he was.
These are two games that I guess most people will know I certainly do.
And how you could go in there and hack them.
It's really quite a cool idea, yeah.
And the following day, same trip to town, by the way, TST, the C shell, I think it's called T C S H.
Well, C S H is usually called the C shell.
I don't know where the T stands for, but yeah, could be from there.
That was good even sir.
This was an interesting look at shells in general.
You know, we all, a lot of people default to the generic bash shell.
And this was a reminiscing on other different types of shells that were out there.
Always nice tattoos.
Yeah, I listen to this.
I have, I have a history with, with this shell.
We had 50 or so unit work stations, long story about why we got a motel it one day.
We didn't really want them, but somebody senior said we had to, we had to be deploying these.
So they, they came with altrix on them and altrix at that time only had C S H and T C S H.
And S H, which was very early Vaughn Shell stuff.
And I just, we can't, came to really detest T C S H.
I just, but I'll, I'll probably talk about it in some stage.
But I looked, I was thinking about this as, as I was listening to the show thinking,
should I comment on this to Clanty?
Because it sounds like a criticism and it isn't.
I'm sure there are factors in here that, but, but he enjoys and can argue as to why they're, they're great.
And I didn't like them.
And I probably couldn't argue as to why not.
I just ended up keeping it for, for irrational reasons.
So, you know, it's, it's, it's more my mental statement than anything practical, you know.
You can have that with stuff I had, I had that about one of the tones in the Netherlands.
I was going there because when I used to work in Ireland and come over, I hit the town just a dinner time and dinner time in the Netherlands.
Everybody's gone home, so there wasn't ever anybody around us.
It was always weird and meant me uncomfortable.
And then a few year, you know, 15 years later, then I arrived down during daytime.
Lovely city with, you know, you know, people pushing brands and people greeting each other in the street.
And it's just like a beautiful flowers of blooming and kids were playing football and all sorts of things.
You can be biased against a thing or a place for rational reasons.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, at the same time, I was trying to learn TCS H and Ultrix.
I was also managing a VMS, VMS cluster, which uses a completely different approach to command line stuff.
And it must have been some sort of balance between the two as well.
I can be up anywhere.
I'm making excuses for why I have a rational one.
I'm just like somebody was mentioning BMS cluster as well recently.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
I want to talk about that at some stage.
Yeah.
I spent about, what would it have been, about 10, 10, 12 years, managing open VMS.
So I was regarded as something of an expert, but I can't tell you a bug or all about it.
I did.
We had it in the first place.
I worked all I know where I was thinking about it.
Tatoo had a show on Gnu World Order about the reached Joe's own shell.
And I remember back in college, one of our lectures, Joe had organized a sort of mini mainframe for us.
And he ran Joe, Joe as editor.
And he was really chuffed that he got this.
And all the software was free and stuff.
And we were like wondering why we didn't have the dust windows PCs, because we had no clue about this sort of tech.
And I wanted to go back and say to the guy, I know what you're wrong about because he was talking about free and open source software back then.
And I just went chew over my head.
Yes, yes, yes.
It was an interesting time.
The sort of earlier days of VMS and then open VMS.
They put open on it.
It wasn't open, but they put the name just to make it so better, I guess, I don't know.
Interesting.
Sorry, that went off into a completely different tangents during that, as you do.
And you, Brian and Ohio says, Slackware, which is, thanks for the show.
For the Irish accent as me, not Brian and Ohio.
Slackware. Thanks for the show.
For Slackware current users, Alien Bob has a package available here.
The link is blah, blah, blah, blah.
Alien Bob must do a lot of stuff because I hear that name coming up anytime.
Slackware is mentioned.
What show are you on again?
You've lost me.
Sorry.
312.
Uh-huh.
There's no comments on this, is it?
No, and then we go on to Libra Office 7.
Do we not, uh...
Okay, the following day we had Libra Office 7 released.
I know.
We did a wonderful, uh, uh, relational thoughts in you, Libra Office,
to which there was one comment, and that comment was, Brian and Ohio.
Now the question is, is Ken too lazy dead at the show, or will he leave that in?
I think we all know the answer to that question.
But I don't have a comment to, three, what number are we at now?
Three.
I'm losing it.
I'm losing it.
Three.
I think the nurse comes round to give me medication any minute now.
Three, one, four, three.
There's no comments on three, one, four, three.
Yes, there is.
Slackware.
Brian and Ohio.
Libra Office Package.
Prosefitive.
You have slower internet over there, so.
Yeah, it's a Scottish internet.
I think my browser is taking me off to something completely different.
I need both fingers to, and to time.
All you, whether there was or wasn't a comment from Brian and Ohio,
we will move on to the next show.
Oh, there's a comment.
His VR, three, one, four, four, pen testing, insecure object references.
Part of the privacy and security series.
And the first show by Cedric De Roy.
And it was from Be Easy.
I deal with this all the time.
Thanks for the episode.
I write software in the medical field all the time.
It's good to see that the best practices that I've been told are actually correct.
Would love another episode like this.
So this was about a data, the contact tracing application on the website for
in Belgium and vulnerabilities that were discovered.
I would warn people that not everybody is as happy about you finding bugs and security bugs and issues in their software or websites.
So be careful about doing that sort of thing unless you're authorized to do so.
Which is a very, very, very strange thing I always find, you know, it's like saying,
excuse me, your house seems to be on fire and that you're in handcuffs.
Of course, you, you, you must have somehow had something to do with the burning of the house.
It's just, the logic of that is just so bizarre.
Oh, it's classic.
I got it 100% to use after the next time I come up.
It's just not so, isn't it?
We've got to find somebody to blame and you're standing there.
So you're it.
Yeah, it's that sort of attitude.
It's wow.
Oh, one, three, four, five.
A light bulb moment, part one.
I always like to see that from the Strix.
And this was a show that came from you Dave.
Well done part of our clever plan to give more shows.
Starting off, I thought this one was going to be an easy Ohm's law or our power is equal to Vime times I sort of stuff.
But it came more interesting as the show went on.
Very, very cool.
Yes, it's, I was stunned by this to be honest.
I mean, I knew, I knew that the distance before the show because it was a conversation that we'd had.
And I thought it would be easy.
What it was, there were there were lanterns available.
Maybe do a show about this a bit later, but there were there were free lanterns available from the zoo where they'd been using them for a show.
And they were giving them away.
Anybody you get to ask, but they had to make them safe.
And they had to cut off all the cable, the the exterior cables.
And they would not tell me what voltage the thing was originally because that might cause me to put electricity in there and kill myself.
And they'd be to blame and all that stuff.
It's part of the same, same business about you found the problem.
So it's you, you know, the one in jail.
But it's so I thought, I wonder if Mr X can, can comment.
And well, the answer was yes, he certainly could, but, but there's no real easy solution.
Other than suck it and see or something.
I give them over to big clive. Do you have a few of them?
Just the one. It's a massive, great thing.
But he lives over in Glasgow, don't you?
No, he lives in on the other man.
No, no, he's, he's often in Glasgow.
Yeah, but he tends to be Glasgow when the end of time.
I could say, I can see you arriving in with this great big, big piece of kit.
It's about, it's about five and a half foot tall if you enter.
So it's actually here on the shore on the side presumed.
I am, I am, I am.
There's no much point in doing it until I've actually solved the lighting issue.
I think I was just going to put some LEDs in it because it's a, yeah, it's a lantern.
But I'd love to actually give it the 12 bolts or whatever it needs and work from that.
Yeah. Anyway, yeah.
Is it incandescent?
I don't even know that.
I would, I would imagine it was, I don't want to reveal too much of the story,
but there was a light show on at the zoo running up to Christmas and, and beyond.
And they had a team from China in to build it.
Oh, it's recent. It's recent. Yeah.
And when they finished, they, yeah, they, they gave away all the bits for anybody who could take my way.
Cool.
And so what level they were built to, I have no means of, no means of knowing, you know.
And I don't want to open it because it's, because it's, it'll destroy it if I,
if I make a big hole in it.
Okay. So following day, we had three, one, four, six.
Help me help you with HBO episodes by Operation.
And there's one comment to that, which you won't see, Dave, because I've just left it.
Uh, title, keep doing what you're doing.
Comment is the only thing I would do is put a beep or something in between the segments.
That was a comment from me to him, because we just discussed it.
Cool. Cool. Cool. Yeah. Okay.
I saw a comment come in just now. Yeah. That was you.
That would be okay.
By the way, you do know that the commenting system, the, uh,
the Q alert system, we're working on a simpler for, for simpler,
very easy for me to say, simpler version of the alert system that produces
a JSON file that tells you exactly where things are in the show,
which we will then use on the upload page.
So just, you know, exactly what part of the process your show is in at any given time,
which triggered off me putting a traffic light signal thing that I had.
Um, I'm putting up a Raspberry Pi to it, which triggered that I needed to get a relay
from somewhere, which triggered it was in a box of all the bits that I
haven't sorted for the last two years, which triggered me going through each of those things
individually. I'm still going through my store room because of this.
Just so you know, yeah, yeah, yeah, I, yeah, I'm in a similar, similar world of stuff.
I got boxes full of stuff and I bought myself a label maker and the label maker
is one that big clive recommended and you can say, I'd like a label that starts
with this sequence and then for it, I've got numbers on the end of it.
So you, it will spit out a load of load of labels.
Um, and so I've been sticking them on boxes and making the images, which
may be make a database, which, yeah, one of those, I know those cascading things.
I'm also, I'm, I think I'll probably do a show about this once I'm done, actually.
Mm hmm.
Nice.
Yeah.
I'll do a show.
Okay.
Okay.
Good.
Following day.
Now I own myself a show.
It's very awkward.
Uh, N-I-S-T quantum cryptography update and they have concluded round two
of the quantum encryption search and moved to round three.
So the idea is, uh, this is from a hooker, obviously.
And the idea is that when quantum computing comes, it will be able to defeat, uh,
all, uh, cryptography as we know it now.
And they're coming up with solutions to that.
That can't be best by quantum computing.
And round two has been good.
So this was.
I will admit knowing now about this, but it's, uh, sufficient to, to, uh,
to bluff your way at a dinner party.
If such a things ever exist again.
Indeed indeed.
Indeed.
Yes.
To sit outside.
And then I'll show there's something.
Eat a bag of chips.
But, um, yeah, yeah, this, this was, this was really good.
But like you, I know, I know very little about it.
And, and got just the, the, the barest, uh, uh, hint of what was, what was going on.
But there's tons of references here, which really need to be forwarded up.
I need to pull them up.
I mean, so understand more.
Paul Crock submitted a nice topic, which was why open source matters to me.
And, uh, it goes into his basically computer history.
And actually, I think he, he, he was one of the ones that mentioned some of the stuff that I was thinking about.
So this was, uh, quite a good show.
Couldn't.
Find anything to disagree with them on, to be honest.
Uh, simple.
I do.
Yeah.
Shall I do the, the comment?
Yeah.
You've probably done more than I have.
Um, Zen Florida 2 says, Vic 20.
I had a Vic 21 and wrote in basic and assembler on that machine.
I thought the tape recorder was too expensive.
So I made my own out of a panasonic tape recorder and a breadboard I put together.
I wrote logbook programs, ham tour programs, continental code trainers on the Vic 20.
It was fun machine and very fast too.
Excellent.
Zen floater, uh, to once you're finished harvesting for the, for the winter.
Can you sit down and basically turn that comment into an episode?
Be awesome.
That would be good.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Vic 20 was a 6502.
No idea.
I need more information.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't know.
The terrible business of salmon and dusk was ebook.
That was reviewed by the HBR Book Club.
And they apparently had a lot of problems getting it to play.
How far back in time are we now on this 2015 or are we?
I think so.
Yes.
I didn't know I can know, but I've got that in that date in my head somewhere around that.
Yeah.
And the next one is murder.
Murder.
Advocate them here by GPG Hollyfield.
If you want to play along.
The comments will be taken into the show unless you can develop a time machine that goes back
in time.
Because I think I think they're still doing the book club every month.
So we also certainly have a, have a backlog as far as I understand.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So they're going to catch up eventually.
Yeah.
For a good looking forward to that.
And gimp pit paint tools, a hooker comments.
This is basically the paint tools and it can't stress enough as I said to my kids before.
If you learn this stuff on one application, you have it.
The same concepts are available on other ones in free and open source.
They don't even make any bones about the fact that they're taking ideas from the other ones.
I might even copy the widgets and icon sets.
But yeah.
So learn it here.
Learn it everywhere.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
And the last show of the month was missed reply by Daniel Pearson's.
And how he listens to podcasts using beyond pod.
And I found a fascinating book.
But it would not be my way of listening to shows that tried me not.
No, no, it, um, I did actually try beyond pod.
I think it was free at one point, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, it's not.
But, um, I did try it.
I didn't use these fancy features.
I just played, played things that I pointed to to have the thing.
But it's quite like it's quite a lot of sophistication in there, which is, which is intriguing.
So yeah.
Interesting subject.
Very much so.
And now my browser's home.
Okay.
So that was it.
We have.
We have.
Yeah.
That's it.
We've got a couple of comments from two past shows that haven't been covered.
Okay.
Okay.
So first one was show 3, 1, 1, 9, converting to FFS 2.
And then floater is replying to gumnos.
I have a stock from the factory, Dell Mini 10.
Never opened it up.
One gigabyte of memory Intel Atom N450 CPU and 250 gig hard drive.
Our drive is so old.
It shows up as a W has WD 0.
But when I run Figuita 386 on it shows up as SD 0 go figure.
OpenBSD supports AMD 64 variants of that OS will all the Intel DRM.
I'm running the three at six version of OpenBSD and I'm afraid I really don't know if this notebook's
Brinstone Lake Intel graphics is actually supported on the 386 version.
Things are slow but not horrible on this laptop.
I still have the original Wi-Fi chip in this notebook.
Mine is atheros.
Dell has been known to switch out hardware on production lines mid-stream for all their computers.
So it doesn't surprise me one bit.
You had a different Wi-Fi from the line.
I've still got the original factory battery also.
Dell Mini 10 is fanless and quiet.
OpenBSD doesn't push the hardware into overheating.
I need to look into expanding my memory.
If that's even possible on this model as it was the very first of the Dell Mini 10 series.
First year they offered the Mini 10 in Spiron.
I've always been told the RAM is soldered in on this model and I was screwed.
But I need to open this up and look around.
Maybe at least upgrade my hand drive also and put some fresh CPU paste on the heatsink.
They were 12 years old now.
Still very reliable and I use it every day.
I'm using it now to tap your message.
Take care and bye.
Cool.
Arduino R72 replied to his own show about the Arduino controlled Christmas lights.
I was not meaning to have a Christmas episode in July.
That is just the way it turned out.
It was more a matter of letting life get in the way as the project was finished in mid-December.
That and I get nervous about having to to short of shows.
Or it might not be interesting enough.
It was definitely interesting enough.
Please do more of those happy shows.
There's no such thing as too short of a show or too long of a show here in HBO.
So that was the comments.
And then we had, oh yes, we had, we had news on the mail list.
From Sig Flip Sinabad, whatever he calls that.
I've been thinking about setting up a show on the local radio station, KFAI.
The show will be made out of episodes.
So I will just re-broadcast in HBO over the, over the radio.
Does anybody, what does everybody think of this apparently have lost my ability to speak?
It happens, yes.
Can you do honky?
So honky replies, I think it's a great idea.
Kevin O'Brien says, speaking for myself, everything is creative commons by SA.
Since I always give my name at the beginning, the by part is automatically covered.
If you include the whole show, just make sure it's share-like and I have no problem.
Mike, do you want to do Mike Razon?
And I'll do my own.
Mike says, given the wildly varying length of HBO,
so how could you possibly schedule a regular show to fit the same time slot each day?
Which is a very good question.
And I provide brilliant idea.
We have durations available for every show.
So if there is anything you need us to do to make it more accessible, just give us a shout.
It would absolutely be well open to that sort of thing.
And Tatch Sarah says to the general question, love it.
And I requested more shows, called for shows basically.
And I put up a request for a mastodon server.
So we have a Twitter feed at the minute.
So we have an RSS feed that feeds Twitter.
But we should probably feed the other social metrics out there.
So if anybody wants to take that as a project, please do so.
I appreciate it.
No.
Nothing to say about that, dude.
No, it just sounds like a good idea.
I don't have enough expertise to be able to do it.
To set something up somewhere or tell us what to do.
Then we can make sure the HPR feed is sent on the freedom.
What does Fediverse, Fediverse, Fediverse, Fediverse.
Anyway, yeah.
Sinkflop and possibly a very related post says,
EpstuPHP does not like extra variables on the get request beyond ID.
This is especially bad for linking to HPR episodes from Facebook, for example.
EpsiD equals if 37 works, but FID, if 1837 question mark,
other equals pants does not work.
And Mike comment.
Yeah, Mike says that's because the second question mark should be an ampersand.
Let me give you an example of how you do that.
There shouldn't be a question mark after the page URL and before any get variables.
All other get variables are separated by an ampersand.
Be careful to early find any characters such as space, which we're going to present 20.
And I remind why Mike is correct.
However, the URL will not work either because we know exactly how many options there should be on the page.
And what format there should be.
And we use that fact to prevent a text on the website.
So if anybody quite often we get question mark stuff big long trying to extend the buffers out or trying to make use of stuff.
So I do lots and lots and lots of checks.
Probably not enough.
Never enough probably.
It makes it also makes changes is quite difficult because right the other day when we changed the to add the variable to the database.
Then the ID's got messed up.
And yes, it was a bit complex.
But I think that the gist of this was that sync club was using a question mark as the argument limiter where it should have been.
It's a very very just weird design.
I've always thought question mark to start with an ampersand later.
I've understood why anybody came up with that design, but there you go.
Sure.
Another answer.
I just see the next one.
I intended to send that to the admin mail list and not the main mail list.
So we won't cover here.
Mike Gray.
Send in a very good topic.
Hello guys and girls.
I'm currently working on a projects using template column column two kit.
I'm finding Dave show on the subject very useful.
I have a small favor to ask a reference to writing show notes and accessibility for those of us using screen readers.
All the screen readers have.
I use.
Use landmark navigation keys typically.
I wouldn't compress a particular key and jump between the HTML tags.
For example, I jump from link to link using MVDA in Windows with the K key.
And here is the accessibility.
In the page, it's sprinkled with this kind of thing.
So paragraph, you'll find the instructions for feeding elephants here where a href page equals here.
So the here is hyperlink to the page.
But if I jump to that link, my screen reader says here.
Well, what is here?
Better to write is with phref page.
You can find the instructions for feeding elephants here.
And that whole thing is the href, the whole line.
Markdown allows that kind of thing to thanks Mike.
To which Dave replied.
It takes a long time to click the button and to go to the next page.
Hi, Mike.
Glad my template toolkit stuff has proven useful.
I use it daily since it's behind the notes.
Well, my show is quite a number of other document generation tasks I carry out.
Then I then as an in answer to the link business, I say guilty is charged.
I usually try not to do this, but I realize I have some boilerplate files that contain the markdown equivalent of making a link of the word here.
And it's generally bad form, but I could not have said exactly why till I read your email.
I shall desist henceforward.
Excellent.
This is great context.
Thanks for that, Mike.
I'm on board says tattoo.
And Taj says so just to clarify for myself, it is preferable for accessibility to make the entire sentence a link instead of individual words.
That's nicely summarized actually.
I did appreciate that question.
And Mike says, hello, if a site only has the word here linked in multiple links that take the user to lots of different resources and navigating those links by using the keyboard to jump from link to link screen reader says here, here, here, here, here.
But what is here?
You should make it least a sense of a portion of the sentence a link.
So the user using a screen reader knows what each link is without having to use the arrow keys to read the full sentence.
Because for you, yeah, I'm just as me, you presume you have to back up from the here to find out what the hell the here is referring to.
So to do it.
So yeah, I do really, really appreciate that.
Never.
Yeah, I've started, I've started doing this now in some of the shows that I'm preparing my show notes for.
And it's doing my head because yeah, I'm so used to just taking the title of the page in their article, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then put in the title of the page.
So I now need to think about how how a piece of text is read by the person reading it.
And then I'm also thinking now about, okay, say I jumped here as a mic and I'm jumping here to this section, which is get up or something.
Now I need to extend the link from being get up to be my repo and get up.
But that will still won't be enough because if I have several links to that, my people might.
So at what point the whole thing becomes one great big hyperlink that makes it difficult for sighted people to read, but.
Yeah, that's oh yeah.
Rather than a rather than a problem to be brutally honest, and I don't use that expression very often.
I am.
Yeah, I just forgot to add written a message.
I asked Mike in Markdown.
There's a so called reference link through which a title can be provided.
This populates the title attribute in the link.
I use these in my notes and moderate amount, but because hovering over the link shows the title.
Do screen readers read the title attribute or if they do, is it helpful since it doesn't necessarily provide sort of information that you're referring to.
And Mike replies to that saying little windows that come up when the mouse hovers over is tooltips.
You should call them are worse than us since blindfold folks mostly do not use the mouse.
Most screen readers have a keyboard way of moving mouse pointer to where the virtual review cursor is and then simulating a left or right click in the keyboard.
But these little hover things don't show up.
It may be a setting in my screen reader, but these things are distracting better to link as much of the sentence is necessary to describe where the link goes instead of just here.
I think it is bootstrapping what provides a popper to do a little tooltips, but again, pretty useless for us.
I'm doing this from memory, but I think the Markdown is something like a square bracket, open square bracket, find the template manual here,
close square bracket and the low link and then TT would point to the URL.
It would be better than find the template manual open square bracket here, close square bracket TT.
Because again, you will create a link that just says here.
So Brian and Ohio says, how about doing a show to explain this to people who want to help but still give show notes in plain text.
Channeling his inner can, Brian.
Dave Ford.
Oh, I did the next one.
Okay, this is Brian to multiply to me.
Okay, that's what I wanted to know.
Titles are just for popups and are useful for screen readers.
I won't stop using them, but I will try and make the link text more meaningful in stuff that I write.
And then, yeah, he's talking about the Markdown aspect of it and that you can just produce a link that says here.
So I say, you're correct. That's how it's done.
It's a useful feature for me because I can make several references for the same link.
And I take the point that the link text is the key part for blind users.
And Mike says, thanks, Dave.
It's a very subtle thing, but it is one of the more serious accessibility gaps guaranteed to have me shouting out my computer.
If I haven't already got a sore throat from shouting today program at the today program.
Unfortunately, HTML5 has introduced some interesting accessibility gas.
But at least these days, people are not using tables to format web content.
Tables are for tabular data, libraries like Bootstrap are fantastic now for responsive web content that works right on all types of screens.
And I reply back to Mike.
Hi, Mike. We'll be checking this from now on.
If you have time, I can send you some links to the shows after they're posted so you can verify them before they go live.
But basically, I'm just saying, if Mike comes across any of this stuff, just pop an email to the admin list saying show blah, blah, blah needs some work and we'll fix it.
I guess, Dave says me equally giving you work, but yeah.
Then Kevin O'Brien says, I think I have the same question as Brian in Ohio.
I'd submit my show notes in plain text and to do this, I just put the links in as plain addresses.
There's a better way to do it. I need to know what that way is.
And you reply to it.
Keep doing this. I'm not looking ahead.
So this is replying to Kevin.
I'm most often processed in coming show notes.
If they are plain text, then I turn them into mark down.
I wrote a post script, make mark down. It's called that recognizes URLs determines that if their pictures are not rewrites them to be suitable for the pan doc processor.
I call the script from V, which is my editor of choice.
The links generated by this method in the final HTML look like.
And then as an example of the HTML, which is an a tag with with the URL as the the href and also as the text the link text that you would click.
My own shows I use mark down a pan doc and send in the HTML.
That's generated.
I was sort of trying to answer Kevin's the basic question.
Mike says here again is the explanation this time in mark down one bad.
You can find the manual for the template square bracket here,
close square bracket, open square bracket TT, close square bracket, open square bracket TT,
close square bracket colon HTTPS the manual for TT.
Good is you can find the open square bracket manual.
Manual you can open square bracket, find the manual for template here, close square bracket, link to TT.
And then the TT link goes.
Here's the URL note that you are not these are not the right URLs are just nonsense.
I put it the bad example jumping to the link.
My screen reader says here and jumping the second one says find the manual for the template here.
You can understand the difference.
If the first one I land on a link and have no idea what here is.
So then I move the cursor to read here what it is or to hear what it is.
So for here which ear what here is.
So for show notes submitted in mark down as an HTML it goes down to the author I guess rather than Dave's gizmos.
So interesting pause on that whole topic.
Yeah it's it's it's a revelation as far as I'm concerned.
I mean it's it's just something I should have worked out for myself but didn't so it's it's good that Mike pointed this out.
So I think everybody if you want to get a feel for what he's on about go use e-links and just use the tab and arrow down in e-links on the page and you'll see visually what's happening.
And why why he's asking for for this but in general it's just better hygiene I think.
So we shall do this.
Last one is the free UK foundation ham radio course and I know somebody who's just done this and become a licensed amateur radio on the previous course.
So the next free radio foundation online training course is run by the volunteers as a ham starts on September the sixth.
And you can find instructions for that and it's by all intents and purposes quite good.
They've got videos, they've got PowerPoints.
They even have liberal office versions, OSIS document format.
So yeah it's not too difficult apparently and you should do it if you can.
Cool.
Anything else that's went on Dave?
Tags, hard tags doing.
Yes, we had 12.
12 shows had tags and summaries added to them and Windigo contributed a number to that and so did I.
So we've made a bridge and move forward again.
Yes I am using that tags page more and more and more just to I know I've heard a show somewhere about this and where is this and then I go and open up the shows there.
It's brilliant.
It will be promoted at some point Dave as just as soon as they get my stock thing sorted out.
If you want any changes let me know.
So I've just lost my record button which is never, never a good feeling.
Anyway, I really hope we don't need to re-record the show date.
Yeah, it's the only thing else that went on.
Yes, I mentioned I updated the database a little bit to the reservations page.
I met some updates to the documentation on the workflow and then I got distracted.
Yes, I don't have anything else to add myself.
So that's it.
Yeah, tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker.
A public radio.
Join us now and share the software you'll be free.
You'll be free, you'll be free.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
ShareLite, 3.0 license.
