Episode: 3916
Title: HPR3916: HPR Community News for July 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3916/hpr3916.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:22:11

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3916 from Monday the 7th of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for July 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by Dave and Ken, and is about 76 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in July 2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you are listening to another episode of Hacker
Public Radio.
This is HPR Community News for July 2023.
And joining me today is, hello, it's Dave Morris from a golden wet Edinburgh.
Yes.
And it's Ken Fallon from a golden wet Netherlands Holland, I guess, a golden wet, the Netherlands.
Yeah, it doesn't flow off the tongue.
Anywho.
This is HPR.
HPR is a community podcast that was started 17 years ago, 10 months and 18 days ago, where
the shows produced by listeners like you and that can be on any topic that are of interest
tackers.
If you listen to HPR, then please consider contributing one short year.
If you record a show now, it could be released within 12 days.
Good day.
Good.
Oh yes.
Oh yes.
So, Dave, and this is the Community News Show.
Do you want to tell people what Community News Show is then?
Well, it's this show that we do every month and we talk about what's happened the previous
month on HPR and we go through all of the shows, not to not a great length, otherwise
you'd be here for hours, but we review them and we read out any comments, make the
odd comment on the show and that type of thing and we talk about a few other things, mailing
lists and other stuff and we have any other business at the end, but that's really the
main thing.
There's a chance for everybody who contributes the show to have somebody at least talking
about it and in many cases they get comments which we read out for them.
So, yeah, it's got to fly, Dave, why are we picked as the tools and two to do this?
Oh, dear, the old straw gamer, oh no, that wasn't though, we volunteered and we became
janitors as we call ourselves, so we're the guys with the mobs and the buckets and stuff
and cleaning up and whatever.
So, yeah.
And the janitor is a term there to basically describe, we continue to implement policy
but policy is tasted by the community.
So there's a whole spiel about that on the about page if you want to read it up, but the
most important thing we do, Dave, is usually go to you and it's to introduce the new
horse.
Yes, and I really have something to say this time, we have two new hosts, Hopper, MCS and
Rato who people will have heard before could he join us on these shows on a few occasions
but he's produced a show as well, so we'll be talking about those later.
Fantastic.
Okay, let's mosey over to last one's show which was 3891 was the first one and that was
community news for the previous one and there were in fact two delightful comments about
that show and the first one was by Norris just about solo cast update and he is the author
of set command.
I read all thanks for mentioning solo cast, I've met a few updates since hp 3496.
The biggest change is that you can now install solo cast from python package index on the
URL.
So the cast now works with markdowns groups as requested by Ken aka me and Kevin O'Brien
and also commented on that show where we were talking about his shows on his RV journey
around America, United States and he said my truck, the short answer is we bought the truck
and the RV as a package from a close friend, we are very glad to have a truck that we don't
need to worry about when towing.
Yep, it's a nice big big truck.
Okay, the following day we had emax package curation part one, let's go through every
single package installed in my emax configuration by dnt, I saw what he did there and the first
comment was by flat two saying I love this topic, this is such a great idea for a show.
My dot emax file is an unholy mess of config options stolen from common with colleagues
over the years, maybe recording an episode of my own about a clarification would help me clean
it up.
That would be a eye or you a show.
Yes, I think so.
And dnt commented, do it, he says yes, it turns out that by completing the sentence let's
go through every single package installed in a dot dot dot you can get a bunch of shows
looking forward to your review of your emax.
And the next day I propose it was we had game card design resources, how to design a card
for tabletop gaming by flat two himself and the concept was a poker deck is great for
starting developing game mechanics, but you can go forward with that, so it's pretty
cool.
Yeah, yeah, I, no, I think I would want to do myself as I always say these things don't
know why I have to tell you this, but my daughter is well into this type of stuff and I did
sort of vaguely mention it to her, I have to have to ask her if that's the thing she's
going to get into as she's a dnd player and stuff, indeed, so there you are.
I follow her on a mustard on, she hasn't posted a lot of all, or I've been automatically
unsubscribe, which could also happen, but I like her style and will be very interested
to see her cat-esque type stuff appearing on dnd's case.
She likes to draw sort of cartoony pictures and stuff, so imagine the cards she produces
would be fun.
Yeah, good.
Okay, next day page 42, ugly week news shows epoch and hour of news in commentary of
software development and overall floss space by hopper mcs, so this is where our new host
and there was one comment which I'll read by Kevin O'Brien, I love this show, I'm looking
forward to more from this series, I would humbly suggest that aiming for a one hour show
might be a bit much, I think a half hour will be better, but maybe that's just me.
Yeah, good point, good point.
Yeah, do what you feel is good, I think, but do what you can do is probably the way of
looking at it, but yeah, but it's good, I enjoyed the show, it was a nice introductory
show and looking forward to more.
Very much so, okay, and let's move on to the next show, and that is what's in my backpack,
I can never pronounce stash, yes stash, walks through the contents of his work backpack.
This is, this was an interesting one, actually the Moab thing, I think I remember on you
random, I'm having huge discussions about that tactical tips that you can extend your laptop
and stuff.
It's good.
Yeah, yeah, I remember the people talking about these types of things you can add also
sorts of extras on top of the basic bag through what I take to be a sort of velcro-ish
type attachment to making this and it sounds really, really good, yeah, amazing what
people carry in bags, it's always interesting to have an insight into these things, I think.
Yeah, I checked as all the time I did one of these shows, I think, and what they have
in there now was completely different just as time moves along, I guess.
Mm-hmm, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, circumstances and your priorities and stuff change, I guess.
Right, I'll let you introduce the next show, actually, you've been to Scottsman and all,
I don't want to make sure that you're a Celtic Roots.
Celtic Roots, I mean, never existed, I'm afraid, I just happened to have lived here for 40
years, but yeah, it's probably, probably steeped into me in some, some forward, anyway,
this is Andrew, Andrew Conway Mnallu, who is talking about the bros of Glenelg, which he loves
because it's a palindrome, which doesn't immediately spring to, until you look at it, it's got
GL at the beginning and LG at the end and stuff, and then ENE in the middle.
So, oh, and the paladrome being something that you can say back to, front to back, back to,
front. Yeah, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, sometimes it's sentences or other contrived sentences and stuff,
but yeah, palindrome name, yeah, I've been that sort of general area, but never been to Glenelg,
itself, and the bros of these stone-built structures, quite large, presumably,
could house people or animals or something, nobody actually knows what they were used for,
it was first, Andrew was saying my little bit of research there after, so yeah, it's,
it looks amazing, and he was actually there, and he was recording stuff from within,
while approaching and within the bros, so yeah, an excellent show, I thought.
Never knew these existed, didn't it, and led me down a very long,
very long trail investigating his and trying to figure out what they would before, and I just
think they were a bit like a small fort where you capture animals for the night, and then that's
seems to be on trade routes, so it was kind of likely to, to be that.
But they're pretty ancient from where I don't remember how old they are, but they go back a
fairly long way, so yeah, yeah, it's fascinating, and that general area is amazing, all the,
the west coast of Scotland, with all the sea locks and everything is a brilliant place.
The only downside is the midges, or midges, as I like to say, which are boating insects very,
very tiny that come out in the evenings, and also on damn days, and they are hell, they just keep
bite, bite, bite all the time, yeah. You told me there were related mosquitoes, at one point,
I think, so I'm not sure, I don't, I think they're, they're made the same,
open, and the arachones, yeah, same genus, but I'm not sure, because they're very, very tiny,
but yeah, maybe they have similar, my parts and that type of thing, but yeah, there used to be a
form of torture that you, you tied criminals up outside in the, on an evening when the midges
were out, and they would be bitten to, to the point of distraction, yeah, pretty nasty.
You served them in Ireland, the last as well. Yeah, I found the best thing to do was just stay out
one evening, and beginning of the summer, and just get absolutely molded by them. I don't know
whether it is just, and then you just burn them bothered by them, and the rest of the year.
Yeah, not that you're immune, or anything, it's just right fine, I've had the worst of it, so.
Okay, yes, you get hardened to it. Yeah, we, I've had holidays over there and was told,
if it's hot in your, in your accommodation, do not open the windows at night, because it will,
your place will fill up with midges, it will be after this, they're attracted by the CO2.
So yeah, and you see people walking around, people are camping and stuff, and everybody has a,
has a midge proof helmet thing on, you know, a cord, a cord thing over the head, so yeah, it's
anyway, enough for Patrick Chatton. Do you like my turn? Yeah, do this one, do this one.
Yep, D&T says Ruins, thanks for sharing this, I did not know about it, I've long hoped to visit
Skara Bray some day, so here's another potential stop for me, I would enjoy hearing more of this.
Exactly, it's on my list to go to Scotland, but things, conspire against me Dave, I'm afraid.
I mean, following day, audiobook club 2022, Madder at Avondong Hill by PG Hollywood,
I like, I like the audiobook club being back, it's great, this one had Targex,
one, zero one, and Pookie. Yep, yep, it's really good to hear them back again, I don't know when
these were recorded for a very long time ago, I think. A while ago, yeah, we'll get to that in a while,
but it's still, it's still very, very welcome to, to hear them back again, so yeah, and a great
format too, I do look into it. I love it, I love it. Yeah, following day, we had the oh no news,
where some guy on the internet talks about internet scams, this is just
wreaking with good advice, and very approachable as all that, you could give this to somebody that
you know, just, it's good stuff, good stuff. Yeah, yeah, it's really well done, and if you,
if you want to come back and catch up on things that you missed or review things you missed,
then the notes will carry you forward magnificently there, excellent, excellent notes,
and for their explanations done underneath, we approve, we approve of these sure notes.
And Paul Kirk had a repair crop video for free using on truck, great, great little tip, great
little episode, basically long and short of the odds, he had a, you know, a dashcam footage of an
accident, nobody was hurt, so, and there are a lot of services out there charging money,
and he was able to track down the actual source code, showing exactly where he gets it,
and you can drop a few shekels to the author if you want, so great tip, and something that I,
one of these where I deal with video often enough, and people come to me when they're desperate
that I'm bookmarked this one for use as a later date. Yeah, yeah, never had to meet,
but I didn't know there were such things available, you know, but for free, so it's whatever.
So yeah, as you say, a good bookmark to keep a future reference.
Okay, next day preparing podcasts for listening, Shobaya Huka, about how he prepares his
podcast files in audacity, and the first comment is from three comments, first comment is from
hipster, a limiter and g-patter, thanks for this episode, I had never thought of speeding up
podcasts before, I have the ups of problem when listening, I am always missing things,
or wanting to pause to take notes, I will try speeding up some of my podcasts using change
tempo, I think it will make me more focused on listening. I use RSS reader to deal with my podcasts,
I had considered g-patter in the past, I think it will give it a try again after your description
of the workflow. I also use audacity to mod podcasts, I'm doing it in a slightly different
reasons, I like to cut out commercials and segments I don't like, I am not sure if limiter
is a standard of audacity, effect, or a ladspa or Nyquist plugin, but it is a great substitute for
amplify normalize, when you set a soft limiter it acts like a slight fast ringing volume control,
fast writing volume control, to increase the power massively without clipping like amplify does.
A typical starting point for setting the limiter would be something like type soft,
limit input gain mono left, tree dv limit to minus one, hold milliseconds one,
I separate my automated steps and do limiting manually for good results,
I like to get maximum volume because I listen to a lot of podcasts in the car with the window open,
but even while using in a macro, I think you could find a generic settings that are preferable
to amplify normalize. We had a comment number two from Eugene, who says no need for podcast
pre-processing, hi hooking, I listen to podcasts on a Sansa clip plus, synced from g-patter two,
it's an excellent little player, speaking of the pre-processing there's no need to do that if you
install the open source rockbox firmware on the player, it gives a link, it works great,
it has a lot of features, there's a control to increase and decrease pitch and speed while playing,
you need to enable the time stretch option to change them and it gives a link to that,
and it took me years before I really figured out it was possible to separate the two, also great for
podcasts are auto-resume from the previously proposed place, and ability to make the left
right button skip end seconds instead of the next, previous one next track, have a good day,
and Kevin replies saying, Sansa clip plus, I used Sansa clip plus with rockbox for a long time,
but now it is unavailable, the way I do it now I can use any mp3 player, and that's a fair point,
yeah absolutely, absolutely, I hadn't fully appreciated that, yeah, all of the pretty much all
of the rockbox capable devices are now no longer being created, so no longer being made,
so yeah, and I didn't really think, but I actually did do what I didn't and claw through the
edsies and stuff, not edtie, the auction sites and stuff, you'll not find them, and now they're
astronomically expensive, because people would realise that they're very rare.
I sent over my last few to Paul Kiet, so that people could get access to them,
yeah, anyway, next day we had time management by operator, another one of these
sexlet chills, I go over a how I manage time, because I'm a goal fish,
who's doing the comments of URI?
I think it's my turn, isn't it? Yeah, I lose track so you leave with this, I really need to
as I read it, yeah, hold on, I have a cough, so I keep stopping. Anyway,
Rito says, A calendar on Android, hi operator, I mean the same boat about forgetting appointments,
A calendar is what I use for years, and I like to say it's the best calendar. I mentioned to you,
just one function, to copy an entry is as simple as it gets, so you keep your history, I think
I'm sorry, instead of moving an entry, it's also, it also offers to create several entries
instead of a series, and it gives links to this, a link to this, a website for more information
and he gives a link to that, not synced with Google, I created a calendar that is as private as
it gets, so I have to make backups, backup your calendar with, and he uses, he talks of a iCal
import export cal dev, which is a thing that you can get from the Google Play Store, and
mentions the website, which I assume is the iCal backup thing, to support the developer, I had to
get the pro version, now it runs automated backups, very useful app for me, my two cents to your show,
and that's Rito, good tip right there. Mr. Young, the artist formerly known as Beasy, has introduced
a new series on FFM Bake, yes, brilliant, this is a tool I use all the time, all the time,
it's used everywhere, audio, video, everything, it's such a fantastic tool, and I'm really
glad he's put in the show together, and if it's anything like your collaborations in the past,
it will be excellent. I'm sure you will, yes, yes, yes, yeah, I'm looking forward to this one,
it sounds great, I've used FFM Bake, not as much as you, you obviously do know, or Mr. Young does,
but yeah, it's a brilliant thing, and very complex, but incredibly powerful, is what I've taken
away from it, so looking forward to hearing more about it. Yeah, I think the majority of my
experience with it is finding several different polls on Stack Overflow about how to do the thing
I'm looking for, and then combine them fingers crossed until it does the thing that I'm looking for,
would be nice to actually know what's going on the background and the best approach to take,
so looking forward to this. Anyway, D&T says, FFM Bake, I'm looking forward to more of this, I haven't
used FFM Bake much anymore, but it was essential to me when, to me in my video photographer,
a video editor days, it's one of those applications that's hard to imagine being without an amazing
that we have it, thanks. So the following day, we had, why I don't love System D yet,
hosted by Dick Geek and narrated by Klatu, for people who are new to HPR, we do have a service,
basically service, we have people who have said they will volunteer to read your show,
if you feel uncomfortable doing that or unable to do that, don't think that you're in ability to
speak English to a standard that you think people can listen to, listen to me, for example,
then you can always submit a show to us, we will narrate it and post it on your behalf.
D&T, so, yes, it's my turn, it's a D&T says System D, I think this was an excellent perspective
on System D, something that's good for servers and for the overall enterprise Linux world,
it's not necessarily good for my laptop and it turns out that's okay, great stuff.
Yes, so the following day, we had how to make friends, this topic has been actively researched
and not for production use by Klatu. No, this was an interesting one, don't you think Dave?
Yeah, absolutely, yes, yes, yes, it certainly made me think, I think somebody others have said
the same thing, so it's very, so we read the comments and come back to the top, yeah, let's do that.
You do D&T's then I'll do the longer one for me, so D&T says Friends, thanks for this,
I listened to it on the way home from work and continued to think about it well into the evening,
that's pretty much what I did. Yeah, I did, yeah, and I'm still thinking about
business as Friendship, high Klatu, great show and a very, very thought-provoking,
you've missed one type of Friendship that applies to me and I dare say in many others,
I grew up and went to school in London and became a group of seven quotes mates, we never used
the term Friends in case we were deemed solved, crazy, I know, over the years we have all moved
away from each other and in one case to the other side of the world, so we often only meet once,
one another once, twice a year, sometimes not even that, and we don't even converse by phone or
message much in between. Despite that, we all know we can totally rely on one another, should the
need arise, and when we do meet in intervening months or years, do meet the intervening months or
years simply have no relevance. Apart from my immediate family, of course, these friends are
closer to me than anybody else, but the need to have constant contact doesn't exist, it's the
polar opposite of people who are constantly on Facebook communicating with friends, they've never met
and really know nothing about with any certainty. That describes me and the lads,
so I grew up in lads I went to college and when I was over in Ireland recently we went to the
pub, one of the guys we hadn't met in years because he'd met with the lads while I wasn't there
and likewise, so it was, yeah, it was like, okay, that's where we are now, okay, it's awesome.
Yeah, it's got so many facets this, isn't it? I think different people approach the subject in
different ways and it's also sort of related to societies, I think. I mean, even in British societies
there are different sort of background rules as to how you have friends or behaviour
friends or keep friends just in my limited experience or the way I interpret what I've seen anyway
is that that's the case. So yeah, it's really fascinating. I was actually
talking about putting something together as a response. I don't know if I've got anything
interesting to say, but it's, you know, how you do you sort of think, oh that is, my approach is
different, my viewpoint is different, but is it different enough to work? Yeah, it does. I would
like to hear all the people's shows on this because this really hit a point with me, particularly
when we come to one of the audiobook shows, later on, and we hear 51-50 again, who I consider to
be a friend, never have met, the other side of the planet, and you, of course, have met a few times,
I will consider you a friend, yet does that fall in, well, first start, as Tattoo is describing
as a memory realised, I may consider some of my friends online to be friends, but they might
consider me just co-workers or colleagues on this project, so it's kind of... Yeah, yeah,
that's part of it, isn't it? It's part of it. I... Yeah, this is freedom when you were young,
would you be my friend? Yes. Yeah, absolutely, it just happens spontaneously because you both
shed the same pencil or something, you know. Yeah, and it's very odd, it's very strange. I realise I
haven't kept many friends from school days, any really now, you know, they gradually
disappeared over time, you know, but I don't know, unlike Beezer, who stuck with his friends from
education times very differently, but anyway, yeah, it would be interesting to hear other people's
viewpoints, and I might contribute something, if I can think of something, well, well constructed and
pulled through enough. Yeah, okay, we'll move on. Next, presenting Fred. Well, what happened
on the screen? Fred Black, which was Falky's song, I think, would be correct. Yeah, I know.
He's correct. I had to do a double take there, and yeah, he set up his, my son, and he's
called Fred Black, and he's just sort of stopped as if, you know, people would have a chop in,
take a breath as to, how does that work? Anyway, no, fascinating, a really interesting chat between
the two of them, I've got very, very entertaining. And it makes me, they put a link into a podcast,
which sounds very much like something I'd like to hear, but it's done in
Norse Swedish and Danish, all mixed through. I just, I would love that, but I can't speak any of the
although that's it. Since I've learned Dutch, and having a few beers obviously helps,
you know, as you're listening to some of the Nordic languages, there's a lot of words in there
that you go, okay, I can, if you had a weird accent, you know, that word probably means the same thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I did visit Norway once and hang out with some Norwegian people,
and they were very good at speaking to me in English, you know, on and off, but they would have
conversations amongst themselves that I wasn't included in, which, you know, absolutely fine.
But then they turned to me and said, oh, sorry, did you, did you understand what we were saying?
And the answer was sort of, were you talking about your new car?
Yeah, yes, yes, you got it right, yeah, yeah, yeah, so you pick up enough little threads to get
the general shape of a conversation, not the details, obviously, but to, but yeah, I found that too.
It was so, but I wouldn't like to try speaking anymore.
No, no, as somebody said, I can't remember, why do you, your English is perfect? Why do you always
have an interpreter when you're, when you're doing stuff? Because even if you're 99% wrong,
correct, if you miss the word not in the sentence, I can have serious implications.
Yeah, very true, very true. Okay, another of the unknown news ones, this is some guy in the
internet, threat of convenience. Oh, this is, this is classic, just for it's, I don't know if he
works in information security, but he nails a lot of these topics that, if he's able to communicate
a lot of topics that I know that the security teams struggle with is. Yeah, yes, that's good,
good point, actually, it does come across with somebody with professional understanding of this
sort of stuff or a lot of deep thinking on the subject it feels like to. So yeah, it's, it's a
really, really helpful thing to be on the receiving end of. I seriously think he should have a
start of business and just take these, the previous show and this show, like do a one day course
for businesses on making information security accessible. Go into businesses, put on a slide,
talk about these, give examples, you know, and then two or three of these, you know, morning session,
this is the after the coffee session, and then two more sessions, and then that will be a business
really desperately, desperately desperately needed. Because people who are into security tends to be
impassioned, and there is a thing in security, it's a very, how will I say, braggie sort of
war story type thing, there seems to be a lot of, oh, I've defeated the system, great, now it's
left up to people to put it back together again. So, yeah, I don't know if I'm making, but if you
listen to a lot of the security podcasts that tend to be very bullish and cocky and, yeah.
Yeah, masculine, that's the word, macho, about security, et cetera. I see it from
just sort of my local environment, which is that my daughter's trained as a scientist,
but doesn't want to be a scientist going on. However, what she really wanted to do was be a science
communicator. So, she went on an MSc on science communication, so she's learnt skills in the ways
tell people explain things about science to people, which she finds to be immensely rewarding,
as opposed to being in a lab or whatever. So, this is one another case of communication skills
with a lot of knowledge behind it, but not pumping out the knowledge in an elite sort of way,
but getting it in an understood way to people who need to understand it.
Yeah, cool, that's what she should be doing. Somebody pay him lots of money to do that.
I do agree, yes.
Okay, Rito, my introduction show about me and computers. There's pretty crap,
that's so really, you know, we've done a white baller.
Only because he's already been arms-wise, so I don't know if he could take a dip.
It's cool that you saw the cast to do it.
Yeah, yeah, I was impressed with that. I think going to look, I
doesn't quite fit in with the way I do things, because I've built so much infrastructure,
but if I was starting a French, that would be an interesting way to go.
Not that bad, but yeah.
No, it's a good show. I enjoyed it very much. I didn't realize he's got a long,
a long experience in the ways of IT and stuff, just judging from some of the stories he was saying,
some of the anecdotes and so forth. So, yeah, I'd like to hear more about his experiences.
I see Commodore 64 there, got into it through, got into HPR through
the Libro 5 series, which is excellent.
Fantastic. Commodore 64, that was the first computer I used, actually.
Cool. Yeah, yeah, yeah, good to hear.
Excellent show. I'm only messing with him. Please do more shows, they're excellent.
Basically, any of the topics you've discussed in there about the Amigos, Commodore's,
Go Firewalls, yeah, a little bit. Okay, EMAX Package Curation Part Deer. This was another one
by D&T and this was the EMAX tools. It was kind of weird that, I don't know, the whole EMAX
thing is kind of weird to me, that I know I put in an editor into an editor to pause.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, it's something I've done in the past.
I managed a VMS system, open VMS, it came to be called. They had an amazing thing in there,
which was called the Language Sensitive Editor, which essentially was a programming language
for writing editors and they had several editors available to you,
one that would twiddle all the security bits and pieces that you could do as a sort of
configuration part through an editor. And the Language Sensitive Editor itself was a thing where
you typed the start of it. It's a long time ago, so all of this has happened more since then,
but you started typing an expression in a language and it would fill in the rest for you,
so template in a boilerplate thing. So that was in 1980s, early 90s type of timescale. I wrote
a lot of stuff in that, I don't know what it was called now, but the underline language.
So then NeoVim, EMAX come in the same sort of area as far as I'm concerned. So EMAX has
gone a long, long, long way further than anything I've had in the experience of.
So it is, do you want to do the VIME announcement just as a boilerplate now?
Oh, yes, mentioning editors. Yes, I just came across the fact before we started the show that
the creator of VIME, Bram Moulinar from the Netherlands, died on August 3rd, he was 62,
so he's been actively developing VIME right up until, you know, he's passed away.
So an amazing guy and very, very sad that he's gone so young.
He was ill, apparently, had an illness that progressed rapidly in the past few weeks,
according to the note put up by his family, which I saw references to. There were references on
mastered on that I spotted. Yeah, yeah, that's the sad news. It's really sad, it's really sad.
He'd be greatly missed the huge loss to the editing community, I think.
Okay, should have maybe left that for last, because now I'm struggling to make a bridge into
the next ticket. Anyway, okay, well, let's move on. 39 or 9, permission tickets, collective
delusion about the effective conclusions by one of spoons. This is about lots of things,
a bit like Tatooza episode, it had me thinking about it, and I know that D&T, who comments,
great show, keep in mind, thanks for this, well done. Plenty of listening, plenty for the listener
to think about, looking forward to more, and D&T does a response show, and the show itself is
about money, social credit, as a proxy, etc. So apropos, I was talking to my mother about this,
and I've actually recorded a response show, which was going false, but now I can't, because
I need to respond to D&T as well, so I'll do that. Yeah, whatcha think?
Very interesting, it's one of these things that you don't quite understand what it is I'm listening to,
and gradually it sort of soaks in, that there was a lot there, it was very dense,
concentrated thought had gone into this and was being communicated. So yeah, it's a huge lot to
think about. So yeah, this is one to, you know, big, correcting fire, glass whisky perhaps,
or beverage of your choice, to sit down and put this one on the wireless, and then turn off the
wireless and sit there and think preferably with a grandfather clock in the back on,
it's a bit easy, there's a one of spoons. Oh no, actually I think, when I heard this show,
I turned off my MP2 player, or not MP2 player, because it's a phone and you know,
listen and know, but I was on the bus going into work, and I just was sitting there thinking about
that the whole wheel, you know, for three quarters of an hour of commute, just pungering. That was
that's interesting. Also a tattoo show, and that, that's actually nice. It's nice to have, you know,
mental stimulation that makes you actually think as opposed to click here for five,
amazing facts, blah, blah, blah. Oh absolutely, absolutely. There's a sort of philosophical dimension
to this, to my mind, you know, the sort of thing that words are spoken, and then you go,
all right, okay, and then you suddenly stop and think, hang on. So if that is right, then that means
such and such, and you go off into your own, you know, spiral. Sorry to interrupt. No, I finished
and then you're thinking, yeah, but my experience is this, does that change my experience of that?
How does that fit in? Yeah, I don't know, that's interesting, but that must be why. So, very good,
I would like to do a response show to that. Yes, it's another case of where, for the discussion
on the topic would be fantastic. Yeah, yeah, even, even a sort of round table, if anybody's keen
enough to do that type of thing. Yeah, for me, I can think fast enough, like, I mean,
for 45 minutes to even ponder a response, then D&D shall hit the future feed, actually, you want
to hear it until next month, and then I was thinking, all right, do I know I need to go back to the
draw board and think about it again. So HBR is ideal for that, long, long shows, and we will,
we will add the references to previous shows so that you can follow the thread.
Okay, last show, I think, for the months, is that correct, 28?
Could be. No, there's one on the 31st. Okay, playing Civilization 2 was a hookah show about
playing Civilization, and this is part two of that, as opposed to Civilization 2. No, it is Civilization
2, and this is about playing it, and there was one comment. You read that?
Yep. D&T says game mechanics. This was interesting. I like your discussion of game mechanics.
This is why these games are so engrossing when you get into them. I'm sure that's true, yes, yes.
It's, yeah, yeah, hookah does sort of gets deeply into these things, like, get that impression
anyway, that he says he's also a deep thinker, so it's good to hear his thoughts about stuff.
Yeah, I've never had that thing with games where I was always worried about getting into them,
and I get so stressed, and the time countdown thing, you know, the time countdown factor and
find myself wasting so much time in them, that I avoid games that don't relax me, that make me stressed.
That's just me, maybe. Oh, nice. I know, I know, the next show, yeah, go on.
I know why he was bringing me. Mr. Look at me, Dave Morris, with his overview of AC command.
I probably script like tools I can search by file type. Never heard of it, Dave.
Oh, there you go. It's, yeah, I'm not so stalled by the fault, are there?
No, no, no, no. It's something I think I was watching one of those YouTube things,
where people say, here's some commands you'll really enjoy, or you should be using all the
time, or something like that. I wrote it down a bit of paper along with the other ones, and then
we're just going to throw it away, and oh, let's maybe check a few of these, and that came up,
and I thought, oh, this is really nice. I enjoyed using this. So, yeah.
The stuff you mentioned in it, I do now with more convoluted find command and grip command.
So, this is marked down as something that I would be interested in. However, I will note, Dave,
that you're searching by file extensions, and you had the religious war at one stage,
wasn't file extensions undue? No, it's not that so much. It's the fact that you write a program,
okay, make soup, be called put.pl, or pd, or xyz on the end, for some idiotic thing,
to be able to come along and say, oh, look, there's a program, and I have to run it with this,
inside the actual file, it says run this with pull, run this with Python, run this with
all go what the hell else, you know. Why do you have to put that extension when you're making a
program? I want my programs to names to be indicative of what they're for, not to have garbage on
the end that tell the operating system stuff about it. Yeah, but that idiot that comes along as
me, I'm looking for the pull program, I wrote 20 days ago, and it's a middle of all the
bash programs. And what you need is that, because it will look in, it will look in the file, and say,
hello, it's a burl thing, that is, even though this guy's in put.pl on the end, it's burl, I can tell.
Okay. Yeah, I'm not sure your level gets me with that. No, it's just just a personal
foible, because back in the day, I've worked on operating systems where you did not need to put
don't actually, on the end of things, and stuff in order to execute. We have that now on Linux,
and it's fine, you can just point this a little wrong, but I find it super useful to be able to
search based on your look for all the pl files, just with the extension. I'm fully aware that
it might be a bash file, that's just name.pl boss, you know, it does help.
There's quite a lot of the operating system that commands which are bash, which then
launch something else, which I usually use the file command to ask, what the hell is this?
Yeah, I'd like to go and look at how it works or something. But yeah, the operating system I've
worked on over the years, the mainframe ones, tended not to do that because, but that's because
they were very different from Unix and derivatives, where all files are pretty much the same,
just the contents are different, but the files themselves had different structures, and they were
marked with all manner of govins in the file headers that said, I am a database or I am an
executable file or whatever, and the operating system used that, not some nice to tag things stuck
on the end. It's basically because I hate Windows, that's what we saw about. Yeah.
Okay, so that is all the shows. So we go over the comments, skipping over the green one, because we're
not totally supposed to talk about them, and the first comment was on the show Mike Ray, which was
an emergency show from ages ago, about the power of condensed steam. DNC says clap. I don't know if
that's an instruction or not. We heard enough to do, we're pushed to talk on.
Anyway, the comment says, this is a fun and new one to me. I reproduced this experiment twice,
a very opportune time for this show to reach the main feed. Only a few days after a famous
implosion of a different kind, if you are reading this in the distant future, see Oceangate.
Thanks for this ride. Yes, it's a sharp intake of breath.
I do see where he's coming from though. So the next one is from Rito on your show on
about Kong. I had one Ken Fallon. Hi, Ken. He says, could it be that you mixed up KDF3
gets a link with KDIRSTAT while we were talking in emergency news for June show.
QDIRSTAT is based on the same code from the original KD3 KDIRSTAT.
QDIRSTAT, I say that. Yeah, from the original KDIRSTAT of 2006, it's an 80% rewrite using a lot
of newer QT technologies. There's a lot of cleaning up at all codebase that's long been overdue.
If so, QDIRSTAT is also interesting. It comes with nice features like package manager support,
show what software packages system file belongs to. Package view, packages view showing disk usage
of installed software packages and their individual files. Unpackaged files view,
showing what files in system directories do not belong to any installed software package.
And it's just an app install away. However, you help me anyway because while in KDE's Dolphins
KDF3 integration can only compare two files in the same folder, I can use it in the terminal
with past files like, and the system puts KDF3 space home rate to abc.txt slash space slash media
slash usb slash abc.txt. So yeah, yes, absolutely. Just a comment on this comment on the comment.
I used to use KDIRSTAT with Conqueror a lot. It was really good. It draws lovely pictures of
your files you've got and you can go and drill down into them and stuff. And identifying the
huge ISO that was taken up all the status in your disk. Exactly, yes, yes. So many times I've done that.
And yeah, so I really must go and look at QDIRSTAT which I haven't done yet.
And I replied, QDIRSTAT is nice but I meant KDF3. I did download QDIRSTAT after that and it was,
it's an excellent tool and I need to remind myself not to use KDIRSTAT but to use QDIRSTAT instead.
And I also point out the Android app on the FDIRSTAT store called disk usage, all one word,
disk usage, all one word. And that one has, does the same thing but for Android.
Okay, I'll carry on with my comment. Nice tip of QDIRSTAT but I meant KDF3. So KDF3 pat tooled,
pat new and perhaps I need to show about this. Oh, hold on, I see what you did there.
Yes, he's already been on the community news so he knows all about getting people to do shows.
But that one actually, if you open KDF3, you have the option of comparing it directly but you'll also
underneath that there's another button for comparing files so you can compare files also using the GUI.
Cool, cool. I've got, I use meld personally but just because I've linked into Git as the
Diff tool when I'm looking at Git differences, just because it's prettier I suppose I don't know
really. KDF3 is fine though. And the link to the mail list is out there to Diff.
So it is, I thought I'd fix that. Oh, obviously. Yeah, I thought I'd fix, I really did think I'd
fix that. That's very odd. I must have done it in my sleep or something. I will fix that.
Yeah, that's irritating. There's only one thing there anyway, if you were to look it,
it's just me telling everybody to come to the show if they wanted to. I think also on the
down on the bottom is also wrong. Yeah, down on the bottom, the footer has also got
mail list link issues. Okay, okay. Well, we know, yeah, we've yet to get around to some of those,
I think, but yeah, make a note, make a note and we'll get to it all on one second.
All right, issue 150 done tracking that. Actually, there was something else on the mailing list
in July. There were several things on the mailing list. Yeah, nothing. It was just mainly about the
change of mail man and things, I think. Yeah, they mostly notifications of people being
subscribed and the fact that HPR is moving and stuff. A few test messages and things. So it's
probably maybe before I send it before we finish and send these notes out, I should maybe point out
the difference in the addresses, the mailing list addresses. Please do, yeah. I've also got the
list here for, so the HPR mailing list list. I know, as HGTBS called them for such lists,
lists.hpr. And you can get the archives there.
Yeah, I will make a note to add it to the show notes. There was one thing, Mark Rice, who is
Archersuch, who mentioned that he thought it was a good idea to have a contact in case of
emergency, a host willing to participate. But I don't think he got much in the way of response to
that. Am I right? Well, I'm not sure if, no, he hasn't. Let's just talk about that first.
This is as a result of the fact that Ron has, Ron has basically disappeared from the project. And I
don't know, you know, I don't know what the motivations are. I'm inclined to think that it's something
that's happened to him. I imagine he would have just gotten in contact with us. We tried text in
him. We tried sending a letter to him. But we haven't got any information. So if anyone lives
in around Baltimore area in the US, if you could give me, drop me a line. And maybe you might
be able to check up locally to see if he's doing okay. If he, you know, got annoyed at me being
a nutty, that's also fine. Gun noise or whatever, or just doesn't want nothing more to do with
the project that's also fine. It's just like to know that he's doing okay. And basically that. So
if you're in Baltimore area, can you give a touch? That's thing number one. And I think Yardship 72,
you know, there is a, there is a feeling that goes back to tattoo show there of our friends.
When, when are you just off the internet? I'm when have you moved on, you know, Guns Silent Key.
Show coming up about that shortly. So yeah, it's one to think about. So if you have thoughts on that,
my personal feeling is we don't have the bandwidth on the HPR, like the jammers just don't
have bandwidth on the HPR to do that for people. Also, when, so the idea would be, okay,
something happens to me. I got, I'm not available for a period of time. Dave has my contact
information and he can ring my phone, my mobile, or he has my address on the house phone and he can
contact me very to see what's going on and, you know, is everything okay. And that's sort of thing.
You know, we would do that and make the online community aware that you have, have basically
cast off this mortal coil or gone to the, the grape yand etc, etc. But as I say, there's a lot of
implications in this. Yeah, as to, yeah, it's a discussion. If people have thoughts, please respond
to the email thread, that will be great. You were thought instead.
Yeah, it's, it's, it is an issue, I mean, but I certainly have a notebook, which is in a,
a known place in this house where my kids can go and find all the relevant details,
sort of they need to, but yeah, to, to, to be passing that on to some central thing,
which is sort of essentially what's being proposed here, takes you into a different sort of realm,
partly because you, you need to have a mechanism or machinery to handle it all and to,
you know, keep it secure and, and disseminate it to whoever needs it. And that's sort of stuff.
It's a, it's a whole complication that needs a lot of thinking about, I think.
Yeah, and it comes down to trust again, which is another issue related to both one of spoon
shows and, and tattoo shows. You know, maybe it's not necessary to give it to, to everybody,
you just give it to three of your internet friends. And, you know, they then can kind of be trusted
to know if you disappear, that, okay, I've sent my contact information to you three, and then,
you know, you, you know, like the telephone, telephone three for parents back in the day,
do you remember that? Yes, yes, that's a good point, I should have forgotten that.
Yeah, maybe that's enough. Yeah, yeah. So you, you have two people in common, but yeah, you do,
and the tree expands. Anyway, what thoughts about that would be, would be welcome.
I do want to mention there, he's beyond mailing list address change. So we moved the mail list
to a new email address. Ron was busy doing that, but we had to take it over, and I just basically
outsourced it to mailman.net, who do a mail list, who I've already
having doing a mail list for the neighborhood, and I've used them for three years without any problem,
they, they keep everything up to date, and I don't need to worry about it.
It's at a separate subdomain, and we consciously put it on the dot com icon public radio dot com versus
dot org. So if the idea being that if anything happens, the dot org domain, at least we can still
communicate via the dot com domain, and if anything happens to dot com domain, then we have the
information to contact you via the dot org domain. So that's kind of the idea there. It's also on
its own subdomain. So lists dot hacker public radio dot org. So if you're just sending in a new
mail list to the HPR, it's no longer HPR at hacker public radio dot org. It's HPR at lists dot hacker
public radio dot com. I'll say that again, it's HPR at lists dot hacker public radio dot com. That is all.
Okay, we have two other things to mention in the any other business part of the notes.
There's the OLF conference was also right September 8 and 9, called for presentations.
So if you're going to OLF, called for presentations is open. Okay, and that's it. Thank you,
OLB. I just put in an article about the static site and how things are moving forward with it.
It was mentioned in the last community news and we moved everything to new server and the new
and the static site written by Byron is being used to generate the non-interactive part of the
website. And we've there've been issues with it. There've been bugs and that type of thing. We
solved a lot of them by sort of work around, but we've also been working on fixing them in the
static site software to get it all working. And I wouldn't say that we've we've got them all yet,
but we're we're making reasonable progress on fixing them. So they'll gradually get better as
time goes on. And it's a let us know. Yeah, go on, sorry, Ken. And vast majority of issues are either
I didn't explain properly what we wanted or you know, it was just it I wouldn't put it down to
Roans, according its interpretation of the way things were done are and things changed
that a lot of the some of the changes were that we didn't have things in the database available
and now they are, etc, etc. So it was in what what he was attempting to emulate was a very complex
system that it evolved over over years, I guess, isn't it? And and maybe wasn't fully explained
and and also we were caught on a way as with we're getting it all together by the the need to move
off to a different server. So you know, the original timescale was by the end of this year to have
it moved across, but we had to get it done by June mid June, I think, wasn't it? And so, you know,
it's not surprising that there were loose ends there. But in fairness to Roan and the cold,
the vast majority of stuff was just when we had edge cases like when you zoomed to the laser show,
it went to the latest one and it didn't publish beyond today, which was fine, but we needed
those extra ones for the for the queue is for the day today 90% 95% of the daily operation of the
website, it worked absolutely fine. So credit where credit is to you. Absolutely, yeah, yes, and
Roan, what I said in this thing here, this software is excellent and we certainly appreciate
the quality of what was done. And plus also, after you get your head around it, I think he was going
to document stuff a bit later on as you do, you get it working and then you document it. So we're
lacking documentation a bit. So it's been an exercise of working at how it all works, but it's
some it's actually really nicely put to it. It's very, very, very cleverly built. So
adding stuff to it and maintaining what's there and so forth is it's pretty straightforward thing
to do. Once you've got your head around where which bit does what? It's it's a one
pearl script running the whole Shebang from a configuration file and the configuration file
nominates lots and lots of templates using a pearl template toolkit stuff and the templates
it do a lot of the the donkey work of putting it together web pages or running queries and in
some cases generating XML in order to make the final product. So once you you know which one to
go to to to change that comma to semicolon or whatever is you having to do, then it's pretty easy
to to to fix. And also that templating system is fairly generic now on other languages. It's the
same templating system that's used in Python. So if you think oh I heard pearl been mentioned
over there. The pearl script all that's doing is with the templates it generates the files.
So the templates are more in an abstract high level language that is fairly easy to follow.
Actually it's kind of HTML and then you see here there's a loop in this section and then you
see that they're calling something over here. It's all fairly followable. Yep, yep. Well you can
embed pearl in the templates but Ron hasn't done that and I think quite quite that was a decision
he made from the from the get go and which which I fully applaud because you know it's nice for
pearl hackers to go and plug around with that level of stuff in the template but not for anybody
else. And the whole idea of having templates is that you can pass them to people who don't have
nest the full skill set. I think they originally came out of a scenario where where the developers
come were putting together stuff to run a website but the then you had another team who is
really HTML experts who didn't want to get into the programming aspect of it given that HTML
is not really programming in the normal sense. And so they could they could go to the template,
tweak the HTML, do CSS, whatever's and stuff without ever needing to get near to the programming
area. So and that's been implemented well I think in this in this particular case and it's
proving to be good to work with. Now it's fantastic it's I really like it it's clean and it's a
nice way of producing sites and it's kind of logical as well. And so any of the weirdness and
associated with our as a result of our concept of now and tomorrow and yesterday and linking stuff
both. I really think you could take this and I was thinking of taking this and using it
to update my blog going from work just back to this. This is quite simple. Yeah yeah yeah absolutely
absolutely. You know it's a very nice implementation. Okay so the other subtle changes the reserve
queue that you you wanted to have an item in about your own way to talk about this.
Shall I do it because you've been moving. Yeah sure. And I also asked you to put it in so we had
the situation the other day where there was a free slot and we hadn't it filled and then when
we filled it it went to the IA internet archive where we indeed asked again or something and
it ended up that the show got released but you could you can get into the queue when it was on
the website and the reason for that is we put it on the website and we don't make it available until
the metadata the media files are available which kind of makes sense. So everything was working
as normal but everything was working correctly but the abnormality was that it was later in the day
before it got published. Was that fair to say? Yeah yeah it was we missed the sort of midnight
deadline that we normally try and make by a few hours. So we have said that we're going to be using
the reserve queue more and you saw that this in the last week there were four shows that were
taken from the reserve queue and thankfully people are putting shows back into the reserve queue
so you have the option on upload whether you can schedule it if you want to schedule it that's great
you can also throw them into the reserve queue and we will free up those slots and we will be filling
those slots five to seven days into the future because we want to make sure that the internet
archive have enough time to process all the media files. That's right that's it. Yes we hadn't
quite worked out what the delay was likely to be between us getting the show already at the HBR
end and it being available on the internet archive and it can be very very quick within sort of
10 minutes or something but it can also be delayed for a day or more so you need to have
to be prepared for it being one of those bad days that's the reason.
Just about the issue so all the source code for HBR is now available on the HBR
repo which is repo.anonasource.net and if you log in there you get access to or you can get access
to the HBR website. I think the code is actually available now without having an account.
I wasn't logged in the other day and I was able to see it so that's good you in order to do
anything you need an account and that's very enough. So there are things that are still not in
the repo and that is static files but as we go through the website we will be adding those into
correct places and we will be deleting all the repuls and stuff so that everything is reflected.
So we currently have 10 open issues onto the old source code website and those relate to feature
requests that we wanted to implement and that have us yet not been implemented. We've got 13
issues on the stuff like updating the null values allowing episodes to have multiple hosts
and allowing series to have multiple series. Uploading shows to youtube adding links to
hookershaws doing pgp keys for host emails. Do we want an atom feed and improving
download of greptire images so that's what's there related to the HBR generation itself.
We've got 23 issues open which I won't go through because they're there and they're
13 related to the HBR hub website which is you know the general HBR website.
Not really sure the best way of posting bugs actually was anyway post a bug and we'll get to it.
That's all I have to say, Dave. Yes, yes. I was distracted there looking at the website.
Yeah, sometimes we did a show where we run and I did a show where we go through and open an issue
and close up but well there's so much that we're doing now that what Dave and I are going to be
doing is we will do some stuff fix what we see as we're going along and then just post a
ifix and and then it's documented so it's not you know this push is fixing five different issues
or addressing at least five different issues maybe not fixing them all but that's the way it's
going on. But it is good actually it's it's great to be able to go score blah blah blah and
file an issue and then it's in one place. Yeah yeah we've missed this for years really and we
we didn't have a have a mechanism and when we did have a mechanism we didn't really know
the best way to use it I guess it's fair to say so I certainly didn't anyway but well a lot of
the issues with the oil coat we couldn't have done on the other one till we moved to this new site
so now we can address them and some of them think like the atom feeds do we really need it it's like
yeah we could do it but it's just something else to manage what's the point yeah most people
use RSS anywhere else so yeah yeah no that's fine I think it's it I'm seeing it as being a
a manageable thing even though we're we're just the two of us looking after it we're we're making
headway so and I think it's helped a lot by the fact we've got obviously we've got this excellent
code to work with but we've also got a get repo to to work properly yeah several several get
repose to be honest but yeah so yeah it seems things look pretty good okay I don't know
of anything else I'm gonna go and hopefully the weather I'll be improved that we can do something
with the shed we will see yep stop round the outside no nothing else okay tune in tomorrow for
another exciting episode of hacker public radio you have been listening to hacker public radio
at hacker public radio does work today's show was contributed by a hbr listener like yourself
if you ever thought of recording podcast and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it
means hosting for hbr has been kindly provided by an honest host.com the internet archive and
rsync.net on the Sadois status today's show is released under creative comments attribution 4.0
international license
