Episode: 3336
Title: HPR3336: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 1
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3336/hpr3336.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:08:16

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3336 for Mundi, the 17th of May 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, HPR 2020, 2021 New Year's Eve Show Episode 1.
It is hosted by Hunkie Magoo and is about 104 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Good morning, you've been good morning, sir.
How are you?
I'm alive and kicking.
Just more than can be said for a lot of people, I guess.
Right?
How are you keeping all healthy?
Yeah, I'm pretty good.
You guys?
Yeah, my life is responsible for some care homes.
Yesterday there were six and four lacto contamination modes and this morning there are 10.
It's not going good.
Thankfully, nobody's too sick yet.
That's good.
Now, have you been on full lockdown mode?
Yeah, we're on the, well, the Dutch definition of full lockdown, which is
you can still go out and stuff.
But the shops are just except for food, essential products.
Oh, really?
All the shops are shut down?
Yeah.
We had that for a little while and they slowly kind of re-open a lot of stuff back up.
Yeah, we had that at the beginning of the year and then it was open.
And then it went around the Christmas.
We celebrate the kids Christmas around 5th of December.
And then there was a lot of spreading events as a result of that.
And the fact that it's winter and more people are traveling and more people are inside.
And also the fact that people are sick to death of literally sick sick of being in the house.
So there's not as much compliance as there was in the first lacto.
But there you go.
I think it's going to get pretty bad year and a new year before it gets worse.
Oh yeah, before it gets better, yeah.
Now, how are people coming along with it though?
I mean, one of the things that we've kind of noticed is that
I have known people to get it and then a lot of people.
There seems to be a lot of a large number of people who are kind of asymptomatic right now
as opposed to at first when it...
I feel like a lot of the people who were more susceptible to it already got it.
I don't know.
I feel like a lot of people who are getting it now are able to shed it a lot faster than
a lot of people who got it at the beginning or at least it doesn't seem as doom and gloom
as it did at the beginning.
I think that's actually just a matter of a few weeks when my changer ideas that my brother and
those parents are both not doing well after surviving the first one, yeah.
Really? They had gotten it and then they've gotten it earlier and then they got it again.
No, they've not used to avoid it before.
Oh, okay.
This new string coming out of the UK is not blaming the UK or anything.
At least they identified it.
Seems to be a lot more the chances of contagion seems to be a lot higher,
particularly in kids under 50.
You call them kids under 50?
Kids under 15, one five.
Okay, put your hat, get off my lawn, new kids.
Oh, it's early.
So what time's it there?
4.43 in the morning.
What the hell are you doing up?
Starting this.
Very good, very good.
I still have to work today, so I'll be doing a bit of that.
I try to take the occasion between Christmas and New Year's and the way that Christmas fell this year.
I had a Saturday is my day off, so my whole week restarted, so I have another few more days of vacations.
We're very nice.
14 minutes left.
Have you been working remote during all of this?
Yep.
And your kids have all been
schooling from home?
On the initial lockdown, yes.
How long do you need to find the phone?
Then they went back to school during the summer,
and just before Christmas, the schools were all so shut.
And also what they say about this new virus is true.
I don't are new variant.
I don't think they'll be going back until the vaccination programs have rolled it.
My daughter finished off last year, last semester,
working remote, and then she started off this year actually going,
and then right before winter break, they had them go remote the last
week before winter break, and apparently going, they're supposed to, was the next week,
on Monday, they were supposed to go back to going into school, and we just got,
we just found out the other day that they're going to be remote for the first week,
and maybe more after that.
Yeah, my daughter was on the, so the secondary schools were like full whack.
One school had us where the kids just walked into their room, stayed in the room,
and the teachers moved around. The other school, the kids moved around, like there was no change.
And then my daughter is in third level, so she has two days a week remote, one day in school,
they have a next church, an old church that used to be part of the thing.
So the class is able to fit in there, and they get lectures there.
And then she has her work experience is still going ahead, so that's fine.
She's getting out of the house.
Yeah, but I kind of feel like that idea where they just keep them in the one classroom,
and then they kind of rotate the teachers around, kind of seems, it seems like a good idea.
I mean, everything that was explained to me, yeah, I mean, everything that was explained to me that,
you know, they basically eat their lunch at their desk and stuff like that, and they do,
my daughter did like a little bit of recess and stuff, but there wasn't, you know,
there was, there wasn't much actual interaction, but she got, my daughter's eight years old,
she's just in third grade, she actually kind of needs that human interaction, you know what I mean?
Yeah, exactly, yeah, exactly.
But it's kind of weird the way that in some countries, the like pods of four or five kids,
and that's the only kids they're allowed to socialize with.
I think they're doing that in Ireland as well.
But you also don't see the numbers necessarily going up or down, yeah, it's going to,
as I say, it's going to be a statistician's playground now with all the numbers for this.
Yeah, and what seems to work in one country doesn't necessarily seem to work in another,
it's kind of weird. So this year, we're going to be talking about COVID instead of guns and
guns. What do we normally talk about on the HBO show?
Guns food. Guns and beer. Yeah.
Good old 5150 may rest in peace, sir. Yeah.
It's kind of weird. It's, it's, it's such a weird thing that, you know, I don't feel a lot of
people grasp. And he's not in this country that this is a worldwide thing that's going on.
It's not something that's centralized just to, you know, their state, region, you know,
town, whatever. It's this is a worldwide thing that's going on and everybody is going through it.
Yeah, absolutely. United, we stand down. But it has highlighted to me a lot of,
yeah, just things that I would have assumed were part of the general knowledge of, of a nation,
particularly with, yeah, for example, people's inability to interpret a bell curve.
That has amazed me. People, the people's lack of understanding and how vaccines work,
even at the broadest sense that, yeah, even if you get vaccinated, you're still going to be
carrying around the virus to other people. So, you know, it's not a free for all for you.
Just simple, simple things that seem logical to me seem to, and they're just, you know,
deniers I struggle with that, I struggle with that. Do you get that in your country?
Oh, yeah, yeah. And it's not, it's, it's not, I would have expected that to be, you know,
limited to stupid Americans. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, limited to people who, who, you know,
they, they, okay, we have got they, we've got the conspiracy theorists, but
they're what I'm seeing now is just people are not bothering because it's affecting their life.
You know, I couldn't be asked to wear a mask and the restaurants are shut, so it's, it's
upsetting me. I need to go to my restaurant and I need to go on my ski vacation and I need to do
this, you know, the selfishness of the thing. All these people, you know, you see all these people
who are in the homes, taking care of people in the ICU's, people who are coming out of retirement,
going into the health care and then people are out clapping and yet at the same time, now they're
complaining that they're, that they have to stay home and oh, well, you can let your kids go to
a party because what does it matter? It's just very frustrating that they, yeah. That's, yep,
that's it. Yep. I feel kind of stupid with my comment earlier. And it's really not, it's,
it hasn't changed the amount of people, the type of people that it's hitting, it's just,
it's, I'm noticing a lot, maybe I'm just noticing a lot more younger people getting it
than I was or I'm, I don't know, it's too early. Well, yeah, exactly, but there's, it seems to be
affecting younger people a lot more as well. Well, yeah, I'm fun. I guess the treatments are a
lot better, you know, the people are not spending are getting out of ICU's and stuff, which means
they're not dying, so they're not freeing up beds, which is a good thing, but also put more stress
on the, on the healthcare system. Yeah, I think I'm, I'm seeing a lot more younger people
getting it now, you know, than I, but that's just the people who I am involved with or, or
know, or something, I don't know, it was a stupid comment and it's way too early. Because
no one I think about it, I have, I know that other people on discord yesterday, you know,
flying rich. Yep. On the pine nuts discord, door had made some mention that flying rich was
actually in the hospital with it. Oh, that's not good. Yeah, and, you know, at first, you know, it
said in the hospital and then I read further and it said, well, he said that he had gotten it,
but in the hospital with it and in the hospital, that's, that's not, because he's a relatively
healthy individual. That's, that's really not good. No, that's not good. So I'm going to grab
a coffee before we start. You do the intro, yeah? Sure. Good morning. Good morning.
Two minutes. Okay, on the main HPR website, I'll put a link to,
way to capture the streams. Okay. To record how to record the show. Yeah, I think Kevin is
going to do a recording off the stream since I'm going to be home pretty much fostered today.
I think I was just going to sit and alarm on my watch about every three hours or four hours
or so and stop and start the recording. I had pre-start the recording. I had pretty good luck
with my recording last year. So I'm recording this with a, um,
um, uh, epoch time in there as well. Okay. One minute, thirty seconds. One bad thing about
Etherpad is if you don't have the exact name of the pad, it'll just create a new pad. Like if
you, if I had the HPR one, but it was like not capitalized in the right spot, it would just create a
new one. Instead of just telling me like, this one doesn't exist. Which if you're looking for one
individual one and it's, it gets very frustrating. Luckily, there is a admin plugin that you can put
in though to manage pads, but it's not there by default. Etherpad is such a fantastic tool too. You're
right. Hi everybody. Welcome to Hacker Public Radio's ninth annual 26-hour New Year's Eve
Show. 2020 is over. Welcome 2021 in Geerede Matty. At least some people can benefit from 2020 being
over. Joining me today is, oh, uh, how can we go? Hi, how you doing? I thought you were going to be
doing the intro, but then it's so switched over. So did I, but all of a sudden you jumped right
on there. You go right ahead, you go and you're doing great. No, no, no, no, let's, let's start.
We start. Well, too bad. My, my recording's already been going for a little while, so we
already restarted. Too late. You're gonna have to do it next year. Ah, all right. I mean, what is,
what else is there to say with this is the ninth annual Hacker Public Radio New Year's Eve Show,
a show where people can come on, uh, say hello, you know, ring in the new year, talk to other
like-minded Hacker Public Radio people. I don't know. Other hackers. I don't know. It's something I
enjoy doing because it gives people a chance to come on and talk about Hacker-y type things. Things
that are normally discussed on Hacker Public Radio and just have a good time. I mean, a lot of times
I get on to hearing those people I don't normally talk like you. This is about the only chance I
get really get to talk to you, but I accept for through email. Yeah, true, no, actually, I'm officially
at work now, so I'm gonna have to keep it very technical today. This time is trading. Yeah, but I,
I do like the, uh, I don't like the editing of this is very stressful, but yeah, thankfully you're
doing that, so I don't need to worry about it. I hate it. As long as the, the audio files want to
play nice, and I don't mind doing the editing. Yeah, if we can, it also helps if you keep the show notes,
so the Z to pad along with the show. If you go to the Hacker Public Radio website, it's all
exp in there. And, um, yeah, links and stuff. It just makes life a lot easier. And then, uh, yeah,
hopefully we'll be good. Yep. Last year, Kevin did some of the editing, and we really didn't do much
by way of the show notes, but in years past, I've, like, I've sat down and re-listen to absolutely,
I get everything, you know, edit it up finally, and then I sit down and re-listen to everything,
which is kind of fun on its own, which means that it doesn't necessarily get out as quickly.
I want to say, in years past, it's been like June, July before I fully get it out, but, uh, fine with
us. But it gives me a chance to sit down and fully listen to all of it. I just, there've been times
where I've sat down and listened to it, and the purpose of, uh, maybe pulling some links for
show notes, and I've been in situations where I couldn't, you know, write down links and show notes
then had to go back and re-listen to it afterwards. But, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's kind of like,
I just recently re-listened to, uh, the previous years ones, and I mean, there were parts of there
at the end that I didn't catch from before, just because of the way that the, uh, uh, so there were
some problem with the truncate silence and the one that got uploaded. And so it kind of
screwed a lot of things up, but my version had a truncate silence that was, and surprisingly,
still a little bit rough, but, uh, I was able to listen to all of it. Like, Pokey's audio at the,
the end of the show there was getting kind of worried. It almost seemed like it was chopping off
his first word of everything that he was saying. Yeah, you know, but hopefully 2021 is going to be
a better year, but, you know, uh, 2019 was in a fantastic year, um, 2020, uh, 2020 wasn't a fantastic
year. So, um, you know, figures crossing all that. Well, actually, I think for a worldwide pandemic,
the, uh, the COVID virus could have been a lot worse. I mean, it could have been Ebola,
and that would have been a different, uh, different ball of fish to be brutally honest with you.
Well, yeah, it could always be worse. Uh, yeah. That's not to minimize this or anything. Oh god, no.
No, but the World Trade Organization, or the World Trade Organization says, you know,
FYI, this isn't the big one. When we spoke about the big one before, this isn't it. So I think
people, hopefully, it'll be an eye-opener for one thing, it's meant things like remote working,
and, uh, you know, that we need, you need to physically move the atoms that compose yourself to
a location to be online seems a little bit silly. You know, all the arguments that I've heard for
not being able to work from home or work remotely seem to have gone out to India. Well,
that those arguments were mostly by like, uh, people's employers who don't think that it was
an idea, wasn't it? Yep. How are you doing along with, uh, working remotely? Um, yeah,
it's pretty much the same as if I went into work and plugged in because, um, the teams that work
with our, uh, remote, anyway, I've only ever met them in person, a few of them in person.
So, uh, we start more or less every day at 10 o'clock with a stand-up. Some of the teams have,
have always, um, uh, what they do is they have, uh, TV, they have offices, and then they had, uh,
a big TV at the end of one of the off, of both office locations, and then they have a
constant, uh, Google Meetup going, and if you want to, so the teams then go for coffee at the same
time, you know, even though that one is in the Netherlands and one is in Poland, and they, you can
walk over to, to the wall, and then ask a question of your colleagues over there, or, you know, be, uh,
yeah, she will talk or whatever tools you happen to be using.
So, basically to me, the work didn't change as much. What did change was the interactions with
people that, uh, yeah, I missed that more than I thought it would today was really. All right,
one second. Hold on. It's happening here. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. What are you doing up
this hour in the morning? Oh, we, we make her stay in bed until five. She's probably, probably
been up since about like four. Oh, I was, I was corrected. She's been up since 415.
I'm tired here. What time is she good to bed? Uh, around eight. Very good. Very good.
So you have a television with a, a team's thing set up at the end of the hallway?
Yeah, so like they, um, they have this, uh, they, at the, in the office themselves, in the
offices, where the teams are working. So you're working on project acts here, and one person is in
one country, the other person is in another country, and so you have three different offices.
So what they do is they put on a, like a large monitor, TV, because we work in the TV industry,
so we've got TVs. And, uh, you hook up, uh, like external mic and HDMI, uh, HD camera, um,
like a conference call microphone, a good quality microphone, and, uh, then put on teams or put on
whatever your, um, whatever your video conferencing app of choices. So there, there's the camera in
their office pointing, uh, uh, uh, pointing at them. It's camera in your office pointing at you,
and you're just there working. So it's like, is if you're all in the one office.
It's a, oh, video conferencing. I didn't realize that. Yeah. Wow, that's, that's kind of crazy.
Well, not really. When you think about it, it's just a video conference that's going on all the time.
Fair enough. Um, it's, uh, for me, when this, when that, uh, when they sent them home,
when everybody had to work from home, they, uh, consulting company, they sent them all, uh, iPad,
and, uh, the purpose of the iPad or our tablet of some sort, and the purpose of the tablet was just
to be, uh, that's your video conferencing thing you're there. And then they have a, like, a one big
meeting that everybody's in just on the wall. So you got one screen just for that where you can see
everybody else. And it's pointing at you. No, no, that's not, but that's going to say,
it's not, that's not running all day long. Is it? Yep. Yep. There's so many watching you while
you work all day long or everybody has their choice. You don't have to put it on, but it's their
choice. And to be honest, you, it's, while it seems freaky at first, if, if it's your choice,
then it actually does aid in the camaraderie. Yeah. You know, it gives you an office feeling.
Right. Yeah. I know there's some people who apparently had to be, like, monitored during all of it,
you know, the whole time with the remote, they were, there was somebody basically sitting there
watching them and they had to be much of their recorded or what, but that sounds a little nicer,
especially if it's your choice besides the one, um, you know, you said there was like, well,
once a week, there was like a meeting where everyone's supposed to get together. Yeah, I've seen
some, some reports of tools that monitor the amount of activity, what websites they're going to,
how long are you clicking, how much you're doing and in each of the word documents and all sorts.
So it's a bit weird. But that seems like a better compromise to me. You have control. You can
always just, you know, turn off the thing. It's your choice whether you put it on or not. Right.
So Brexit is going ahead apparently. I've already went ahead. Yeah. As of, uh, no, it starts tomorrow.
Oh, they had a, they had a year, uh, years graced. See, I don't know as much about it mostly because
I don't, uh, you know, I don't, um, I don't live in the, in the, in the UK. So I don't
follow it as closely. I just have a kind of general knowledge. So the big, the big thing is that
they're leaving the European Union, right? Yeah, they left the, they left the EU last year and then
they had a year where they agreed to a transition of one year, where the both sides agreed that the
same rules would apply. And then that gave them a year to come up with a deal. And then the deal,
if they failed to have a deal, they would resort to world trade organization rules,
which means tariffs on tariffs, uh, on goods coming in and out of the countries. So they,
COVID happened then and people stopped caring, basically. And, uh, on the continental
Europe, a lot of, uh, a lot of the concerns that I had and I think, uh, a lot of people had was,
the situation in Northern Ireland, uh, but I think we need to now welcome in
Chathamine Islands in the, in New Zealand, who only enough have a 10-15 welcoming.
Oh, I need. So, um, then there was a big, who, how about they, uh, how about the deal with Northern Ireland
because, um, it's a continuous border, the 300 kilometers of a border, um, with multiple border
crossings. And, um, in fact, the road, there are roads that, that form. So if you're on the left
and side of the road, here in one country, if you're on the right hand side, you're in another
country. So that, uh, that's interesting. And since the peace process, they've been doing an
awful lot to try and integrate the various different communities and make it seamless so that
is a seamless border. Even, even the signs and stuff don't, you would need to be fairly far
into the, each jurisdiction before you start seeing the signs of the jurisdiction you're in,
um, in an order, in order to de-escalate potential locations of conflict. So, um,
uh, the truth, um, that happened, that was agreed to in the Good Friday Agreement, kind of,
basically, but based on the fact that, um, the UK and the Republic of Ireland are in the same
customs union. So, in essence, it didn't really matter what, you know, what community you felt
more affinity to, you are, um, all intensive purposes, you could still get in your airplane and go
somewhere else and benefit from the shared island approach or the shared economy. But then
Brexit came and, um, suddenly the UK is no longer in the EU and they're a third country. So,
that raises, uh, very legitimate questions for the, uh, unionist community in the North.
And it also makes a lot of the national community very worried because the status quo has brought
a lot of peace and prosperity. So, the agreement then was to allow Northern Ireland to be part of
the European Union while still being a part of the United Kingdom. How that's going to be
implemented in practice is anyone's guess, but, um, that essentially means there's a economic border
around the island of Ireland and I can see that that would be very troubling for a lot of the
unionists in Northern Ireland. See that as a, and with justification, a, um, separation from the,
from the, uh, union that they have a desire to, to continue to be part of. Don't know if I said that
as, so that, and that's very sense. And then the rest of the UK basically, uh, just abandoned,
yeah, the Scotland don't want to be, uh, there are some significant majority in Scotland that
don't want to be, uh, leaving the EU either and are, there's talk of, if you listen to the Scottish
nationalists, they're, they wish to have another referendum. Um, they had a referendum a few years ago
and one of the main reasons they believe they lost the referendum was because, um, the voters
wanted to remain in the European Union. And now that they've left the European Union,
they feel that they should have another chance as, um, as, uh, getting their own sovereignty back
because they've always been an independent country. And then they would apply to join the European
Union themselves. So yes, Brexit explain. I'm kind of like confused as to what the upside to not
being part of the European Union would be. Mm hmm. Yep. No doubt we'll seal that because, um,
Britain will prosper musically apparently quoting their Prime Minister boss. Yep. I, I, I'm
a bit of a loss myself. See, I've always tried to explain things is that, uh, I look forward to the
day that we have the, um, uh, you know, like back and, uh, and, uh, and Star Trek, you know,
the federated, just, uh, the United Federated Plan. It's everybody's all together and one.
Not necessarily Kumbaya, but it's, you know, all under one flag. Do we decide whether you want a
3D printer yet or not? Well, yes, I definitely do, but, uh, I'm not gonna get on as yet.
Nice, uh, next year. I don't have the space at the moment. It was nice to have the, uh,
shows on, uh, 3D printers. Yeah, I like those. Enjoy them. Do them more.
Well, I tried convincing the lugtest guys to just kind of do a, before show, talk for a while
as to why we enjoy using 3D printers, but I didn't take. Bummer. Okay. I definitely would find
some use for it. All right. What's, um, and that, the one, uh, the one that was recommended,
I can't remember which one seems affordable and doable. Inner three. Uh, yeah, the inner three.
But, uh, yes, I'm still in a project trying to clear out this backroom because we're going to
renovate it. Uh, and, uh, that's just taken forever. Oh, yeah. I want to start putting other stuff in
while we're doing that. I understand. But it is extremely fun to hobby.
Beyond vacation. It's just, uh, it's one of those hobbies where I feel like when it's not being
used, I almost feel sad. Like, I have to figure out something for it to do. Yeah. Yeah. I also got
all sorts of wonderful filament for Christmas. So I got all the crazy, crazy ones. I had, uh,
one that wouldn't, looks like wood, glow in the dark, um, one that looks silver, uh, golden brass,
one that looks, uh, well gold. And it's, and now I got to figure out cool things to do with all
this stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What a good, uh, just doing some work here while I'm in
between. What have you got an ender? No, I have the, uh, Anet E-T4. Did you do a show on that?
I did not. I'm shocked. I'm shocked. Again, my, my plan was to try to convince other,
I see I'm not good at doing shows by myself just sitting in a room talking about to myself.
I work better when I can talk to, uh, talk to somebody else. So I try to convince the other people
on the one cast to just do like a talk about, uh, but 3D printing. Yeah. Good. If you remember in the
past, most of my shows, I convinced Kevin to come along with me. So Kevin on earlier and, uh,
he's not talking to me. Yeah. I think he's just on there to have the stream going. No, he's up
the z-stream, but he's got the other, I think he's just on there. I've been mutin' in everything.
I must have annoyed him or something. It's the only explanation.
Rexus. Rexus. Where would I find the link to Rexus? Yes, Kevin. We're seeing the chat.
Keep the e2pad updated. Lowell. Ken Fallon. You don't annoy me. I'm just not trying hard enough, Kevin.
Why is he listening? I love taking part. I don't understand. I'm supposed to be working here.
Okay, microservices, yes. I bet you're missing that long ride into work, though.
Surprisingly enough, yeah, it's effective on podcasts listening a lot. Yeah.
I mean, don't get me wrong, like, four days a week, three hours in the train. It's not pleasant, but,
uh, I also noticed I have zero time for myself from my own stuff. So I come out here in the morning,
you're at work, you go in and you're immediately into pop-a-mode. So there's no,
there's no, uh, gap at all. And then you come back to the same place if you want to watch a video or
something, it's back to here. So I'm getting a bit sick of being out here. I got you.
Sometimes I take the, uh, I just load the videos I want to watch on my phone and just go out to the
live room. All the, everybody's sitting on the couches next to each other, just everybody watching
the old videos. Yeah. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Yeah, that's fine.
Like, can you not listen to the stuff while you work? No. Yeah, that's okay. Hello.
Kind of a nice over here. I can't do that work. I can't do it either.
What line are you using? Uh, mumble. Just the latest version. I...
Yeah, seems okay. Well, how are you installing it?
Um, the future of God. I'm on the back list of apps.
Is it to this app? No. Uh, we try that I still do it. Kind of for sure.
It's weird that there's an issue to connect to the mumble. Yeah. Somebody had in the etherpad.
The version 133 was being rejected on Linux, but not on Windows. Strange. Really?
Always. Yeah. I find it amazing that these certs, you know, renewal things all seem to
happen on the first of January, blah, blah, blah. It seems almost stupid time to do it.
You know, do it on Wednesday in the middle of the day in February when people are available to
deal with the issue, not on New Year's Eve. Right? Just because round numbers. Right.
The Romans had it down first of April, 12 o'clock. That was the time that the New Year switched.
Don't give me start with about the 26 hour time zones, which actually makes sense.
But okay, fine. Or time zones period? Yeah. Well, yeah. It's fine.
Summer time zones, I can see a reason for it. I mean, we have epoch so fine and we have UTC so fine.
If people all use Daiso, it's a one so the correct year format.
And I don't, this has been bugging me all year. Thankfully, there's just to give you some
background. Daiso, it's a one is the date format where the year is first, then the month,
then the day, then the hours, then the minutes, then the seconds. And that's the only same
human readable time format because when you sort it, it sorts correctly. It's very, very simple
and it means that you don't need to, there's no disambiguity if you switch from 200 kilometers
away from here. They use month day, then here they use day month and then the US use month day.
So it's a little bit strange. That tears all that up. And it's amazing. There's been a trend on
applications on Linux to rely entirely on the local based on your computer. And Firefox has
Thunderbird has had this issue where it only relies on the locales for date and time information.
So there is no option. If you happen to be located in, if you're, if you're happened to be located
in the Netherlands, like I am, and want my dates sorted by year months, whatever.
According to this decision that Linux has taken, you don't have the option. You are forced to have
your dates and times, your emails, your calendar, everything sorted by month, by day, month, year.
So then when you look at your calendar, you've got all these numbers out of date is absolutely
frustrating. And there's been a bug that I've been following for the last two years trying to
convince them that this is actually an issue. And it's now an issue as well with on cloud or next cloud
that I get AM and PM when in my calendar. And there's no way to change it because this is the
locale you've chosen. So therefore, everybody in that locale, this is the preference they have.
Do you understand what I'm on or not? Oh, yeah. I don't, I don't necessarily run into that issue,
but I definitely understand what you're on about. Yeah. Okay. But the vast, you're living in the US.
And the vast majority of the US follow the same time zone stuff. So that you're, you're more than
happy dealing with that. Now, say you move to the Netherlands, right? On a vacation. And you
get stuck here because of COVID. Now you're in lockdown in a hotel, right? And suddenly the laptop
that you've been assigned from the hotel because you've got your own laptop thinks that you now have
the ability to speak Dutch. So every web page that you go to suddenly starts displaying Dutch to
you. This is a, this is a big issue with going to Google. If you go to Google from the Netherlands,
you are assumed to be able to speak Dutch and there is no way on their web pages to be able to
change that. That's thing number one thing. Number two, all your dates will turn from Wednesday,
Monday Tuesday, Wednesday, it'll be Manda, Dinsdag, Boonsdag, Dondodach, as an example. And your date
formats will also change and you have no way of changing it back without saying that you're in the US.
But now you need to fill out your text forms. So now you don't have the euro symbol and you don't
have the your dots on the comma as decimal point separators. So floating point separators here is
a comma, whereas in the states, it's a full stop. So now I'm here. I can, I can do all my stuff, but
I'm forced in a compromise. I don't have my, I don't have the euro. What I wanted to be able to do
is have the euro symbol as the currency sign. Okay, fine. So I'll select Ireland as my time zone.
But then I'll select Ireland as my local. So they've got the euro grant. We're good so far. Okay,
but they don't use the ISO, it's excellent date format. Okay, so I can switch to a Scandinavian
country where they use that date format. Okay, that's great, but they don't use the euro. Or I can
switch to Denmark. So if I switch my Denmark English, then that'll, that'll sort of that,
then I have at least English. But then that got dropped because there's no official Denmark English.
So now all of a sudden, everything turns into Danish because there's no option to go into your
preferences. So file preferences, set your date format, use the locale or specify it using the date,
you know, percent Y, Y, Y, Dash, M, M, that you get. So unless you're dealing with it, I can
understand that people don't think about it. But when you stand back and think about it, if you
base it on just a locale, you're making the assumption that every person in that geographical region
all agree on what the date format should be, regardless of their historical background preferences,
you basically are removing their preferences from by doing so. Okay, I'll stop talking about that.
No, no, that's fine. I mean, that's, you're absolutely right. There's no reason why there shouldn't be
some way to fix that. Change it at least. And add some links to the show notes, you know what I mean?
Yeah, I'll be right back. No worries. Truncaid silence will do its thing. Wait, is that
correct? The same silence that I'm likely? Yep. If you go into audacity and then let me see
tools or something, truncaid silence, then you can specify if there's a space of gaps in between
the audio, then it'll basically narrow them down and you can specify how much like half a second
or something. So it's a good idea if you're editing audio to first record some silence. So if there's
any background homes or something like that, and then do noise removal, noise removal is a two-part,
you select an area of silence of the background home, and get noise profile for that,
and then select the entire track, then do noise removal again, only this time apply,
and then that will remove that buzz from the entire track, and then you've got a clean audio,
and from there you can go tools and truncaid silence, and it'll truncaid all this down. So
that mixes a lot cleaner. Yeah, we definitely get rid of some of the awkward pauses in this.
That's part of the crack of the New Year's show. So where are you from?
America, Boring, Florida, Florida. You're all barely, I guess. Yeah, I'm in early rising.
Pretty good, pretty good. How did you hear about this event?
Through the website. I don't remember where I found Hacker Public Radio, but like a month or so ago,
and I've been enjoying the show. Hacker News had a song for oil.
So have you thought of recording a show?
I've thought of it, but I'm kind of scared it's going to go horribly wrong somehow.
Not too late, you're already done, you've already done your first show,
everybody's introduced, you know. It's all upheld from now.
Upheld? Downhill? Downhill sounds negative. It gets easier from now on.
Yeah, downhill's probably easier to do, but upheld's the phrase, I believe.
I just closed the ticket. Okay, so anybody from my work is listening.
Sorry, I'm working. I'm only asking. That's the bunny. That's very quiet now. This year are
in between the holidays. Lots of people are off on it. So I'm striving for inbox zero.
Would be lovely. Any shows you particularly liked so far?
I mean, none. They can stand out to me. I'm not very good at it.
Yeah, I did it. Mixed bag, truly, truly told.
Yeah, there's definitely been some interesting ones, but I just, when I'm asked to come up with something
on the top of my head. Yeah. I couldn't pick a favor as my standard response.
That's part of the theme of politely saying something rude.
No, actually, I find it hard to compare shows because they're so random and sometimes I think,
really, I'm never ever going to find the show useful, you know, and then a few weeks later,
you're desperately searching for the exact thing that was said in that show.
And then yes, thank you. Thank you very much for that niche thing that,
unfortunately, has just happened to me. Yeah, I definitely got some knowledge. I never expected
to know. Yeah. Okay, the bug still remains open. So I will carry on. I'm not going to be able to
close that one. So you could do an introduction show. Hi, my name is Alive and Bla. I got into
tech as a result of Bla. I'd ask you that now, but that will be wasting a show. And as you know,
the new year's show doesn't count to your show, Tally. So.
Yeah, wait, hold on. I'm, I use middle mouse button as my, uh,
push the dock and every time I hit it, it pays something and I have to watch out.
Yep. It's so convenient, but so awful at the same time. Yeah, exactly, exactly.
I just pasted like free lines into the show notes. Can I remove this?
Your passwords. Yeah. Password 123.
I'm going to grab another coffee because that's what I need to get through today.
I think I'm going to do that too. The coffee I mean monster. Actually, it's already lunchtime.
Good morning. Who are you? That was my five year old.
Sounds a bit more tired. Oh, he's grumpy. He has a video that's not working.
We'll go fix that. Uh, it's something that should be free.
The, I gave them the, um, the fire tablets with the, uh, the kid mode setup and whatever video.
For some reason, there's like one video that just doesn't want to play. So if it was an issue
that I could fix, trust me, I would. And he's getting angry at me like I could fix it.
Yeah, super dead. Right. I returned to this network. Yeah, I didn't even think to try, you know,
doing it the way normal people do it. So I had tested it out because, uh, Kevin, I noticed the
issue a while ago. And, uh, I had tested out yesterday in a VM and I went through their store
forgetting that, uh, uh, their store would have automatically put it in as a snap. So,
but apparently the snap works and the one from the repo, uh, in Ubuntu, uh, as soon as the
either one having the problems, I can deal with the snap. Are you all gonna need the problem
to be fixed before it shows up or is just going to have to be something that is? I believe it's just
something to do with the, uh, the server itself. Uh, it's just a problem that is unfortunate. Indeed.
We debated using a different server, but, um, my reasoning for not pushing for another server
is because this one is basically the HPR server. It's the one that's well known. So there's a lot
of people who are returning to here who are gonna, uh, have like this server already set up and
automatically go towards this server. So I didn't want to have any confusion by those people
as to what's going on or how come this thing would, because this would still be set up and then
they'd be going to this room and then there'd be nobody there and get all confused and I don't know,
I just, uh, the less less than confusion. Yeah, do you have, uh, kids in the background there?
What is that? Yep. Ah, yeah, I suppose it wouldn't be a very good idea to change the server
in the middle of the show either. Oh, no, nothing in the middle. Just on the mumble server there,
I'm thinking that, uh, yeah, you're right. At this point, it's too late to change people to
another server, but the HPR server looking at all the people, all the rooms, uh, a lot of these
shows don't exist anymore. So the only people, uh, using the server is the HPR and that's an
expense that we don't need. I don't mind paying for it if all the people were using the server as a,
but I think the majority of people have moved over to Delwin server and, uh, yeah, I would prefer
to give him the money that I'm giving to, uh, to this provider, uh, in order to maintain the server
there for everybody. Well, that's something to do during the year, I guess. And you guys' resolutions.
So the Delwin server, I believe, is just, uh, us and, well, the Linux logcash and tilts, I believe.
And this, this server has been around for a very long time. Yeah, but they don't do maintenance
on it. So that's an issue. Yeah. And looking at the, um, looking at the podcast on it, I did, uh,
something like six or seven of the podcasts, let me just grab it one second. So the Boston Browns
ledger the cast, null text show, null craft, review, unity, can't find anything about those on
the internet. And we have the techie geek, Duke Maninoff, Geeks with guns, Linux basic, Linux
expert, open service musicians, prob brewers, and scanner drum, all seem to have, uh,
pub faded, that leaves pod nuts, uh, who have already said they don't use the server.
And Mintcast, who, uh, say they have their own server, I think, they haven't got back to me yet.
And suddenly morning, Linux review, which, uh, they have their own server, I don't think they use
the server other and on seeing studio have moved off to their own server. So essentially, I've been
paying for this for no reason. The, for my understanding, the Mintcast guys use this server as a backup
one when their own one isn't working, which I don't know how many, how often that's happened.
There's a possibility that some of the Mintcast guys might come on here later so we can
ask them in their hair. Now, I wonder, I wonder for the, the frequency that this is used. I mean,
it's mostly what, um, the, uh, monthly rundown show that this is used, right?
And I wonder how, uh, how difficult it would be for someone to spin up their own version of it
for the few times it's being used. Yeah, no, Dublin has already offered to, uh, to host our room
and his server. So, oh, okay. Yeah, so that would be cool, but, you know, they keep in this server
just because people have it in their, in their, uh, mumble client. It would be confusing if this
server existed, but if the servers didn't exist, then the people who wanted to join will go,
oh, the server just didn't exist. I'll go to Hacker Public Radio, find out what the new server is,
and then go there. Yeah, fair enough. Kind of a shame that the show geeks with guns is
an existing work that sounds like an interesting idea. Try to remember who else was a part of that show.
I think it's just about dawning on me that it's going to be 2021 in 18 hours.
I don't know if I can believe that one. Yeah, this year flew by even with all its craziness.
I mean, that's the surprising part. I thought it was going to take like 10 years this year.
Still expecting to wake up and see it's March 15th or something.
February 2nd, it's all been a dream. Yeah, but what are people's feelings about the vaccine
in which one? I don't know much about the different vaccines, but I mean, I'd probably get one.
I guess there's some risks involved considering how fast they rush it out, but I just want this
whole thing to be over with and I want to start looking at the vaccine and just stop dealing with
this whole thing. Well, from my understanding, I don't think it's ever going to be like fully
away. I think the vaccines are going to be something that's, it's almost like the flu vaccine,
something that you're probably going to have to get every year. Yeah, but I want to hope,
because I guess there was a mutated virus already. If that's a thing, I don't know, I only heard
whisperings about it. So what? Apparently it mutated in England or something, but I don't know if
that's true or not. Oh, yes, yeah. I heard something that had mutated in, I didn't read the
article fully, but I saw something that had mutated in Africa. I just don't know whether that was
the exact same strand that was in the UK or it was a different one. Oh, fantastic.
Yeah, mutates all the time. It's just in the UK and South Africa monitor for that sort of thing
and they actually got harshly penalized for the fact that they're doing the sign following the
scientific process better than all the countries. But yeah, they're penalized by who?
By the fact that they got shut down and locked out all the new strand of virus, let's shut down
the country. Got it. Yeah. So if you've got a new strand of virus, are you going to basically tell
anybody or you're just going to go, oh gosh, forgot about that. Two weeks later, your country's
going to have it anyway because this people moving hand over and back. Right. However, I will put
in the show notes a very good link to a article that a friend of my colleague and work wrote about
reading the source code of the virus. Let me paste that in. I was a little apprehensive about the
the vaccine at first, but I mean, it's, I think enough people have gotten it where it seems to be
okay. I was concerned about the fact that they seem to have rushed it out. But like I said,
enough, enough people, enough people have gotten it have taken the vaccine and seemed to be fine
and there are a lot of people that I even know personally that have gotten it and seem to be fine.
So I'm definitely feeling a lot, I'm feeling better about it. I think you need to be careful about
saying that they rushed it out because yes, they improved the process. But they followed the same
the same procedures that they would normally accept that they released their findings on a
continual ongoing basis rather than waiting for the end of the trials and submitting it before
moving on to the next phase of the trials, which was a lot more expensive to do, but in fairness to
the US government, I think they funded a lot of that research so that vaccine trials could continue
like that. And the fact that they were producing it prior to the trials being improved meant that,
if the trials had failed, you have this complete waste of all these vaccines that have already been
produced, but as it turned out, it was just kind of messing with the Gantt chart so rather than
rushing it out, if you get what I mean. Yeah, I understand. I definitely don't want to be responsible
for anyone thinking they shouldn't get the vaccine either. I'm sure if they went through the testing,
it's probably not going to be a big deal. It's a, I just put a link in there in the show
on what's the reverse engineering, the source code of the BioNTech Pfizer SARS COVID-2 vaccine.
And the guy writes us from the point of view of a 90% or a computer scientist,
so like metadata and bits and bytes. And you know, let's look at the source code, what does the first
bit do, what does the second bit do, what does this do, what does that do. And then where is the
the differences between the virus and the vaccine and why they put those things in place,
it's a very, very good read. Yeah, a heavy read, no less, but a very good read. Yeah,
I'm just going through here. It looks quite interesting. I have to read this whole thing here.
I would put it into reader mode and have it text to speech here is the best way to do it.
Yeah, let's say I was thinking, I have something to text to speech for it.
How do you know anybody who's gotten the vaccine?
I don't because our wonderful health service
were less than efficient in rolling it out for the last country in Europe to start vaccination.
Oh boy. And the second last was Ireland, but they had their, yeah, yeah, I won't go into it.
Use articles in. It's not a race. Actually, actually it is a race. It is the more
sooner you get it out, the less people who will die. That's the sort of race it is.
Right. This New Year's show will be the COVID show. Yeah, well, it's kind of a,
kind of a big topic, you know, one of the hard to avoid it. Yeah, we're not going to go very
long in this show. I don't think without discussing COVID. Right. If I'm here long enough,
I'll set a timer, see how long it goes. We have friends who work in the healthcare industry
who have gotten the vaccine. And my wife works at a front desk at a pediatric office,
and they're offering the vaccine. Actually, they told her that this Saturday she could head down
to one of the hospitals and get her vaccine. I'm kind of waiting. I work at a grocery store that has
a pharmacy that does like the food vaccine. Apparently they're supposed to be getting it at some
point. I probably wait until they get it there and probably get it then. But like I said,
I was, I felt like I was a little apprehensive at first, but you know, it seems to be fine. So
I'm definitely feel like it's best to get it. And, you know, try to, like you said, kind of get
things back to normal as best as we can. And the only way that that's going to happen is through
this vaccine or a vaccine. Yeah, I agree. I think for me as soon as it becomes available to me,
I want to get it. Same here. I wonder if the first person to get the publicly available, like,
it's been rolled out. Vaccine knows they were the first. Probably. Yeah, I was into all the papers and
everything. I call the political figures to get their vaccine live on television. I want to see
that, but they're scared of the needle. Yeah. Well, be a good guy here. I'm not sure who it was,
who they put like the needle in, but they didn't push the plunger in. Yeah, I think I saw those on
the conspiracy theory sites. And the BBC said it was as a result of that they had given the shot,
but it happened so fast that they had to go back and do it again.
Classic television. Right. Just double vaccine of the Baxter stone. Well,
technically the vaccine, you're supposed to get it from my understanding. It's you get the vaccine
on the new about to wait 30 days and get the second shot. Yep. So they just sped it up. Yeah.
More faster. Boom, boom, done. I'm out of here. I'm the new step back. First of all,
ski trip. Yeah, I'm reading here on CDC.gov. You have to get two doses. One three to four weeks
after the first. Yeah, I think about the only thing I'm waiting on is the, so the Pfizer one has
be stored at like negative 20 or something. It has to be stored very, very cold. And because
that has to be stored at very, very cold, there's a lot of places that where they don't have the
facilities to handle that. So that the second one, the Moderna is doesn't have you stored super
cold. And so that one's going to be available to more places because they don't have to have a
facility to hold something that cold. And like I said, the pharmacy at the store that I work
is going to be getting those. And once those get rolled out more to the public, it should be
available to me and I'll probably get it. And that was a explanation that Dr. government had.
That it was more suited to large inoculation events where people could drive by and not more
suited to nursing homes that are currently getting blasted. However, the argument counter
argument might be perhaps that if you brought it to a strategic location and then organize
that it could be taken the doses for the day it could be taken out and immediately dispatched
by a team of 10 doctors, then you only needed to, yeah. Okay, one go into that, one go into that.
Organization could have fixed us, I believe, is this what I'm trying to say? You're not wrong.
Does anybody work in any interesting projects this year?
I don't, well, sorry, would you say if I knew you? Has anybody worked in any interesting projects
this year? Oh, it's not only a project in the sense that you probably meant, but you know,
open street map, I've kind of been getting into that whole thing. Oh, it's a project.
Yeah, it's just a very big project that the whole world is part of.
That's a show right there. That's true. We use open street map a lot. Yeah, I use it to navigate
OSM and... Nice. Same here all the time. I should definitely use it more, but the amount I need
navigation, it's a lot easier just to bring up Google Maps real quick. Sometimes I have to
Google Maps to give directions to other people, because you can't really share OSM and like,
you can't share that to another person as far as I'm aware, you can't share the location.
I'm gonna say I'll also use open street map. Does anyone think they're gonna stay
stay until tonight? New years? All right, you're all gonna leave. Oh, I'll definitely
can't make it that long. Yeah, same here, but there'll be loads of people who can probably extend
as well tomorrow due to the fact that it's Saturday, it's a weekend. Yeah, it's almost Friday,
right? I'm in the mess of the day, yeah, David. Yeah, sorry, what I mean to say is that it's a
free day bank holiday, blah, most places. Yeah, and then on to Saturday, because that is a weekend.
How long these shows usually last? They can go on for days here. It depends on the timing.
Sometimes they're fast, sometimes they're advanced who's on, as well. Hello, Dave.
Well, how are they? Oh, it's Scottish accent, can you understand?
That wouldn't work here. I'm as bad as English as they come, as far as Scotland's concerned,
hang on. Enjoy your last few hours of European Union.
Oh, it's utterly, utterly, utterly insane. It really is. It's like somebody
soaring their own leg off and then saying, there, your goal got rid of that thing. They don't want that
anymore. Oh, no, I can't walk. Crash. And it's gonna, it's gonna be a nightmare here, I think.
Absolutely a nightmare. Oh, I doubt that, Dave. It'll be perfect. It'll be prospering
mostly to cause an order. So who gains from this? This is the question. Who is making money out of
this? And, well, I know where I point my phone. No, no, not at all. I think my finger's going to
point you in the direction that I want us to just now. Yeah, it's such a silicate.
You don't get to be as old as me with that being a cynic, probably. Yeah, it's, yeah, I've learned a
lot this year, actually, this year has been a revelation. I've lived my life in a little bubble
in some respects, not really being that aware of what's going on. Certainly not very aware about
politics. I think the lockdown has helped me to go and read more and also avoid the dreadful
rubbish that is out there on the internet and in newspapers and on telly and radio.
So that may, I may be describing some form of conspiracy theorist maybe. I don't know, but
it seems to me that I've got a clear review of the way the world works, the way that humans
manage stuff. And to, usually, to amass pile of money themselves, that's the way that most
things seem to be driven. Yeah, it is a little bit depressing. Very much so, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, I was listening to you on the stream as I was getting things sorted out here and you were
talking about the vaccines and stuff. Yep. One of yours, we're conspiracy theories now, David,
just the facts, please. My son's a girlfriend, I guess, is the, I'm not sure what the
PC version is these days, but she is an adult and so she got the Pfizer vaccine last week, I think.
So, yeah, we're good with her. It's some people have had painful arm as a consequence, but she and
other, none of her colleagues did as far as I'm aware. So, she's, yeah, she's obviously there's
another one coming in four weeks or something. But, yeah, it's looking good as far as she's concerned.
Yep. They're talking here about given special rights to be more freedom to people who got the vaccine.
And I'm thinking, all on paper, that sounds reasonable, but they can still be carrying the virus.
They can still be, yeah, okay, I know. No, it's just true, it's true. These things are not really
known yet, but the chances are that it's not what they call a sterilizing immunity, where if the
effective agent attacks you, your immune system just zaps it and destroys it totally. It's more
likely to be the one where you get it, but you don't get the disease. The disease is blocked from you,
but you could still be a carrier. Just like typhoid Mary. Yeah, exactly.
So, she got a bad, oh yeah, she had a really bad time. So, yeah, it could be a world full of typhoid
Mary's with the vaccine, you know. Didn't she guess in prisons, basically? Yeah, yeah. She got
picked up. Yes, yes, she got out, always let out, and then she went and backed it, and it was
under the understanding that she wouldn't be a cook anymore, but she, that was what she knew. So,
she went back and did as a cook in a household and gave them all typhoid and stuff.
Yeah, it's a very sad story. I've not, it's a while since I've read it, but it's fascinating.
Dave, Dave, Dave. So, we're getting the, we're likely to get the
AstraZeneca Oxford vaccine. That's just been approved by the
before it's filed. It's filed. It's almost as good as the older vaccine.
It's just a different one. I don't, I think there's, there's maybe less known about it. It's one
that's in a, it's in a, it's a virus. It's no. It's a genetically modified chimp virus. So,
the chimp virus is a denovirus. I hope you've pronounced that a denovirus, which gives chimp's
a thing a bit like a cold, and people in general don't have any immunity towards it. So,
they don't, there wouldn't be any sort of allergic reaction in the virus majority of cases.
And it has, it's a DNA. So, DNA, whatever. Anyways, genetic materials have been modified to
generate the spike protein of the, of the coronavirus. And that's the thing that want the,
your immune system to get excited about, because that's the thing that will kill the,
the viruses, the SARS-CoV-2 virus, if you get it. So, yeah, it's pretty, it's amazing stuff.
It's pretty amazing stuff. It's all genetic engineering. The other one, the Pfizer and the Moderna,
they're both mRNA viruses. They make messenger RNA, which will generate spike protein. And they
just stick it in a lipid envelope or something and inject that into it. And it latches onto
your cells and makes them make spike protein. Which is, again, amazing. So, they can change it
relatively quickly, if there's any need. Yeah, sounds pretty good. Did you read that article?
I sent you on the source code thing. I started looking at it. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's
pretty good. It's, it's, it's talking a lot, a lot about biology and genetics and stuff. So,
it's, it's fairly tough going, but it's definitely very interesting. It's, it's, it's,
it's sat in a tab on one of my browsers. So, we'll get ready. Do you use a reader mode at all
and Firefox? No, it's just releasing. If you go all old or Romeo and then you can press play
and it'll do a text to speech. It helps with that. Yeah, yeah. It's, I, I've not tried it,
obviously, but I don't know. I find text to speech things, throw me a bit because they
pronounce things wrong and that really bothers me. Because there's things like polyadenilation
and stuff in there and I bet you know speech synthesis is going to get that right. Anyway,
that's why I can't listen to LibraVox, by the way, because there's some brilliant readers on
LibraVox, but there's some people have the most devastating accent and they don't, the way they
read stuff is completely wrong to my mind. And I'm just, I just have the sort of brain that says,
no, that's wrong, no, I can't listen to that, I'm off by. It's just really stupid when I say it,
but it is, it is a fact. Yes, this is, I'm familiar with the side of your personality,
you did. I'm going to be wrong on the internet and it's Ken, I'm going to be nice. Yeah,
usually yes. Although I've used that to my advantage, I must say yeah. Oh, dear, dear. Speaking
of y'all naming each other, it's, I should put a name to you all's voices. What should I call you
now? Your lordship has found him. Make a being, please. Yeah. So I've actually put my name in my
comment on the, on mumble, I don't know if that helps anybody, but yeah, I'm Dave Morris.
Oh, this parent can't underscore a father. I'm sure I'll forget, but I'll try to remember.
I just find handles too confusing, so the underscore is the closest thing I get to be in the
elite. I, yeah, I was doing sort of pre-internet things quite early on. In fact, I was starting to
put together a show about doing, about being involved in the UK academic network and stuff,
I'm not going to say it's vast amounts of stuff, but during that process, I tended to join things
and write things using my full name. And so my, although it's mostly vanished now, there was a time
when my name was in lots and lots of forums and that sort of stuff. So I've never really bothered
too much about whether it's out there. I might regret that later, but I tried to compartmentalise,
I should say, you guys, it's a great word, my using names, so you can't, you know, find my
other existences online. No, that's, that's good. That's the way my children work. They're
much more sophisticated about this than I am. Do I see Mr. X there in the, in the, on the channel?
Do you see, does he have a soldier in the other name? There he is.
And the Haggis and the other. Sorry. Like Haggis pizza. Isn't that a sheep intestine?
That's such a thing as Haggis pizza. Oh, you've got to try it. Wonderful. I don't think I'd be
able to find that anywhere around here. No, I don't, I don't suppose you would. The, the,
the, uh, we, uh, companies just, uh, they make some, uh, local store, the co-op sometimes,
but, uh, just a nice speech every now and again. Uh, it's very nice indeed.
I, uh, I had, I think it was Papa John's. They had a pizza called a hamburger pizza.
That was an interesting experience. It, it, it tasted like a hamburger, but it was just all
off because it was the texture was not right. It's amazing what you can put in it, I guess, really.
I'm not sure how long I'll be on here for, uh, the Mrs. X's out there walking the dog and it's,
I'm guessing like it's doing here. It's, it's, it's kind of snowing quite a bit,
but it's like a year with you. Yeah, yeah, it's snowing here too. It's, it's, it's not that heavy
just at this precise moment, but, uh, the forecast is snow till early afternoon, um, and then
possibly it's going to turn to rain. She's never, never at the best, um, because it then turns
to ice most likely. Let's see. It's in the 70s all day here. Where are you at? Florida.
So pretty much always in the 70s, except for apparently on Christmas, it was in the 30s.
Yeah, it got real cold, not cold enough for a white Christmas.
I always thought I was one of the wrong country. I really felt like the cold alcohol, uh, so, yeah,
I've been to um, the Vegas once, uh, 70s, 21 degrees for the rest of us. Yeah, I've been to,
to that part of the world too. Uh, that's Vegas and that around that area, the Grand Canyon.
And the, um, the heat is, uh, so dry that it doesn't feel as hot as what I discovered to,
whereas I imagine that Florida is very, very humid, and I hate humid heat that really,
really kills me. Yeah, that's the thing is the, just pure sweat that comes out of you when
it's humid out is ridiculous. Yeah, I wouldn't like that very much. If it wasn't so salty,
I could probably donate the water to Africa. Yes. Yeah, I, I spend a bit of time in Singapore,
which is a tropical, not far from the equator and is a very humid, a bit on the highest
humidities ever encountered. And that, it's lots of air conditioning, because soon as you step
out into the, in the real world, that, that humid heat just knocks your flower and does me anyway.
It takes, I think it probably, you have to be there for months before you start to adapt to it.
Yeah, well, when I was in, when I was in Vegas, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, it turned up at the,
the hotel, um, laundry, a condition, the bus bus, and when we stepped out, it was all like,
carcorder, something was, it was a roof, I said, just, you know, oh, it's cat, these bus
fumes, it's a potty on your face, sort of thing, you know, and the, my tablet corner, and it continued
as I was in the open, I thought, wait, man, that's nothing to do with buses at all. It's just
what it's like, I just couldn't believe it. Yeah, yeah, we drove, I told my kids, I say kid,
the nearly 30 and nearly 26, but, you know what I mean, um, we went there a few years ago,
around the area, I went through Arizona a bit as well. And, uh, I don't know, I,
I imagine it would grind you down that sort of, uh, very low humidity. It's, uh, it's supposedly
not very good for you, the inside of your, your nose and stuff. I heard people say that you, you're
more prone to infection. Have I understood that right? Um, through the fact that you're so dry,
there's sort of, you know, your breathing route is, uh, you know, you're inside of your nose,
and your throat and stuff gets so dry in that area. Drink vast quantities of water in my,
my experience. But, uh, yeah, I don't know. It's, it's not a place I'd particularly want to live,
but more so than in, uh, Florida or Singapore. Yeah, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I didn't really always
colds. Yeah, I, I see that, um, there's been cases where, uh, I've been on a, a cycle path,
and I've seen people wondering about it with, uh, t-shirts and stuff on, and I'm straightforward
and often, and I've got jumpers and shots, and I'm still, uh, maybe just comfortable in one-ish
sort of thing. Um, I'm just, seem to be fat cold than anybody else, and I've seen me in a holiday,
is that there's a picture of me and, and a wife and, uh, and, uh, we're something of alchemy
pictures taken, and so no, no, no, no, that's subsequently that, uh, I can see my face is,
is completely dry, uh, and hard to supporting with sweat. So I, I, I, I'm just a cold person
naturally. So, I can't understand why people drive with their windows down, you know, can you
see that? This seems better madness. Yeah, I definitely agree. I'm always wearing the same thing.
Sweat pants in my, uh, malngood city. Yeah, I, I think, um, I think, um, I think maybe, uh, I,
I definitely, the cooler doesn't, doesn't agree with me. So, I just, I just see before,
definitely born in the wrong, uh, wrong, wrong partner level, uh, but, uh, well, hi, hi, this,
hi, this, this is a lot of the place. Uh, do you mean me, the warmer? I, uh, I've actually been
moving north all my life. So, I'm probably going to stay around, but I tell you, there was once I
went to a conference from Edinburgh in the, the south of England, uh, coming over to the Exeter
University maybe, and, uh, the difference in temperature was amazing. To me, anyway, it seemed
really hot and clammy there. And it was, it was pretty much the same weather. It was in the summer,
yeah, but, um, maybe spring or something, but it was, it was surprised how many degrees of
temperature difference there were between one end of the UK and the other, which is not a very big
place for 600 miles, 700 miles maybe, between the two. Don't know. Yeah, it's funny, you should say
that because, you know, my wife's brother and my brother have both moved down so, and, um,
uh, and then they definitely forgot what it's like up here, you know, it's, um, and, uh, my brother
and I came up one time and, uh, because this is a good thing it was, and, uh, we're met in Princess
Street t-shirt on, you know, and I'm like, are you mad, you know, I mean, he tested really heat,
he always said to feel a bit in the hot side, uh, which must be really nice, but, um, you know,
obviously the temperature was such a, such a point, and, and I think it said this snow as well,
that it overcame his natural, um, heat pinnities and his blood, whatever, you know,
and all of a sudden he started shabbering and shaking, and I said, well, you know, if you
walk it in Princess Street and I'm, I'm like, Christmas, but I piece it on, that's what's going to happen.
Yeah, yeah. When I was a student in, um, Manchester, there was one of the, the lecturers there
who was notorious for the fact that he seemed to run at, uh, higher temperature than everybody else,
his thermostat was, you know, set wrong, because he would ride his cycle tune from the university,
and he would, uh, you'd just wear a sort of light shirt, and I guess it was the days when
people wear, you know, white shirt would roll up sleeves or something, but he wore that throughout
the year. I mean, I think he had some rain, rain wear, but he, um, if he didn't, he wasn't bothered
by the cold, that was the thing. Everybody remarked on this. How is that possible for a human to,
to do that? But he, he was just constantly hot. Yeah, and I'm constantly cold. I think, I think,
I think my brother was about like, he's constantly hot as rarely. I don't know. I know,
hopefully I'll catch you again. And it turned that, that's, that's sorry.
It's okay. The argument, the sentence, and see how you turn that off. Um, yes, I, the, um,
brother and I was always always too hot, but, uh, I don't know, there's, well, there's a
blood circulation in my hands, particularly get quick cold as well, but, uh, it seems kind of alien
to me. I wish I was the other way around. Yeah, you need to, you need to move somewhere hot.
I, I'm always cold, but I feel like I always wear it hard. I would have an issue with hydration,
because I have a massive diet co-connection. Hmm, yes, yes. I'll probably kill you if, eventually,
you know, that's up. Yeah, I've heard about the kidney stones. That's what I'm worried about.
That's not a nice thought. No, no, no. It's, it's got some funny stuff in it, Coke. There's
something called sodium benzoate that, uh, that is pretty nasty. Oh, and I was getting my car fixed
before Christmas, and it's a fuel injected diesel. And I was saying, and I've had a problem with it,
a year or so back with one of the fuel injectors failed, really expensive fix, but it, um,
I was saying to the guy who was doing the work this time about it, and he said, yeah,
those costs a lot of money because getting the fuel injector out of the engine is really difficult,
because it sort of seals itself in there because the fuel blows past it as it's failing,
and it sort of, um, makes a carbon, if carbon type sticky stuff around it that, that glues it in.
And he said, in the garage trade, the thing we use to free that off is, you know, it's always
Diet Coke. You pour Diet Coke into that part of the engine, and it melts. The, the glue
that's been created by your engine, and, and out comes the fuel injector. So there you go.
That's your card. What am I doing to myself? Slowly dissolving.
It's okay, others inside are overrated anyways, must be hollow.
I, yeah, I absolutely drunk my share of these sorts of things, but not quite so keen these days,
but there you go. Probably drinking something else that's bad for me at the same time.
Instead, I mean, coffee lots of coffee, that's, I'm not sure that's good.
I said I was going to cough it. Oh, I said I was going to get a coffee earlier and I
ended up with a monster, which is probably equally bad. When we were in the States, um,
I'd been listening to a podcast then, and the guy was always talking about how he was drinking
a mountain dew on his, on his travel. Then you can't get mountain dew here. I've never really noticed
it, but there's lots and lots of it available in the States. So we bought some. I think we were on
the road to getting addicted to that stuff, actually. No, you all really enjoyed it, but went back
here in the UK. It's really, really hard to get and a bit more expensive, I think. So we didn't
end up addicted, but it's amazing how easily you could get that way, I think.
Yeah, I had a mountain dew once and I didn't like it. I haven't had one since.
Yeah, it probably depends on the, on the context and on who you are or whatever what it is you like.
We, we quite enjoyed it. I think we were buying the diet one, but uh, just seemed,
it's probably because it was the novelty of it. I was going to say maybe I'll try one,
but I think that's a bad idea. Keep, keep clear of these things if you can.
Yeah, I used to, uh, Mr. Junk, I'm sure when I was younger, I don't know if I drunk more
juice or fizzy juice or whatever, you know, but, uh, I tend to drink. And then, and then I sort of,
the message got me into drinking pee, uh, and I drunk loads and loads. And, uh, you get to that
age where he becomes a bit of a problem. So when I'm packed off the pee now and I'm, I'm drinking
a hot water. And I believe I'm not, I'm really quite enjoying that, uh, if you can say that,
I said, that's okay. Um, but I also drink a case out of that diet with a little thing juice,
not, I mean, that's a kind of going back to your childhood. I'm sure that in my childhood,
I'd have that with the juice, uh, but it's kind of mixed water with a little bit of,
concentrate, you know, uh, like I'd be now or whatever. So, um, um, there's probably less,
I'm sorry, there's less, there's less, depending on the question you put, there's less sugar than
that, maybe then we'd be in the cooler, but yeah, it's, uh, I'm not, I'm not, I've been a coffee
junker that's, that's one thing I've never, never heard of, I think it's all fine anyway. The, yeah,
I've also drunk, um, hot water, there's times when maybe you just want to drink, but you don't,
and it's usually if it's in the cold weather and stuff, um, and you don't want to take on board
the tannings and all the other stuff, uh, because it's late at night, perhaps, uh, yeah, I've
certainly done that, and it's quite, it's quite palatable actually. I know a few people who do that,
but, uh, yeah, the, the, um, diluting juices that you get in, in this part of the world, they, uh,
a lot of them are low sugar these days, I think, because they're not a Scottish drive to reduce
sugar in all these sorts of things at one point, because, um, I remember them warning in the supermarket,
you won't be able to buy this anymore because it's, uh, the ruling is that it should contain less
than X amount of sugar. So, uh, yeah, we, yeah, it's, it's something we, we have, are taking it, um,
the other thing that we tend to drink. I say we, because my kids visit a couple of times a week to
eat with me, and, um, there's always, there's always a collection of, uh, micro brewery or
local brewery, real ale, type beers and stuff, so these, these are not healthy, but it's not because
there's only one or two a week, I think it's okay. Yeah, well, um, it was not that, I think,
is it not, you get, uh, there's extra tax put on, uh, high sugar drinks, it's not that you, well,
effectively, you can't get it because what happens if you've got two companies producing a similar,
uh, drink, then, um, if one just dips below it, then there's substantially cheaper. So, if, if,
then encourages all the other manufacturers to do, to do likewise, but it's not that it's a
typically band, I think, it's just that, uh, I could be wrong, I think that's what I think,
it's what I can remember, they call it, to go to the sugar tax, um, but you're right, and of course,
obviously, I'm, uh, my opinion is probably, probably a good thing, um, in the long period. Yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, so I'm just, you see, there's been going to point on at what it was,
but oh, well, you go, it's, it's my age, I guess, my mind going again. Because I'm of the age where, uh,
I, I have, uh, type two diabetes often happens, uh, above certain age and stuff, if you're not
looking after yourself well enough, I guess. But, uh, one of the recommendations that go when I was
diagnosed with that, uh, 10 years or so ago was to, to drink these diluting juices, the ones with
the low sugar. So, um, yeah, I think medically, they're seen as quite, uh, quite desirable things.
They have to watch out for the sweetness they put in them, because those can have
rather impressive effects. Yeah, yeah. We, we've also, um, uh, gone, I think I'm a dimensionist before,
about 80, maybe 89% to 50, and now, uh, it was more of a, my wife's choice. Yeah, I've
been really enjoying it. It's, uh, it's, I mean, I thought the meals would be quick bland, but, uh,
the modes of flavour, I guess it's defensive, you know, that the, the blends of
spaces, it's like, yeah, there's a checkered gear issue. Yeah, it's, um, yeah, we did talk about
this, I think you and I, when we were chatting one time, and, uh, it's, um, it's a thing that's quite
popular in my household, because my son and his girlfriend are both vegetarian, my daughter's sort of
semi-vegetarian, and I'm pretty easy going about, uh, about that. So, yeah, we, we, we have a lot of
vegetarian meals, in fact. So, in fact, I'm feeding them tonight, and we're having rata-tui, which is
already made, and then put it into, um, or the whole meal flour, buckwheat flour pancakes,
and then you, you roll them up, put them in the oven with a bit cheese on top, and, uh, they're not
vegan to the cheese, uh, but, uh, yeah, that's pretty, pretty nice, um, pretty nice meal. Of course,
I say that, but that, that, that I could just see Mrs. X, and get the companion by our side. So,
I'll need to go, but, uh, after saying all that, I, I noticed that there was, um, some, maybe three or four,
um, tasting one, tasting one. So, uh, I'm guessing we're not having a, a meat-free meal today,
at some point, with them. I don't remember the, it was the World Health Organization classifies
a sausage, is, is, is damaging to your health as a cigarette. So, there's something to, to,
to think about when I'm having my, my sausage tonight. Okay, I'll speak to you all later. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Nice to hear you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I told you, you'd never leave.
Oh, you know, I just realized after all of that talk, I actually do have a, a bottle of,
what do you call unflavored seltzer that I am drinking. So, I'm not completely unhealthy.
That's good. That's good. Should have come up with that before saying I only drink diet
coke, but I guess we're past that now. I tend to drink Roy Boss or, uh, Red Bush Tea. Doesn't
have any of the tonns and stuff. Yeah. There was a time, that was a really popular drink around here.
Alexander McCall Smith, the author, who's an Edinburgh guy. Uh, you know, he's, uh, what's it called?
The, the, the, the, the, the, the, yeah, Botswana. Um, he was pushing, he wasn't pushing it,
but he meant, he was mentioned a lot. And his books were very, very popular at the time.
It was a TV series and stuff. That seemed to trigger something with, with, with, um,
the supermarket. It's because they, the, the Roy Boss Tea was quite common, didn't they?
Certainly drunk. It's nice. It's pretty nice. Yep. There was a series, TV series was very well done.
And I got the books and I must say he lost the plot a little bit, became a bit of a cash cow,
which is a pity because I like the idea of solving little mistreatment. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
There were some of them that were really, really great. And I, I read all that were available at the
time, but then I sort of, yeah, it's one, it's one sort of an enthusiasm that you get bored with
eventually. I don't know whether that was me or him, but, uh, I think he just got very luxury and
starts, started the boot like the last, the 18th book now. And really, I just couldn't finish it
because very pretry and yeah, all I can see was that a Scottish guy pretending to be a Scottish guy
lecturing me as opposed to a character and Botswana. That's kind of, I guess. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, yes, I don't need another Scottish guy lecturing with it.
Do they do that? That's dreadful.
McCall Smith has actually organised a thing in Edinburgh called the really terrible orchestra.
He was, I think, his idea and this bunch of musicians who are sort of in training,
some of them are quite, quite advanced with their training. They're pretty good,
in other words, but the orchestra is called the really terrible orchestra and there've been a few
shows that they've been abroad in the past to give performances. Are they really terrible?
I think it's a joke on the fact that there were a few people who were none of them
of professional musicians. They're all amateur musicians and some of them were learning at the time
so they would make a few mistakes along the way. So it was, I just, just his humour, I guess.
But my friend Tom, who I know you've been with, at Fosden, he's a cellist in that orchestra.
I've been to a few of their performances. They're actually pretty good. They're not perfect,
but they're damn good. But yeah, I was hoping to meet McCall Smith, but I wasn't on duty that day.
Yeah, check them out. I think I have a website. Not sure how busy they are these days,
not much, I would imagine. I've been thinking, I watched almost all of Mr Robot.
How many of you'll watch that show anyway? I know it's more popular in techy communities.
I think I have the last season to go, but there was three seasons, right?
Four. Four, okay. Yeah, I think I still have to leave the last season to go.
I was just wondering, it's a really good show to me. I don't know how much it treats and feel.
I'm afraid I'm one of these people who is abandoned, television totally, and all of the
the popular media, so it's a close book for some consent, sorry.
Yeah, more or less the same year, I'm afraid.
I know a lot of people who don't watch TV and stuff anymore. It's just not
this common for people to watch television. I think it was the Heroes series, because I like
science fiction, and heroes was a sort of sci-fi. I think watching that, whenever that was some
number of years ago, the obviously, as the series progressed, there was obviously no plan whatsoever,
which is some ideas that were thrown around and just randomly spewed out, cleverly done,
and stuff, good effect. But no story. It was a huge disappointment. Then that's after coming
through like Twin Peaks. I watched all of Twin Peaks years and years ago, and it was one of those
things you come out of and go, why the hell did I just watch that? It's such crap.
And I know American television may be worse, but British television is pretty grim on that
front. Plus, also reality TV is makes me want to vomit. So yeah, I'm happier away from it,
to be honest. Sorry, but heroes seem to have like a plan for that first season, and then
not much afterwards. Or if they did, they make a plan for that season, but it's not like one
grand scheme. It was like they had said, right, we're going to have this thread and this thread
and this thread. We're not quite sure where they're going to go, but they're going to be great.
And then they got so far and said, all right, we're bored now. We can't be bothered to run
the rest of it. Or somebody in management said, no, no, you're spending too much or some nonsense
like that. It wasn't as if there was an overall structure. I know people write books that way,
you know, let them develop as they go, but you shouldn't be taking them to the public until
they're finished. That was my view. But I think the way the TV model works is that you just get enough
that you can put it out there. And then hopefully you get another chance to add some more to it.
So, you know, it's, I'm in Doctor Who. I don't know. I used to watch Doctor Who
quite seriously when it came back again. I saw the early ones because I'm not old, but we
we were really excited with it. We both enjoyed it a lot. And then it also went into one of these,
now we're going to wheel in a new right and now. And he doesn't believe in the stuff that the
previous writer did. So, you know, it just gets more and more ragged and silly. And I just haven't
got the patience anymore. Reboots. I hate reboots. Yes. Oh, yeah. I think the last step. Because of
the shows having new writers or the shows are more funding. That's because the franchise doesn't
allow them legally to refer to the content of the previous owner blah, blah, blah. So they have to
reboot it. I guess it's time to welcome to the new year for to Funifuti, I guess. And
somewhere in Russia. So, happy New Year, somewhere in Russia. Don't know if we have a very
strong Russian listening base, but underdog. Martial islands also and some other places.
Hopefully the new year really is happy. Yeah, they would know by now.
I find there's been a lot of shows where they seem to have a plan for like the first season,
like a really good solid plan for the first season. And then everybody likes it. And then they go,
okay, now what the heck do we do for the rest of the season? For the rest of the episodes after that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh no, they've given us a go for another series. What the hell do we do?
Right. Run around, headless chicken. Ah, it's, yeah, it's true, it's true. That's really bad when
you think about it though. Because they must have some really powerful people. People with good ideas
with great sort of abilities to make stories. Because they have done it already. And then they,
is it that they're just not getting proper support? That they have to
profit what they're doing to some bunch of accountants or something who say, no, I never can't do that.
Is that what kills it? Because it's pretty dreadful when you look back. I mean, what was it?
Firefly. That was a classic case of cold feet destroying the thing, I think, wasn't it?
Well, at least they got to make the movie and wrap up the series, which is more than other shows.
People of Earth was actually a good series. And then it just stopped on the cliffhanger.
I think that's partly that that's why they're doing the get a contract for for one season.
And then they're right in big cliffhangers so that the people, the people who watch the show
start complaining if the show doesn't come back on. And that plays a part into whether it gets
funding or not. The amount of social media buzz about the show. Yeah, which kind of sucks,
because you know, ratings aren't everything. I think the last season of the show is either
always really good or really bad. And there's no in between. I don't think I've ever seen a mediocre
ending. Well, that's not true. Yeah, I have. Which show was that?
Good ending. You know, I think the last great show that I've seen will be Breaking Bad and Mr.
Rubat, I guess, but at like a mediocre show, I think Dexter, everyone gives it a bad route,
but I don't think it was that bad, but it definitely wasn't great.
Picard had a mediocre ending. So over now, I hope so. I stopped watching Star Trek franchise
on the first intro to to discovery where the skipped over Yuri Gigan. Okay, that destroys
Jean Roddenbury's legacy right there. It's weird with Star Trek. It just seems like it's a very,
you know, each week is something completely different where we've kind of, it seemed like
in some shows, we've kind of evolved into telling a grander story. Star Trek was a commentary on
pop culture and current events every every episode related to something that was happening
then. And it was either a satirical take or a serious take on what was going on at the time.
There was relevant each episode, something some emotional, political or world event that was
happening at the time. And from the original series through later series, they kept up with that
for the most part until they got away from that and decided, hey, let's just tell stories.
That's the point of science fiction is to take stuff out of, yeah, to reflect on the current
state of society, which is what, which is why I think the, what do you call it? The Orbel is a
closer, is more Star Trek than the current Star Trek. Love the Marvel. It is brilliant. Did the
new episodes ever make it to Hulu? Because I know it was supposed to be taken off of Fox and then
just put only on Hulu. Does Navy Sea own Hulu? Well, technically Disney owns Hulu, which I think
also, do they own a BC or CDS? Disney owns ABC. Okay, then yes. Actually, I think from what I
remember, Disney basically just owns a controlling factor of Hulu and they were going to slowly buy out
the other companies who also had a share in it. If Disney owns Hulu and they also run their own
service, obviously Disney Plus, that is just, I don't like that. Well, Disney Plus is something
completely different. Disney Plus is kind of like there where they have all of their animated stuff
for kids, their Marvel and Star Wars stuff. While Hulu is more of, since they now own Fox, it's a lot
of their Fox stuff, Fox affiliated stuff, their ABC stuff, their free forum stuff, stuff that isn't
directly related to or, you know, something that isn't directly Disney. Yeah, that makes sense, I
guess. I just, you know, don't like having to pay for all the streaming services. Well, I don't.
The idea of- Yeah, I'll load it. I do. I usually pirate my things except for Netflix and my music.
So my issue with Disney is Disney likes to segment all of their stuff apart and they all
have to rate or flow control. How would you- Child. They like to rate or flow control their
content. So, for example, Beauty of the Beast came out in 1995. Then in 2005, you couldn't buy it.
Yeah, that's ridiculous, I think. I think the copyright law should be amended so that you
lose your copyright if it's a piece of material is not available to the public at a affordable cost.
I don't think copyright just needs to not last as long as it does.
Yeah, that too. But in this case, you would solve that Disney issue and you would also solve a lot
of the issue where by media is getting the copyright still exists, but the media for the thing that's
been copyrighted has gone degradated. There was a time that if you wanted to copyright your work
that you needed to submit the physical artifact to three different locations in order to get
you copyrighted. So that when it goes out of copyright, then society has a copy of the thing that
we were giving you. The monopoly on orphaned works is what I'm talking about. Yeah.
Speaking of copyright, my all-time favorite copyrights grew up with charades. They're charades.
How so? Yes. It's a I think it's a 1960s film with Audrey Hepburn and Kerry Grant and it's in
the public domain because somebody screwed up the trademark. Let's show them the dead. Did that
or not show them the dead, but don't of the dead had the same thing. They forgot to put in the
copyright thing at the end and then it began into the public domain, which is why zombies are so
copyrightable. There are so many zombie movies versus why there are so few Frankenstein movies.
It's Frankenstein's still under copyright. That's like your own. Jesus. You're never going to see
anything that was written in your lifetime come out of copyright ever as the thing that will never
happen again. Yeah. I'm sure of that. Something radical happens soon.
Copyright is a horrible thing and then to add to copyright, all the entertainment things being used
for marketing purposes, so other things is also a horrible thing. Yeah. Star Wars, for instance.
The third one was just an advertisement waiting to happen. Okay, I got to drop off and do some
work. I'll talk to you guys later. I can. Where are you all at? Well, I'm in Nedden,
in Scotland. I'm in New Brunswick, Canada. It's snowing where you are? No, sir. I'm just having
sorry. I'm not sure how I feel about snow because I am from the Midwest. I've just lived in Florida
quite a while and I'm kind of over it, but I kind of want to see it again. We just had a few days
of snow here and it's just stopped snowing, actually. It's great to see all the kids and so excited
about it. There's a number of hills around here and they all slid down them and stuff, but yeah,
for people of my vintage, we hate it. The cold and the prospect of falling over and breaking
something. Not good. It's not just people of your vintage, people of all vintage hate that.
I've steadied you are on your feet. My balance is not the best, so I definitely don't like
guys.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contribution to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was
founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and it's part of the binary
revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released under creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
