Episode: 3133
Title: HPR3133: Quick tip - Using MPV with Youtube links
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3133/hpr3133.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:32:03

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3133 for Wednesday, 5 August 2020. Today's show is entitled,
Quick Tip, using MPV with YouTube links. It is hosted by Archer 72
and is about two minutes long, and carries a clean flag. The summary is,
I give a quick tip on shortcut keys for watching YouTube or other video sites in MPV.
This episode of HBR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com. Get 15% discount on all shared hosting
with the offer code HBR15, that's HBR15. Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
.
.
.
.
Hello Hacker Public Radio, this is Archer 72. My quick tip idea was to copy a YouTube or other
video site URL and open it in the MPV media player with shortcut keys.
The plugins I use for this are Ben Vixen for Firefox and I added a link to that
and another one for if you're using the Chrome or Chromium browser, which is called Surfing Keys.
The other program you might need that may or may not be included with your distribution is Xcel, XSEL.
And the bash script is URL equals Backtick XSEL.
Tech O, Space Tech B, Backtick.
Next line is Echo, Dollar Sign URL, Next line is MPV, Dollar Sign URL.
You will have to sacrifice the VLC at least to rook access to it.
By renaming user, Ben VLC to user, Ben VLC.old.
Copy the script that I just said to user, Ben VLC and CHMOD plus X user, Ben VLC.
The copy command for Ben Vixen plugin is Y, the one for Surfing Keys is double Y.
The shortcut to open the copied video URL is Shift Mod P with Mod being the Windows key.
I tested this in Nome 3, XSE and I3.
And I3 press Mod V then Mod S.
And a video played after this for the session will be stacked under Firefox or Chromium.
Thank you for listening to this quick tip.
Right.
You've been listening to EchoPublicRadio at EchoPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
EchoPublicRadio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club.
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, Share a Life, 3.0 license.
