Episode: 3318
Title: HPR3318: Modding a Wii classic with a DNS exploit
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3318/hpr3318.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:41:15

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3,318 for Wednesday, the 21st of April 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, Modding a Woody Classic with a DNS exploit.
It is hosted by Archer72 and is about 8 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Modding a Woody with a DNS exploit and using a USB drive to save names.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello Hacker Public Radio, this is Archer72 and in this episode I modded a Wii original
so that I could save games on to the USB drive later.
I found out that somebody else might be interested in this too, so that's why I'm doing it.
The Wii options, the Wii settings, verify that the version is 4.3 if not perform the system updates.
But first, if your Wii is not connected to the internet pick a connection and enter your Wi-Fi net for your network on page 3 of the Wii settings.
And then go to your after that's finished go to your Wii settings and go to internet and go to change settings.
A few pages over is a page called auto obtain DNS select node and go to advanced settings.
Enter the primary DNS which I'll list and then also enter the secondary DNS.
Confirm and save the settings.
Press OK to perform a connection test.
This does take a while to be patient because the Wii is pretty slow.
After this finishes go back a couple of pages to the internet settings and go to the user agreement.
They will question whether or not you would like to use the Wii shop channel and the Wii Connect 24 you select yes.
You must review the user agreements before using the Wii services select next.
Connect to the internet please wait a moment is the message.
Another screen will appear with the message please wait this will take one to two minutes.
If you get this you know it's going pretty well.
So do not press accept at this point or it will go back to the previous screen and you'll have to do this again.
These next two screens will show up with one with console text which is the exploit and the next looks like static.
This is XOK and the next screen after that is a message that do not be scammed by buying a copy or purchasing a copy of HackMe.
Wait for the option to press one to continue.
The HackMe menu will now appear.
Press A to continue on the HackMe installer.
Use the D-pad on Wii to arrow up to the install the homebrew channel.
After this finishes and you can turn the Wii off and if you have an SD card.
It's supposedly only you can only have a 2GB card and it's supposed to be a 9 HD card.
But I found out through tutorials and guides that I could use up to a 32GB card and it seemed to work just fine I used a 16.
Move the SD card from the Wii download and extract the zip files on the main page and move the folder to the root of the SD card after you extract it.
At this point the homebrew browser should be the only app on your homebrew screen.
And I picked the not 64 emulator as the Wii 64 one that I tried before cannot save games.
This is an updated version of the Wii 64 emulator.
At the root of the SD card it is not already there.
Create a not 64 4-slash ROMs folder and place ROMs in here.
Finally I wanted to play my Wii games from the USB drive.
And I followed a tutorial and had first any install the CIS, which is a custom iOS.
And we'll be installing CIS 249 base 56 beta 52 or some guides say beta 52 dash alt.
The model is my very end this one.
And also in another slot 250 it's going to be base 57 version 10 beta 52.
From the homebrew browser go to the utilities tab and install the USB loader and the D2X CIS installer.
And then you go into the CIS installer and wait for the app to load.
Then when you see the main screen press A.
Change the following, CIS 2 version 10 beta 52 D2X and so forth.
Be listed in the notes and then change the base to 56.
The slot to 249 and the revision to 65535 and then press the A button to load these values.
The app will go back to the main screen and you just go right back in to where you were before.
Now you're back in the app to change the CIS value to beta 52, the base to 57, the slot to 250 and the revision to 65535 again.
And then press the A to load these values into the slot to 50.
You're now ready to format your external USB drive.
This can be either Fat32 or if you already have ADXT 4, you can use that and you plug the USB and drive afterwards and load the USB loader app.
It only works in one USB slot so if this is not recognized the first time because it tries to recognize the USB each time it loads.
You move the plug to the other slot and then try again.
Now you should be able to save games from Weediffs or load ROMs from the same drive and put it in the same fold the ROMs if you choose to load them onto the USB drive.
Move it to the emulator you're using and then forward slash ROMs.
That's all.
Thank you for listening and we're ready to use free software.
Bye-bye.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the Digital Door Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLight, 3.0 license.
Thanks for watching.
