Episode: 3726
Title: HPR3726: Breaches ever reaching
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3726/hpr3726.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:40:54

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,726 from Monday the 14th of November 2022.
Today's show is entitled, Reaches Ever Reaching.
It is part of the series' privacy and security.
It is hosted by Lurking Pryon and is about four minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, a short episode about the reaching effects of breaches and forgotten accounts.
Well, hey, this week we have the Maria Breach, well, another one.
So, yeah, here's the thing to keep in mind.
These breaches are going to happen.
It's a natural part of life, and something to keep in mind is that hotels are always
going to be prime targets.
Think about the type of information that you give a hotel.
You give them your frequent flyers, you tell them where you're going to fly, typically
a copy of your passport, maybe a copy of your driver's license, when you sign up for
the perks, you've got all of the information about where you live, you have your credit
cards on file, and those reward programs.
Those are something that matter because you get points for doing different things.
Now, what a lot of people don't think about whenever there's a breach like this is going
back in to their Married Account and seeing what other accounts were linked through that.
What would happen if someone were to take that information from the Married Breach and
manage to get access and steal all of your frequent flyer miles or use them for something
else?
This is stuff that's kind of suck, and that's one of the things that we need to start
thinking about is when there's a breach, it's not a matter of if, it's simply when, when
there's a breach.
Let's go and look at that place and see what information they had, where else was that
information being used?
Maybe it's time to go and update your frequent flyer password.
Let's go log in and change that so that somebody else can't get access to it.
Maybe it's time to drop that credit card and get a new one or whatever the case happens
to be.
So, something to think about whenever you hear about a breach like this, if you have
information with them and the thing to keep in mind is you may have signed up for this
year to go and maybe you don't quite remember it.
We sign up for rewards programs all the time.
We sign up, we give them information and then we tend to forget about them and they sit
around out there.
Well, here's the thing, you really kind of need to find out what all old accounts you
have sitting around out there in the public sphere.
One of the easiest ways you can do this is to go through your email accounts and do a search
for things like welcome or activate your account or whatever other words you're used
to seeing whenever you sign up for a new account, like maybe confirm your email, confirm
your phone number.
These are all things that are typically sent when you sign up for a new account.
And we may have accounts out there that we don't get any information from because they
were spamming us and we didn't really want to see it anymore.
So we told them to stop sending us stuff and they fell out of sight and again out of mind.
So something to think about, let's go looking for all those old accounts that we have out
there.
If you don't need them, why not close them down?
You might still have an old live journal from years ago if you're old enough to remember
live journal.
You know, you might want to go find that and close it down, delete that information.
Don't leave it sitting around out there.
And hey, whenever you're finding stuff out there, you might find something kind of cool
or you might find something kind of scary.
Go ahead, share your stories.
Let me know what you find, what kind of things you've forgotten about or what kind of things
you discovered as you were looking through those old accounts that you have scattered
across the internet that may have gotten lost to time and space.
So hey, until next time, y'all stay safe, pay attention to the breaches, go out, look
for those things that may have been impacted, and go find those old accounts that you've
got open up somewhere and maybe close them or at least change the information on them.
Until next time, y'all have a good one.
Cheerio!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it means.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an onsthost.com, the internet archive and
rsings.net.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution,
4.0 International License.
