Episode: 3053
Title: HPR3053: AudioBookClub 17 - Blood Witness
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3053/hpr3053.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:01:05

---

This is HACCO Public Radio Episode 3,053 for Wednesday 15 April 2020.
Today's show is entitled Audio Book Club 17 Blood Witness
and is part of the series HPR underscore Audio Book Club. It is hosted by HPR underscore Audio Book Club
and is about 155 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
straight out of the freezer. The HPR Audio Book Club reviews Blood Witness by David Hitt.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at an honesthost.com.
Hello and welcome to another episode of HACCO Public Radio.
Today you've got the HACCO Public Radio Audio Book Club.
I am one of your hosts and with us as well we got three other hosts.
We got 5150. Howdy folks. We have Taj. What's good everybody?
And we have X1101. Howdy.
And this is our round table where we each listen to the same audio book.
We meet once a month on the second Tuesday of every month.
8 p.m. Eastern time in the HPR mumble room.
We do a show where the first part we talk about the book without doing any spoilers.
We do as much of that as we can until we feel the need to spoil the book or get thirsty.
We take a short break where we each review a beverage of our own choosing.
And then after the beverage review section, we go ahead and talk about the book with plot spoilers in it.
And that's the basic format of the show. If you hadn't heard it before, we always pick an audio book that is free of charge.
And that's to make the audio book club available and accessible to anyone anywhere who would like to participate with us.
And we use only free software, free as in freedom.
It's for the same reason so that anyone can participate who would like to.
So what did you guys think of the book?
Well, I think the book was blood witness is the one that we read for this month.
And shoot, I got to pull it up to remember the name of the author.
Dave Hitt.
I for one was surprised at this book at at how much I liked it.
I was not expecting to like this book.
And I liked a majority of it right up until the part where I can't talk about spoilers.
I'll take I'll take the counter on that.
I really didn't like this book.
Of course, it's there and I could do right.
You know, I'm not trying to claim that.
I didn't like this book for a couple of reasons.
First, for the same reason, I didn't like how to succeed in evil or absolutely no protagonist root for.
These are all bad, bad, horrible people.
The second reason I didn't like it as much I may disagree with the philosophy of the particular religious sect they decided to go after in this book.
It was the Jehovah's Witnesses.
I'm a little uncomfortable with a book that just seems to be so completely anti any any one particular group.
So it it.
To me, this one almost bordered on I don't hate speech, right word, but definitely you could tell the author was not a big fan of this particular denomination.
We're going to have a whole continuum of ideas tonight.
I guess I'm going to fall right in between Pokey and 5150.
I pretty much thought I wasn't going to like the book just based on the fact that on a scale of one to 10 vampires were like a three for me.
And Jehovah's Witnesses are like a negative eight, not the not anything.
I actually have some friends who are job is what is their wonderful lovely people just as as something that interests me.
It's it's not high on the list.
I was entertaining.
I did find myself actually kind of interested in the Jehovah's Witness part because I don't know that much about it.
And just sort of hearing what that life is like was interesting.
The vapor stuff really until until the very end, I was kind of about it.
It's entertaining.
I'm not regretting that I listened to it.
I am glad it was kind of short.
It was a shorter book and that went over real well for me.
And I picked it around Halloween.
I kind of went through a horror vampire kick.
And this was one of them and I happened to enjoy it enough.
I wanted to share it.
I'd like to go back to the Jehovah's Witness part because I didn't think that the guy disliked Jehovah's at all.
I thought that the narrator, the kid, the character, didn't like his life as a Jehovah's Witness.
But I thought that felt more like he just didn't like being a kid and turning into a grown-up and that kind of coming of age type of thing.
As far as the Jehovah's Witnesses thing, I thought it was very fair compared to what I know about Jehovah's Witnesses.
And I didn't think it was disparaging in any way.
Well, I don't know. I mean, he certainly I painted the life of the Jehovah's Witnesses rather bleak.
I mean, compared to, you know, perhaps the worldly things that other legends are allowed to be involved in.
I think he really painted them badly with the neighbor who's what decided to become a Jehovah's Witness and then was going to withhold saving care from their newborn child.
It was born and the father came over, you know, the husband came over and tried to say, will you please, you know, let my wife out of this.
The combination is just discouraging coming around and, you know, the the lay preacher who was the father of the protagonist, he was pretty much well, you know, we're we're right about everything and you're wrong about saying and, you know, you have to follow our way to get to heaven and I'm not I'm sure that may that might be accurate, but it was not a very friendly portrayal.
So, but one thing I want to say now I'm getting on winded so I'll finish this up quick.
I did the aspect that I learned something about the Jehovah's Witness religion because I really didn't know what their whole deal was before, but this is not a good way to learn about other people's religions because most of the things I know about Mormons come from a South Park where they were making fun of the of the entire religions.
This is this is probably not the best workshop for comparative religion.
That's true.
You said one thing in particular that I'd like to put a finer point on you said that the that the Jehovah's Witnesses would withhold care from an infant and that is not true and I don't think that's what the author or the characters were intending to say they don't withhold care what they do is they don't participate in blood transfusions.
They see that as eating blood and the Bible is very clear about not eating blood so that's something that other denominations may disagree with Jehovah's on, but that is very well known and very fair to say that a a staunch Jehovah's Witness would not accept a blood transfusion would not allow it for their own child and would not advise it to anyone else.
I think it's perfectly fair and I don't think you'd get an argument from a Jehovah's Witness that said I'm not one and I may be wrong, but from what I understand of them that is all true.
I'm going to go back and touch on what 50 said about the neighbor character.
I think that characters there for exactly the opposite reason I think that because if you think of a stereotype of the Jehovah's Witness the knocks on your door and bugs the crap out of you and wants to show what they believe in your face.
That character is doing exactly the same thing it's completely reversed and especially with not spoiling what happens with that character it just it actually kind of shows some of the integrity that the Jehovah's Witness witnesses have in the story.
There is a consistency and even though people can sit there and look at it and say well that's ridiculous that doesn't mean that other people don't believe and behave in ridiculous ways.
And let's get one thing straight you know I don't think the Jehovah's Witness are are planning to you know in any way force their religion on other people I mean if you invite them in your home you know you're going to hear about their religion I'm sure but they're not they're not going around be heading people like ISIS.
Yeah and I would take issue with one other thing that you said was you said that they didn't make him appear very friendly and I thought that the way that he acted towards the the neighbor fellow was very friendly I thought he kept it quite friendly even when the guy was enraged almost.
I would say civil might be a better word I mean these are people who not believe they don't believe in raising their voices to other people.
Yeah and you know you said that their existence seemed a little bleak and I'll say that that's true and I'll take it a step further and say that it's a bit authoritarian and at least it's depicted that way in this book and I think that's probably fair too you know most people who are strictly religious are fairly authoritarian in their beliefs and in their behaviors especially someone you know of a Christian denomination
because you know as a Christian I can say this we're supposed to submit to a higher authority so that authoritarianism is should not be one of self it should not be like I am the authority and I know what's going on what it is and the way this guy behaved was hey this is what I've learned and this is what we this is what we know because we've learned it not because you know I made this up and I say so and I thought again I'll just say it one last time
and I think I can put it you know I think it's not talking about it but I think the author was very good about portraying the guy that way and being fair about it but I don't know that's just the way I took it.
Now vampires in the other hand I thought he made look like a bunch of jerks.
Well they're vampires.
You know he portrayed as their chemical emotional and brain changes I mean when the kid was I don't think we're getting the spoilers yet when the kid was turning you cut out buddy.
Apparently the universe thought that was a spoiler.
Yeah 50s gone are you there 50.
Alright 50s departed for the time being hopefully he'll do back.
Man I just thought the book was interesting I didn't think it would be nearly as controversial.
Yeah I know 50 sent me an email a day or two after the last show that we did and he was like hey I'm not so sure I want to you know promote a book that's so negative towards a particular religion thing and I was like
that could be interesting I hate to you know I and I answered the email saying basically that you know I have no authority to video somebody's book pick but I mean if that's the way you see it'd be great to talk about a turn the show so here we are.
My server connection dropped either I was I was talking either I lost you guys you lost me and since you're all since we're back I assume you lost most of the last thing I said.
Yeah we heard you say that it's not a spoiler to say that the kid got turned into it.
Do we want to wait till after the break to say that?
I don't know it seemed like the universe shut you off.
Just saying obviously you know people who come from buyers don't necessarily start out as evil people it's just something once they're no longer human they know they obviously they no longer have empathy for any humans.
Yeah unless they were people that they knew personally you're right they did view themselves as a different species once that happened.
And once the kid was turned and she was going to get him to kill this girl to feed you know he and he wouldn't do it but then the next night he had no problem with him fearing another girl.
Yeah he didn't take much convincing you're right.
But that's like saying if you have someone who's a devout vegetarian but they've been starved for years that they wouldn't take a lot of convincing to eat a cheeseburger.
Yeah but if you knew you're going to have to kill somebody every night for the rest of your life and if you had any empathy at all you got into the daylight.
So what did everybody think about the production on it?
I remember a couple maybe three double reads unintentional double reads there are a couple of places that there are double reads that are actually I mean not double reads it's the way the stories told but I remember a couple of them and maybe one place the volume changed a little but otherwise I thought it was pretty good.
Yeah definitely this is another one where the author is reading the book not trying to do it as a one person play where they're trying to take on different voices.
I noticed the same three double reads and they didn't bother me in the least I didn't notice any volume changes or anything like that.
And one thing that I appreciate a lot is I did not hear any mispronunciations it always it always kind of throws me for a loop when I hear someone read the book that they wrote and then they mispronounce something as if they used a word that they didn't know how to pronounce when they wrote it or that they came upon a word they weren't expecting it always just throws me for a loop and this guy didn't do that so that that I appreciated and the sound quality was good and consistent to be fair.
When writing sometimes I use words I can't pronounce but I still know what the words are fair point you're not writing with the intention of recording it on an audio track when you're done.
There is definitely that so I touched and mean in rupture it's not good it was it needed to be said.
I thought the audio quality was good that I have a one nitpicky issue and then one I dug it a lot.
The little transition sound was so I don't know if it was just a frequency that I have a hard time hearing or what it was it just for some reason it annoyed me but the upside of that was the theme song which I really dug and it reminded me how much I actually liked that band way back in the day.
That's sitting on like a quest for like a week just listening to old albums that I had laying around so good on them.
Yeah I really really liked the transition music the theme song music I thought that was great.
And honestly I've got a toddler so I've had nursery where I'm stuck in my head so I can get that song stuck in my head for a little while that's an improvement.
You just got to get your toddler to listen to the audio books like this and then you'll be fine.
Hey I'm trying to get her to listen to heavy metal and it's not working.
Good for her.
Well I mean both my wife and I listen to metal so it really is only a matter of time.
Yeah I'm not much of a metalhead I've tried I never have been other than the mosh pitting that I don't have I don't really like anything about metal and a tool for mosh pitting so.
Our daughter me and my wife have pretty eclectic but similar tastes and music and then our daughter comes out and she just magically likes all kinds of crazy stuff which we had never heard of which is kind of cool so.
And they don't always want to play you.
Oh awesome.
Okay sorry to rat all this but it reminds me my wife and I went to a going away party.
She got a new job and her co-workers threw her going away party went to a bar and they had this jukebox on the wall that was obviously internet connected because it had every like if I looked up an artist and it was a popular artist if I would expect to find anything from them.
It had everything from that every song like every cake song was there every they might be giant song was there.
So what you're saying is they had Spotify that looked like a jukebox.
Yeah or iTunes or something and I put in a couple of songs that were my speed and I was very happy with and I put in one that I know my daughter likes and then I put in one more for me and left a few.
You know picks for the people I was with said okay I've done enough damage go do this and the final song that I picked it skipped right over it thought about it for about 30 seconds and then just moved on with something else.
It would not play they might be giants lucky ball and chain who's very sad about that.
You had DJ too much.
Yeah clearly.
Well I thought the most interesting character in the story was the protagonist best friend the kind of guy with questionable moral values.
I wouldn't call them questionable I would just call them limited.
He had his principles and he stuck to them he just didn't have very many of them.
I got the impression just for me that he kept worse the book when I'm maybe this because we didn't know very well the beginning but by the end it's like he's he's a total wild man.
Yeah first he just sounded like the kid who would hang out and lose at basketball and probably Pac-Man and at the end yeah he's zone party at his house all these guys drinking he's got a joint in one hand in a beer in the other.
Sorry I hope that's not a spoiler yeah he was not very consistent.
I think he was consistently a good friend but I mean he served as purpose as a character.
Yeah he was that.
He did go his friends mom and say hey I think both your husband and your son are now vampires and then but so when he got together with his friend he said oh make me one.
I think going to your mother and saying that for your friend is is doing your friend a pretty good solid.
When I was on my vampire novel kick the thing I always like when doing any kind of vampires novels is kind of looking at how how different authors play with the different elements of the vampire mythos.
It's always interest me a little bit.
Yeah and it was that sorry 50 go ahead.
No you go ahead I was going to talk the same thing that you know garlic wasn't wisdom to him it was just very unjust.
Yeah and I was going to bring up the part where she was talking to him she was like oh tell me what you know about vampires and I'll tell you what's real.
So that was almost like the author talking directly to the listener.
Well here were the things about vampires that are true in my world.
Yeah he could have very well just okay pause it here I'm going to turn to the camera or you know turn to the audience and break the fourth wall that's kind of what that was but it was good enough.
I mean you kind of have to do it at this point.
But he did it without obviously breaking the fourth wall.
Right right because and this is always the good mechanism to do it is you get someone who is new to being a vampire.
They have a sire is the typical verbiage I've heard and they get to learn all the things that we think we know about vampires and what's true in this specific vampire setting.
So it's always it's almost the same mechanism every time but it still works.
The only thing I think he added is that when the difference between the people they turned and the people they kill the people they kill they're still a vampire but they just happen to be a dead vampire.
So the when sunlight hits the body that they burn up they wouldn't have great lengths that all the victims they had to be left or the dawn sunlight would burn up the body.
They weren't quite a vampire though because it it wasn't they never consumed any vampiric blood.
It was just an enzyme that happened to do the same thing which was plot bullets but it was effective plot bullets.
That's exactly what I felt every time and I think it was two or maybe three times that she said enzyme I thought oh plot bullet.
It's this thing and I don't really know how it works so it's an enzyme.
Yeah you guys have that word stuck in my head now I'm so glad you coined that phrase.
Science!
And I want to return to that when we get to the spoiler part because the part bothers me and when did she become a scientist to know what tough to leave out concoctions.
Ah very good point we can get back to that.
You know I listen to this book four different times in the last six months I never thought of that.
Oh really? Okay yeah I'm holding back on some stuff because I have more to say after the spoiler section.
Well no because I have a thing that I would like to say before the spoiler section but it wouldn't be fair to say it before the spoiler section.
It's not because I'm just dying to spoil the crap out of the book.
I feel like I have to apologize now I did not think that this was going to be quite as controversial as it was I didn't see it as disparaging to any religious group.
And so if anyone does see that I do apologize that was not my intention I thought it was an interesting story that played a religious group against some of the things that it found the most taboo was I found that the dichotomy interesting as a as a plot device is what I saw.
Oh we'll get there in spoilers don't worry we're going to talk about that.
I just want everyone to know that if I was accidentally offensive that was not the point when I want to be offensive it's it's brutally obvious.
I was an offended I was actually kind of surprised when 50 emailed me and said that he thought the thing was offensive.
It was surprised at oh wow x1101 doesn't seem like the kind that would put an offensive book up on purpose and then I kept waiting for the offensive part and it never came so that was just my my take on it.
Well and I seem to remember kind of talking to you guys privately saying hey this is a little adult and explicit and I wanted to make sure that part was okay.
No I never meant to imply x1101 was in any way being you know a rude or hateful to any any particular religion says not that I found the book offensive.
I might it's just I'm a little self conscious perhaps talking about a book that's to pick out a particular domination.
And see I see it as reflecting the authors life experiences more than anything else.
I'm not claiming it's probably an inaccurate portrayal but just you know it I think the majority of the people who would read this book you know would probably look at that lifestyle so that that's really not something for me.
See I I'd be very very interested if if I ever get these things posted because I'm so bad at this.
If any Jehovah's Witnesses heard this and would post on our feedback section on HBO because I'd like to hear what people think about that.
It would surprise me more to find out that a devout Jehovah's Witness got all the way through the book because of the subject matter not about the Jehovah's Witnesses
but just the vampire part of it I'd be very surprised if they listen to it you know all the way through in that regard.
Right now I'm yeah life that a lot of this was the learning aspect you know that the that the Jehovah's Witness are basing their beliefs on at least what they believe to be a more accurate.
But I think there's a lot of stuff in the Bible that's either in there or it's been a minute over this omitted over the centuries because I think there's a lot of stuff in the Bible that's either in there or it's been a minute over this omitted over the centuries.
Because of all takes of the people control controlling the church and controlling this.
That statement is fairly inaccurate fifty one fifty the newest translations of the Bibles and I'll say the NIV in particular was done by it was a massive effort and they used as many original documents as exist and there's a lot more of them than people would think it's not.
Many people think the Bible is a translation of a translation of a translation and that just isn't true.
Okay the only one I'm really familiar with is King James and that I can't claim to be very religious I mean I what I know out of it is from books and movies and not from actual time and church or reading it.
And I can say from having read both and compared NIV to King James they're very similar in what you know the idea that they're trying to convey they're very very similar just the wording is different the language that was spoken at the time was a little different.
There's several other translations that are far less commonly known my favorite is one called the Darby translation was early 1900s I think and it's got a lot of the kind of the tone of the King James Bible but it's much more understandable more more like the NIV.
It drops most of the these and the vows without you know it's seeming to drop the respect that goes along with these and vows and you know I kind of like that but now we're getting way off topic.
And I will say also what I do know about Jehovah's Witnesses much of what they believe does not come from directly reading and interpreting the Bible it comes from the watch tower which is the kind of their their central boy I know exactly how to put it he described it in the book and he described it fairly well even though very very briefly.
But they do publish a magazine and a lot of what they believe comes seems to me to from what I understand seems to come more from that magazine more from that publication than from the Bible itself well the thing that was.
I don't think this is a spoiler because there's not any major plot points that really hinge on but the thing that they kept coming back to in all of their studies which you guys both touched on.
It was translations and mistranslations and possible mistranslations it seems like a lot of their stickler for dogma is based on well if you translate this word this way you get this meaning but if you translate it this other way it means this other thing and we're going to go with this other thing even though everybody else went the other way and yeah and that's a lot of the difference between denominations anyway but.
When you go to you know the difference between Jehovah's Witness and some of the other Protestant denominations a lot of Protestants will say Jehovah's Witnesses are not technically Christians because they don't believe.
The same things about the Bibles so I don't know if I go quite that far I thought one thing about the book that I thought was weird you know it was not outside the realm of artistic license but it was a little different than what you'd expect out of a vampire book was that they just ran fast everywhere that they couldn't actually fly or shape shift very much and you know and she would run all over the place.
Would you think of that to that stick out to anybody else as a typical yes but not as as you say it's still well within the realm of well for believing in vampires we can believe in this it didn't stretch that realm at all yeah yeah yeah the fast moving vampires not unusual where you know guy you know takes a swing with a stick and then the vampire standing behind him.
But you know actual speed out on the road like 60 million dollar or six million dollar man running miles an hour down the road that might have been a little new but that someone would notice somebody running six I guess in the dark and the whole thing about digging themselves in the ground that was kind of different.
That reminds me of one of the things about the vampire lore that I found more peculiar the way it was done here that I don't remember seeing it done that way anywhere else.
And then a tangent thought from there as well most vampire lore is simple simply vampires can't go out in the sun it burns and kills them.
This one it seems like the sun actually makes them tired they actually have to sleep.
So if that's the case and I'm a vampire I'm moving to the Arctic Circle where it's like four hours of daylight a day.
I thought about that too. There was a comic book about that 30 days of night it was about vampires that lived in the Arctic Circle because it was night for like a year.
And like three movies and because their food stays fresh forever up there.
Okay apparently that was not an original thought that I had but delayed but I'm bomb.
Yeah I thought it was kind of kind of interesting but you know again if we're believing in vampires totally believable that the sun comes up and they just out like a light.
Though now that I think about it if any of you read and rises vampire chronicles based on the conversation I'm going to guess no.
Some of them a long time ago.
I seem to remember something similar there where the sun did make them more tired.
Well I mean and the whole digging themselves around stuff like you know I usually go vampires as being
more fastidious you know going around everywhere in a tuxedo.
Those are just the fancy vampires.
Hey it was none of these vampires sparkled.
I thought we would have better taste than to make a twilight joke today but I guess I was wrong.
Ouch.
I think you greatly overestimate my taste.
One interesting thing about it that I thought was was fairly cleverly done may or may not be unique but I hadn't heard it before.
Which you know the vampires are just mugging everyone that they murder.
But I liked how they just shredded their clothes and their credit cards and stuff into tiny little pieces that they just flung into the wind.
Yeah it wouldn't just be easier carry a little bottle of caracene and then when the body goes out boom that everything else does.
Yeah but cloaks aren't popular anywhere you're going to stick the bottle of caracene.
I tell you the one thing in this book that really terrified me is when they were talking about pushing the cordoba off the edge of the cliff.
It's just going too far.
I should have guessed that.
And I'm out of the loop again.
These guys know we well enough to know the only thing I drive is dodges.
I didn't know you only drove dodges I just thought you only drove like cars that were made before the 60s.
Are you ever seen the picture of the new truck I had about 98 the other day with a hydra bed on it was just getting.
Just getting way far feel what we're talking about but it just it needed to be better.
For once 51 50s yard doesn't look like Cuba.
Yeah I'd like to see a picture of your truck.
Well it's been up.
Yeah I put it on both Facebook and G plus so it's out there.
Oh yeah I don't do a lot of that or any of that.
Sorry.
Well email your picture then.
So overall I would say it was definitely a I'd say a fun listen.
Again I was surprised that I liked it as much as I did.
I wasn't expecting to like it much but when it was on when the episode was over I found myself.
I found myself grabbing another episode of that rather than moving on to whatever might be next in my podcast list.
And if nothing else it's inspired interesting discussion.
Yeah I mean I thought it was a little bit slow to start but it wasn't uninterestingly slow if that makes sense.
Yeah completely.
That's my clergy pre beverage summation of no spoilers.
Early in the book they do show it was a Catherine has some feeling she let the one guy go.
Oh boy does it get into spoilers to talk about Catherine's feelings?
Well that was in the first chapter of the book.
I mean she does seem to she has a choice.
She prefers to play on sleazy guys who are trying to pick a woman in bar.
Oh yeah see I didn't get that out of her.
I know that the author said that.
I didn't believe that part by the end of the book.
I think she was full in herself.
I think Catherine wants what Catherine wants and the by picking men who she who weren't going to be missed.
She was doing the safe thing not the nice thing or in any way the decent thing.
Oh yeah I mean and the main character even pointed that out when she said that.
He's like no you're just doing the thing that is least likely to get you caught.
Yep absolutely.
I mean at the beginning of the book she was kind of painted that way.
But I I don't know by the end of the book I didn't see her that way at all.
And I don't know I just I felt like it was kind of a mask that she's wearing so to speak.
Well in other hand she's also bringing on girls over to the house for dinner.
Yeah for sure.
All right I'm getting thirsty. How about you guys?
I have had I found I found this beer Saturday that I have been restraining myself from drinking.
And I would like to stop having to do that.
Is it on your desk or do you have to go get it?
It is on my desk.
All right let's hear it.
Still got to pour it but I am going to be drinking a full pint of red hooks long hammer IPA.
6.2% by volume.
I pulled up the stats from their site give me a minute.
Oh see I think I've had this one.
I've had plenty I've had lots of red hooks at a sampler one night.
I'm pretty sure I had the long hammer.
See if you agree with what I think of it.
I've had it before.
That's why I went out and found this one specifically.
It's 44 IBUs but doesn't taste like it at all.
So let me pour it and then I'll tell you what I think.
Yeah I don't know what a lot of IBUs is because I really don't care for bitter beer.
But the other day I was looking at one of my very favorites and it said it was 37 IBUs.
So maybe I'm wrong about that.
Maybe I don't know. Maybe it's just hops and bitter is good.
I'm not sure.
It's got very much a citrusy aroma.
I'm doing a bad job of pouring it so it's got quite a bit of head.
I'm pouring it from a pint bottle into I've got a Sam Adams Boston logger.
Sam Adams is fancy special cup.
It's supposed to make their beer better.
Ooh I got some of those.
It does make beer better.
Rather than waiting for me to pour it I'll just have a sip out of the bottle.
The mouth feel is bubbly without being sudsy.
It's nice and hoppy.
You get a lot of the citrus from the hop but it's not as bitter as a lot of IPAs is
and that's why I really really love this the first time I had it.
I agree with most of that.
Is that all you get out of it?
It's got maybe just a hint of the the more piney nature of the hops as well.
Yeah that's the one just a hint huh?
I think all of the Red Hook beers have a lot of that.
It's some of them it's overpowering.
It kind of has a juniper taste to like a gin like taste to it or after taste.
This is what I get out of them.
Yeah that's fair.
I mean anyone who's paid much attention to these knows that I like my hops.
Yeah it makes me sad that I don't like them as much as I wish I liked them more
because Red Hook is like right around the block from my house.
I've been there several times.
It's a nice place to hang out and eat.
I just don't enjoy very many of their beers.
But there's a couple I can't drink so it's not that bad.
It gives me yet another reason to come visit you.
Oh yeah we got to hang out in front of their fireplace man.
That's the best.
It's still technically my review.
It's something I had Valentine's Day.
My wife and I went out and we had the most amazing.
It's something local up here.
Now I can't remember who makes it.
But it was an oatmeal stout that was the best stout I have had in ages.
After enjoying it a minute I'm like you know I bet Pogi would love this.
Oh I sure would I love stouts.
Almost every stout I've ever had has been my favorite beer at that moment.
Okay now that it's had a chance to sit a minute the heads mostly dissipated.
Not much lacing in the glass.
It doesn't have a huge aftertaste.
A lot of IPAs do have a lot of that bitter juniper aftertaste.
A very clean beverage.
That's about all I got with it now.
Excellent.
Have you ever had the ESB Red Hook's ESB?
I have not.
I almost bought their sampler that had ESB in it but ended up going with a different one instead.
Okay yeah the ESB is like their middle of the road.
Beer they're more standard one and I can drink that.
I like that.
It's more of an aile style and that's decent and they also had a porter which was really
good.
It still had that piningness to it, that real hoppy, tiny flavor but it was very tolerable
in such a smooth beer.
See I've had some hoppy porters that are almost a black IPA and that was nice.
Yeah but you'd like theirs then.
The last time I was there we were at a wedding and a buddy of mine who was there at the wedding
with me and were big beer fans and we could only get a couple of things up in the room that
we were in.
I didn't realize this.
They wouldn't let you bring a glass from downstairs up into that area.
He and I stepped aside and we went downstairs and had some things that we couldn't get up
upstairs and that was one of them.
We each grabbed a pint of their porter.
We both liked the dark, creamy beers.
50 what do you got this week or this month rather?
What's your beverage?
Well I don't have what I would like to have brought down because Sunday I went to a social
event in Wichita and when that was over I went by the River City Brewing Company to fill
up three growlers and I had a very excellent, excellent smoked stout with my hamburger but
I'm saving those for 5150 shades of beer.
Hopefully in a couple of days before I finish them off so I picked up some other beer this
evening so I could stretch out the really good stuff and save it.
But what I have this evening I grabbed I guess it's new Mike's hard mashed apple ale and
as far as sweetness it's sort of mill the road.
It's not as fruit juicy sweet as some of them are and it's not so now so that tangy
was I'm comparing to spiders not to not the ails but you know some of them are really
not to be sweet and some of some of them would be over sweet for people so I'd say this is
this is somewhere in the middle crisp refreshing not as much of the ale taste as I would
expect you're not getting the weedy taste or hops or anything like that it's you know
pretty much just more like a cider experience.
See I've never had a really good cider would you call that one a really good cider?
I think probably get a really good cider you got to go somebody who makes their own.
I've had one that was homemade and I didn't really care for it I mean it was okay but
it wasn't I didn't go go back for more as much as I wanted to I didn't like it as
much as I wanted to like it.
Well this is 5% alcohol so it's one more beer you know it'd probably be really good
on a hot day.
Is it is it carbonated?
Yes slightly.
Okay I think I'd like that.
Now I had cider go hard by accident before and it tasted better than like I expected it
didn't taste what I expected it to so I remember spitting it out but then I thought
hey actually that's not that bad and I went back for another sip.
Well you know animals they prefer the apples have been laying there a while.
Yeah no doubt now how is it for like viscosity is it really thick like a real
cider is or do they kind of strain it out as a more apple juice that's been fermented?
How is it in that respect?
Yeah it's it's pretty thin more like a juice.
Oh see now I think I'd want a nice thick pulpy almost.
Taj what did you bring for a beverage this month?
So I have water but I'm going to make up for it because I got something else too.
Could you give me a new sharpener?
No I wish.
It could because I just went and spent a bunch of money on an apex pro sharpener I wish
that would be awesome.
No it's for the last all of last week and so far this week is I step testing in the state
of Indiana and since I'm a teacher and my particular job in teaching I have not sat
down and been running back and forth so I have been worn out and dehydrated so water
is the fix for that but I decided to treat myself and I went and got something from the
store the other day.
I spent some time in France and one of the things that we would eat for breakfast when we were
there was these little Dutch wafers that were delicious they were just plain wafers.
Once I came back to America I found that you could get them in packages with caramel in
between them so like little caramel wafers sandwiches and they're the most delicious
thing.
The original I guess I quote Dutch caramel wafers I've eaten about half a bag just sitting
here but the delicious they go especially good with coffee and I believe it actually even
says that on the bag so it's the truth.
Wow don't forget to put that in the show notes I'm going to have to order some from Amazon
because I bet they don't have them at my grocery store.
Already done man or I got you.
Thanks a lot man.
Alright now I was going to have a beer tonight I bought one of those.
It's like an eight pack sampler of Guinness and there was there was four different beers
in there and there were two of each and I don't know what it says more about if it's
if it's more about the quality of micro brews or the quality of canned beer or what.
But Guinness is just not as interesting as it used to be to me it's just it doesn't
really stand out it's in in any way it's very mild.
It's well balanced but it doesn't none of them really stood out to me so I decided I didn't
want to review one of those after all and I got a bottle of wine instead so I've got a
twisted cabernet 7 on it's a 2013 and it's a California wine it says on the bottle
it's got 37 gold medals and nine best buys since 2007 in wine enthusiast and I haven't
haven't had a drop of it yet so we're going to find out if it's any good at all it's
sometimes these gold stickers that say it's it's 137 gold medals just means that
you it's really nasty and they have to put a sticker on it to sell any so we're going to see
if it's any good at all.
I love Cabernet 7 very usually one of my favorites do you like those you should try my
favorites yellowtail it's an Australian one.
Yeah I like yellowtail usually drink the the cab Merlot blend I like that one a lot
the purple bottle this isn't bad actually this is this is really decent it's not too dry
it's it's sweet but not overly sweet it's got kind of a woody taste to it but not
oakiness it's more of like a corky flavor to it but not in a bad way not like it's
corked this is a twist off cap so there's no way this one could have been corked anyway
but it does leave the mouth a little dry which is fine you know if you're not
taking huge gulps of it that's usually not too bad swirl it around it's got
cheese no legs at all I mean literally there's nothing there's not a single drop
running down the side of this class so that tells you it's either you know fairly
low in sugar and or alcohol or or both but I don't know it tastes kind of
alcohol it's not bad it's actually quite drinkable for the price it was under 10 bucks
I don't remember if it was eight or nine but um yeah no bad definitely it's this one's
worth a try little little bit sour on the on the back of the tongue just a
slight little bit and on the finish not not too much of a sour aftertaste it just
finishes that way that's it for me I'm not much of a wine of fish you know how
do I can't go on if you're if you're waiting for more characteristics I don't
know about them well I think I prefer something you're like a
moscata myself but that's not bad I'll have to try a moscato sometimes I haven't
tried any of those if you it's a very sweet wine so I'll warn you I I would not
make a pretty good wine expert but you go most liquor stores and ask for a
moscato and they turn up I was at you oh I didn't know that okay huh that's
weird because one of my favorite wines ever was a port and I know ports are
kind of like that where people are or they'll turn their nose up that's if you
ask for a port and I've had some really really nasty disgusting ports too but
then the my favorite one I've ever had was a port so who knows I always use a
cheap port as a cooking wine oh no the one I liked was not cheap by any
means it was very expensive yeah I think if you appreciate a port you'd like a
moscato okay cool all right so what did we want to spoil first no just me all
right I'll lead this one off because this is this is early on this is the least
spoiler but I wish I could have said this in the first part but this this
book to me as much as I enjoyed most of it I thought it ended very poorly I
thought the last two chapters just tapered off very very quickly I thought the
second to last chapter was was fairly weak and the last chapter just ended so
abruptly that there was almost no story there the only inconsistency in the whole
book was in the last two chapters the only inconsistency that I noticed
anyway was in those last two chapters and I just thought it was very
anticlimactic so there's that I didn't want to say that before the
spoilers and what did you think was inconsistent well when what was the
kids name Chris yeah so when Chris was kind of going over in his head all
the things that could go wrong he mentioned that his dad could show up to
the you know the big scene in the park where everybody had the brew and tell
everybody what it was but at that point in the book he didn't know that his
dad had had the brew he didn't know that it had been given to him so that was
that was a whole in the plot and it led me because I and I went back and
listened to it a second time to make sure I went back and listen to the last
couple chapters twice and that was an actual plot in the whole he did not know
what she had done to his father and that there's evidence of that in the
final chapter after kind of the epilogue where he says well if she had
only told them what what she was planning to do he might have been able to
go along with it or might have been able to forgive her but yeah he had no
knowledge of any of that didn't know that his dad knew what the what the brew
was and and may not have known what the brew was at the time that his dad
was there at the house it led me to another hole in the plot where
Catherine when she gave the brew to his father she simply sent him back
out of the room to go watch the movie there's several times in this
audio book where they were listening to people up to four miles away so he
should have been able to hear what went on in that room but then he didn't
and that it led to real to to kind of paradoxical inconsistencies for
me yeah now that you mentioned it that makes sense well I thought it was
kind of unoriginal every time they wanted to get somebody to drink this beer
so they could so it would make parallelism they said yeah this beer
will make you be able to walk around in the daylight oh I'm going to go
over here in the shade will you drink that beer yeah there was I mean
that's exactly what you would tell someone so if anybody if any of the vampires
were skeptical like that would be the thing that convinces you that it's
not that because it's the only thing that you could say so there is that
but they weren't exactly in the shade they were just in the shadiest part of
that particular field I don't know how that happens because they were up on a
stage so I don't know how they actually worked that out but yeah they were
they were out there with them sort of I guess the way that I understood it was
the stage was they said it would coming up over a hill or a mountain or
something and my understanding was that the stage was back far enough
that the sun would come up and go over them before it hit them so they
would be in the shadow of the mountain longer than the people in front of
them yeah but they were still elevated that's tough to pull off unless
you're in like an amphitheater where your audience rises up as well I
don't know I can go with it I just can't picture it one one thing
or a work would when Chris wants to get rid of his drunk or outy friend he
don't have to come up with a story also do is dude here's a beer yeah it's
true I thought it was semi-sort of cute how he decided to call him at the
end and you know that bit calling for the friend and and kind of longing
after his dad was a huge huge you know door to a sequel I know we say
that a lot in the in the books that we review that there's doors to
sequels and a lot of them but I thought this one was just a massive garage
garage door of an opening you take the words right out of my mouth there and
this you know how his dad became the vampires probably the the most
unique way they shaved shaved with the same razor as Chris and nicked himself
after Chris had already been started to be turned yeah I actually kind of
liked that yes so did I it was probably the most unique turning that I've
ever seen her red whatever and it's that that whole process that both of
them went through while they were turning the sickness and the you know
excruciating rebirth and the hunger and all of that those are the kind of
things I like to compare in different vampire novels did it seem like it was
way easier on his dad than it was on him I'm not sure about way easier but his
dad definitely dealt with it differently easier somewhat because Chris
like couldn't get out of bed and his dad still managed to man up and go to
work the first day yeah yeah but that could also be in a difference in
perception between teenagers and adults I thought about that too but I
kind of threw it away because Catherine told him it was going to be the worst
day of his life and worse anything you can imagine and that kind of thing
the other possibility and this is plot bullets stretching a little bit but he
got the blood of one of the oldest vampires around who had been a vampire his
dad got the blood of someone who was on the way to being a vampire so maybe
less potent less awful maybe maybe I realized that's kind of me trying to
make this the fact fit the story rather than the other way around but I can
buy it though did anybody else when when he told his wife he wanted me to
be else just think of Dublin Dan at that point okay touch my
death I didn't but I will if I ever listen to this again sorry there's
there's not a lot of time that I'm not thinking about Dublin Dan he's a
fantastic fellow I was thinking he'd probably be more like beans I liked
also the the two vampire friends the the gay vampires I thought that was
kind of different and not done in a bad way I was done pretty well and added
some variety to the to the vampire story skinheads real skinheads I don't know
I think I think you must be unfamiliar with the Twilight tragedy or
a trilogy of gay vampires is any kind of shock to you I'm almost
perfectly unfamiliar with Twilight that must be blissful I know just enough
about it to make fun of it yeah so far so good touch it's working out well
for me daughter and wife no no both my daughters and my wife are immune to
that they both think it's garbage emo sparkly vampires unfortunately mine
are not immune also very very weak female character which is also not
particularly interesting huh and this is all things I've gained from you
know reading people's thoughts on it and memes I have to admit memes well to
kind of paraphrase Adam Corolla on this one I'll stop believing in memes when
they stop being true trying to think of what else it might be to think about
this book I don't know it's it seemed to touch on so many things that
probably are way played out in vampire stories but since I don't listen to
a lot of vampire stories it was maybe a little more interesting you know
like that first rooftop sexual scene I thought was done pretty well the wall climbing
stuff I thought was done pretty well the dad's transformation with the dude in the
truck I thought that was done really well I don't know maybe maybe like I said I
don't do a lot of vampire stories so maybe they're a bit cliche but I thought
they were pretty good that brings up two things that I had been thinking I wanted
to mention the first one the easy one is the difference in how reluctant Chris
was to kill someone and how animalistic an instinctual his father the
supposedly very religious and pious man just just did it didn't hesitate
didn't think about it it just happened ooh pent up I'm sensing you about to say
well the father decided to rationalize this this is a revelation that this is
this is what all his all the teachings of his church were about that
supporting blood if you drank blood you would live forever and that's that's
what the whole goal everybody in his church was working towards well that's
once the switch was thrown but he didn't throw the switch the guy in the truck
with the gun that shot him through the switch yeah but the son knew what was
happening the dead didn't I would assume it would be easier to put perspective
on it and make more rational decisions when you actually understand what's
going on that's true that the dad was more animalistic because he literally
was a caged animal at that point he was back to a corner where Chris had
all day to think about it and it was almost like Catherine was testing him
the other point I wanted to bring up because it's done differently in different
vampire novels and I always find it interesting in both ways is maybe I've
only found one or two where it was done the other way but vampire novels
stories in general are either dripping with sex or I've read a couple where
they've got no blood flow so nothing works I expected going in that it
would have more of that than it did especially after like the disclaimer at
the beginning I figured that this would be like way more way more like that yeah
yeah and it really wasn't I mean it was just like yeah almost could get away
with putting that on like cable yeah the first scene was fairly graphic but
it almost felt like it was a warm up to more graphically intense scenes but
it wasn't it was did kind of was mellow after that which I thought was I
thought was okay I didn't think this book crossed that line for me and you
know that was the line I was more worried that this was gonna cross I didn't
think at all about the stuff we already touched on the it being offensive to
different religious groups but that might be just because I'm hard to
offend well I was worried about it crossing the same line and not
because I'm easy to offend but just because sensual scenes read out loud by
dude don't usually do it for me I find them pretty distasteful oh yeah thank
you that being said there's a few no there's probably there's probably one no I
take it back there's I take it all back someone else is trying to talk that the
wines work and quickly sorry I think it's I think the setup is definitely good
we do the drinking in the middle and then the spoilers get a lot more fun that
way it yeah well especially if you're drinking red wine and it's this one's
going right to my head yeah I found out I've got a particularly weak liver so
everything goes straight to my head oh yes it depends on what it is for me
sometimes I can have you know three or four beers and not feel a thing but
the other night when we went to my wife's little going away party from her work
I had two Sam Adams over a four-hour period and I was having trouble talking my
tongue just wasn't work and I was learning all kinds of words and transposing
syllables it was crazy I have noticed it depends what it is for me too beer
seems to go right to my head but I can still drink whiskey my mom came to visit
this past weekend and I was also sick this past weekend so all weekend
long she was trying to push hot toddy's on me oh you got a hot toddy it's
something that's gonna work you have a hot toddy of course we didn't have any
whiskey and we never got around to go and buy some whiskey but she must have
mentioned it a dozen times and my mom's half a glass of wine is enough to knock
her out like flat so it was weird she just wants to take care of you and I
appreciate that and I actually kind of wanted to try a hot toddy I've never had
one before and it was looking forward to it just didn't happen I'm not sure
though the most tasty beverages to me you've got too many things in my whiskey
for that but it's definitely better than you know drinking night will let me
tell you I was sick enough to try anything I really didn't care what the taste
was going to be now somebody put whiskey in your night quill what do you think
about that I'm sorry I lost you somebody put whiskey and what what about whiskey
and therapy you guys have had therapy that's pretty gross whiskey might help
that I think you'd be better off a grain in your therapy what your therapy ever
clear oh you know at that point I would just skip the therapy when drink the
whiskey or the ever clear have you a drink straight ever clear I've never had
ever clear at all I had 151 once I I gargled with 151 as a disinfectant for
a night that I tried to forget and it's rough man it'll burn the crap out of
your epithelial cells just choose them away and makes little kind of
park marquee craters out of them oh yeah I used to drink one 151 of mixers was
a freshman in in college and then every once in a while I'd just not take a
shot I would be right that's that can be rugged so 150 150 I was just about
to make it oh sorry I have a buddy who used to drink the 151 and then what he
would do is you know do a shot of it or sip the glass of it and then run his
fingers on the inside of the glass and light his hand on fire yeah I could see
that someone was talking the other day at work about how this big pile of
paper that was a fire hazard I'm like we're in a building full of geeks that's
already a fire hazard fair enough he didn't seem to understand that until I
pointed out how many geeks do you know that aren't pyromaniacs he's thought
for a minute he's like not very many and I'm like and I'm guessing that's not
because you don't know very many geeks he's like no no it's not wait I'm not a
pyromaniac I like having a campfire in the fire pit but I don't set like random
things on fire but you enjoy building the fire you enjoy fire oh god yeah I
stared that thing for hours and hours I've had recent not so good
experiences with fire do tell as in being in one remember Pokey yeah no I do I
do that was to do tell was facetious actually I'm sorry for bringing it up and
talking about it like that no no I agree with you guys you're probably right I
was fascinated I put a PPO this weekend all of some videos and probably they
probably set up the workbarry but like these flash paper paper cannons that you
can strap your wrist and it makes it look like you put fireballs out of your
hand oh that's cool as hell all right I'm a pyromaniac again where do I where
do I get to what's like let's do this it's in the show notes the recently
posted KPS so they're 175 bucks a piece and I would like I would like to thank
you all for proving my point and as I sit here denying being a pyromaniac I think
back I'm pretty sure mine is the only HPR about actually building fires so
yeah sorry I take it all back by the way Pokey that HPR was fantastic and has
significantly improved my fire building skills parallel to I like to
want about the the can generator thing that you put the wood in and wait
in two HPRs and building fires we thought you were going to do it there's
this camping thing you can take it and you can you know it doesn't take much
make build out of a can and you don't take much wood you get a pretty good
amount of heat out of it our memory yeah yeah the wooder voice of fire I still
got to build one of those because that just sounds freaking cool yeah they're
awesome going YouTube and watch how people do it but you get the easiest one is
just a one-quart paint can and a a particular size of soup can
progressive with the pull tab does it perfectly and a side-cutting what do you
call a can opener oh in a step drill go to the like discount tool store and buy a
cheap-ass step drill is that just a bit that I put in my drill
it's a whole show yeah it's just it's a it's a bit that you put in your
drill it's some like multiple sizes in one bit and you need it for drilling
through thin sheet metal because it'll make a round hole without tearing it
whereas a regular fluted drill bit will at some point we'll just tear through
it and make really jagged sharp edges and the hole won't be round and it'll be
very dangerous and bad so it's kind of like a hole saw yeah but it's not a saw
it doesn't have teeth on it it's got like one or two cutting surfaces like a
regular drill bit has but there's no flutes in it it's like if you took
holes saws and stacked them in the pyramid with like the smallest one at the
top and just progressively punch down do you join yeah not hole saws though if
you took regular drill bits it's just just the head of a drill bit and stack
them in a pyramid exactly like that and they don't last too awful long but even
the expensive ones don't just buy a cheap one I think I paid four or five bucks
for mine and at a discount tool store but if you go to Walmart even they're
like 20 bucks if you go to any real tool store they're 40 to 60 bucks so just
go buy the cheapest one you can find and they make nice round holes in sheet
metal I'm assuming you need that to punch the hole in like a hole in a can yeah
well you need to punch many holes to make a decent wood gasifier you could
use a little punch if you could get it long enough in there I'm sorry
I walked all over you what did you say so we're just gonna bring it all back to
fire yeah yeah does fire kill vampires it didn't seem like it set them on fire
though I think if you could if you threw gas on one and set them on fire they
would be in pretty dire straits and I'm thinking probably they they go in this
book they go with the medieval times there wasn't much to get them I would I
would think if you can get them to stand still you could do pretty good work on
one of the 12 gauge oh actually know that one that died at the beginning who
drank the first brew they burned him in his head and he died from fire well
that was after they decapitated him too and he wasn't really dead after they
decapitated him yeah the decapitation didn't do much to kill him it just
shut him up more of an annoyance than anything yeah if there's if there's
anything left they can grow back I wonder if she cut off her head you'd have
to the next morning because I did say you know they're you know he's trying to
get his head so it would reattached that's very clever 5150 and I suspect you
may actually have two of them or maybe the head would regenerate the body and
the rest of the body would die I don't know that's a good one I said the body was
running around looking for the head bumping into shit just imagine there's
this whole like some class of headless vampires just roaming around well
wouldn't they starve well that's what they also point out starvation wouldn't
actually kill him she was trying to he would just become this thing that walked
around in the trance for eternity yeah because Chris's dad didn't die from
starvation and he should have she said to Chris that he if he didn't feed the
first night that it should kill him and Chris's dad fed that first night and
then took a week to get out of the pond so that didn't kill him so in this
universe maybe that would be okay if the if the vampire is more than a a day
older a week older something well I mean she was warning Chris when he didn't
want to kill the 15 year old girl at that first night so I can't do this and
said well if you you know you got to because if you don't you'll wander as a
timeless school for all for all eternity and it was like that she could need to
put him out of his misery if he did that maybe all the heads in jars on
Futurama are Dave hits vampires interesting wouldn't nope not going there yet
no it wouldn't knock it off that would be really cool if there were like
Belalagosi in a Futurama jar okay and speaking of cartoons did anybody else
picture the Simpson scene with the motorcycle duel when the guy just picked up
the motorcycles and hit them having not seen that I can certainly say I did
not yeah I don't I don't remember that one you don't remember the Homer Simpson
motorcycle duel you guys didn't see that one that's that's fantastic that's
you tubable for sure I'm actually surprised I haven't seen it because that's
like constantly on at my house yeah check that one out and then tell me you
didn't picture this guy who Catherine was riding around on the back of the bike
with who by the way hit the nail right on the head at the beginning of the
book Catherine should have just settled down with him or some other dude who
was cool but no she had to have a vampire that she created and molded into
what she thought she wanted she's a total control freak well she keeps looking
around for somebody with the spark that's why I don't give the loser friend
much of a chance for for a lasting very long no I just think that's the the
whole gamer mentality of you know character building you're looking for one
with at least one outstanding role I had a girlfriend that was head over heels
about me one time for just such a similar type thing did you have the spark I
probably shouldn't have said that let's let's move on somebody could make a
Transformers Joe can say the all spark they made that up for those stupid
movies I refused to acknowledge it yeah I know wasn't terrible I feel so bad
that I for so long I thought it'd be so neat to have an auto bought sticker on my
car and then those movies came out and I didn't ruin that on me
Polky I'll tell you what was what was what was running through my head when
to through that discussion was you have the much you have the power you can't
sing is that a human reference I don't get it no that that was the thing of the
animated Transformers movie the only good one oh that was a good movie yeah
I don't remember that song though oh yeah every every time the all spark you
know when Roddo is opening the all spark and all that kind you know it all
those cinematic stuff that kept going that main team of the movie oh excellent
callbacks are very bitching of you much woofie bringing it back I said that the
other day my accident we were out my mother and my daughter and I were out and
somebody said something I go oh that's wicked bitching and my mother goes is
that something you should say in front of your mother and my daughter leans in
goes and your 13 year old or 14 year old daughter and I go no no it's B.I.C.H.U.N.
it's not it's no it's different you should have looked at them with a cold
stare and just been like yes no I had to explain said no no it's really cool
and they were like oh all right if you're sure oh and it was appropriate too
because it was in the comic bookstore when I was buying Carcasson sounds like
an apropos moment it was you know what it was too this is fantastic sorry to
rathold this but I have to now it was it was a big plastic board first
settlers of Katan and it was because you know how how horrible that game fits
together it's fantastic a game it is it doesn't fit and I looked at that and I
saw this big plastic board in the box super high quality look and I picked it
up and it's it made in the USA and they go oh that's bitching and that's what it
happened it's great I've toyed around with the idea of they make models to 3D
print a like a Katan board that like clicks together and I'm like oh that would
be so nice the whole orgasm okay I dropped you a link in the
mnemble chat I saw that it's a YouTube I dare not watch it during the show but I
will hang on to it for afterwards sir thank you is it I haven't opened it yet is
it the transformers theme song there yeah one of the times just played the
the probably the main time it's played but not the only one uh link in the
show notes folks link in the show notes I'm pretty sure between that
movie and breath of con that's how I learned about death bringing it back to
the Neymoy oh Neymoy who's just gonna say that
but in in the end spot comes back and Optimus Prime comes back so it was probably
the best lesson ever true enough oh man my cursor disappeared in the show
notes I'm trying to post that and I can't do it my cursor doesn't exist
on YouTube you guys ever watch how it should have been how would I see those oh
those are great I I actually love Batman and Superman and the cafe at the end
of those but I don't know if it was that if it was that freeze but some with
something similar there's one out there a look for transformers and battleship
and it's Optimus and Megatron seeing their plot from the movies playing battleship
and Megatron is I can't believe how do you make a movie from this game
but one of the references in there I mean it's just putting things in the
board how is that a movie and but one of the references in
in there is something about don't you hate it when people just
completely changed their appearance and Optimus is like uh T.E.
So are we getting back to the book or we we wrap this thing up
you're calm man I I can't say anymore
is there more to say in the book I don't have anything
all right then did any of you guys pick our next book
I have an idea you might not like
all right that's funny uh anybody else have input on this because I do have something to say
does it have to do with a minor religious group
no not at all oh you were talking to 50 I'm sorry
uh first first question is fan fiction count um as long as it's free and an audio book
like I don't have a problem with that well the one I was just and maybe maybe
they're not so good because I I listen to these around in January but looking at them again
I'm not sure if how much I remember out of my I don't I don't you know they weren't outstanding
but I don't remember them being too bad it's Star Trek continuing mission calm and they're
all audio they're not they're not none of our video is there like a continuing series where
we're going to be left hanging or is there a complete story there that would be my only
real question I hate listening to a story that doesn't finish up you know uh
aka this thing of ours uh you know that kind of thing I don't like
now there's there's no real cliffhangers that I remember I mean there are things that
they do callbacks from one episode to the next of of stuff that happened in the previous
episodes more than in the original series because that was written by a whole bunch of different
people uh it's it's about the starship Montana in in the enterprise universe so it's in it
you know it's an inexful one class well it does sound interesting is is there a ton of them
or is there a couple that you could pick out and we could listen to I mean like how long are
they could listen to five of them and talk about them or I don't know could it sounds cool could
but I don't know if the idea is is hashed out fully oh there's about seven of them and I don't
think there any longer in this last book altogether okay I don't have any objections my brother does
but he's not here I'm cool we're trying it out sounds good to me I'm already watching through
DS9 again so more Star Trek can't hurt me yeah nine apps and the one I just had open showed
38 minutes so I don't think it would be so long to be longer than one of our normal normal levels
you know that's for sure doable in a month I mean especially yeah some of the longer novels
we've had that's cool all right that's our book then is the in case there's more you know whatever
we'll talk about the first would you say seven uh nine today there's nine of them okay we'll do
the first nine episodes and we'll review the uh the episode the episodic podcast of uh would
you say the continuing episodes where I need links here 50 please yeah I'll definitely send you
the look and the send you the link on my uh alcohol choice tonight but it's for the listeners
at Star Trek continuing mission dot com cool that's gonna work it's my brother's been on me for a
couple of months to listen to an audio book that he thought was fantastic and I haven't heard any
of it and I'm waiting to hear it until you guys hear it with me and uh he sent me the link
last month uh during the show and I opened the link and it's got like uh I don't know I had a very
high rating on patio books and then x 1 1 0 1 said oh yeah I got one and he put it up there
and uh the rating was like 20 or 30 points last and I was like oh boy here we go but then
not but then blood witness turned out to be pretty decent so that was cool my only question is
since this is a Star Trek thing do we still get to drink when we make Star Trek references
does the game still work oh shit uh well you don't drink alcohol so yes you have to I guess
we'll have to find a source for Romulan ale before next month the rest of us only have to drink
if it's Star Wars reference this is gonna get ugly man I don't know how many days off I could
take footwork for the day after that I could be that guy the whole time and be like when
just you buck a show up he's my favorite I'm already that guy I'll fight you for it man I
went to school with that guy okay any any uh thoughts on uh see a hour ago I knew what the book
was named blood uh blood witness blood witness and of course that's obviously the we hadn't
talked about that with the title is uh because because the joe was witness tell a lot of their
religion revolves around the non-eating of blood and the vamp just juxtaposed with the empires and
like I said I didn't particularly like it wasn't anybody to no good guys to root for and I'm a little
self-conscious bashing I know I was bashing but I think it's definitely credible of this particular
sect poe uh you you generally lie yeah but you know that's a really good point you made early on
and I meant to comment on that you're 100% correct there is no one to root for in this book there
are no good guys maybe the guy's wife but she's barely a character see I guess I like store I like
stories and stories like that where everyone's the bad guy or the good guy is the bad guy or the bad
guys the good guy whatever however you want to put it don't don't bother me at all I'm the same way
I don't I don't necessarily have to have someone to root for it but you know it's it is it's not
bad when it happens but I don't miss it reminds me of a series I've been while I just finished
watching for the second time called leverage and it's a bunch of x-thieves who try to help people
but they're thieves what most you will consider bad guys but they're the good guys
well like a lot of shows like white or things like that the sort of the anti-hero good guy
but all of those are mostly about defining their own moral code and sticking to that
not one that society would actually be acceptable yeah well said it's it chaotic good that's
what they are like the punisher take a drink I will it that sir I had to set you up for that one
Tosh you setting up on Arkham now okay just to put the point on it and I think these numbers have
moved since last month but the book that my brother suggested on potty of books is rated a hundred
percent and blood witness is rated 87 percent so it's actually not that bad 87's of really high
rating on potty of books so we're not the only ones who I had three out of four of us like
this one and this well over three out of four percent there I know three out of four percent
is not a real thing and math teachers are pulling their hair out and throwing it at their MP3
players but I can do it because I have a little button on my thing here that makes mumble work
uh potty how are we doing at editing uh getting some of these out we're terrible at editing all four
of us bad yeah I actually have to make some kind of personal commitments uh that I can hold up
where it's not ever going to get done so um I I'm going to have to commit to get at least one
episode out by the time we record the next episode where you guys can pick the punishment
and I will match that because I'm over halfway done with one so if I can't get it out by the next time
I suck a lot wait if you don't get one up my next time you guys get to punish me twice that's
bullshit I did I'm not doing that no no no I'll I'll match that if I don't get one out I will
also accept punishment from the group oh okay all right I'm down free has sent me the raw audio
going to edit if you want if I don't get one out everybody gets punished it will shit now I have to
upload raw idiot raw audio to Taj and 50 150 so that's putting more pressure on me fellas thanks
I also have a backlog of ones I could send we just need to at some point put together a
mailing list and coordinate it and stuff uh yeah actually do that because I've even lost track of
how far behind I am who was a great wiki for so they have an updated budget since January guilty
we have a wiki I created a wikia project and then did nothing with it oh that's bitchin thanks man
what did you tell me about that and I'm an idiot or did you keep me out of the loop because you
know I would drag it down to nothingness I'm going to go with the third option where I told you
about it and you forgot not that you're into it no no that's an idiot if I forgot it's fine
oh sorry about that that's awesome thanks man uh can you post that link in the show notes
yeah I'll go dig it back up that better polkae did you ever post any reminders on the
on the mailing list or to us about tonight's because I was out on the farms oh wait
man this is patch Tuesday I read it back I think I did not and I'm I'm really bad at this you
guys are are I thought I told you this a long time ago I'm really bad at this well you know if
we had to like a wiki the way to automate that to send to send it out see the thing about it is
it's a podcast and I can talk a big game so I'm fine when we're recording it's the rest of the stuff
that I suck so badly at preaching to the choir man we'll get it sorted out there's enough brain
power here that we'll make it happen oh god I can just you say enough brain power here I can just
think of you know if we put it on google calendar isn't there probably a way to set a reminder
you know five days before something but I don't know if there's a way to do that and then make
it read email the mailing list normally do is put it on my google calendar and send invites to
everyone who's who's asked to be on my personal book club mailing list but I didn't even do that
this time it's just because I'm bad at this not because I didn't want to or or anything I'm just
bad so what I'll do is I'll update the wiki tomorrow or you know what no I'll do it right now
with the episodes that I have copies of to do the edits and maybe we can redistribute them
again or something okay fifty do we have the link to the the series and I'll send the email
right now yeah I just put on will chat for you all right it may be silent for a minute while my
brain churns away just ask and I guess I'm not going to update it now because I don't have my
password manager installed on the system so I guess I will do it tomorrow but I am going to put
over to mine or in my phone and then I will email the group just let me know I my life used to be
editing audio I get it done and probably better than me now the secret is just not being too nitpicking
I mean because like if you're sending their unit pick over every little thing it's going to take
you forever I've said that before to him the same I've found that on the one I'm working on it
takes me about twice as long as the file is so if I sit down to edit for an hour I get about a
half hours worth of audio edited oh god you're fantastic well and that's because I'm not being
particularly nitpicking holy smokes the next book club will be on my birthday at least you'll
be able to remember to be here there yeah but uh wow I hope nobody tries to take me away from it
should we start talking about maybe a backup day just in case no no no god no that'd be my birthday
present let me stay at home and do my book club with my buddies actually wait no I know what I'm
going to ask for my birthday and I'm going to have to go out of the room and then do a different room
for that no actually no it's great wow the book club my birthday would be fantastic that it's cool
I remember to say happy birthday to me next month I say as a birthday present we let Pokey
pick the next book because I know he's been sent on his book forever well it's my brother's book if
I were his birthday we'd do it but 50 picked the book that's cool well I'm sorry I didn't mean to
poke out the the book picking you did not you didn't at all at the time after that like for your
birthday we'll let you pick for the next one oh yeah that's cool for sure well I'll pick the book my
brother wants me to do or wants us to do and that gives me another month of not looking for a book
well shit like I said it's rated 100% on on podiobooks.com so maybe there's only one person
reviewed it maybe my brother's the only one that that voted for it at all so are you going to
spell the beans on what this book is and I have to wait of course I will next month I'm pretty
trying to just go to podio books and finally a week that has 100% it has got to be more than one book
with a hundred percent speaking of audio books Taj did you see the email I sent you about two
weeks ago or something about a really nifty book I was listening to I did but I haven't had time
to listen to it it does not continue to live up to the standard I sat but it was still very very
good groovy I want to check it out for sure and I know I I don't remember the name of it at all but
I thought you would enjoy it the prince of hazel and oak is a hundred percent and I had a
hundred percent agree with that that's one of the most perfect books on podio books and that's
not the book he suggested is there a third up of that out yet no but I bought the hardcover
is it a hardcover or a softcover I forget if it's a paperback to hardcover I think I bought a hard
cover and and I bought the kindle version because I'm not cracking an actual physical version of
that book open it's a collector's item dammit yeah I bought the I listened to the first two and
then I bought the kindle edition as well now I look at bibles website the other day and there are
sequels deadmex but they're on audio books dot com when they want money for them so there's
there's there aren't any free sequels floating around out there look underwood and flinch is a
hundred percent that was a fantastic book and a vampire novel I which I thought a lot about on
this one and one among the sleepless is a hundred percent and I have to actually like that one
off to add I have underwood and flinch on my I've got an ever-known doc of things I should listen to
and whenever I'm out of something to listen to I just go there and grab something and if it's a
hundred percent I'll have to give it a listen yeah you're going to need to set aside some time
for that one that is a long long book but it's enjoyable the whole way through well I've got a
lot of patching to do so that's okay have you listened to anything from Mike Bennett probably not
oh he's got such a cool way of reading his his delivery is super super unique and I enjoyed it and
apparently a hundred percent of the people did too but he's yeah he's really cool all his even his
stories that I don't like I still listen to because I liked his his voice and his reading and his
writing and his delivery I have to say last month I went back and listened to a bunch of old book
club books I listen to one of the ones you mentioned set on another planet something about medicine
and lobbies oh that was fantastic yeah badge of infamy I loved that one and I mean that was
I love the conversation that that one brought up in the in the book club it was it was excellent
that one and then I went back and listened to both space cases I you know I'm embarrassed to say
I have not listened to the second space kacy you're in the second space case I know that's what
you said I'm embarrassed to say I have not listened to the second space kacy one day I'm sitting
at work listening to space kacy too and I'm like wait a minute that sounds like Poke and I wait
for the credit said sure enough it's Poke and I'm like holy crap it's space Poke wait was I
credited as Poke no now you were credited by your you're right your actual birth certificate name
but I forgot how we did that I thought I see Poke so much better online anyway how did you do
that I assume you didn't do a reading of the other cast members they just gave you a list of
sentences to say yeah I think I had about seven words but it was enough that it was like wait a
minute I am listening to an audio book and that's Poke in my brain path oh that happens to me
every time I hear lost in Bronx are you guys you guys send to eat it zero do you guys listen to that
no I really with that's fantastic it's a good one and I forgot he's on it and I heard the
most recent one and it's been a long times since they put out an episode and I was like oh yeah
yes lost in Bronx again you got to give me that like oh yeah for sure I'll push it I'll put
there right in the show notes I saw I'm posting something about that on Google plus the other day
but I didn't I didn't have time to look at it but now that you've said that I guess I'm gonna have
to give that a shot as well that that another one they've got enough episodes out and they're long
enough episodes you're gonna have to set aside some time for it Peter 64 playing Saturday night that
Star Drifter and Eddie Kay are both up on potty of books now oh bitch awesome because Star Drifter was
just wow yeah it's probably a little too early start putting the spurs to to Lost in Bronx for the
third install but I can't wait to Lost in Bronx has lost me so much time he posted something on
Google plus probably a month ago and it was this YouTube like movie it was like a self-shot
documentary about these guys this guy that like train hops and so like I've gone down this rabbit hole
of YouTube videos about people who train just fascinated by it now have you ever seen the YouTube
video or heard the song the devil's train by a band called the lab rats no this is new to me
fantastic if you like rap at all pegwall turned me on to that one it is so good what's the
called again the devil's train I think it's the lab rats it's the name of the group and I will
beg to differ with you there and then you said that Lost in Bronx has lost you time absolutely not
I have done nothing but profit from the time that I've invested in Lost in Bronx material that
that guy is gold oh I've enjoyed all the time I've lost it's like I'm sending here because I'm
terrible multitasking I'm not a multitasker but like I'll have a YouTube video going and I'll be
trying to like read this educational journal and write up this research stuff and it's just like
brain can't do two things at once oh and if you if you like Lost in Bronx I I'm talking to a list
here you ought to point your browser at mosta java guns dot com this is one of the newer friends of
ours to show to show non-cast planet uh flea and he has he does create all kinds of creative stuff
with blender all that but you need to go back and look at lies series which he's just resumed
he's turned in the books but I guess for about a year and a half he did a posted like a lie
day it's just it's just incredibly funny and creative stuff that he just pulls out of the
inner reaches of his brain and posts and I guarantee you're gonna laugh and did you post the link yet
I posted the mum pat okay that's the monster java guns dot com yes also he really needs an
RSS feature is podcast that would listen to a stuff via the easy way to get it yeah sorry also 50 I
did not mean to interrupt you there I I brain just fired and hit the button no that's fine that's
always feel free to interrupt me and if you and also if you subscribe to him at under is given name
jason van gumster and just if you don't know how to spell that just go to monster jobs it's the
first thing there subscribe to him on g plus because he's posting he's posting them well all the old
and new lots to his g plus feed every day and he has a novel novel he's worked on coke from
and if it's anything is anywhere near his creative is of his lies I'm looking forward to it
it's going to be a science fiction novel that's all I that's all I know about it I have added in my
google plus so now I will see his stuff and he's working on well I guess he's completed blender
for dummy third edition so he he's the author of the blender for dummies books which I need if I
were ever to try to get into blender yeah me too man he can set for both of us I know enough to do
just enough to make something to print 3d print and it's not it can't be complicated or my head
explode and while I'm bugging him his podcast is the open source creative podcast and use go to
go to monsterjava guns.com to grab that it's about using open source tools for creative purpose
we seriously need to get jason and claw to in the same room they would I think they would blow our
minds I'm pretty sure clutch who blows people's minds no matter what room he's in I never thought
I would say this but guinea world order is totally better is a video podcast these doing it I'm like
how did I ever listen to this in audio there's a lot of he does it would be nice to fall along
on video but that's not how I usually listen to podcasts I don't know that I think the show is
any better as video than it was this audio I really kind of prefer audio shows but it is really
nice to look and see someone who I think of as a friend he just does so many like tutorial type
things that I for me I'm just a visual person like it's what I what I found myself doing is if I
listen to it it drops on Monday so usually I listen to it on the way to where if there's
something in there that I want to see it's there I can just go look it up and since it's on like
YouTube I can just like jump to where I know it's at which is really helpful I mean
uh I don't want the audio feed to ever go away because I mean that's still how I mostly listen to it
but man having that video component to it's way better well I don't but I haven't listened to it
since he's gone video and I doubt doubt this will be a problem with claw tube but I mean it's just
it seems when people go video it they they forget you can't see what they're seeing I don't know I
kind of always felt like that's how he does podcast because he I mean because he always does like he'll
just like speak code and I can't keep that straight in my brain well just like listening to it like
I have to see it I mean maybe if I was sitting down I'm writing it down but seeing him do it like
I don't know it just makes sense on a whole different level he's in the terminal and he's
you know hacking together commands I'm like oh I understand that to where if he was just saying
it it's almost like godly goop because it's so long oh yeah I'm you know that you'll do one of
the apps that is great deal bash strips and it's like yeah I I'll file that away but it's you know
I've I've that truly understand what he's saying I'm gonna have to sit down and do that myself
I haven't talked to him I wonder like how many more people have seen the show now that he's done
video because Skinner drones like completely rebricasting it so I don't know how big their audiences
but I wonder if anybody's kind of picked it up well one phenomenon I I have noticed is that you
know all cast planet was been I wouldn't say dead but a lot more quiet for months and then the
minute claw two gets access to free node and comes back all it's it's far more lively in the last
six weeks I guess I guess it's about the first the year I have to apologize for that because I have
an unfree node in probably long enough that my username is available I just I'm just not at a job
where my feet are up all day waiting for something to do I used to be afraid it's to that outlaw
but now there's not my job anymore you know screw them but I used to just kind of sit there all day
looking for things to do and had so much more time to just sit and chat on free node and mess
around with Linux and listen to podcasts and stuff and you know in the last last couple years
there it was it was not so comfortable and now that I'm a new job where I'm just I'm constantly
busy for four days straight and then in my days off I'm trying to straighten out my private life
that I mean I'm just so overwhelmed right now nothing I'm not enjoying it I'm thoroughly enjoying
having something to do I hate it not having anything to do with that last job they just paid me too
much to leave um but uh yeah so I'm sorry personally for not being there I know I used to be there
and throw the plates off topic very often which may have annoyed some people they may be happy
I'm not there anymore but uh as far as the thing not scrolling by um you know I'm I'm contributing
to the problem so did you and we haven't talked since the last month did you take that job
in the tech shop no I didn't wind up they they I gave them my resume so that I did what they asked
and I never heard back from them so they may not have seen enough of what they were looking for on
there or maybe they just I don't know whatever it was I didn't hear back from them and it's
it's okay because I really like the job that I'm at the job that I'm at seems to like me I've
been called twice now to come work some overtime and as a new by take that as a real complement
and and like I said I really like where I'm at so I don't have a problem with it I I wish
that this department paid as much as the other department because it was a massive pay raise or
would have been but um I'm I'm still quite happy with what I'm actually doing and the people I'm
working with well I guess you're still registered but it because free node won't let me change my
neck the key oh that's cool maybe I should log in again because that'll be enough to reset the
counter I think I'm glad I'm not the only one that thought of trying to steal Pokey's name
fuck you both now you have to now you have to put the explicit tag on oh I said shit earlier and
bitch and twice maybe I'm pretty sure we're gonna have to cut like the last five minutes out of this
oh I know this we're like over three hours just just getting to be uh kernel panic territory
I just assume we should have the explicit tag on as soon as we start I always do I don't think
there's been a single one that didn't have the explicit tag I don't even try not to I know we
were talking about a book that in the first chapter or two oh a vampire woman murders a guy
by bleeding him to death through his penis how how were we not gonna go explicit on this one
two shade by the way what a way to go if I was a lonely dude you know she she picked someone
that no one was gonna miss and you know wearing like 70s polyester borrowed outfit at that um what
a way to go it could definitely be worse I know enough about myself that I'm not gonna fault
that beautiful woman comes up to me and says yeah let's get out of here I'm like uh yeah right
if there are police officers around it's a really good point hey excellent 101 um you've done
anything with that other podcast you were talking about I'm sorry I only got about half that what's
said did you ever get around to do anything with that other podcast you were talking about
not yet I figured I should uh get the audiobook clubs that I have on my drive edited and
published before I start trying to start anything new I have to start a podcast for one of my projects
for school and so that's gonna take some time for me so I was like I didn't know if you were
planning to start it soon but I figured I have to make a podcast and then damn one make it about
what I want to make it about so I should have what kind of awesome school do you go to it they make
you podcast yeah for real dude we have to do like these community engagement projects and basically
like us developing professional development for teachers and so my whole thing is is I'm because
nobody else is doing it I'm gonna do a podcast that's just free and open source ed tech stuff
because there's like a billion ed tech podcast but none of them are specifically about free
and open source stuff so I'm just gonna do like a biweekly thing and throw it out oh so this can't
be the dungeons and dragons thing you were talking about dude I effing wish that would be awesome
can we make that educational in any way oh we can I have we mad we pretend to enjoy it's
one of my classes last year was awesome there's all kinds of math there yeah you got to calculate
the role you know that was telling x 1 1 0 1 earlier that I got a new phone and I got it all set
up too it's got signage and law on it and all kinds of cool shit and it's super fast and giant
screen and all that and I'm going through uh eff droid and just totally nerd gasming on all the
cool stuff in the eff droid market they don't have to go to you know the the ghouls of market for
do you know any dice rolling apps there are that I have to restrict myself from installing because
we're not doing that well and also every one of those dice rolling apps is going to be garbage
because unless it's doing a really good job harvesting random data from your phone's sensors
random random number generators from a computer are always awful I don't need good
random number generation I just need dice man dice number generations random he needs number
generation that's close to 20 that's okay give me 18 you know eight out of 10 times I'm going to be
perfectly happy with that you do have a point there I know that I was doing speccing a pathfinder
character and I use the auto role feature and I'm like oh god those numbers are terrible let me go
get my dice yeah real dice would be very cool too you can go to amazon and get a poundo dice for
like $12 oh no no I have a bag of dice that I've had for probably 20 25 years maybe and I've never
had a reason to use them and then that's that's what I'm using if I need real dice once school slows
down the the hacker public radio d a d campaign is happening that is a that is a done deal it is
going to happen just when I have done did you find an open source alternative to roll 20 or are
we gonna use roll 20 there's actually there's one called map tools which is it runs in Java though
and I forget hey Java there's another one that I just read about the other day that I haven't
even looked at that is another alternative possibly I have heard of several you know role playing
game systems that are you know kind of nothing like dungeons and dragons where if you compare them
to like video games you know dungeons and dragons is just warcraft done manually but there are others
that are more way more collaborative storytelling and those are so interesting to me and I wish I
knew what I was talking about because then I could explain them to you guys well I'm actually running
one of those at like into two more weeks again I've got a it's based on I don't know what the
system's based on but set in the serenity firefly universe and it the whole system is set up around
character development and storytelling and the combat system is complete garbage and I hate it
and I need to spend some time reading it so I can just decide all the reasons why I hate it but
it's very much about the storytelling and it's a lot of fun anyway that that would be the cortex
system that's what that one's based off of my favorite right now is there it's actually open source
which makes it even cooler is fate I love fate because it is it's all collaborative like your
first meeting the everybody who's playing collaboratively builds the world so like everybody buys into
it's it's fantastic um stats are kind of arbitrary in a way and like you have special dice
which makes the randomness even more random and their their mechanics for like if you make a really
shitty role but you you can argue and you get so many like buys so you can convince the GM that you
can get by this one time but then the GM gets to say okay this one time but you know down the line
I'm gonna I'm gonna pull this card back out and say you know what you're gonna take it this time
because I gave it to you last time it's really cool that is kind of neat see the one that I have
heard more about than anything else is the burning wheel system and there's a couple different games
based on it but basically the whole I how did the hell did it go if if the characters in the game
have diverging goals and you know the one character says okay well I need to do this to succeed
and the other says I need to do this to succeed then in a in a older system something inferior
like Dungeons Dragon's that may break up the group is the way that it's been explained to me but
in something like burning wheel you have like a battle of wits type of thing and whoever wins
the battle of wits that's what the whole group goes and does so the group never breaks up and you
continue to stelt to tell the story collaboratively and I may be misunderstanding that but that's
what I got out of the description that's pretty close I mean that's that's very similar to burning
wheel I've not played it I've seen some people play it but I haven't had the chance to do it myself
it was big it was like the hot does like four or five years ago did you just say that burning wheel
was very close to burning wheel because that's what he was talking about he did in fact say that
he teaked he backed me up 100% and I appreciate it and now if you call them out on it you're not
going to be a friend anymore wow wow wow my favorite part about fate right now is so like they have
this just like fate no it's just like they um they have this whole site which basically all it is
is people take other game systems and they they literally call them hacks they hack that game
system to use the fate mechanics so like they're like okay you want to play a vampire the mass grade
well ditch the storyteller system and we're just gonna show you how to convert all of that into
fate so you can play it with the fate system because everybody's so in love with that system
that they're like yeah we'll just steal other games ideas and put it into the fate system
whoa that's kind of like porting MS paint over to Linux I'm all in it's awesome I take it
no this stuff has been poured to electronic version electronic is in you can read it or electronic
because then you can play it as a video game no it's transmitted across the internet while we do
our podcast well I mean so you don't have ever have to have ever been the same room to it that's
what platforms like roll 20 are four is so that everyone can be each be individually have their
paper and pencil and dice and be you know like we are in four separate states and that's the idea
for the hacker public radio dd campaign is that's basically what I want to do is set up something
well poke because he doesn't get to play and let him get some RPG in it because that's
not a life to live without RPG we gotta get his xp up some yeah I'd be into that I never
never could get into it in college I'm gonna drop a bunch of us got together and we went into
the roles character create phase and we then nothing we never never find time to get together
and of course that's probably because we'd rather son on Friday and Saturday nights would
rather hit the bars than play dnd but see there's your problem right there now you just described
how like 89% of all RPGs ever start and end hey let's get together and plan RPG let's roll some
characters never again are those characters touched exactly I actually have one character in my
binder of dead characters that the whole party lasted either one or two sessions somebody played
their character perfectly their character got distracted and got us all killed see now earlier
you know you guys were talking about cards against humanity which I do enjoy poke but I was mad
came they came out with an android version it won't play on my Nexus 7 tablet huh well I'm
I'm glad that you like it I'm glad that people like playing games because I do like playing games
just that one doesn't do it for me and I'm sorry I wish it did same for apples to apples I wish
apples to apples did it for me and it just doesn't playing cards against humanity is really just
playing which one of us is the worst human being at the table exactly it's a game that I can pull
out and play with so like if my gamer friends are over and they brought people who don't play
games it is a game I can draw out and they can all play and everybody instantly gets it so I
have it for that reason I get I get tired of it because it's like I think I've seen every
combination so nothing's funny anymore oh both of those are really good points now it's that I
mean the first the first OCP live that wall won the day by going away from everybody else just for
your reason x11 oh well you know because he was the worst person in the room pig walls always the
worst person in the well 3 30 was there too so man I try to put up a good fight pig walls better
than me in every way all I have to agree there I mean I was too busy I was too busy concentrating
on not freezing because that was the year I left here and it was 90's and I thought no I won't
need a jack and I got out there and it was it was rainy and like 30 40 degrees from the first three
days well guys I gotta run I gotta get up in the morning it's it's past my bedtime yeah I mean
to it's wave has my bedtime and I just sent the email and the Google calendar event so I can go
to bed now well goodnight folks night view our listeners somebody I guess make that email list so
we can talk about who's editing what when we get these out all right I'll pull everybody's emails
off of one of Poke's emails and I'll send you what I have and we'll figure it out from there
Roger that and goodnight friends and listeners and the only reason that's two different groups is
because you listeners haven't come on to be friends yet so listeners come on to be friends and
friends thanks for joining me in this one again and thanks for letting me participate with you guys
because now I feel like one of the cool kids with you guys around
you've been listening to hecka public radio at hecka public radio dot org we are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday today's show like all our shows
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast
and click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is hecka public radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomican computer club and it's part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show please email the host directly leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself unless otherwise stated today's show is
released under creative comments attribution share like three dot org license
we upgraded almost two years year and a half ago and my wife and I both got the same phone
and she's running stock and I'm running say energetic and both of us want to throw out the window
oh really the phone's just that bad that's the droid razor m and it what we bought it
when we bought it it was the 99 cent phone and it'll do it to you every time I almost
bricked it trying to flash it too that's a bummer my last phone there was no roms available for it so
it was running stock android the whole time I had it but at least it was stock android and not
something skinned yeah that's that was the biggest reason I had to get away from it is because
this is a Motorola phone which means you got motor blur crap on it oh my wife's there's one
thing that she has that I kind of wish I had and Motorola made this cool little widget that
actually you can kind of roll it over so it's a circle and you kind of pull down on it it flips over
one of them is a settings button and the other is your unread messages but okay that's that one
thing or really Android yeah Android 5 or signage mod 12 is what I have it has a different way of
doing the notifications and stuff that it used to do like because before if you pulled down
on from the top of the screen you got your notifications and if you pulled down from the very
right hand corner you got like settings and stuff but now if you pull down you get notifications
or if you pull it down quickly and all the way to the bottom you get both or if you pull it down
why should get both it's really kind of neat yeah I'm doing up and I'm doing up the show notes
already I'll shoot you a link carrying a second oh cool I was just trying to find that I get
to make it look like it's I'm stupid some days I have a computer that all I do is the book club
on it so I just go to my history and from there that's cool well it's an old desktop of mine
it's my last generation desktop that we're just sitting in a corner and my main desktop is back to
it's on the other side of the wall for my daughter's dream and as you may have noticed I kind of
have a big voice and we don't have that thick of walls and I'm afraid that talking right into
the wall where she's sleeping might cause her to not be sleeping yeah remember you're saying that
when you're talking about setting it up the it's cool though to have a computer with a dedicated
job oh man this is not installing from afteroid for whatever reason two versions now won't install
I might have to get it from the play store that'd be sad huh again it opens a new window but doesn't
bring me to the link that's not right what you mean the links I'm sending I don't think it's you I
think it's it's either mumble or Firefox Firefox just updated logged in tonight oh speaking of
updating and stuff I got a new toy yesterday who let's hear it I gotta pie to oh nice what do you
gonna do with it uh it's currently sitting up by my tv I'm hope to turn it into a home theater PC
nice very nice I've been thinking about ordering one and doing a uh just emulators nothing but
emulators on it see if I do that I'm gonna go all out and tear apart one of the S's and put it
inside one of those oh that would be neat I just saw a couple of those at an antique store which
is really kind of weird all right that's just fucking weird that there are any S's and Sega Genesis
at the antique stores now I remember when I bought my first one I bought it from like a video game
it was called a video game exchange you know it's a more like a locally owned and historic version
of a game stop but I mean this was eight or ten years ago and they were selling
and NES so it's not like a game stop they sell like the last console and this console
but I'm like 30 bucks which is a pretty good deal and my wife was my girlfriend at the time and
she just asked me for spending that kind of money on something and then she played Mario's Time Man
has never complained since oh man that's great my wife has a uh top loader NES and man you have
not lived until you've run a top loader NES I have one now then you could give me a man
hey man I'm trying to find the kit that I bought from my pie I don't understand it to you
yeah I've been looking at this stuff and I like the if it's just a little too expensive to get
controllers right now and you know there's not enough like USB ports on the things to run all the
controllers that I would need but geez the the PlayStation 3 I think the six axis controller
seems like the perfect controller for most every game the the only games that it really wouldn't
be very good at at doing would be like the N64 games because they had such a weird unique controller
yeah I was just thinking game cube is the same way the controller there was weird
but not as weird as the N64 now the game cube is the only system that I've never played
that I actually regret not owning because there were I mean I waited for freaking years for Metroid
and I gave up on Nintendo and as soon as I did oh here's game cube it's uh there you have three
Metroids the fuck you're really dropping in and out tonight oh that was me being quikes and
wanting to yell what the fuck with my daughter upstairs anyway the link I sent you is what I got
but I got it from Amazon for like 15 bucks less than that what like the case that's really neat
and see I don't um actually I have a picture on my phone I'll send to you right now
I while I was setting it up last night I had my I have a pi version one uh the original model
B and then the new model B sitting side by side and actually like my old case better
but this is the one that was in the kit and I wanted all the other things in the kit so I bought
the kit does this thing have four USB ports on it I can't see the back of it those look like
double USB ports yep WSB's oh that is bitching okay and it comes okay so what's in the kit
here you get a eight gigabyte card you get a HDMI cable what's the little USB plug in is it
Bluetooth Wi-Fi oh okay Wi-Fi over over USB okay a power adapter what's the yellow box it's just
the box it all comes in I think that's the box the power supply comes in so it's the it's the pie
itself the case HDMI Wi-Fi microcard sorry this is to say so everything you need to get it up and
going did you have you taken possession of this yet is it arrived it is sitting by my TV oh that's
awesome yeah I put a post a picture of it in our show notes that it'd be great and I just um
I'm texting you a picture of the two of them together my two pies cool the um and is it
is that a heat sink does that come with it too or is that that's yeah I had two of them actually
one for each of the two little CPUs that are on it oh wow I really like this thing as I'm not a fan
of the clear case but I am a big fan of the new form factor plus the other big advantage of the
original model bees that they made is the original bees had a a push pull card slot so you
could push the card in and just pull it out this thing's got spring loaded one yeah they call it a
push push the old the latest model be actually the upgrade be SD slot to a push push and this is a
micro slot that's got a push push and I like that better yeah I do too I really like those you
know what else I like about this one and I don't recall if because I have a old pie and I've never
done anything with it because I'm a loser um but I like that this one has four screw holes in it
and they're evenly spaced I don't think the old one had that um I remember Jezera bitching a lot
about the mounting hole so I'm guessing it they're probably not good whatever they were
actually mine's like I said I've never done anything with it so it's sitting here next to me
I can look the only I did with mine was I run like an Apache server so I can test web this website
builds and I store my gig my some code on it and occasionally I launch my UP and P server off
from there that's cool yeah this yep the old one has zero mounting holes you've got to kind of
grab it from the side well but the case I have for the old one which you'll see in the picture
I sent you the green one it's it's the same kind of two-part clamshell thing not a clamshell it
doesn't open and closes just a two-piece case but it does sit together pretty well that's cool no
I actually am not using the wireless card that came in the kit um on my new B I'm using it on my
old B and I have a smaller one because that one's probably an inch and a half or two inches long
and I've got one that's the real small form factor USB where it's the port and then like
a six and eight or a sixteenth of an inch of stuff and that's it yeah with the tiny little
rim I have I have a couple of Bluetooth ones that are that size I didn't know they had Wi-Fi
down to that size yeah they do um I'm actually then my next purchase is going to be for this is
going to be Bluetooth card and something like something like that probably necessarily that one
but something similar cool hey Taj what's up man evening guys I have a new kit new pro not kits
excuse me a new project on the horizon my buddy is convinced that he needs a Wi-Fi extender so
I have to figure out how to purchase one that works universally or or build one that works how far
is the one to extend it the router is like 13 feet away it's it's it's his mobile home that he
stays in in the summer on the beach and he takes it from his neighbor's Wi-Fi which you know he
gives his neighbor a few bucks every month to do that but he's convinced that his wife's laptop
is not going to work as well because one of the antennas went bad and it was given us fits trying
to figure out the hell was going on and I finally disconnected one of the antennas and uh and it
it came back to life but the reception is not quite as good and he's convinced it's not going to work
and he wants to have something ready to go before he gets there so does he want a repeater or something
that you can hook up wired to it or how does he want to do it the wireless he wants a repeater and
it's basically going to plug into the wall behind the couch where she sits to use her computer
wow yeah I know and fortunately my my WRT 54GL just completely crap the bed at least the
the the WAN port did over this past weekend so at least now I have a box I can play with it may work
as a wireless repeater now I'm still running a GL I bought almost seven years ago and it I've
had one issue with it about two years ago I went to work and it was fine and I came home one day
and it didn't work and I went in hardwired into it was fine futs through the whole bunch of settings
and I did a backup of it you know I wiped it out restored the backup and nothing still worked
so I went through and I put all the settings that I wanted back in and then it worked fine
that's strange yeah mine I've had it for probably that long too I think I did in fact more than
I think I bought it in 2007 because I I needed a Wi-Fi bridge I need something I could plug into
that would that would take Wi-Fi out of the air because I couldn't get cards to work with Linux back
then so I I used the router for that and then when I got my own place I turned it around and it was
my router so that thing's been running solid since 2007 and fortunately I found one in the trash
a few months ago that I just saw it lying there and I grabbed it and took it home and it's been
sitting in a drawer and I went to plug it in this weekend and the power supply was dead but the power
supply from my old one works fine so it was backup and running in fairly short order with tomato on
how do I sound guys I sound horrible on kpo the other night a little choppy but you're not terrible
okay I for some reason let uh try plumble on the phone last week in
Delan's testing booth and it was well known as it was Friday last Friday night
they told me I was breaking up and I tried to the next day in Delan's testing booth and it was
there it was just you'd understand everybody every third's syllable was just cutting in and out
and so I put them on the tablet if it worked any better and it was the same way so I don't know if
there's been a protocol change or whatever and just today I had my phone I was using my phone
I can't get the Wi-Fi to stay connected on it so I'm not down to the laptop right now
yeah you do sound choppy it's it's there's definitely some heart affecting there
am I coming in too hot I can turn that I can turn the game down some
no volume is is perfect for more I'm sitting yeah you sound good just as we said choppy it's
like it's struggling to keep up yeah just keep the windedness less long than normal because if
you cut out in the middle that really throws us off so you know just limit the the duration
yeah that'll be I didn't much like this book anyway so that'll be
don't talk about it yet but oh and that's the other thing x1101 when the Wi-Fi went out on me
when the router went out I thought it was my modem because we have a DSL modem and it's got to be
in like bridge mode to work and everything appeared to be working and I forgot about bridge
mode so when I plugged into it directly with a computer I still had no internet because of course
the computer is not doing all of the the PPOE stuff that needs to be done and I have just
fighting and fighting and fighting with it and my new phone that my buddy gave me with with
Synergy mod 12 on it I was able to put it into hotspot mode and my wife was able to get her work
done earning money while I screwed around with routers and that was awesome I've never done that
before yeah that's one of the beauties of Synergy is if you leave the stock rom on there
arises in one to charge you a bunch of money to turn that that you're on or you spend about an
hour flashing a custom rom on it and the rom just says hey you want me to be a hotspot because I can
be a hotspot oh I know I even went out to the google play store to find like a Wi-Fi hotspot app
and the phone was like are you kidding it's built in you know that right you just pull down the
top and turn it on it's right there yeah I've been doing that since um I think since my first
Android phone I had an original droid and it could do that uh after I rooted it and installed
cyanogen yeah the phone that I used to have that brome gave me I think it was a HTC magic I could do
it with um with usb tether I did it with usb tether but that thing only had 3g and my area wasn't
you know saturated with 3g at the time so excuse me so it was very slow when I did do it and I
never got Wi-Fi working on it because it wasn't rooted and I didn't know how to root it at the time
I think I think it's probably much the same as what you do with it now but I had no idea um so yeah
just but this thing has LTE on it so it was flying I did a speed test and I got I think I got
like six megabytes down and seven and a half up I've never seen anything like that um most I've
ever seen up was like one and a half through my wired connection but then when I asked my wife about
it later she said no it was really slow so maybe that's just like a burst of speed LTE around here
is really odd I actually had to turn mine back force it to downgrade to 3g because at my desk
at work it'll show you know three bars of LTE and I can't do anything I can't pull up web pages or
you know do anything and then I switched to 3g and it's quick quick quick quick quick quick so I only
turn on LTE when I go somewhere I know that has it and has a good signal because otherwise
it's just showing up battery oh this is strange yeah well I didn't really live with the 3g is terrible
like to get anything you have to have 4g like if you're on 3g you might as well just not have the
internet this hand I work in a building that was built in the 40s so oh and you know what else I
did that was pretty nerdy I bought a new board game oh do tell I haven't played it so there's
not much to tell but I bought Carcassone never heard of it oh really yeah that's like my number
two beginner cool board game game my board game geekery is still in its early stages
yeah mine graduate from settlers up the Carcassone yeah is that is it right to
graduate from settlers to Carcassone because the rules of Carcassone are way simpler it almost seems
like you could start with that one and graduate to settlers but I don't know if it would hook you
in as much as settlers does my whole family is addicted to settlers yeah people love when we
bring that one by if we can you know set it up and have time and space to play but I've got settlers
and munchkin and a good friend of ours has cards against humanity and that's always a good time
see I've never liked cards against humanity it's not my game I just never liked apples to apples
either and it's the same game but I wanted to get jungle speed but the guy said he hasn't seen
it in three years he's not in store in years like you kidding me that game is fantastic that was the
one that um oh should we play did it one of the one of the linux fest the northeast linux fest
murphy and j brought that one up it was awesome we had like just eight or ten people sitting
around the table playing it was fantastic blood flying everywhere yeah murphy brought that
though if you live last year that was that was great glad glad you remember the thing because I was
sick of that game but I couldn't like the name I've also got Arkham horror I've had it for over a
year and all I've done is take it out of the box and punch the pieces out because it took me an
hour to read the rules yeah and you need like five other dedicated people to play I wanted to play
that one too you can totally play Arkham horror so solitaire there's there's rules for that I don't
know if I would want to but you can another game to like somebody brought over to my house two
it's been longer than two weeks ago I thought I'd have zero interest in it was a game called splendor
oh my god it's like it's like the most fun game you can play it has like almost no rules and it is
it's quick and it's easy and I mean you can teach anybody to play it really fast but it's really
competitive and there's a lot of strategy and it's a lot of fun that sounds cool the one I really
had a hard time not buying because I've heard really good things about it and they had it there
is a game called hive and that game sounds incredible and I just it was all I could do not
to buy that game at the same time buddy of mine's coming over this weekend and he's going to bring
over a game called a android netrunner and oh bitch and netrunner's supposed to be awesome it is
fantastic that is that is what I hear but the other thing I've heard about it is once you play netrunner
it's the only game you care about from that point on he asked me one day he's like have you heard
heard the gospel of netrunner I remember playing it way back like god probably like the mid 90s when
it first came out uh sure is worth it no so like the origin of it was Richard Garfield came out with
magic you know hit the big time um and so his next game was netrunner um and wait wait this is from
one of the guys who did magic I'm already gonna love it and so like he did this and it like it
always had like this hardcore dedicated set of fans but like nobody played it because well the art
was kind of shit on the cards and oh okay it's it's really complicated like it's a hard game to
get into um but once you do I mean it is so much fun I mean because the different like if it's
two players the two sides play two different uh like entities like you have the hacker on one side
you have the corporation on the other and so like two different objectives right so while you're
trying to hack servers the corporation is throwing like I sit you and like trying to throw it
firewalls it's so much fun have you played dominion no everybody has and it's just one of those I'm
not deck building is not my thing I've never been into deck building games that much well this
to think about dominion it's all of deck building games without the deck building that I might be
into yeah that's why I sounded like I wanted to try it too because everything I've ever heard about
deck building games made me not want to play a deck building game but dominion just comes with
the set of cards you can buy expansions if you want to but you don't like go home and buy cards on
eBay to like power up you just the deck that comes with it is what you use yeah I was that kid for
a long time I spent so much money buying magic cards me too bro me too the guys on geek nights
referred to magic to gathering as money the wasting oh yeah and it got to a point where I
stopped playing because they started changing the rules and it was really money the wasting because
it would they were changing the rules and just print they were just printing money or they'd come
out and like I know the comic book store I still go there occasionally it's not my main comic
book store but it's the one that was by where I went to middle school in high school so I could walk
there like there are still people there that I used to hang out with that are like professional
magic players like that's what they do for a living which is bonkers but like it got to the point
where they were you had to buy the newest set every time it came out to even be competitive to even
play with the people who were there and so it's just like it stopped me in fun so I just quit and it
was money the wasting thing and I mean I still have some decks and some cards sitting around and I
used to have a group of guys that I would get together with and it was very there weren't really any
band or restricted cards so it was just whatever cards you had and we had I had people who've been
playing since they started printing a alpha and so you get some of the most ridiculous and over
of Howard Dex from the history of ever against the crap I could scrape together a couple miles
about a few months ago I was helping with the marching band at the high school that's part the
high school that are middle school dumps into and the kids were sitting at play a magic and I was
just like oh in marching band sitting on the floor play a magic waiting for rehearsal I mean like
that throws me back that was totally my life yep guilty you talk about like power deck versus
scrounge together scrub deck that reminds me of anyone I know playing grand tourism against my
friend Jeff he has all the nice Chinese it doesn't matter he could give him any car whatsoever and
you could be in any car whatsoever and he would lap you by the end of lap three he was just that much
better than everyone I know I can't do racing video games I just I don't know I don't particularly
like driving to begin with so I guess doing it is a game probably doesn't help OC I love driving
I was actually pretty good at grand turismo and less Jeff was around the only racing games I'm
interested in in a Mario car he still loves 64 Mario 64 never played any other ones except for
like super Mario Kart but that wasn't that good my sister and I just busted out the Wii version
for a couple of hours last weekend good times I mentioned n64 so it's obligatory I have to mention
that if anyone still has an n64 and four controllers and three friends who will play with you
you have to get bomber man and play four player I don't think I have three friends that will play
with me that all that all live close enough to get here yet bring it to the next Linux fest because
I'll play bomber man until the sun comes up and sets again and comes up again that that would
mean that someone has to have another Linux fest yes true that's true well there's Libra
planning but I don't know it's it doesn't I don't know it doesn't feel like it is the same vibe
as do realize this weekend as a Libra plant will be the first annual Kansas Linux Fest in
Lawrence Kansas huh I wonder how many hundreds of dozens of miles away that is it sounds cool
and I'm a speaker so you can see how desperate they are for entertainment but
which which your topic is going to be how to get your sorry but on a source podcast
well you just have to have the server address right for mumble hang on on our cast planet
pretty much that that's part of that's good that's going to be one of the things I'm going to say
good go on on cast planet and get your hand on it so people know who the heck you are you know step one
install IRC client step two install mumble step three profit nice cards against the minute
year events yeah I'm going to have to shovel a bunch of stuff in there start with my beginning
Linux and all that to make it through an hour but I'll be talking to the crickets anyway the
other two tracks both are both they're dealing with the database server issues cloudy cloud cloud cloud
cloud but but but but but but that plug in is my favorite plug in ever I'm particularly sad that
northeast Linux Fest didn't pull together again this year because this was the year I was
finally going to submit a talk you mean I would have had a reason to go to a talk I wouldn't go
that far but I was I was going to submit one and I'm fairly certain it would have been accepted
because they never seem to turn anyone away well I mean I could at least gone heckle you
I think we're going to try to badger or D and bring it back into the
Atlanta Linux Fest because I never got to go and it pisses me off I was I was trying to think
for a second x1 101 that you could be I like uh shit what's I can't think like I name oh you
could be my that guy to to my Bradley coon what the hell's that guy's name it's always they're
badgering each other all the time Fontana yeah you could be my Richard Fontana to to my Bradley coon
I'm honored I don't think I'm nearly that smart okay you could be my Bradley coon to my
Richard Fontana no that's not gonna work you they're both wicked smart and I don't know I
haven't talked with Richard much but I talk I hung out in the various channels Bradley was
always in for quite a while and he seems like a pretty chill dude well no no not chill at all but
very cool yeah I like Bradley a lot I invited him to go go karting with us one time but he declined
it was very sad he probably be trying to disassemble the firmware on the go kart while you were
driving anyway it's entirely possible they did have telemetry soon for gpl violations oh my god
did you see that somebody's going after vmware for violating gpl v2 on Linux yes it's awesome
no I'm a v I'm a vmware user every day and I think it's amazing huh well good I mean it's one
of the things that's my job I help administer the vmware farm and I think it's amazing that
somebody's going to be kicking them the pants excellent your jobs get easier if they win
there are tons of companies out there that are just blatantly not doing what they're supposed
to do with the gpl it's just nobody's ever gone after somebody is how big is this I think before
it is you know they could be a huge impact if it actually happens
my only concern is vmware is basically printing money yeah I have a friend that works at Cisco
and he he went and did an interview with whoever I forget who owns vm whatever the company is
that owns them he is something like that it was it was like oh I don't know who that is and he's
like oh yeah they make vmware I was like oh yeah okay but um basically he was like I was
interviewing them because he really likes his job at Cisco and he was like so what do you think
about Docker containerization and stuff and he was like they were pretty much shitting themselves
at my interview it was awesome but I I must say though x101 be careful because there's absolutely
nothing wrong with printing money with free software in fact it's encouraged it's tread lightly
on that one well I would be okay with them printing money if they were following the gpl yeah
they got to be printing code too that's the problem no my concern with them the fact that they're
printing money is they're printing money so they can just throw it all at the legal defense
to make it go away that was my concern with them printing money oh that's not good yeah but I mean
the gpl is pretty clear like yes you can throw money at some things but it'll be a settlement it'll
never see court because I mean they're pretty much caught yeah yeah I know and I I listen to the
freezing freedom all the time and I always you know I don't get the impression that that Bradley
and Karen want to see these things go to you know go to trial and go to conclusion that way because
you never know how it's gonna come out in court and from all the times I've been in court
over child support I agree with that does not matter how right you are it may not go your way
but damn I'd love to see a ruling say that one of these things was was you know certain
and in our favor you know but there's no guarantee in that well not just that if you end up in court
and you end up fighting like that there's no there's a good chance that that company that you're
fighting with will not become a good long-term member of the community and that's really what they
want yeah they be that too they being the development community that's pursuing this action
that they don't want to cause trouble they just want your code yeah they being all of us frankly
yeah they being us I'm gonna speak for every person on earth here and just say that yeah that's
what we really want is them to share the code I know I really kind of want them to start some shit
I can start a fight I think that would be fun you're wrong I've already spoken for you
but okay anyway is any more nerdy awesome stuff to talk about or do we have enough post-show
oh I'm sure one of we'll be able to find some good takeouts from there anybody else do anything
awesome and nerdy in the past month more than linear knee-moin oh shit yeah dude that was
rough that's not that's not awesome at all yeah I didn't hear until like three days or so later
and I was like wait what who the what oh it was one of the times where I was like very very rarely
do I regret not owning a television and not listening to the radio and stuff but that's the
kind of news that I would have liked to have had a few more minutes to think about you know
and it just it was very sad so at my school there's like three big Trekkies I'm one of them
and then one of the science teachers is one and then the social studies teachers and my office
is like smack dab in the middle of the building and so like our building is open format so like
I'm actually one of the only people who has them office with walls in the door and so the social
studies teacher runs into my office and I've got kids in my office because my office is huge it's
the work room and has all the tech stuff so I've got kids in my office right and he comes in uh
just bust in the door he's like do you hear about linear knee-moin and he he's always a joker and
I'm like what he he died right and he looks at me he's like yes and I was like you're shitting me
and that turn around I'm like I got like three kids in this room this sucks and all the kids look at
me and they're like it's all good it's linear knee-moin man yeah that the only upside and it's a very
small one is all the pictures of the Canadian five dollar bills that was glorious okay someone has
to send me a link because I have no idea what you're talking about you don't need to be sent a link
just google spock five dollar spock or five dollar knee-moin but dude well you wouldn't think so
until you see the ears and the sideburns drawn on but the dude is the spitting image of Leonard
Neemoy holy shit yes now if you see one that has not been written on it's incredible how unlike
Leonard Neemoy he looks oh man there here's a one that shows up before and after and I see what
you mean he's got like 80 pounds on Leonard Neemoy but you put the the cool sideburns and
ears on and it's the same guy it's incredible and the bangs you've got to have the Vulcan bangs
yeah thanks sorry I mean it hit me hard when I first heard about it but nothing hit me as hard as
like I guess it was the next day I saw the picture from the space station or just somebody holding
up the hand to the window and I was like oh god damn it really like that was rough I was very very
close to taking a trip into Boston to go to the Omni theater just to hear him do that because he
that was like the first I think it was the first Omni theater and but the whole beginning of it
the whole sound check that they do and like check and system check and everything is Leonard Neemoy
voiceover and it's fantastic he was the man that's for sure yeah he was amen wow I don't think we
should talk about anything else as a perfect way to end the post show we can leave it at that
so if you guys don't mind I'm gonna take a quick restroom break and grab my beverage
sound like a good plan on that five dollar bills that guy it looks like professor snake the original
picture is that another one that's been handed didn't to be honest I haven't even seen the original
I'm gonna google it no okay the professor snake one is obviously another one that's been
doodled over it's funny I see that that Canadian five dollar bill everywhere for like two days and
the day that I actually want to google it and find it I'm like coming up short what it's up with that
I was looking for the bill I'm surprised you guys didn't mention and we almost lost Harrison food
isn't it like the second time he's been in an accident like that like it's a certain point
shouldn't we just say hey um you know Hansello let's let let maybe you should back off the
flying for a little bit although all the memes of like the Millennium Falcon crashed on a golf course
where hell he is but I did chuckle at all of those I see what happened here they say you turn
back towards the airport that's one thing now I'm not pilot but that's something dad drummed
into me a favor became a pilot is if you lose power you pick a flat space out in front of you you try
to turn my understanding was this is he dodged a bunch of stuff so it was at least skillfully
crashing so I guess if you can call it that um he did what he could but yeah I don't know if
turn it back is the thing you should have done or not okay back it's on mine touch 50 you guys here
yep yes okay cool is everybody ready then let's do it all right anybody want to lead this one off
don't knock each other off the stage running for the microphone but Pokey that's your job
oh I don't know I like hearing other people too you got that the whole spiel down you
you get at it it's smooth it feels natural it's just that's the way to go well x10 x1101 did it last
time it sounded great uh two times ago I think it's been two it's been too long since I read
I read the right or listen to it right after the podcast so it's been a little long for me to do
