Episode: 3146
Title: HPR3146: Help Me Help you with HPR eps!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3146/hpr3146.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:46:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3146 for Monday the 24th of August 2020. Today's show is entitled,
Help Me Help You With HPR EPS. It is hosted by Operator
and is about six minutes long, and carries a clean flag. The summary is,
What Should I Do and How Should I Do It?
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello everyone and welcome to the episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host operator.
So I rambled on for quite some time and then I decided to stop and re-record.
And as I was talking out my thoughts, I decided that I'm not going to be rambling.
So anyways, this is about a bunch of shows I have anywhere from like one, three, up to 17, 30, 40 minute shows.
I've got about 60 minutes of content and about 22 different things. A lot of them remember my quick tips.
So my question you guys is, you know, can I just dump these somewhere?
They really stand on their own where there are show notes.
I can't add them in, but should I continue to?
Should I continue to upload my, you know, 15 minute chunk episodes with several quick tips in them?
Or should I just upload them one to one?
And also, if you guys can find me a library that does voice recognition, I can code that up and, you know, get a 50% the way there with automated tagging of episodes.
And I don't know why this hasn't come up before, but automation, automation, automation.
If I can help you, you guys with anything, I heard the you dev friend folks talking about automation.
Feel free to reach out to me. I can, you know, team up with them or team up with you guys and do, you know, evaluate some of these libraries for voice recognition.
And I can script it. I will do all the scripting if you guys find a good library to do this kind of automated tagging.
I'll write the scripting to kind of pull out the keywords that might be relevant to the, to the HPR.
So that's one option. My other question is, is there an easier way for me to dump all these on you guys?
I think I contacted admin and on Twitter and they may have contacted me back, but I'm just, you know, there's 17 different layers of communication and, you know, school is about to spin up here.
So I've kind of been running around circles doing other work and getting ready for school and my might have missed their email or whatever.
I've got a bunch of stuff I need to offload. I can combine it together.
And I was just wondering, you know, if there's a place I can dump it and it goes into an automatic queue, like the emergency bin or whatever.
That's fine too. But if it's better for me to just either combine them all together or make them one off, you know, I'd be open for all the suggestions of what to do.
I do have a bunch of lawn mower, electricity, weed eater, grilling, I think about grilling and, um, the bank chains.
Ways and Android, guest macOS, virtual box free macOS virtual box, Amazon, backups, stress, Christmas tree lights, guerrilla glue, fiberglass, coffee, espresso,
clovers, propane, movie, movie lists, subsonic, which is a music player, rufus for booting, standing water.
I guess that's for bugs, mint.com, which is a phone phone, phone provider, or no, vent.com cable and phone alerts, which actually don't work.
Um, that's meant mobile, or not meant mobile, but meant, uh, from into it, the, uh, hailing package or cloud-based accounting software.
Um, bridge to call. I don't remember what that means. And, uh, Bluetooth complete. Um, I think I've uploaded that one already and soap, which I don't know what I guess I talk about soap.
I don't know. Anyways, um, some other ideas, some other show topics, um, PDF editing, audio cables, persistent booting, um, washi, uh, media, auto builder.
Um, that's like a ffintech builder, um, battery date labels, some of these are all, all these are quick tips.
Uh, water alarm, um, median Excel, which is a Diablo 2 mod, uh, torque, ODB 2 sensors, um, cat feeders, um, ponies themes, um, that's for Windows themes bugs.
Uh, I think I talked about bugs already, um, tensing in it, chainsaws, power shell, mute mic, um, somebody actually did an episode on creating a, a, um, software-based, um, muting button.
And so instead of having platform independent mute keys, you just have one mute key that will mute that device, which I thought was, here they're actually pretty cool idea.
Um, so that way no matter what app you're in, it's always the same key to, uh, mute.
Um, Bricklink, which is a Lego third party Lego thingy, um, IT stories about kind of getting in trouble and how I've handled those over the years because I'm old, um, mouse,
mouse shoulder and chairs, posture, that type of stuff, um, sitting right, uh, Flick's metrics, which is I used for the movie, um, movie stuff, which, uh, in my head of art, I had an episode about.
So anyways, um, that's some of the topics I write down. If I'm doing something or doing something new or learning something, I'll, uh, use to do to add a custom task.
To remind me to potentially talk about doing an episode on whatever that is.
Anyways, um, let me know where to offload all these, uh, maybe in the comments or contact me directly at F-R-E-E-L-O-A-D-101 at gmail.com.
That's free load 101 at gmail.com, um, or go to my site or whatever, um, pretty much, uh, HPR comments, I won't really see unless I'm listening to them.
And, um, that's pretty much it. Appreciate it. Thanks, guys.
You've been listening to HECCA Public Radio at HECCA Public Radio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
HECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club, and is part of the binary revolution at gmail.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
