Episode: 3135
Title: HPR3135: Quick Tips for May 20 20
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3135/hpr3135.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:34:04

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3135 for Friday 7 August 2020. Today's show is entitled
Quick Tips for May 20, 20. It is hosted by Operator
and is about 16 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
Bluetooth, Car Seats, Tweezers, Waffles.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honest Host.com.
Music
Hello, welcome to another quick tip.
This one's going to be about a thing called mono mono BT audio router.
It's a Bluetooth mono audio router for cars that do not have stereo Bluetooth.
So some background from what I understand Bluetooth was for
was originally designed for just phone quality audio.
I don't know why anyone would ever go through all the trouble to create a wireless protocol
that doesn't support audio or high-end HD audio.
So why would you go through the spec of trying to create...
I mean this was years ago, I understand that, but we had wireless technology back then
before we had Bluetooth.
So why create another wireless protocol that you know was going to end up in cars?
Maybe that was not the original intention, but why create a wireless protocol for audio?
And it not be carry HD and maybe it's at the timing or the technology wasn't there yet?
I just think it's kind of a waste of time.
So what we end up with is a mono or a low-quality bass Bluetooth
and that's originally what I was created for.
Then people started getting all into the whole Bluetooth thing.
Now we have what we have today is Bluetooth and car audio.
And what people don't realize is the car quality of Bluetooth is pretty crappy.
You're not going to get flat quality out of a Bluetooth connection.
Now with that said, most cars have not the best of audio quality either,
you'd be surprised. Now it is, you know, a lot of cars come with pretty good stereo systems.
Maybe they don't have the lows that you would need or the highs that you would need,
but the actual quality of some of these just run-of-the-mill audio in these cars is actually pretty decent.
I wouldn't consider myself an audio file, but I can tell the difference between some thrown together foam speakers
as a pair to, you know, some nice rubber-based whatever speakers.
And people are, you know, getting better audio in their cars by default without having to pay for premium audio packages.
Well, myself have not paid for that.
And I got a base Q40, 2015.
And this car does not have all the auxiliary input.
It does, but you actually have the solder cables to the head unit.
It does not have Bluetooth audio. That's part of the premium audio package.
And the USB is actually only supports old versions of Android,
and basically the Apple, the Apple iTunes protocol or whatever it uses.
I have plugged numerous Android devices into this 2015 Infinity,
and they do not work with multiple applications, and it just says whatever.
Now storage devices, you can put a bunch of stuff on a storage device and get there.
So my problem was that I wanted to obviously play other music other than what was on my storage device.
I had an 8GB stick that I would just run a script to throw random music on here,
and it would get old after a while.
And sometimes I wanted to play a specific song or whatever.
So I started looking around for audio of things, and it just rabbit hole, rabbit hole, rabbit hole.
And then eventually I found this called WireLink thing, which I may have done an episode on it, but I don't think I have.
It's called WireLink W-I-R-E-L-I-N-Q.
I think WireLink.
In a quarter mile, your destination will be on the right.
So what it is is basically a fucking,
trying to make your Android device look like an Apple device.
And it will do some song titles and things like that.
It's a little quirky.
I'll be honest with you, it comes and goes.
And it takes really a dedicated Android device to keep it pretty consistent.
I had inconsistencies when I unplug it, plug it back in, and plug it in, and plug it in, plug it, plug it back in.
So I ended up using any actual, my old phone here that I just created as a audio device, and I leave it plugged in all the time.
So I have two Android devices on me at any given time.
But anyways, there is this Bluetooth Mono Mono thing, which is basically will take Bluetooth audio and pipe it out like a phone call and pipe it out to the audio server.
So you end up with this, trying to park here.
You end up with a cool looking, or a cool sounding Bluetooth audio thing, JIT deal.
Only supposed to park here.
So it does obviously sound pretty bad.
The sound quality is bad, but it gives you that Bluetooth audio easy to manage and sync.
It's pretty consistent, and it works for Android, and it's pretty good.
So between the wire link for music and stuff like that, I'll share my wireless on my phone to download new content to the old phone that's always plugged in.
I'll do that.
And between that and the Bluetooth, I'll listen to my podcast with the Bluetooth Mono Mono.
Between those two things, I can get all the audio I need out of my car.
It's a little awkward. I mean, I've got cables coming out the wazoo.
I got three cables sticking out of my three cables sticking out, including my camera, my dash cam, my my high dad.
That's what you do when you're in a rental car that has, you know, no Bluetooth.
You can use Mono Mono, connect your phone, and then you can have the luxury of at least having some low quality audio go through the, through the device.
Anyways, hope to help somebody out.
It helped me out, and if you Google Q40 crap audio, I'll actually be the first post on the internet for trying to get all that to work.
Anyways, hope that helps you out, and have a good one.
This is operator with another quick tip.
We have a great co-child seat, and has this little great button.
So the hardest part of the old of this is putting in and taking out a car seat.
And what I found is that when you press the little button, it's actually hard to get in or out, and it's, you know, you try to feed it in and it won't go.
But what I did find out is that if you push the button in, push the button, and then let it out, push it in, let it out, it'll give you a little bit of feed each time as you pull on it.
So pull it to give it slack, push the button down as hard as you can, pull it to give it slack, and then let go, and it'll give you, it kind of pushes a little bit more.
And then eventually it gets to the point where you can just pull and get some slack.
So apparently that's the way I was supposed to be having been doing it this whole time.
Before I was taking the slack and pushing it in manually with my fingers, and then hoping that that would be giving me enough slack to push the button down and pull.
But apparently if you push it down, pull into pret, and then let it go, it'll kind of jump, jump start it a little bit as you keep going.
So all you have to do is basically pull and push the button and keep pulling and push the button and keep pulling and push the button until it starts feeding out.
I guess I got to watch videos online to figure that out. But anyways, the trick is to pretend like you don't have any other time makes that all the time in the world to take in or out of car seat and you won't lose your mind.
Hello, this is another operator quick tip.
What I'd like to talk about is tweezers. So I have a bunch of tweezers over time. I've gotten good ones, bad ones, ugly ones.
And they require a fair amount of work to keep noodles utilized and sharpened.
And when I say sharpened, it might not necessarily be actually sharp.
So sometimes you'll have a flat surfaced tweezers. A lot of those you'll see the crappy ones. They'll be flat surfaced and very shiny and then the ends will be round.
And you can actually file these down with a journal tool or if you have all day a piece of sandpaper and you can file them down to a point, either a chisel point, for example, or a pointed point, a needle, the kind of arrow type of point.
And you can use those. Well, now what you really want to do is start off with a good pair of tweezers with some good steel and understand how these things work.
Generally speaking, it's it's a tension based two pieces of metal. And at the very end, there is a flat surface that is supposed to be when you press it together, it's supposed to be flat.
Now what happens over time or if you try to open a can of beer with your tweezers or do something what you're not supposed to do with them, they will bend because of the quality of metal is garbage.
And I have been looking for quality tweezers and I haven't found anywhere. There might be some kind of titanium tweezers somewhere that I need to look around for.
But we got a bunch of tweezers and I've had to work on most of them.
First started out taking the drumlet to them and that is far too extreme.
The amount of amount of stuff that needs to come off to sharpen tweezers or get them in the right angle is not a lot unless you're actually trying to sharpen them to a point or a chisel point.
You don't need a drumlet. So take that off the list first. You want to take some super fine grit sandpaper and just enough to over time when you use them, they will the surface, the flat surface at the end will smooth will get smooth.
And all you're doing with the sandpaper is that you're making that flat surface not smooth anymore.
And that's the first point. The first part is getting that surface to not be smooth anymore and have it so that it can grab on to whatever you're pulling, be it hair or a chunk of skin or a piece of scab or God forbid something other disgusting part of the body or whatever.
And I also use them for other applications when I'm trying to lay on stickers or put on decals and things like that.
But what you want is that surface not to be smooth. So you want to use a little bit of sandpaper. You might have to do each side individually or you can squeeze the tweezers together and do it that way.
And so you squeeze the tweezers together between the sandpaper, do a couple of runs, flip it over, squeeze it, do a couple of runs.
Now doing all this is easy. The hard part is getting the flat surface aligned with the point, the very tip point of the actual tweezers.
So what ends up happening a lot of time is people will squeeze the tweezers too hard. That will bend the metal.
And then when you squeeze the tweezers together, they will actually flex apart. So when you squeeze them at the end, it will be there will be a gap at the end.
And in the middle, hopefully somewhere there actually will actually be together. They'll be the contact and then it'll bow out.
So what you end up having to do is use needle nose.
You want to use needle nose pliers to very ever so slightly bend the tip of each side of the tweezers until the very tip is the part that comes in contact.
So when you squeeze it, it doesn't bow out and start separating.
And that takes a lot of time to do. And the only way I've been able to be able to do it is get like a, you get a nice one of those light based magnifying glasses or you just get a regular magnifying glass and hold up to the light and squeeze the tweezers together.
When you see that separation, you know that you need to work on it at the tip. When you see that separation at the tip, you know you need to work on it.
So, so you squeeze it, you tilt it back and forth to see if you can see through the tip of the tweezers and you know that you need to do some work on it.
And you keep bending and twisting and bending and sometimes it's they're just crappy tweezers and I can't get them to be decent tweezers.
These are the better ones that are more solid steel and I feel like that don't just kind of just kind of disintegrate for whatever metal they're made out of.
They'll stay together longer and you can put more stress, you can put more stress on them, the kind of the better the quality of the, I guess the metal and the crafting of it.
They're all kind of garbage.
And it takes a fair amount of time and I'm still not good at it and there's still some that I have some tweezers that I cannot get to pick up here or anything.
Just for whatever reason. The best way to actually test is if you have something that has very thin hair pet or maybe you have a piece of a shirt that has very thin hair.
Or a very thin something with very thin fibers like a fluffy jacket or a fuzz or something piece of fuzz.
That is what you want the tweezers to test on now because the human hair is thicker right.
And as as you work on it, it'll it's going to catch that human hair pretty easily, but what it's not going to catch is the hair that's very thin.
The hair that you can't see, you know, for example, on the ear like buzz hair ear your hair buzz.
So you want to test your tweezers, you actually want very thin, very thin fibers fibers to test with.
So that way when you do hit something bigger like a hair or whatever, you can you can pull it out and you have that accuracy that you need that pinpoint accuracy.
So I only have one pair of tweezers that's I think they're called Mr. tweezers. And I have very slightly ever so slightly modified them once.
And they they have there to a point and they're also very accurate.
And even then I still struggle with with sometimes trying to get that accuracy when I'm trying to pull hair or something like that.
But I pick a lot and that's kind of gross, but that's not the point of this, but the point is to not throw away tweezers work on them, get some sand paper.
It's been a little bit time in front of a in front of a bright light and see if you can see through and then bend them with a pair of pliers and you're good to go.
Those just operator another quick tip. I make waffles with a waffle iron, but when it makes them and make a whole box full.
So then zip them up, put them in a zip lock bag, put them through them in the freezer and save yourself a ton of money by instead of buying a box of waffles for $7.
You can buy an entire, you know, massive amount of waffles for relatively nothing. So anyway, make a waffles, make a make a box full.
Why don't you want you why you're at it and then put the rest of the freezer and pop them out, put them in the toaster and you're good to go.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
