Episode: 3361
Title: HPR3361: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 6
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3361/hpr3361.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:56:52

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3361 for Mundi, the 21st of June 2021.
Tid's show is entitled, HPR 2020, 2021 New Year's Eve, Show Episode 6.
It is hosted by Honki Magoo and is about 212 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at Ananasthost.com.
Yeah, but actually there was a question asked and it was, are you going to take the vaccine?
Yes, I am.
If there aren't people who need it more than me, then I'll happily take it.
But I don't know if it will stop the spread.
It will just stop the symptoms.
In the UK, during your people first and care work is the same.
First or second, first yet.
In the Netherlands, they figured out that you can't really bring...
It's very hard to bring the vaccine to the old people and the old people to the vaccine.
So what if you bring the carers to the vaccine so that it will stop spreading to the old people?
Well, I have fun identifying the carers.
In my county, I have not even been tested, even though we have very high percentage of
positive people.
I would have to call the county health department and make an appointment for a test.
I think that's what I did when I got tested.
I didn't have corona, tested negative.
It was very quick.
I have to say, you just went in and it was aligned with partially people standing.
Partially people on bikes mostly cars.
It was mostly cars.
But the line did actually have other modes of transportation.
So just went in, you walked in or drove in or whatever and you waited for the person in front
of you to stop daily dallying and talking about how they did it before and they know so much.
And just then they stick a rod up your nose, then they take it out without you noticing
and you go on with your day, happy that you could breathe again because you can't with the mask on.
I can't breathe with the mask on.
It's about to use though, just be a COVID-21 on life.
Variance of COVID, there are so many variants of COVID.
Also, virus is mutated, that's the way it works.
Apparently back when Italy was hit, remember that was back when
then Italy was hit very bad and apparently I read in a magazine, a scientific magazine,
that it was hit three times at the same time.
So it could hit twice, three times.
That's something to think about.
Like, are there any people from Italy here?
Any people have been to Italy?
I've never been to Italy.
Anybody worried about more dangerous things?
Well, we still have the mints, I think,
those things you make coats of,
your creatures make this thing, oh yeah.
They made the cluster 5 virus, which was less susceptible and the person who I was talking
about earlier, that comedian who does new stuff, he said, I told you so.
Because he told us so, the week before, he said, if you don't stop now,
there's going to be a virus, which is less susceptible and,
though and behold, there was a virus, which was less susceptible.
All right, kind of off topic, people yelling Jumanji.
So I've always seen the original Jumanji movie and nothing in that movie had anything where
people you had to yell at Jumanji, at least not that I can remember.
So what's the significance of yelling Jumanji?
What's Jumanji?
It's a movie about a game.
Actually, there are three movies about a game.
Yes, there's the two-no-one.
There's the original movie, there's a remake of it,
and then there's a sequel to the remake.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
And Jumanji is a great film.
I've always seen the original.
Have you not seen Jumanji?
Seriously, Moss?
I have seen the original and the remake.
I did not consider it a great film.
I did not consider it anything other than a vehicle for the stars to make some money.
What's the result of the third movie?
What's the movie about?
Like, I haven't seen a lot of movies.
I've only just watched Star Wars, not even the Disney ones, so just watched.
And there is another movie about a game.
It was a space game, though, and that was equally stupid, but a little bit better.
I've seen that a while ago, it was cool, but yeah.
The house goes in space, that one, yeah?
Yeah, yeah.
Games are good, though.
Well, remember, I did not grow up with games.
I mean, if we had games, the original would be games.
It was the first of Jumanji's second or the third first, because that's a different story.
That will ruin that.
You need to watch the very first one from 1995, I believe, that looking up.
1995, that's almost...
Which thing did you learn from Jumanji that you used in your life?
I just, though, I've only heard about Jumanji right now.
I was just asking what the significance is.
Only today that I hear about the going outside and yelling Jumanji at the three years.
Yeah, I didn't get it either, and I see the same movie my wife has.
Because my wife had the same bad hate attention.
And I was just trying to tell you some of the parts.
You know, I had a birthday this year, because everyone has a birthday every year.
Or you're not alive anymore.
No, if you're dead, you still have a birthday.
If you're dead, you still have a birthday.
You're probably not celebrating it.
Yes, you set a break to death.
If you're celebrating anything.
Is your conscious uploaded to a computer?
I think it would do that now, yeah.
Yeah, but, but...
Did they say much more to show that we, it's more likely than not that we are living in a,
the point is, what would be the consequences or why would we care?
But, yeah, and it's just getting me paranoid, and I don't like being paranoid.
And it's also assuming stuff.
They're already working on Jumanji 3, by the way.
Same person as the one you're making.
Yes, Dwayne Johnson just completed it.
I've only heard about this movie in the last few seconds, and there's
their parody already.
While the original movie is 1995.
Okay, that's kind of, that's kind of...
Then there's Jumanji, welcome to Jungle 2017, which is a reboot.
Okay.
And then there's Jumanji the next level 2019, and now they're working on the third one.
So, what's the, what's the, not the gimmick, but what's the, the, the cause of the problem within
the film? Is it that you invoke something or you believe in a thing?
What?
No, you don't find the game in your throat in their world.
Oh, yeah, I might ask you to be about this before, but that was like something else complete.
That was like, yeah, I, I just ignored the tights.
I think what it is, is you have, you have to all come together after succeeding at the game
and yell Jumanji to be brought back into the real world.
Well, say, also, it's only people who, yeah, the whole game is,
these people are trying to scream their way out of this phony world.
But the real, Patrick, you know what,
the whole game is, yeah, board game, board game.
Yeah, we've got, we've got tons of them and a whole thing full, which yeah,
old games exactly the update in the other movies, something else, but I'm not going to say much more with that.
So basically a whole lot of people get transported into a board game,
seeing episodes of that kind of stuff before.
Yes, yes, I understand.
So if you shout Jumanji, then you hope what, COVID is finished.
Or you hope that you get teleported back into the real world.
So that basically assumes you don't believe that or that basically means you don't believe
you're in the real world, right?
Is that like taking the blue pill?
This family movie, the, um, they get sucked in.
They have to, I don't want to say too much with a grue in it.
But the, yeah, the whole problem with the matrix.
I mean, the whole problem with the matrix is the reality is so ugly.
Yeah, I would want to be in the fantasy of, if the reality was like matrix.
Yeah, the thing is, if you make your reality suck,
the original is very good.
If you make your reality suck, and you make it so it sucks for the person inside,
you can have a good laugh at their expense and it seems more real for the person inside.
And then because they would think, oh, wouldn't you make your reality all nice and stuff?
Well, you're just sitting there laughing at them because they are in the stupid thing
and they're stupid that they can't figure it out, that they're, that they're fake.
Okay, the other movie that was like humangy, but in space was called Zatura.
That's right.
Yeah, yeah, so the thing is that was like, so the house gets sucked into space and all that,
the thing's there.
So the sounds a bit like that room where there's a tornado and they end up in a weird place and then
they have to call the problem.
Yeah, the wizard of all.
Oh, yeah, but the original version was, I was, I started watching Wizards,
the other newer one, the other day, it was on TV and was like, oh, oh, I've watched this
not actually, but that was all right.
To know the only, the only thing I had for AdWords when I was smaller and I was reading this book
series, Geronimo Stilton thing. I read the entire library, but eventually I came across a book
about the Wizards of Oz, so I read it. And that's the only thing how I know about the Wizards
of Oz or the Wizards. There were multiple witches of Wizards.
Hey, everyone, this is Claudio and just jumped on to wish you all a very happy new year from
UTC minus five. Thank you. Thank you.
The new year too. Yeah, well, in the original Oz, the wizard was actually a fraud.
Yeah, it was, it was a fraud in the book, which I read.
Yeah, it was actually a movie made black and white with no sound.
That was a lot closer to the original book, but it was also a lot stupider than the movie
that got popular. Yeah, it was a very good man. It was just a very bad wizard.
Yes, indeed. In the book I read, he was, he had good intentions that he sucked at everything
he did. So he had to do weird stuff like having people to wear glasses all the time
or something else or other, but, but basic, the Wizard of Oz is already weird. So if you make
it less, like, why would you follow most cobblestone or yellow stone or something?
Yellow brick road, yes. Yellow brick road. I just remember follow the cobblestone road,
but that's the Minecraft version. I always had my adult version of that.
Swallow the old dick load.
Now you'll be singing that in your mind all night, right?
I wasn't, but now that you said that, yeah, I will.
I'm lucky that the night isn't going to be very long. It's nearly over in your dreams.
It's nearly seven already, and the sun hasn't even shown up yet.
Well, tell it to get to work, dammit. Yeah, yeah, I'm waiting. I don't have his number,
so I can't phone him. He doesn't have his Facebook. He doesn't reply to you.
Is Facebook even the thing now? I don't know. I'm not disconnected from him.
I am disconnected. My wife is still on it. I made sure that she got the
Firefox that pretty much relates to what my brain isn't working. I'm sorry.
I think I think I basically, I wrote a lecture to that one teacher who tried to force us to
assume that one time, basically explaining how evil that Facebook was, and also that one website
she tried to force us to use. I think that's when it kind of died, because I was figuring out
that people were using Facebook, so then it died. When I figure stuff out about social media,
then it usually dies. No, Facebook is quite popular, so I use it as many other people.
Well, I heard it died. Must be wrong. I heard it's just used by boomers.
That's what it is. It's still the number one website on the internet, dammit.
It's used by boomers. I guess it depends who you care about.
What you're trying to do and who you're trying to talk to. I literally have family members who
would not talk to me except on Facebook, and I finally decide that it wasn't worth it.
If they weren't going to talk to me before Facebook, I don't need to talk to them on Facebook.
Indeed, indeed. I usually, I'm terribly bad at checking an email or what's that for stuff.
I usually like to orphone them if it's not possible, or just talk about them into their face,
because it's easier that way. Well, I forget to check my email and what's up, so I won't
I once on purpose didn't check my what's up for a few months. I had about a thousand or so messages.
They use what's up all day. There's a group. I should kind of use it for that. There's that there.
On top of it's not great. It's only because other people use it that I use it because you need it
to have it in school. I use telegram. No one uses telegram. I use telegram. I use
master on. I use discord. Well, that's about it. I use me for my social. I use email. I use
what's up. If you work in those people who use telegrams, probably no one. I use telegram,
telegram signal, you know, gypsy, but it wouldn't you? That's true. Yeah, I have to use zoom
because that's all the places I can do concerts are on zoom. And I've got one on the ninth that I
need to do. Need to get ready for it too. I don't practice enough. Yeah, I have to use the other
if I want to be what kind of concerts do you do? I am a silker. I think we discussed that early on.
The silker is the music of the fantasy and science fiction community.
Oh, I'm sorry about singing science fiction. I like the idea.
Well, actually, Phil has a very large page at Wikipedia.
We have a number of sites around. I know how to use Wikipedia. In many cases,
the songs are fully original, but in other cases, we see all the American folk tradition,
where if a tune sits around long enough, you steal it. So some of them are parodies. Some of them
are only parodies in the fact that we stole the tune. Could you name the place again?
But the, can you reference or add it to the show notes or just tell me so I can look it up now?
Oh, Wikipedia has a good page on Phil. Let me see here.
How am I spelling Phil? F-I-L-K. It was originally a typo. Since the I is right next to the O on
the standard music keyboard. Phil, music is a musical genre culture, genre, and community.
It's a science fiction fantasy and horror fandom. And it's a type of fan labor.
The genre has been active since the early 1950s, and that played primarily since the mid-1970s.
Actually, the late 1940s, but they don't have to know everything.
It's Wikipedia, you know? Yeah. Um, Wikipedia is now allowed in schools.
That needs discussion. Yeah. No, it's like the teacher said,
hey, it's fine. This isn't that importance. It is so you can use Wikipedia. I don't care.
I just want to get it over with. I hate you kids. He didn't say I hate you kids,
but he probably meant it. I can only play some if you want.
If you want to play some, you can play some. Let's see.
Um, there's also a sub-genre called wizard rock that has to do mostly with Harry Potter stuff.
Rock. On singing, I did hear that with dementia patients. Because the singing part of your brain is
different, uh, place to the talking part, that you can, you, you remember songs for a lot longer.
So if you make a song, that's true. That's true. To talk, to sing you through the things that you
need to remember in your day, then you can start singing that in the morning and get stuff done,
you know? To education. That's true. I heard that too. Uh, and also like if you can learn to play
the guitar, if you can't remember, uh, a few seconds ago, you can still learn how to play the
guitar. Well, it's only been, it's only been a few months since I lost my piece, so I will sound
a little funny, but nonetheless, uh, well, this one is actually more of a social song, but it is
Phil, the guy who wrote it is in the Philcala fame, which is housed in Toronto, Ontario.
Philcala fame? Yes. There are actually two award-giving groups. The Ohio Valley Philc
Festival gives the Pegasus Awards for the music, and then the, uh, Philc, Ontario gives the Philcala
Famous Awards for the, uh, performers or writers. But is it like an actual place?
I do not know. I haven't been to Toronto. This is not my best guitar, it's hard to keep in tune.
About 60 years ago, on a classic TV show, that started on a cool October night.
There was me and Ralph I guess, Ed and Trixie and the rest, the biggersons all boxed in black and white.
Now I am up here on the moon, like some straining down the cartoon, and some say domestic violence is
to blame. But I just ignore the threats, breathe in deep, try to forget that it was only television,
and the Alice is my name. Save me, save me, I have lost my identity, I am more than the song
is silly cartoon. Help me get back on the path, that was meant for me, I am Alice, the first woman
on the moon. I need to explain this song, there was a cartoon, um, back in the 50s, and there was a
TV show called The Honeymooners, and it was a very tumultuous relationship being shown,
and Ralph Cramden played by Jackie Gleason, would always yell at his wife, one of these days, Alice,
one of these days, I'm going to hit you so hard to the moon, Alice, to the moon. And then Nick
Downs a few years ago had a cartoon in the Washington Post that had some astronauts on the moon
finding skeleton and rest, and the one turns the other says, of course, that's Alice Cramden.
I don't know about the cartoon, that's fantastic. And this is the song about that. Anyhow,
how I got here, I don't know how could such a thing be so, but do you ask how good Bart Simpson
still be ten? I hang on to what I see, helped to build this colony, turning the kisses,
negatives to positives again, not used to my tongue not having teeth sorry, but sometimes I feel
alone, so I call Ralph on the phone, and the prison says he's out now on parole.
He is on the no-fly list, I tell him that he won't be missed, because I no longer need him,
or anyone to make me whole. Save me, save me, I lost my high debt, T. I am more than the
suns on the silly cartoon. Help me get back on the path, that was meant for me, I am Alice,
the first woman on the moon. So I go out to the space bar in my jumpsuit late at night,
said the nice pin your galata, crying hard not to get tight, when a face that seems familiar smiles
across the room with me, could that be the person I've seen on TV? Then she sits down with a grin,
I say Alice, how have you been? How is Tommy, how are Viramel and flow?
As we both sit on our drinks, I really don't know what to think, she says you're not the only Alice
here you know. She says you got to understand, there's the one from Wonderland, and the one from
Arlo Guthrie's restaurant. No one's really who they seem, we're all characters in dreams,
and I close my eyes and ask her, can I be an astronaut? Save me, save me, I lost my high debt,
I am more than some silly cartoon. Help me get back on the path, that was meant for me,
I am Alice, the first woman on the moon.
Still be Alice, your star, so that's exactly what you are, and that's how you got to be up here
with me. Then she hums a girl's wind tune, and says up here on the moon that really isn't
anything that you can't be. Shall I tell you Mrs. Meadows, something everybody here knows that
black eye you have was not caused by a fall, and I almost want to tell her that I know I'm in
a shelter and I'm painfully aware that I'm not on the moon at all. Save me, save me, I have lost
my high debt, I feel like I've been here before. Help me get back on the path, that was meant for me,
prepare me to walk out of that door. And Alice doesn't live here anymore.
Beautiful, that was amazing.
That was really cool. That was by my old friend, Brian Lemmings, the original tune is from a song called
The Girl that's Never Been by Michelle Dockery, which was about Alice in Wonderland.
If you act, that's quite a construction, I like the ideas, and it is,
is it some pineapple in Pina Collada? Yes.
Does not potentiate the projection of the star into the vehicle, which is a UFO.
Right, it's good. Well, thank you, my friend, Brian Lemmings, you're on, wrote that, and he is now in
the short call of fame. Well, probably my oldest friend in the world, I met him in 81.
So he's, that if you can say like, oh, well, if my friends is in the whole fame of,
you're out, that's, actually, I have a little bit of a little bit of skin in the game,
yeah. Actually, nominating, that's cool. Thank you, Jayrilo.
I was thinking of people, you know, there's a shelter, we're not a shelter, where there's a place,
I was thinking of my friend who came from Kazakhstan, she came from all over. She had a lot of
clothes to get rid of before she fled the country, and she wanted to take them to this, a place,
a house in my town where women came in the middle of the night, you know, after that fled,
domestic violence to pick up clothes, because of course they left, they just left.
So anyhow, we think about anything including important stuff.
Wow, I am not very well known, the big name Pilkers know who I am, but I'm not that well known
in the filmmaking community of large. Okay. That was cool. Wow, I like those. Yeah.
Yeah. Did you write that good? No, that was written by my old friend, Blind Link Shafan.
Well, and he lives in Denver, by the way. Denver. We weren't in Colorado. I've heard about
Denver somewhere. It is the capital of Colorado. There's a mental health thread within the
Hacker Public Radio. Wasn't there? Is that one of the subdivisions? I found it quite interesting.
See, I don't know HPR that much, except that I am a co-host of Mintcast,
and District Hopper's Digest, and we started out using HPR's rooms by invitation.
We've got our own little thing down here, Mintcast. If you scroll down the screen on these steps,
we started using our own mumble, but that's okay. We were very grateful at the Hacker Public Radio
for letting us use their mumble room for so many years. I mean, the Mintcast started in
Golly. I lost my brain again. We've done 351 episodes now. They tend to happen every other week,
but that's not set in stone. Actually, what we've been doing lately is having really long
episodes and splitting them into two episodes and releasing happy each week.
That's the way to do stuff.
Is that up to seven people? We don't always all show up.
It makes for a long show with seven people talking. That makes sense. You should actually just
just split in half. I honestly, honestly, until recently, I have not actually been doing anything
with Hacker Public Radio. My father did it, and so every new year we went and said,
hi, that was about it. Then I wanted to get into D&D, and I was listening to
tattoos, a tabletop gaming, which was actually like really, which really prompted me to learn more
about D&D and read Wikipedia and that kind of stuff about D&D. Then I really got into D&D when
I got the rule books and stuff. Have you seen those things? They are amazing.
Which were also recommended by Klausu.
Then, of course, it was Halloween, and I was wondering what kind of on-dead I wanted my character
in the D&D thing to become if I were so to have the chance on the kind of, I planned ahead
very far. Did you do the episode about rights? What do you call them? Liches and vampires?
Liches and vampires. I did that on Halloween. But that was your episode, was it?
That was mine. I made that myself. My dad did all the stuff which I didn't understand, but I did
do the research, which wasn't very hard because I was interested in it already. I basically
planned it aloud, which wasn't very hard. I basically just sat there talking about stuff I like
to talk about. My friend Tony Hughes is also a regular HPR host. He's also on the Mintcast team and
was who I founded DisroHopper Digest with. If you like D&D manuals,
wait to get hold of those semiconductor data sheets. What do you mean?
It's me really. I used to love those D&D books and the magazines for gaming, like white
dwarf and things that you can. Those sort of data structures, which you call it a digestive
human being or a character in which characteristics they have. But data sheets to semiconductors,
like if you're into tech, how a transistor works or a microcontroller works, all of the
information on these data sheets. We have that in stuff in school now. Not very, very
very neat or something, but this is the short summary of how this works. This short summary
of how that works. We have that at a physics, I think. So what do you think draws your attention to
the D&D gaming? Is it the way that the data set out? Do you think your mind recognizes
something or is it the what is it? That's a very good question. What is it which I like about
D&D? Well, that's that stuff. There's so much to like. What's not like? Well, it's definitely unique.
I've always been looking for the game. And I thought I'd found it when I found Minecraft. I
didn't. I just found some aspects of the game. And then I found D&D and then I found the missing
aspects of the game. And then I was like, those are the two greatest games that have ever existed.
So, yeah. Does it get closer to reality or is it a certain thing that happens in your mind
when you're in that space? Well, when you're playing D&D, it's very much, I have myself, I've
trouble, trouble sometimes communicating who I am because you play as the character, but you're
not the character yourself. So, yeah, sometimes have to say who you are to basically explain
and stuff. Yeah, there was one game I was in a long time ago that I was playing a half-elf
when there was another guy that was a dwarfs and I was playing the role. I was at the other guy's
throat all the time for being a dirty little dwarf, you know, this and that. And the guy kept complaining
the DM that I hated him. And he goes, no, he doesn't hate you. He's playing his role. He's doing
what he's supposed to be doing. Indeed. That's funny. Like, when I first played it and that was
3.5, I didn't understand the version so I was confused on my birthday. And I did it with some of
my best friends which I thought would like D&D. And one of the guys didn't tell us about
incoming dangerous creatures. So, there wasn't any problem. But I had this kind of, we didn't have
a line, we didn't do the alignments yet or it wasn't very clear. But because alignments are tough.
But I basically was, you could call it neutral or chaotic evil like the light, like neutral evil
light kind of thing. I was a bit evilish. So, I was like, why didn't you tell us? And I was
being in character. He's one of my best friends. So, I wasn't attacking him. I was just like,
why didn't you tell us that kind of stuff? And then later when I had information, I was like,
and I told it to, and I decided to tell it to the entire group, unlike some people. So, that was
funny. Yeah. Yeah. A good DM can make the difference in whether you like it or not too. Yeah.
We had one game that I really loved that we were standard AD&D 3.5 on a planet. We were just regular
old gunshots and wizards and whatnot. But it happened to be that we found out later, it turned
out to be the planet that the Enterprise D crashed on. And it was being invaded by the Dominion at the
time. Wow. It got really interesting. Yeah. Yeah. It's fun. Some wizards found the Enterprise D
and used magic to power up parts of the ship. And like we actually got to do some training on a
little deck. Oh, that's fun. That's that's fun right there. But oh, it's funny thinking of
when I try and wire up some things and trying to figure out how thick the wire has to be so that
my battery doesn't catch fire, you know. It takes so much longer in the real world. Yeah. I must admit
that first, the first session, I think we did that, that DM that he basically went around the whole
area. And he anytime someone wants it to start, start people to get people in, wants to get into
Dungeons and Dragons, they would basically go to that guy, hire that guy. And then he would
do their first adventure. And yeah. I would like to interrupt. And it is coming up on another
hour change. So if we have anyone in Winnipeg, Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Louis, New Orleans,
Memphis, anything like that, you're you're coming up on the new year. Are you ready? Is anyone here?
I just I just I figured it's something else. I guess we don't have any central kinds on people.
Well, Joe's in the time zone, but I'm thinking he's here at the moment. Oh, yeah. Joe is. It's true.
Poor guy is stranded in Texas. But then so is Leo. He's also on the mid-calf team.
You know, I figured out where I remember all these American sissy names from. I
I have read that Percy Jackson thing. It's it's about like, yeah. Yep. There's one thing that
doesn't make sense, which annoys me quite a bit. He says that demigods have been fighting in
the American Civil War. But it was pretty known at the time that the Americans weren't doing a
great job at fighting a war at that point. They hadn't learned the gist of it. Like later on,
they were great. They they they have one of the best minutes every now. But back then they
if you compare it to some. I love that it was not very very accurate. You know, you had to use
black powder. You had to stuff it in properly. Just camp the ball down. If you didn't get it,
it was totally off. Yeah. And and uh, and like I heard I don't know if this is true. I think
the sources are correct. But um, basically the the um, the guys from like the guys we were trying
to unite Germany. Um, or we had done that. I don't know. But those guys they basically had a look
at how good they were fighting in the Civil War and they were unimpressed. So I think you mean
the Prussians? Yes. The Prussians. The Prussians were having a look at how good they were at
fighting and if they they were unimpressed. So if the and the Prussians were some of the best.
So they knew good from not good. Um, so I think that it the only explanation I can give to that
in in in as can would be if it was like an offshoot. Like it would be I would say the English
shoe or maybe uh, had like Roman demigods because English had England had a giant empire back then.
Like any I emailed nowhere. It was from England. You could bet that it was from England.
Well, they had a lousy supply chain or we wouldn't have won the Revolutionary War.
That's true. Like every time you you would think you would get used to being you
you having the same strategy. Also they had terror. I must say they had one general who just
they could have won but they didn't. There's a lot of times in a lot of wars where they could have won
but some general is just not doing his job correctly. Well, actually England was always into the
do it honorably or don't do it at all thing. Yeah. Uh, yeah. But they honor frequently.
honor frequently. He's in the way of winning about.
And after your your average foot soldier, none of that is terribly relevant. You know what
the order comes doesn't it? And you just sent over there right there to go and hack each other
to pieces. Yeah. And um, but uh, there is um, there is also um, there was something
oh yeah, they had a plan which could have actually just derailed the entire war and
made the English actually win because it wouldn't, uh, it would bring a defeat for the, um,
the 13 colonies which would stop, uh, Spain and France helping out the 13 colonies would, uh,
which would lead to the defeats of the 13 colonies which was basically splitting the 13 colonies
in the middle and, uh, but, uh, but it needed two generals to do it with two armies but one of
the generals saw personal fame instead of actually winning the war. So he went off and did something
else which failed. And then he promptly got fired. As much as in a situation, in the situation
you're describing as much as I would like to just flee, flee the insanity, uh, it's often much
more difficult to get out of, how do you get out of that, you know, when you, you go in the food
but who's gonna, it's always every day, who are you, where have you come from, what are you doing?
Um, um, we're talking about like if you were there back then, or now it's the same now isn't it?
If I, if I take off in the middle of the night because I'm being, uh, but I'm not being beaten by my partner
or I live by myself, you know, but in terms of talking, talking about, uh, nations as though they're,
uh, I think, as though they're one person, you know, the, the history that gets written down is unrealistic.
It is. So I wonder, it, it does make for funny stuff it does. If you look as nations as being like
kind of a hive mind because nations do have a kind of, they have a, they're basically, uh, they have
a personality. It's basically the personality of the collective of the entire, of all the people
live in the nation. That's the personality of the nation. I think if you're in, in your village,
and, uh, you know, I'm not Irish, but, uh, listening to blind boy talking about Ireland and, uh,
you know, the, the I already, and, and, and so on. And then the British government and the,
the fact that that's just criminals have been thrown into the army and sent to Ireland to, to,
to make sure that it, uh, you know, the food keeps coming out of there. It's not, when you say it's
a nation doing a thing or they're, they're being honorable or whatever it. It's just not the,
the truth on the ground is it. The, the, the power and the point ground is that is who's going to come
to you and start roughing you up if you don't do what you were doing yesterday. Yeah. And
I'm doing the same thing because I feel okay. If it, if, if my reality or if I have to do something
which makes me uncomfortable in the, in the day, what power do I have over you? Um, you know,
whether I believe happy to hear a central time zone. Happy to hear. Is the sum up? No. The sum's not up.
All right. Well, I am going to go now. I think I should have been a little bit more time with my wife
as we've all were noted. Yeah. I have one. Well, good night. Good song for listening. I, I, I, I get
play for hours. I really could. I'm, I'm really bad at that. So a good song and moss.
Have a good night. Good meeting you. Uh, I hope this talked to you again sometime. Yeah. Yeah.
Hopefully it could come next year. Well, maybe and maybe not. Uh, come spend some time with us at, uh,
mid-cast. We have live podcasts every other Sunday at, uh, 2 p.m. Central time, whatever time that is
where you are. I do know what that means. What's that? I do need podcast material. So, you know, I have,
I'm able to listen at work. So I'll check it out. Okay. Well, I do live on on YouTube. Although we
do not have video, um, I don't know. Right. Yes. It's probably super late for me. The only reason
I'm here right now is because I decided to stay up the entire night. Hmm. Well, if your son would
manage the bother to come up, you, you've done it. Uh, no, I would, I will be done when I go to
sleep, which is in the evening. That's when I'm done. Okay. Yeah. I've done this before. I, I, I, I know
the tricks. I know when it's really over. Yeah. I used to be young too. I feel, I, I, in the inside,
I really feel old. I feel really, really old. Well, that's backwards for me because I still feel like
I'm in my mid thirties, maybe late thirties, but my body keeps telling me otherwise. Yeah. I like
compared to, um, to all the people I know, all the kids, I feel really old. I'm not in touch with
technology. I'm the most serious of all of them. Well, maybe one of the most serious of all of them
is really, really weird. Okay, guys, I'm going to take off for now. Okay. Bye. It's been fun. Bye. Yeah. Bye.
Bye. What were we talking about again? I was ranting on about something. Oh, yeah, something
with Ardened. Yeah, Nations was not what we were talking about. We don't need to talk about nations.
There are many more interesting things. Well, it's in Nations interesting, but it's kind of a
yeah, illusion, isn't it? I don't think I'd be happy if I was considering national day. Like
back during during the famine, you weren't thinking, hey, it's, um, you were probably just thinking,
oh, I really don't want to starve to death again. And I really don't want to die of, uh,
all these sicknesses again because of the dying Anglo-Saxons again. Mary did.
What's that KDG? So the topic again is going to be history with some sort. We could talk famine now.
Yeah, um, food shortage is soon, maybe in 10 years, if crops start to fail, you know,
if the energy in the storms continues to rise and the the bread basket dries out.
If um, US is apparently like, uh, the biggest food contrived food exporter and second
biggest is the Netherlands. And then you compare it to and then you're really surprised that the
second biggest is the Netherlands. If you like, but you can see it, if you go in one of the trains,
you go and then you have these rows and rows and rows of just greenhouses for as far as I can see,
which is not very far because you're basically on sea level already. But as far as I can see,
you have greenhouses just everywhere. Right. Let's hope it catches on because there's
plenty of space for greenhouses around the world. Yeah. They turn not to plant things.
Yeah. Also, we've got a lot of windmills and I was in Ireland. Like, I don't get why the people in
Ireland don't want windmills. I saw a beautiful scenery and I was like, this would be perfect.
If there were some windmills, it would have looked like a giant had plant, which really fits
well with Ireland, doesn't it? Do you mean, I guess you mean turbines for electricity?
Yeah. Yeah. And mills used to be for like, for corn and stuff to eat.
They're basically, they're, they're like, I've been, I've been in one of those windmills there.
I don't have corona. I've been tested. But I've been in one of those windmills where they basically
pump out the water to make sure that we don't flood. That's good. Yeah. I mean, it's still wind power,
right? You don't need it. It's still wind power. I mean, it takes a lot of manpower to just move
dining thing because you, it's basically a house with a roof on top which can rotate and
there's stuff inside. It's like a cramped house because all the rest of the house is wooden gears.
And you basically have to move the roof. You have to turn a wheel or something and you have to
make sure you don't get hit by the, by the going round thing because then you would be dead.
Is that a historical, is that sort of a museum piece or does it still keep the water out?
It's definitely a museum piece because now we've got a mechanic. We've got like,
well, we did have steam stuff. Now we have electric stuff. No, we have like an off-slide
deck which is a giant dieg. And it isn't our most advanced one. No, that's in the sealant,
sealant. It's like new sealant but then without the new, it's the old one. It has a giant thing which
basically cuts off the sea but it can open, it's open usually except when the storm hits.
Do you get electricity from that? Are they using wife power? No, I don't think so. It's because,
well, when they made an off-slide dieg, it's literally named Slouds means close.
It's basically, it's Slouds basically means closing something in a different way than
and so it shot off the salt supply. So the sea turned into a lake. Now we have a lake instead of
a sea. And yeah, that wasn't very great. There is a, well, I go to school. It used to be like
super massive. Oh, look at us. We're a fishing village. We love fishing and we have this whole
trade network and it's stuff but that doesn't happen anymore because two reasons. We haven't
now another province in the way and we have a giant big piece of dirt in the way. So they decided
they didn't want that in the sealant yet. They didn't want to flood like they did the last time
which killed a whole bunch of people and people didn't like it because you could see it on the
telly. There's problems with the saltwater coming into the agricultural land, isn't there in
some places? I don't know if that's the case in the Netherlands. I don't know. I don't think so.
Basically, over there they just wanted to fish. They still wanted fish and they still
and it's very good for the ecosystems because yeah, but I don't think that problem with the
water is as much because we're basically the outlet of all the rivers of the entirety of Europe
from France, of Germany, of those countries basically and all this stuff, but they surround us.
Do you have plenty of fresh water? We go to places in the world where they've drawn out the water,
the free pardon me. They've drawn out the fresh water so much from the ground. You know,
they pump it all out that then the water comes in from the sea and ruins it or even irrigate it.
That's not true. That's not the Netherlands. Not for Netherlands. For all the places maybe, but it's not
here. I think we even have tap water which comes from the ground where we're like right there. Of
course it's filtered and it's nice and fresh and stuff but it's from the ground right here.
I'm sorry, I don't think that's a problem. We're actually facing a problem where the
rivers might be the ones overflowing because we haven't given them enough space. They need the
space so we kind of have to choose what do we like more, the town or those farms and they usually
the farms get flooded if it's too serious because there was basically a die right next to the winter
for the river for in the summer and then in the winter the river is bigger so you have another
die further away which was also bigger and stronger. But there are quite a lot of people in
the Netherlands. It's a small country. It's not very small but it's kind of smallish and it's
there are 70 million or something. I seven million I don't know, numbers. There are big numbers
of people in the Netherlands and they all need somewhere to live. So they decided to let's put
a town in the place that floods every year and they decided just to make those summer things
bigger. Yeah, no, that had backlash. So now we have to choose what that's a problem right now.
Yeah, there are many people needing somewhere to live around the place.
Yeah, that's why we made that entire other piece of land for people to live.
It wasn't for farms, it was for people to live because we had too many people in Amsterdam
so we decided to move them. But back to Zealand basically they had a flood. That a big flood
it's very known. It wasn't tally so people could see it all around the country. This was
back in before colored television. So yeah, and basically they didn't want it but they did want to
have the sea there because it's Zealand. It's basically called Zealand. It's the land of the sea.
The whole thing is that they flood. So they are basically massive gates and they can close whenever
you want them and they can open again. So yeah, the Netherlands has a lot of stuff like I once went
to a place. Sorry if this is too much rambling about the Netherlands and its relationship with
water but it's very interesting. Always each time I heard Netherlands not think about
the underworld kind of thing. It's because it's literally another
it's literally like never means like low. Yeah, it's confusing because also
there's this thing I watch and they basically have it's a minecraft surface. So they've taken
like the Netherlands into the overworld and they called it the Netherlands and I was so annoyed.
I was like don't call it that. Call it something else because the Netherlands is already taken.
Oh, so it's it's minecraft Netherlands is the same written the same way as your company.
Yes, that's that it's if you translate it to English that is. Yeah, it means nearby or something.
Yeah, it's it it means low. Our country literally means the low countries because we're low.
We're so you take men as the finial country like minecraft.
No, we don't we don't it would be cool if we did but we don't now. You got your big
pegs you were so proud of. What? You have your pegs you were so big pegs you talked about
the biggest animal in your country and you talked about the big pegs. I don't remember anything
about big pegs. No, but you talked about some animals kind of tiny animals in your country
and you talked about one picky kind of similar animal. I don't I don't remember. Yeah,
but the Netherlands have a hard the big struggle. Yeah, pretty badly abused on either world
over. Yeah, yeah, but we're at least one into the world and it's and it's literally the same thing
as one of those wild ones we have on the failure. It's it's a forest place where people go hiking.
Yeah, you was calling the pig something else. I'm sure. Oh, it's swines or something. I called it
something something on it. Yeah, that you was talking about it was with most English and
a board. Yeah, I said a board. Yeah. It's the same. It's like it's a wild boar is a it is basically a
wild wild pig. Yeah, because my aunt has a small but you call it again. Boar. Boar. Yeah. Boar
mini boar. It's kind of uh it's like a like a little like a little pig pet thing. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, if smaller than a cat. Yeah, there are some of those you can apparently bite them. They
are pets. They are there. They they from what I heard and this was a nature thing for kids from
years ago was that it at some people try they sell piglets as those kind of little pig things
but piglets don't stay small. So then you have a giant massive pig in the house completely
eating the furniture and the people and stuff and then a cute pet turns into a not so very cute pet
at all. Yeah, the moment the pig has eaten your children then it's not cute anymore. No, no,
it's not cute anymore then then it's just bacon time very deadly bacon. So the thing there's
something to be said about when humans grow up there and stop being cute and start killing other
species and eating them for breakfast. Yeah, yes, definitely that's there's there's definitely
going to be if if humans were to um were to ever become um what were to basically um make
itself not smart again to survive for some reason. Then there would be another animal and there
if there would be another animal which would rise to the throne of being great and amazing um like
except the humans failed but um which would try to be great and amazing it would probably eat humans
if humans were tasty that is could just eat pigs maybe they are pigs. So
killing humans for fun then. Yeah, the thing is for humans humans aren't supposed to be smart that's
that's that's like humans are supposed to be long distance runners that's what we're supposed to be
there are some people who can run for six hours straight apparently which is insane I can't even
run for a minute without being without being tired. We can't differentiate, be awake you for so
so long so some people cannot be awake for so so so long. Right, yeah, and we could differentiate
at this point between bodies and your consciousness so your body might be able to run for six hours
but can you can you remain conscious for more than a day. My body can't do that I don't think
because I have a massive brace which keeps me from breathing correctly. Now I can breathe but not
as deep as I can usually breathe so yeah. But if you can remain conscious 24-7 that would be an
achievement for human kind. That would be an achievement for humankind but they have to ask
yourself what are you doing because I can be conscious for 24 hours. I mean without collapsing at
the end of it. I wouldn't be able to be conscious a whole year that would be that would be impossible.
Yeah, I've heard a way to talk to you since like you was no sleep 24-7 all year long.
No no no it's well all year up until this point. It isn't very long because it's only being seven
hours. Like I'm already a little insane to begin with so it probably sounds like a crazy
person right now. No no I'm always crazy and I'm doing number. Okay well yeah because I need
to be in number mode in my mind to join number. Yeah so I need to be like you are no to before I
join number. You get a pass for speaking a different language as well in my book. Me.
Well yeah you can sound like a bit drunk. I've been awake for for too long but you're even
speaking in a different language so. I'm terrible at languages. I tried German. It failed.
I tried French. It failed. I'm terrible. Like they it didn't even offer me Spanish. I don't know
why. I didn't eat. Yeah. The Spanish is similar to French alone in school. Yeah.
It's easier to learn but then again he usually walks to Spain every year so yeah. I mean literally
he walks to Spain. I don't know why but he likes to do it so yeah. So it's short distance
to Spain then. Oh no it's quite long distance. He just enjoys it. He enjoys being a
palgrim. It's I don't even think it's for something with God or something but basically
in some people like to walk. I have a friend that loves to walk. He walks two or four days
sounds like walking like my grandfather. He might get along. Yeah. Yeah. He is in his
forties or maybe close to 50 knows. My grandfather is in 70 I would say I don't really know. I
hardly know the ages of my siblings. So I have siblings. I have one older and one younger. I'm
in the middle and I'm also the only boy so yeah. So the shit in the middle. It's hard to
talk about that. Yeah. Well yeah. I'm basically like Malcolm in middle or something but then
with that but then more annoying for me because I couldn't shoot down their princess castles with
my gun so my Lego fortress. See what I mean? Totally unreasonable. Funny that. It's funny. It was
funny. In my perspective it was very funny for me. Yeah. I don't think they agreed. You said
that to your sister then if I understand you. No I just I they had like a I had a Lego fortress
thing which could shoot actual cannonball things and they had their own princess for princess castle
which looked amazing to raid. It had gold everywhere. So of course I was going to shoot cannonballs
at the towers that you can't expect me to do anything else. That that that that was my logic
back then. So yeah it made sense and I accidentally hit one of them in the head and then everyone got
angry at me. Oh you hit one of your siblings in the head. Yeah the smaller one. Yeah the moment you
hit the smaller one it's bad if you hit the bigger one it's okay. No it's so it's so it's usually
pretty bad either way it's pretty bad. No but hitters someone is smaller and he's always built and
hit them so much bigger. I was aiming for the tower. I just have terrible aim. In my defense I have
medically diagnosed a terrible aim. So after you shot your sister when we was going to hospital to
get you it's classified as bad aiming. No I luckily I already had that because yeah and yeah
I've got terrible motoric stuff. So no weapon for you then. Guns and stuff. Oh
I did get sword ones and it was from the same grandfather who likes to walk down to Spain. He
wanted to give me a sword when I was four and he eventually gave it to me when I was 14. It
isn't sharp. It's just a shiny sword. It looks cool but it doesn't do anything. So yeah but you're
aren't going to give it to a four-year-old. That doesn't I hope that makes sense. So a real sword or
a kind of toy sword. A real not supposed to be actually used in combat swords so it doesn't have
supposed to kill but not supposed to even harm a person. It only has a sharp point but the
sword design is made for slash. So it doesn't it just doesn't work. It's not a weapon. It's just a big
pointy metal stick. It gives you some idea of how that would be though when you're handling that kind
of a thing. Yes and also it's kind of old so the copper wire is coming out of the reptilian leather
so it it it stings when you use it so I'm not using it but that would be that I don't think
that would be great for a four-year-old. I think hopefully all those days are gone. I know they
didn't stick to you hack each other up but yeah no those days were long gone even when the
swords came that was from 18th 19th century I would think from I think it was from Czech
from Czech somewhere or whatever that place called there Czech Slovakia was or something.
Now Czech Republic and Slovakia. Yeah probably no country left that only have a sword in the
osheri. No this definitely wasn't supposed to be used as a sword. It was like an officer thing. You
had a sword because it looked cool. Yes it was definitely ceremonial. You just have to have a
sword because it looked cool and you didn't have a sword because if there had any defensive
purpose at all it was just cool. Yeah I know you came and you just had a manual force.
Yeah they had to they had them in a lot of time apparently. Yeah in the UK a sword would still
have defensive you know it's about which other weapons are available to people. Yeah that would
make sense but this weapon wouldn't be available to people because it's expensive. It has
reptilian leather. This isn't something you just get out of a cow. This is something you get out
of a reptile. It's expensive. I think people who are making scabbards out of reptilian leather
initially possibly won't do. I don't know it's hard to say whether they're doing it for the
look. It's the grabby bit. It's apparently to it's of course for the look and it's a rougher
so you can hold it better. Apparently I don't know. Yeah it's you get more of a grip
that's that's what it was for I think. Well maybe you could use it for agricultural purposes.
Well how would you stab a wheat? Not stab it but you know from potatoes there's an application.
Stabbing potatoes. No we call them chips. French fries. Dicing. Dicing. This sword doesn't do
cutting. You're just using a metal slab to wrap. So smashing potatoes. Smashing might work.
Yet it's I would just get a hammer. I can tell you this metal stick is the most useless thing
in the entire world. Probably not the most useless thing that maybe not far off. Still a piece
of steel you could repurpose that one day. Yeah definitely you can you can repurpose it. Yeah but
then again it's so old that you if it's really so old as you said it was should might be then
I'm not want to repurpose it even if it's completely useless. Yeah. You repurpose it and
afterward you learn it but much more before you... That would be terrible. That would be absolutely
terrible. Do you use foreign oath afterward you had the most price did or the shit or that sort
ever over there and you just melted it down to nothingness. That would be terrible. To know there
was once that that does me that that makes me think about something I heard apparently after the
second world war the only world war that neither of them actually cared about because it was
neutral in the first one there were some there was this guy and well in the second world war he was
basically well during that time he was basically faking art pieces but then the Nazis came around
and they wanted the art pieces so he sold them to him and then later he had to prove to judges
that he wasn't a Nazi supporter and that it was actually fake. That's that that's beyond words
right there it was he was so good that he had to explain why it wasn't real that that just that
that's something that blows your mind right there that's no if you make art in the same period as
you're supposed to copy someone else yeah but the thing is he did it illegally he told people even
before in the second world war he told people hey these are actual real remnants calm calm I have it
it's worth like billions if you can just give all those billion to me then you can have this
old painting but it wasn't old it was quite new so yeah yeah he definitely he was good
he was so good that he needed to prove that he wasn't he wasn't betraying his country by
selling it to other people yeah so do not get hanged in it to prove he's been
well not to not get time not it was not to get shot and murdered and killed because he would have
been he was arrested and he would have been executed if it wasn't a fake and because it wasn't a
fake instead of being executed he became a fork hero which wasn't upgraded is just to think about
think about that you just one minute you you're going to be executed as as betrayer of your country
next minute you're just you're the hero of your country having slited having slited to enemy
and selling them fake old pieces of art really that's uh yeah see later folks okay
bye are you going to go yeah I want to make an episode for HBR so maybe uh maybe later
okay that was uh from talking to you yeah interesting have a good day
you too bye have a good day bye so Ben Dragon are you still doing the D&D on each Wednesday or whatever um
well uh katsu couldn't couldn't say dude for some reasons but we're doing it again we're starting up
um we're starting up again and um in in January and it's January now so yeah so yeah so um we're
gonna start soon I would think um start again we're currently in hell so everything is going great
we are in hell and we're basically ghosts we're on the ethereal realm and we're in hell literally
first level first level oh yeah no I thought you you was talking about you being in
nettle land right yeah Michael ten yeah I thought you added them because I was thinking about them
but I was young I thought netland was kind of hell that's what I was told
where do you live actually in a Norway Norway yeah Norway yeah okay well I can assure you the
Netherlands isn't hell or maybe I'm lying and uh it actually is hell it's just a big portal
tell no it's not hell doesn't have a lot of water in it the Netherlands has a lot of water
there's an entire history about the Netherlands with the people in it and its relationship to water
it's complicated and interesting because it kind of uh I know no it's not but uh I was so many
yes before I learned school it was not uh that we lived yeah that's funny
yeah yeah because I probably then I heard about netland in mine because it was totally fine with me
because it's just a map but far behind now in my mind so so you were like uh the Netherlands
means hell yeah the Netherlands it's basically hell so that's fine yeah the Netherlands is
full with water no that's that's legal that can't be you can't have water in the Netherlands that
would that would that would that would ruin everything yeah you have leavens that so hmm
if I probably had much lower in the Netherlands no no we actually don't have a lot of um
geo uh thermo activity we don't have any earthquakes no volcanoes we have to make our earthquakes
ourselves we have no no you replace all your water events with rubber events and then you have
netlands in minecraft yeah yeah that's what you have so much water you just switch them and then
you have the netland from minecraft yeah if you just turn on the on the water into lava then you
basically get the net there of minecraft yeah you just need some some burnt skeletons a few walking
pigs and um and and and big big uh big cry babies which fly around shooting
shooting fireballs which you can play tennis with me you know might even happen did you know
that we actually have created earthquakes ourselves we had to create our own earthquakes we didn't
have any so and and we were kind of jealous of all the other countries having earthquakes and we
were like we want a piece of that pie so I don't think you know it has earthquake too not not
to me as far as I know okay um yeah you want to have earthquakes we have figured out how to make
earthquakes step one go into a farm and find a lot of um gas in the ground step two drain all the
grass gas step three the earth will sink in and you will get your earthquakes hey yeah we we
now have earthquakes in uh chronia it's like the northern part um yeah the the parts near to the
other part which has its own language even which is official even though sign language isn't
official yet that's that's that that's kind of weird isn't it that sign language is is sign language
official there in Norway yes I know is it is like an official language like I think there would be
an official sign language but is it like a language like officially recognized I talk to someone that
have learned it it's kind of not used one kind of it's kind of I I it's kind of each city has
its own language kind of so it's not really so it's not really an official so you so you kind of have
do you kind of then like as far as as far as I thought I was told the gun of
it is and it is the people are forced to use it needs to have something so they have some
they come in but yeah translate outside of the kind of so it's basically there's an um
they they needed to get the bureaucracy done but in sign language but um they didn't know uh in
in which dialect of a sign language to choose which apparently there are a loss of dialect like
every household every every group of sign language using people which come together each can
have their own different dialect think about that there are so many groups of people
all being able to speak sign language coming through together what if every single one of them
had their own kind of language yeah as I understand this half the problem is if it you know
totally is done language it kind of understand yeah you need to sometimes help people with signs
so people have something to so I'm not sure if it's been totally is done language I'm not really
into it but I've been told different things by different teachers okay well and what we have here
if you ask in the big city they are kind of the very high up kind of up in the air they say
or uh oh city language is what the whole country use but if I ask anyone that doesn't live in
that city they disagree with the whole argument so yeah yeah that does sound like like a like a
dialect thing yeah yeah I had to read about that kind of stuff for school and of course my mother
knows lots about it but yeah well we have here basically is we have of course all we have tons of
different kinds of but one I'm focusing on now is going to be the like the sign language it's
like the pure sign language thing it's not connected with Dutch it is the Dutch sign language but it
isn't connected with Dutch at all and it's like another language so oh um it I personally I think
it's more of a language than uh freeze which is an actual language here um hardly anyone speaks it
except in so so freezing cold yeah kind of kind of yeah actually that's that might be
where the word freezing comes from because it's uh up north and it's probably quite cold there um
and you have maybe English as you on the free language so
no we don't have English here no oh I thought you was uh one of the guys that talk about
you have English as your second English in the country no that will speak me just me
I'm there oh I think yeah and uh in the country no no no no no no I've got the I've got one of the
best pronunciations in the school um I think personally that because teachers yeah yeah yeah we
have a two language two languages so of course yeah we have two languages only one is uh is
is is is a regional language and now a park now um in in the press conference with uh with
the prime minister they're even using a um a sign language guide things so all the sign language
people are um saying or signing um like um um we we want to have sign language as an official
language so that's what people want and yeah what were you saying again uh
uh what was I saying but no about having two languages uh you have uh your
Netherlands this Irish language and uh that's so you have not English as your second language
tell you something else um you said you had two but yeah I have uh two uh and you said your
contrast shall I just or shall I uh explain our country has two languages one which is the
official language for the country which everyone uses it's called Dutch and then you have one
which only people in a certain part of a country of the country use I'm not in that part of the
country I don't use it um then I personally grew up speaking Dutch and English so I'm bilingual
I can speak two languages do do you get do you get it now it's like yes so Dutch then it
does our own country but it's the Dutch from or is that Netherlands what do you mean
so our only country that is Dutch land uh do you mean like uh Germany um no no your language is
the language is from your country or is is organ is uh always some land that called the Dutch land
or something um now um I I speak the the language from my country and I speak the language which is
spoken around most of the world English and uh no I'm wondering I have a game that this
kind of world war two that has Dutch then as one of the country you can play us oh that's
Germany that's uh that's I think the um no no you have Germany and you have uh Dutch the same as your
language does it spell as the uh wait I'm gonna type it in a chat no not like no uh it's uh for
letter swing okay wait is it like this yeah it's really good uh this is just the um this is just the
creative of the game not um paying attention to actual uh real world names of the country the
country is called the Netherlands uh in our native language we call it native lands are we
call our language native lands and uh we are native landers if you translate it to English for some
weird reason it goes that we live in the Netherlands we speak Dutch and we are Dutch we don't know
where the Dutch comes from we think it comes from do from from what we call doubts which is German
basically and German comes from the Germanic tribes which lived here long long ago but we don't
but we we we think that happens anyway but it's only in English no other language I think
has it that way or at least not a lot of languages not any languages I know have it that way
so the creators of that game didn't check what the language was actually called we're actually uh
in five minutes we have we have we have we have another hour and I and the sun isn't up yet it's
sun is getting up the sun isn't up yet so yeah people are gonna wake up at this point yeah for
noticed try to search for a thing yeah are we the only two people on right now
if that's not confusing enough stop yeah we're the two that's talking on stop I like talking now
to you I like talking to a pecanus says if that's not confusing enough here in the US we have a group
people we call the Pennsylvania Dutch who are the of German ancestry okay that's just weird that's
I didn't I can kind of get where the whole Dutch German Netherlands doubts came into play like it
it's it's clearly translation um England and the Netherlands that's oh it's from the doge yeah
that's that's how German people called themselves I can't pronounce it because I'm terrible at
speaking German but yeah um to know to know I can only speak English because I'm I'm happy Irish
you probably know that already but do you know that I can't speak the Irish language Gaelic not
many people can that's true I see your back I've got Bluetooth headphones I'm not sure but I
need to push to talk on the on the keyboard so I need to wander up and do things I bet I'm usually
up by three hours already at the time of the day so I need to carry on okay but but yeah not many
people can but have you seen the spelling on this like my name here is misspelled technically it
doesn't have a little little line on the eight which goes to the right which makes a very confusing
because technically I went someone the spelling name correctly it would like I uh uh with with with
the G and the A and all the stuff but except the little the little thing I usually ignore it but
it's technically incorrect how do we pronounce your name Patrick Bodrick and that's even more confusing
because it's an Irish name but pronounced Dutch gotcha I think again you can look to the the
British administration for destroying the Irish language yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm not one that
goes far into Irish language I think it's way too depressing um I I Dutch
Dutch history is way the Dutch history is way more way more less depressing if you ignore all
the slavery and stuff then it's way less depressing and of course there's the whole
world war and blah blah yeah we gotta look forward we need to look forward and uh make peace everywhere
and good times yes yes I'm actually um at one o'clock I um was I was actually uh printing out a
map of the world an empty map and I'm coloring it in and I'm like uh unifying all these uh great
superpowers like um Europe Japan Japan's getting Alaska it's not realistic world view um uh Canada's
getting bigger Mexico is becoming a thing in my map it's big it's really really big now like
imagine if Mexico had all the stuff from the mech which it had before the Mexican Wars then it
then it also gained all the stuff till like the Panama Canal and little further that that's if it
gained all like middle America that that that's how big it is oh I'm happy New Year's to Edmonton
oh yeah happy New Year's to Ed Edmonton where's that where's that uh I believe it's Canada
they could be around Canada so it's the only chase that has that time zone now here in mountain
time zone in the alleged land of Idaho it's just it just uh rolled over as well
happy New Year's December 30 32 2020 that calendar is uh 2020 has just destroyed the calendar
have you guys read that in the chat so did someone else talk to you Mike?
probably what what do you mean I've just been waffling on and on and on oh no I think
someone had slipped up and up for it I know that was probably me yeah yeah if I'm waffling too much
just tell me I'm waffling too much otherwise I'll just keep on waffling until I'm I'll starve today
that's how much I'll keep on waffling I mean isn't this whole thing about waffling yes that's true
but it might not be the most interesting thing in the in the whole world waffling is that the food
you're talking about the waffle the waffle is a food it's a food yet also um it's it's also like
a saying I kind of it's like I never heard about it funny enough what do you say I had a
noise so I never heard about the waffle as a saying before it's like I'm waffling on and on and on
it's like I keep on talking uh and and it's not really interesting and that kind of stuff
I like the waffling I'm wondering what probably someone that doesn't like a waffling heavy
use wet personally I don't like waffles I know it might come to to as a shock but I don't like
waffles I think I think you'd like to talk like a waffling but not eat a waffling hey yeah basically
I like I like to talk a lot about random stuff which I remembered and I don't like eating waffles
I'm actually very picky with my food I wish I would stop but I can't yeah I'm picky it's
hell but uh I like waffles because that is one of the few things I can still eat and I'll not at
home yeah waffles are definitely quite a good um how does water is warm what the hell
warm walls are reminds me of it's been on my computer fans
yeah I was told actually that waffles are nice and I will believe that person waffles are
probably very nice but I so what was it I had you tried the one kind of hard one of the soft one
the one which looks like like a hashtag the one which isn't made of bright it's kind of big and
it was kind of kind of I would say 30 centimeters big it was kind of soft was very chewy I didn't
like it quite try again you know I might I maybe maybe I'll like waffles now it was some years ago
who knows you have two different types one one from two different countries yeah could be you
have the hard work full type and you have yourself to work full type yet was definitely soft
waffle I would think yeah because the hard one is kind of it's very high percent sugar sugar in
as I understand it yeah there was a lot of sugar in it that that's definitely lots of sugar
and but um I know one thing which is better than any waffle
and I'm eating pancakes I I eat pancakes sometimes sometimes I mostly eats the stuff which I
put on the pancakes I eat it off the pancakes um so sometimes I also have pancakes uh taste like
the reflux eight um well I can't remember because the waffle was so such a long time ago and I
only started eating um started eating that because in no way pancake and reflux is more or less
the same thing I think they're quite different here there pancakes definitely thinner they're
it's not the same size but what this uh then the sauce material is the same it's the same soup that
you cook in all way it's it's the same soup the only difference is how much sugar you had in
it in all way if you're waffles and if you if the form is it the shape of that yeah the way
the form and the sugar and that it's in all way this is probably a very different waffle from
the waffle I have eaten if you're waffles when I was like six so I can because I was in a one time
in their alps and tried out other different waffle type and I did this I did did this like it so
it was too hard and too sugary so if you like if you like something um there there um
but I there's something really really nice which is better than any waffle it's called tiramisu
it's amazing it's like it's like um it's like one of those uh being a stuff very app like uh
it's basically a whole lot of mushy sugar together in a big bowl and you can eat it with a fork
or spoon so if you think uh is that if that's your preferred kind of waffle maybe you've put a bit
more sugar or fruit in your in your oh I don't eat fruit that's sorry that's a weird fact about me
I don't like it at all you know I don't even know if it has waffle in it but it seems it seems
to look fairly like like waffle if you scoop it out of the tin because uh and it tastes amazing
tastes amazing so how do you image of it like a link I might I'm gonna look it up wait a minute
uh wiki kind of fair link or something because I send you I'm not sure if you see
the link I send you I forgot to say I send you a kind of a link because I send it and
I don't really forgot about it I'm I'm gonna send the uh okay yeah yeah yeah okay yeah I'm going to
afford to shoot the use I always send it to the whole channel but I didn't
connoisse it to us meant for you oh okay yeah I'm uh I'm going to uh copy pay is um an image
there like a link to an image it's a very clean caught one usually mine are way way gooier
but this will give you the best image I think which you could find in a few seconds oh yeah
because I was just going to copy the link but it was not a link it was some texting something
yeah yeah I don't know what that is but it's so okay then it's not a cake necessarily it's
way too gooey to be a cake but it's a good kind of gooey not bad kind of gooey but it looks like
okay it's way too clean caught it's not realistic here they they probably did it the wrong way
but it's the way I happen here I don't make it but I eat it and it's um no it's basically it's basically
also bad are you unable to find it somewhere else outside your own house
the thingy is definitely a homemade it's definitely homemade thing yeah it's it's better than any
waffle can tell you yeah because I only trust you only have eaten the homemade waffles
yeah and I I have only eaten the like the waffles from like a waffle place like not I haven't ever
eaten a homemade waffle that might that that might mean something I want to do if I ever want
want to do that um because I've I've been the last time I've been to a waffle place was like
when I was very very small so I can I I haven't eaten a waffle since then um but it it's probably
very different because this was just just just the restaurants focused on waffles oh there is a
better waffle than and then and this is a like a real waffle I haven't met anyone in a right
mind who doesn't like this waffle should I tell you the waffle you're talking yeah I've got the
best waffle in the world and it's purely Dutch it's a Dutch waffle it's like if there was a waffle
which would be the most patriotic waffle of the entirety of the Netherlands this would be that waffle
it's called the strobe waffle and they try to make it on the on the British Bake-off and they
call it the stroop waffle it's very roughly doesn't like it yeah but but it's it's really nice if
you're ever in the Netherlands it's not the best quality but it's good enough just go to if you're
in the area just somehow after Covid all people talk about come to my country come to my country
yeah yeah that's true because people want to avoid Covid no one wants to invite people to
work on the before Covid but after yeah come come come they're like used to having people over
they like the Dutch they love to go on holidays can't do that anymore and Dutch terrible at
they they love their freedom they don't have their freedom anymore so they they're not happy
but yeah luckily most Dutch so no you you took a corn yourself don't you know not let
them so oh what so you call yourself your people Dutch people oh yeah because I'm talking in
English and it's the correct thing if I talk in English I call my people Dutch if I talk in Dutch
I call my people Nigerians it's yeah yeah it's just a weird thing of the English language
no it's very bad that you say your thing is what I think it's there I read what we call
your country Netherlands yeah it sounds like the same thing it's probably the same thing because
I use that in English language if you want it to catch on how do I say it Netherlands yeah I
want to bring whole close uh Dutch is doing Norwegian it's probably quite close because the Dutch
back in their heyday what I consider their heyday what most people consider their heyday
there were they were massive traders like you you you've got some war over there in that country well
they um they buy it and sell to the other country and that was just in Europe when they expanded
the Dutch is Europe would be a trade-off yeah they are sent to you it's from again and the big
trade-off picking and make good good at trading hey yeah I still have to there's like like a like a
this thing has things you so I have to switch over off um so I'll have a look at it later but I'm
gonna have a look at it because it seems very interesting but I but it it is it is it a trade is
literally a trader country because then they then they are correct that you got that is that is
smallest that's what you pick in saying a small step uh in smallest differences but kind of you
got one big one being Dutch not she is but kind of a shit so I really hope that being a Dutch
and I never realized what they are supposed to be in no days yeah because some of the countries
in that game does not exist anywhere it's what they used to be called once yeah uh
do still exist but they called something yeah yeah um yeah that's true there are lots of countries
have passed on emerging to one or evolved into a new name all we got is changed a little color of
the flag and move the orange color up a little you might think but there's only three lines in the
flag no there's a hidden fourth line above everything and that's the Uranus literally our royal house
is named after a place which it was named after color I think at least it's literally the house
of orange and it's orange and everything and if you want to be patriotic you have to wear orange
if you don't like orange you're not a patriot I don't really care I don't wear orange I don't have
a lot of orange but if I but yeah maybe best avoided in part Ireland as well yeah yeah there's
did you know that the Dutch uh and the English um uh royal families actually intertwined once
there's this guy who came and he basically uh you could say he conquered England you could say
yeah he was maybe William of Orange we we call him villain villain pure villain we have a loss of them
there we've got when the first guy was named king we uh he was the sixth one already so we did go
through a lot of villains um and and we're now on villain Alexander so um yeah I didn't know
I thought like heroes villain and heroes can't yeah it's not the same thing probably then
no villain not villain there's a lot of that yeah villain and villain is very very similar there's
another word which is also very similar but it's the same word but then a different meaning
and different spelling but basically yeah it's it's it's basically William but then the Dutch
version the the the real I would say the real version it's the verge of the
and the and they're made into a villain like yeah you will live kind of yeah the nature other than
the hall of the place do yeah yeah in twenty twenty yeah go
There was a big, a big influx of Dutch, I did hear a historically of a kind of invasion
of the Dutch into the UK, there were just a lot of Dutch, was it soldiers or people, they
all came and surrounded London kind of thing, but it wasn't a violent, I don't know, because
they were, the English always say, no, we invited them, they invited, they didn't take over,
we just invited them to come live here and be kings, not start out, not, not, not
lowly start outers, which basically were like presidents of the Netherlands, no, that's
bad, we have kings, but, but the Dutch always say, no, we conquered, we conquered, we, we
were conquerors, well, we don't really talk about it a lot, but definitely that conversation
did into at some point, I think it's great, if all the people can come in and say, you
know, just tell the best joke and say, you're the winner, you told the best joke, you can
sit on the throne and tell us jokes all day, we'll pretend you're in charge, get on with
that business, that's funny, if someone were actually to do that, do you know, sometimes
I think, like what if you had someone who wasn't breaking the law, but was being a terrible
person and you just have like a court of people, like a group of people which are all from
the same kind of grouping, like represents a safe of each group and then, yeah, and they
would vote on if the person was morally good or morally bad, that would be, I think that
would be quite funny, that would be quite funny, and then, yeah, I think that like every
day for every person, it works through their life and they talk to all these other people
and each giving opinions on what they think is good or bad in the world, yeah, yeah, but
if you had like a actual system with like a judge and instead of the punishment being
like, like to pay something or jail time or execution, you would just have to feel bad
for the rest of the day or something weird like that, yeah, it's just the karma of your
day, just those around comes around and it works for most people, I guess, yeah, actually,
if you were to believe some people, it does already exist, but I honestly, I think that
would just be very funny, you would have like totally serious people and it would be all
very serious and it would be very serious, but it would also be hilariously funny, yeah,
all about perspective and recognizing, I guess what's funny is real, I think, just have
left it is or how maybe even one person exactly like sees that thing as so serious, whereas
another person just recognizes that it's ridiculous, that's part of the accommodation of
the community I think, but I got the idea, do you know how I got the idea, I was, I usually
just, when I watch YouTube, I check my recommended, this time there was something about Reddit
and I was like, that seems interesting, I'm gonna have a look at that and boom, suddenly
Reddit videos are spammed into my recommended box, and yeah, so that's how I got the idea,
because YouTube spanned me forward recommended stuff, yeah, that's why I hate it if someone
sent me a YouTube link, of course, the moment I click on it, whatever it is, I can get
spanned by it, yeah, yeah, it wasn't even what, well, who knows what it's up to, it was
so much, because I need to take the link and then open a different app also, but not
logged in YouTube and then kind of, I found a way, just watch the video and dislike it,
or if you have another one recommended, and it isn't going away, if you just ignored
and it isn't going away, click on it, dislike it and go away again, that, I think you need
to concentrate on what you're doing and set to your intention and you know ignore those
abstractions, I sometimes think of the algorithm trying to persuade me, you know, because
there's a good thing, you can go and think at this miss those total videos, and it
takes me like a half a year to dismiss all those I actually did on, yeah, like working
for the algorithm, yeah, and I need to go to history and delete all history of the video,
so you are destroying it for me, yeah, like there was basically, so each time I see
a YouTube link, I don't want to hit that, I don't want to fuck it by YouTube recommendations,
yeah, it would be handy if you could like switch them off, but I, if you have a second
demo, so that you used only for not logged in to YouTube, that's pretty handy, but I forgot
what I wanted to say, if you have a browser that has in e-tomode or kind of private mode,
that doesn't have to log in, that is what I'm always using, each time someone sent me
a link on YouTube, remember, I need to copy the YouTube link, make a new private window
and copy them, so I'm kind of irritating each time someone sent me because I need to do
all the steps, I cannot just click the link, big news, the sun has arrived, he has arrived
to come and party, just to date for the party, I'm wondering if we got a sun, how late
is it there, I'm not seeing outside there yet, no sun, nowhere to see, another hour I think
before sunrise here, we're half past eight here, so I think, well, they might wake up, they
might not wake up for a little while more, I think maybe in around 12 or something, probably
the sun has come in the rain, but I know around 4 or 5 is thunderstorms, so me, yeah, could
be, yeah, I don't know if I'm the only one awake, like my sister was awake, oh, you mean
yeah, I thought you meant you remember in the world, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you're
definitely awake, I'm talking with you, yeah, because my listening about sister is not
speaking about going to sleep, you're going to sleep now, you're going to sleep now, that I thought
about the last hour or so, yeah, I'm just kind of probably going to sit here and talk about
something, so I forgot about it, yeah, but here it's now basically morning,
everyone's waking, well, everyone should be waking up, but it's new year's day, what am I
kidding, no one's waking up until at least 12, yeah, you get some, so you get totally quiet still,
yeah, it's totally quiet here too, I don't know if my little sister is asleep right now,
she wants it to stay awake the whole night, but it's very dark there, so she might be asleep,
yeah, the rest are all asleep still, so, or I'm the only one awake, or I'm the only one doing
something interesting, either way, you're the only one talking to someone else, that's true,
probably, yeah, I'm the only one doing something with sound, without maybe having noise cancelling
headphones in, those can get very annoying sometimes, not for me, but for other people,
I'm not wearing them, so, yeah, so noise cancelling, noise cancelling for you,
for you, for you, hey, well I've misplaced mine, misplaced as in, I left them in a safe place,
and I have forgotten what that safe place was, and I don't care, I also need to drink something
soon, because I haven't done that since three or four o'clock, I've been just sitting here talking
the whole time, yeah, because after the three days, you have been the thing that keep this room alive,
yeah, I've been, when I started, they were talking about weird stuff, everyone was talking about
something, I can't remember it, Colonel, yeah, the first time, everyone was talking about a
Colonel, and I, this was like the second or third time, I came in and checked on what everyone
was saying, yeah, you, you was, you didn't talk or didn't say anything about time, no, no, yeah,
that was because I was watching nature documentaries, yeah, I was still recording, yeah, so I'm not sure,
if you're just listening or, yeah, well I did listening at some points, but um, so not before you
start, not before we talked about the Colonel that you're doing this, no, at the Colonel, I,
I listened, and I listened for a little while, instead of just listening for a few seconds,
and I decided to say something at a point, I can't remember which, and then I just kept
talking, because that's what apparently I like doing the most, yeah, talking is fun, it's like,
when you're playing D&D, that's actually very fun with D&D, when you're, when you're playing D&D,
you're constantly talking, and that's fun, like there are two kinds of sessions, one session is
where you're planning stuff for the entire session, and you never get stuff done, the other session
is where you're in combat for the entire session, and you just end up in combat, and then maybe
why I cannot do a D&D, because it's my, I need to be like you are now to do English, and you don't
have to, well it's handy if you have the PHP, or the DMG player handbook, or Dungeon Master Guy,
or Monster Manual, Monster Manual sad, it doesn't have a nice, nice thing, it's just the PHP,
the Monster Manual, and the DMG, it doesn't have that, but it's handy to know English,
but it's not, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not what I meant, I meant, if I'm going to
join you guys, it's probably not, very probably if I want to talk my own language to you guys,
and not your language, in my own language, well, it doesn't go fine, and you kind of,
use drum preset saying there's a trance, like all the different ways!
Yeah, but I'm understanding you're just fine right now, you want to join, I think,
have you seen it, refund them, rejoin you guys?
I think I did! Yeah, that was you, you were randomly joining us at some weird moments,
Yeah, I have randomly done you many times and hope you was something else on D&D
because if I'm not really in the mood to talk English, I just want to listen in
and D&D is not just listening, it's getting very involved with them. It's kind of fair.
It's not something you just join randomly and leave again.
Kind of. Yeah, that was, it was funny just when you suddenly, the first time when you
suddenly came in, I was like, who's this guy? What's he doing here?
Yeah, I think you asked that. Yeah, once or twice, I randomly joined, but after
sometimes you stop asking about each other. Yeah, because you joined for so many times
of us like, oh, he's that guy who joined the time before. Yeah, fine, let's go on with doing what
we're doing. Yeah, if you want to join, you can always just ask, you know? Yeah, I think I
doing not then you start and kind of, I've never been then you kind of ending because I thought
you'd done a little later, but then you all gone, so. What do you mean, like, what do you mean?
No, I thought, think about, okay, you do your game and I want to do it after you've done the game
so we can talk about how we're going to work and kind of after talk, but you're always gone,
each time I try to ask to do it because I'm not sure how long we're going to be supposed to be.
Well, I would then, if you want to join afterwards, well, we're supposed to be two hours,
and it's quite, quite clear. It's like if you joined the last 10 minutes, you usually catch us,
but it's very, we're very quick out of there. Usually, yeah, usually Klaatu has to leave for another
meeting and he, and it's like a few minutes till, until the end, and then he runs off and then
after we all say bye, and then we leave and do our own separate things. So Klaatu, there you go,
I was in here before today.
What did you say?
No, before today, someone was in here called something to him.
Is that the guy you were talking about?
Klaatu, I don't understand the question.
So, how do you write that?
Don't get it.
No, if you type that name out.
Oh, yeah, I can type it the name.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'm very, very, very bad at names. That doesn't help me play out kind of game with many names.
I'm very bad at learning names and kind of need to look at them again and again and ask again and again.
He has done, if you really want to remember his name, he's got a series called
Tabletop Gaming, I think. That's how I got into D&D, so I think, yeah, and
So is that someone named that in the room that you're doing with game?
Klaatu is the guy who's basically who is our DM, who makes the world and stuff, you know.
So, game master?
Yeah, it's the same thing.
I know the concept of a D&D, I never played it because it's all the different things I
doesn't like about. The only thing I don't, I don't like a fantasy in one game.
I didn't know that before I tried to play it with you guys.
I tried to listen in.
Yeah, I know what it was before I tried to listen in to you guys.
I kind of knew about the concept, but I never tried to listen to anything.
You know, I've always thought it was kind of rude to try to listen in with people playing it.
If you relived, but I thought this was kind of a...
Yeah, if you want to make a character, I can do that right now.
I just need to head upstairs and get my books, and then I'm ready, but it would, I don't have,
don't have the problem is you don't have a copy there, do you, of the player handbook? No.
Technically, we could then make a character for you if you want to.
It's a very fun process. So a call to use pop up, and I play for one season, and you kill it off.
You could do that, or you might enjoy it so much that you want to play it again and again and
again, because that's what we're doing. We're playing it. We basically, we started and we did
one adventure, and it was a very good adventure, and then we were like, do we want to do another
adventure? It was an unanimous yes, and then we went to another, and another, eventually CRVS
left the game because he had other stuff which took up his time, and we were kind of lonely.
We needed another friend, so then Benny joined, and then we played until we're in hell.
So in that one?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're in the Netherlands. First layer of the Netherlands.
Yeah.
It actually, in actually the hell, this layer of hell where we're in, there's not a loss of
fire involved. There are some dragon demons which we, which we, um, which we have to escape from,
and a giant, a semi-autonomous, um, a truck of death riding slowly towards us, but we escaped
luckily, so yeah, and the shipwreck. I know, that's probably why it doesn't like, uh,
D&D because it's very unique, you cannot play it alone really.
Ah, yeah, that's the one problem. That's the one problem of D&D. You need other people.
Yeah, that's, uh, the reason I like Minecraft, but I don't like D&D, and I'll try to understand
you like Minecraft. What is the big difference between Minecraft and D&D?
Well, and you're kind of pronounced it, it's all leaves, it gets, uh, weekend,
weekend, and so don't just go strong and stronger, and I like to play single player games,
and that's also not good in D&D.
Yeah, I'm, even in Minecraft, I'm terrible at single player. I just, I just joined the world.
I, uh, I have one survival single player, and, um, there's this, and it's very weird.
It's very weird. I, I decided to make it beautiful first. Um, oh, uh, hey, okay. Well,
by Apikannis, I hope I pronounce you well. Yeah, it's close enough.
Uh, Apikannis, thanks for giving me a matrix thing.
Ah, yes, and yeah, I'm glad somebody pointed it out to me.
Yes, I can't point it out to you about matrix, and then, so, you, you, uh,
it, uh, it, uh, uh, uh, yeah, glad to finally find it, so I'll be on there.
Yeah, I didn't thought about asking for it.
Ah, yeah, I figured I was on, on, on anyway, so, uh, I, I would, uh, ask all I could.
So glad I did.
Yeah, I was good listening in, and, uh, happy new year to everybody, and, uh,
I'm in the alleged, uh, the alleged state of Idaho.
Oh, so you, uh, midnight zone, yeah, almost 1 a.m.
Okay, yeah, that's like, um, seven hours back.
Yeah, it's around the time I joined this place in my time.
Yeah.
It's also around the time I joined this place in my time, except a little later, I joined it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I was a five-talk pick-in, and then you, uh, time to join this.
Yeah, I'm just glad I made it this year.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, all right.
Well, I will see everybody on Matrix then, and, uh, happy new year to y'all.
Happy new year.
Happy new year to you, dude.
Yep.
So, did you have a speaking background he has, and he was having his microphone,
but did I use hair in my head?
What do you say?
When he was talking, it has something, uh, squeaking in his head.
Yeah, I did notice that.
That was, uh, yeah.
So I was wondering if it's just in my head because my head is kind of...
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, it was, uh, it was, uh, I could hear it, too.
Yeah, it was, uh, it was, uh, it was no, because my air is too good.
So sometimes I can help that people cannot hear at all.
Uh, cheap headset, that's the problem.
No, I have a too good headset.
So I have a, I have a headset with a microphone.
I have a cool gamer headset now for D&D.
No, I have someone I talk to.
I can hear the fans, uh, the computer fan in the room.
Canas says, uh, no, I mean my cheap headset is cheap with a cheap microphone.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, he's been talking in the chat.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I thought that too.
Well, it wasn't, uh, we could stare here, you perfectly clear.
We can, yeah, perfectly clear, but do you have a squeaking sound,
getting louder and louder, you, uh, longer, you talk?
Light echo, but apart from that, it was, it was perfectly understandable.
Yeah, totally understandable.
No problem in that apartment.
No, my, yeah, it was a white noise in the background.
Yeah, I recently learned a white noise.
It's called white noise because it has every kind of noise in it like white light.
You have something called pink noise.
What's pink noise?
Because then I talked about the white noise.
I got pink noise at the end of the tip.
But how do you get pink noise?
What's pink noise?
I'm not sure.
I'm not remembering right now.
But I remember when I was short for it,
I get different kind of noise and pink noise about something.
Apple canas has got the answer.
He's got a Wikipedia page right here.
Gonna open it.
Pink noise or one slash f noise is a signal or a process with a frequency spectrum such
that the power or special spectral density power per frequency interval is inversely proportional
to the frequency of the signal.
In pink noise, each octave interval having or doubling in frequency carries an equal amount
of noise and noise energy.
Pink noise is one of the most common in signals and biological systems.
The name arises from the pink appearance of visible light with this power spectrum.
This is in contrast with white noise which has equal intensity per frequency interval.
So it's opposite maybe.
Yeah, kind of.
It's kind of like opposite inverted or something.
I didn't know.
I wasn't actually reading along with what I was saying.
You didn't listen to what you was reading.
Yeah, I wasn't.
I was I was reading enough to say it.
I wasn't I'm at that point where I definitely feel fine,
except I'm a little thirsty, but I you can you can feel.
I can feel that my brain is not computing.
It is not having a fun time.
I'm having a fun time.
I'm perfectly grand.
Yep, my brain is a bit complaining.
She quiet down a little.
I don't have a headache, but it's like parts of my brain have been like,
okay, it's it's time to go to bed now.
I'm ignoring you if you're not sleeping.
So they're not doing their job.
Yeah, so you got them, but they're not.
Yeah, each other.
A bit, yeah, yeah.
I've, I have dubbed it my zombie mode.
Sonny mode.
No, no, zombie.
Son, what?
Son, you know, Mike, you have green things.
Let's go around in the night, zombie.
Zombie, oh, that would make way more sense.
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Only that, yeah, that doesn't like a zombie.
Yeah, yeah, I'm getting a tired, a little more tired.
And you know, that is my mental zombie mode.
I probably pronounce it if you want, because I'm getting mostly
a bit more pronounced and good to go, going to hell.
Well, if you're tired and you aren't doing a crazy idea,
like saying all night and day for, for new year,
then I would suggest you should go to sleep if you're tired.
Some very sensitive duty to always be the last one, number.
Yeah, so I kind of all the rhythm is but wisdom.
I have always, duty is stay to be the last one.
But I accidentally, okay, I'm the last one.
And the new people have been, I hope, deep joining.
And I, okay, I'm going to stay on.
One of my lungs is over 12 hours on number, nonstop.
Not knowing a way from number.
So you're basically waiting for everyone to leave.
And just when everyone left, you declared yourself to winner.
You stayed as long as possible.
And then the new guys come in.
Yeah, I don't let the more and once more than once.
Yeah, that's funny.
That's funny.
Yeah, when I have something like that,
and I'm not too stubborn to be like,
no, I have to finish this now.
Then I, then I just give up the mumble game.
Who will win?
It's a question.
I haven't brought supplies.
I do need actually to get a drink of water now.
Yeah, if you won't mind, maybe also going to get some food
so it might take a little longer, okay?
So fine.
Yeah, but I probably, I'm looking at the reason to live.
So it goes too quiet too long.
I probably live.
Yeah.
But it's just starting with the end of the up again.
You probably see me.
Had you done your guys?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then you're just listening in.
Listening in.
So, I'm not sure how it's supposed to go.
It can now ask questions when you're doing a D&D,
or are you actually in the zone on D&D?
When you're playing the D&D,
you can certainly ask questions.
If you're watching, I think you can also just ask questions.
If you're doing it well,
you just ask one of them big games about it,
because if I ask someone that doesn't do the game,
someone like me that's working on the game is...
You know, I'm actually...
I consider myself a new with Dungeons and Dragons.
I have only played for a year or something,
a little more than a year.
But I only do it for around a year or something.
Yeah, I know.
Yeah, when you started playing Minecraft a little before,
basically, because you said you started playing
not Minecraft a D&D.
No, I am looking at my own D&D,
what's the first time you've ever started?
Yeah, when we started lurking around in D&D,
that was when Clats 2 started the game, right?
Yeah, I...
It's not really for the wing, but it was this year, but...
Yeah, it was this year.
I was looking for something else.
That was the first time I actually played a proper game,
except on my birthday.
Yeah, so I was joining you for the first time,
and blogging for a whole year.
Yeah, yeah, that's fun, that's funny.
But yeah, a little before that,
like, I have my birthday in September,
so we started in April, so like half a year before it,
I started my D&D career, basically.
So it's not too much of a difference.
Yeah, but you were sort of into it,
but I was kind of lurking on the outside.
Yeah, well, but if you're looking up...
side, you can still join whenever you want.
You can also leave whenever you want.
It's like total freedom can just choose what you want to do.
Yeah, because I didn't know about the rules,
and each time I want to ask about the rules,
I didn't find you before, I didn't find you after,
so it's one thought kind of fun, they're into it.
The guy you need to ask is Clats 2.
That guy knows basically anything about Dungeons and Dragons.
He knows way more than me.
Yeah, you have been in Olbe.
I've seen your name each time I joined.
You kind of always...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
This guy that talked to me, kind of,
he is in, you're only, people are like,
oh, someone joined us, kind of, no one else,
he kind of recognized me at all in the room,
and I've fought every time I talk a mumble,
even now I just have the list of names displayed.
I have nothing else to do except maybe throw dice,
so and can get really distracted by stuff.
So...
Yeah, like, I do have a number full screen,
and that is the only thing I do.
Yeah, yeah, so I usually know to start kind of thing,
but when it becomes more common,
I usually just ignore it, like, when someone,
like, has internet problems,
and they have internet problems so much,
I just basically ignore it.
Until they come back and ask what happened,
or it's their turn to do anything.
But if you want to know about the rules,
I can tell you a bit about the rules.
No, no, I kind of, if I want to just join, try it out,
so I can try to open it in the session,
or do I need to wait for the next time you're around?
Well, if you want to join one of our games,
I think everyone would be happy for you to join,
because it's always a good to have a new player join,
and yeah, maybe just one adventure for you to try out,
and then decide what you want to do.
Personally, I think that seems like a good idea.
Of course, it always has to go through the other guys,
and Klaatu, he is the dungeon master after all,
same as the same master.
So, ask me a new thing,
that when the guy that, uh,
acknowledge me as a possible player.
Yeah, yeah.
But, um,
so I thought, if I want to ask someone about the joining,
it's probably the only guy that recognize me as a possible player.
Yeah, are you talking about me or Klaatu now?
Yeah, you, because Klaatu has never talked to me ever.
Well, and each time I join, before I have to, he's always gone, so.
Yeah, Klaatu wakes up early in the morning,
he, um, then he goes, drinks some coffee,
and he, um, comes into the, the D&D thing,
and then he plays D&D, and then he has to rush off for his next meeting.
That's basically, that's what I figured out was the life of, of, uh, uh,
world, Klaatu.
Yeah, that, that's why it's so difficult to get before after here,
because it's now or before and after.
Yeah, and there's hardly any before I have to, so yeah,
I tried it once, and I was there in the entire session,
so it must be like, like, uh, ten times as hard for you,
well, when, when you're just sneaking in, trying to be, uh, there at the correct time.
Yeah, and Klaatu not, uh, disturbingly,
yeah, much in, to not be looking too much,
and then, uh, yeah, not getting it, because, uh, Klaatu,
grab what time you're supposed to be done,
it will just be context, I guess, and I'll,
it's about, it's about, um, uh, eight,
it's about, well, for me, it's eight.
Um, uh, we, we start at, um, 19 UTC,
and it's two hours long, so that would be, uh, 21 UTC, um,
personally, uh, I would advise you, if you were,
to, uh, want to come for after I don't think you'd need to, um,
but then, um, just coming in at, at the beginning would be
handier, because, uh, everyone rushes off at the end,
they, uh, have, they have, uh, nights to go through.
So it's better coming in before, because I'll try to come in
after, and I just gave it up.
Yeah, it's never precisely on time,
because, uh, of course, you want to have it as long as possible,
um, and like you, but, but also it's, uh, yeah,
but we start at 1900 UTC, that's when we start.
So, yeah, yeah, of course, it sounds like you didn't
have the same time zone.
Uh, yeah, but that's UTC, so that's, uh, that's like
world time, time decided something, um, yeah, because
I have the same time zone as, uh, Germany.
Yeah. Uh, is that the same parts of Germany as, um, yeah, yeah.
Just don't, yeah, do some zones.
Yeah, it, I didn't, I, I don't think so, actually.
I don't think so, but you see from wrong here.
We are in Germany, yeah.
We, we are definitely with, uh, Germany, um, I can know that.
Because if I want to be less picky than I'm saying what time zone is,
I'll be already pick a Berlin as my time zone.
Yeah. Well, I, I, I think, uh, yeah, no, I think it's the same time zone.
Um, yeah, but, uh, but yeah, um, just, uh, yeah.
So now you know the time and it's, um, uh, I, I just know it's
1900 UTC and summertime, winter time, of course,
messes up everything because you know, summertime, winter time,
just messes up everything. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think
we might have scrapped it this year, like last time and we're never doing,
doing that again. It was terrible mistake. We shouldn't have done it, um,
but I'm not sure. I didn't have it all my life, then. Uh, I, I did have it all my life.
Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. But, um, but, but I, I think they're just gonna, uh,
I, I, I think they might have been, they might have shot it off,
but I don't know for certain. You just know before the summer,
if they, they, if you're in summer and they're not toned,
we'll go around when you know, okay, yeah, that's, that's, that's, that's,
that's right. And then if it's not this year, it's not going to be any year,
because you want to bring that back. That would, that would be stupid and just
makes the parter. Yeah, need to go around and turn
with like one or back a mono forward. Yeah, it's so annoying.
Like my watch, my watch is already terrible. It's said like a full
of minutes or something before that it was 12. It said it was 12,
like a minute or two. And, um, so when it changes the time,
I, it only has three buttons. I don't know which one to press in which order
to get it to change the, change the hour. It's very complicated.
Yeah, I hate my car because of it, because it's so hard to,
in my car, I have one button to change the clock. One, one, now I hate it,
because it hold on. How many seconds I hold it in to be if I'm changing the clock,
changing something else. I just hate it though. Yeah, that sounds terrible.
Yeah, because if I hold it to, uh, hold it, uh, short, I used to the seconds,
a little longer. I do the minute and then I do the 10 minutes and I do the hours.
And I accidentally, it's possible, uh, they're all as opposed to I need to do it once again.
One, uh, uh, uh, uh, yeah, that's terrible. Yeah, terrible.
But I didn't know so many years ago, I can do 10 minutes and the hours. I did it
minutes and minutes. I did kind of a whole 24-7 minute, click, minute, click, minute, click,
around the whole and I was kind of hated. Uh, uh, I just, long recently, I can hold it
even longer and then it started to come fast. I didn't know what so many years I hated to do it.
I even had, uh, intentionally two weeks into the summertime or two into wintertime, one hour
or one on my, on my, uh, on my, uh, on my, uh, car driving clock because it was so hard to change.
Yeah, I have to say my watch, I like a few weeks before wintertime and I always forget that it's
coming. Um, it, it's just, it, I, I just changed it back and that's because I was, I'm like,
okay, so it's been so long and I haven't had the correct watch in ages. So I'm going to change it
back. Yeah. So it kind of looked at the computer. What is the computer clock? Okay. That is what
is supposed to be and I look, go to back to computer, take a clock with me, set it to that
and then go round to set it in different clocks. Oh yeah. I have a clock in each of my rooms
and I just hate the time I need to change it. So I, I'm totally on board with your idea of getting
to freedom. Yeah. Yeah. It's, if you want to, like I said earlier, just take the time
in where the sun is above you. And if you can't decide which place you have to stand, just stand
in the middle. And then the sun, and then if the sun is above you, it's, yeah. I, I, I think that's
kind of obvious, isn't it? Yeah. You were asking around for it before I'm not showing you
asking me, but I've forgotten. Yeah. I was just, just waffling. Conversations usually go
around in circles, also having to notice we mentioned that thingy twice, mention time zones twice.
We've, and we, we, we, we talked about waffling earlier and now I said waffling again and we're
probably going to talk about that except I'm talking about circle conversations now. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So, circle conversation. Yeah. Oh my god. I bet you're about to. Hey, you said
it correctly. I'm, you bet you, I'm bet you're doing it. Well, the most of us. Yeah. And I keep
having a dry, dry throat. Do you mind if I just quickly run and get some water? I'm parked.
And you're like a sea on the land. Wanting water, wanting water. Yeah. And get dry and dry and
you just, I'm going to fly. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Go. So someone else in here. Hello. Hello.
This is more than a sea. Hello. Hey, do you miss me? Do you miss me? Oh, there's
me. Oh, there's me. Oh, I hate hearing my voice. I hate hearing my voice.
I fully understand that. Yeah. Yeah.
Well, well, since they got some water, I'm also going to get all their, all their
essentials as food. I haven't eaten food. I haven't eaten it in like six hours or something.
Like six hours or something. I don't know. All year? No, no, no, no, no, all year. It's, it's,
it's, it's nine years. So I've eaten it at three. And I've been just walking. I've been just
walking, walking, walking. Yeah. It's, yeah. Just talking about stuff. Oh gosh, so
much better. Is he echoing your voice? Low than you're talking. Um, what do you mean? No,
he's willing. It's, it's low than you're talking. So he has, uh, low the output and you're talking.
So I cannot hear your second, uh, the echo started. I cannot tell what you're saying before
it echo. Because it's low than you're saying. It sounded higher than one of us saying.
So we totally canceled out what you were saying. Each time you start talking and you need a
blab on to keep it kind of the same. If you just, if you stopped, if you kind of echo,
but it's a new blab non-stop, it's totally fine because you used a delay. Yeah, yeah.
I don't know what you're saying. Yeah, I, I was saying that I hate my voice. I hate hearing
my voice. I don't hate my voice. I think my voice is a great voice. Yet I hate hearing it.
And then you get your five minutes non-stop hearing your voice. Yeah, yeah. I have to say that.
No, no. He didn't hear what he was saying. He was going away.
Yeah, I can probably open the curtains. It's like sunny outside. Well, sunny except for all the clouds.
It's one of those great days, you know, a day that's completely grey. It's just grey.
I got to go outside because you're talking about the sun. I look to see if I go to the sun.
No sun, but I got snow. Fuck me.
Snow. Oh, you have snow. We haven't had snow this entire year.
2020. No snow. None.
No, this year you probably not have snow, but I not have the last year or this year snow.
No, I have it in the, I have snow in last year, but not after the summer.
No, what, what, what?
Not snow after summer.
So yeah, it doesn't snow after summer, yeah. I'm just, I'm just going to get some other stuff I need
to survive. So you're going to have water. You were fast. I got, I got my water. It was just on the
table and there was, you need to reach out for water. You were so fast. No, I had to run
all the way to the table, which I can see from here. It's like two rooms away.
Yeah, I'm hiding in a very back room of that entire house and then there's old bathroom
we don't use anymore. And the eating space. And in the eating space, there was a, there's a tap
and there's, there was my glass. So I had a glass.
Yeah, so you need to get the, to run, get the, for the water tap, get water and then run back to a
container. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's how it goes. Yes. Yeah, if, if, if you have something you need
and, if you have something in Minecraft, but you, you can't really stop, then that's how it goes.
You just, you just, you, you just pray nothing, nothing happens to you when you're gone. Yeah.
Yeah. I was always funny when I come back and I'd get creeped.
Oh, that's the worst. You know, shall I describe my, my, my, my Minecraft, my, my, my most
greatest accomplishments of Minecraft still now in survival. It's the literal worst.
It's in 1.16.4 at the moment. And it's, um, so there's this mountain. I live in a mountain. And
in, I tried to make it. So have you played since 1.6? 1.16. Oh, 16. 1.16.
1.4. No, I actually started playing at 1.12. That's very late. Um, of course, I was like four when
the game originally, uh, originally, uh, came out like, well, not the original, not 1.0, but like,
when it was started to get created and that kind of stuff, alpha, beta, whatever. That was, uh,
to 2009. I think maybe, yeah, I was, maybe I was five, but, yeah, I was straight to the game.
I started in the 9.8. What's my first version? What was added then?
You had the, and that though, you have a great tape there. So you just got creative. That's way
before I started. That's what I started in 1.12. That was the, that was the one before
the, a classic update. That was the one with, with different colors. I stopped playing
new version and 12. One point, uh, the first version you played is right before I stopped playing it.
Yeah. I look at it. So we have exactly the different, uh, yeah. Yeah. Uh, like I, I, I,
like, I was already, I knew about Minecraft, like in the way beginning, um, not, not way beginning,
but like, there was redstone, there was pistons, there was minecarts, power drill, that kind of
stuff. Not that, not a lot, no observers, I think yet. But there was, yeah, the, the, the Minecraft
handbook, uh, redstone updated handbook had just come out. I remember that. It was new. Um,
and that's, uh, when I, uh, that was the last thing I remember from being, like, really into
Minecraft, uh, and, uh, except from Minecraft pie. I was, um, I asked for Minecraft. I got
Minecraft Minecraft pie, which if you have ever played Minecraft pie is supposed to be a coding
thing, not a, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, non-coding
thing that was, uh, one of the subtle tricks my dad tried to use and failed miserably to get
us to program more. So it's your father. We can't keep it at some time in this place. But
did I miss understand something in the, uh, my father is, uh, uh, uh, as stuff on, uh, H, HBR. Uh,
it's because of him that I am here right now. No, so obviously he's, uh, he's snickered on this
place then. I know people, uh, I think it's just, can fallon, I think, like, I have my real name on
this. It, it's my real name. I used my real name for my thing. I haven't got a cool nickname yet.
Not like all the cool kids. Um, I have my real name too. Oh, cool. For my additional, uh, uh, uh,
yeah. I know what she P E F, you know, everyone would just call me PJ, which they do already.
Like, uh, I have some weird, I have some weird nickname. Yeah, no, they're just too weird.
Let's continue talking about the thing we were talking before because the weird, weird,
weird nicknames, uh, we're, we're, we're, they're just PJ. Yeah, both thing on the side of
the internet. Yeah. So I've, I've got the space and I, uh, I, I usually play and create it. Um,
but, but basically it's a, I, I built in the side of the mountain and I made a nice
mine thing with logs. I think the old red retro style, you know, with the logs and the planks
and the cobble. I think it, it's really, it can really be brought back into the mainstream. You know,
it's people don't use it anymore. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's now all about concrete and, uh, uh,
the thing I like, uh, I, I mostly play one version because it has a bug in it that I, I use,
I like it very much and it's got the bug fixed by the next version. So I stick to one version.
So, um, one point eight point nine is a version I stay on. All my new self works. One point eight point
nine. Yeah. Wow. Wow. I'm just, so have you even played one point thirteen? I'm not played
past eight point, uh, no one point eleven. One point eleven. Wow. The newest versions are played
ever. So you haven't even met parrots. Uh, I looked at the different videos for intros for all
the new versions. Yeah. The videos in Minecraft, uh, give us, wow, to introduce different things.
I think it was bitten and not really playing. I started playing. I made an obsidian
shacked in creative to protect from the creepers in one point twelve and the game has changed so
much since then that the village, which I called home, which I spammed with villagers has just,
it completely broke or no villager had had to trade anymore. The villagers were revamped so,
so I couldn't live in a village anymore, but I still did and yeah, uh, yeah, and there was river.
It was a crazy world. I tried all the best stuff to protect my villagers and the one
rendering trader I once captured. Yeah. You haven't even met one rendering traders yet.
Really, the, you, you should try one point sixteen point four or one point seventeen when it comes out
that that will be, uh, it's, it's gonna be the summit. It's gonna be a long wait, but it's,
it's from what we have already. It's enough to fill a small update. Yeah. I'm, I'm a kind of
more into old games kind of stuff. Yeah. I would be, I have a little young to know that I'm really
into getting and trying to get some friends to play with me, but it's taking forever to get
the people to play with me. Well, what's this called? No, no. Oops. I said something and then I
said something and I forgot to kind of point down something. So sorry. I'm not totally in here.
I'm like you jumping, ruffling in my head, not ruffling in my zang. I don't, I, uh, okay.
Because you asked the question. So I understand that I start ruffling in my head.
Yeah, and that's, that's how, that's how I ruffle. It's professional ruffling.
And you pointed out I'm ruffling in my head and I didn't get what you before you pointed out.
Yeah, sorry. And so I'm still talking about Minecraft as my old game. It's the newest game I have,
I've played, but it's the old version is kind of, for you, it's the old game because you never
played the version. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's, yeah. I know to get people to, I have some friends
that said that they wanted to join my server and it each year is getting worse than those to join
the old server. You said 1.8, right? Yeah, one, well, 1.8. That's right before the, um, 1.8.9.
That's right before the 1.9 update. And I was a massive update. The people, the people from,
um, the, how do you call it? The UHC people and stuff. All the people who like the old combat,
are still playing that version, I think. Yeah. Yeah. You're one of those people like the old
combat with the, with the, with this, with the like right click sword where you can kind of
block stuff. Yeah. That, that, that is the version. Spam clicking. You know, they're trying to bring
spam clicking back. No, but I also played for that, I played for our bug. If you, um, if you want to
travel fast, uh, legally travel fast without cheat, uh, you're kind of trying not to cheat, but
you can then right click on the minecart and you can go very fast through the land in minecart.
It is a bug that I really get really hooked into and I have a whole world that you can take one
second to travel like a thousand blocks in a second. Wow. That's even better than
Enderpole Stasis, Stasis Chamber. Yeah. So it's kind of fourth, last slow stuff.
You know, there is another way, it's, it's definitely not as fast as such a bug, but you can, uh,
fly. I don't know. You can go pretty fast. There's a tunnel design. You can use up to four blocks,
each on your click. So if you have a cheat click on, you get it in 10 seconds.
That's what I talk about, but I'm not acting, doesn't click fast enough.
Uh, okay. Well, but I then have full control. I can, each click, I come there fast,
there I will want to go, and if I want to click too much, then to click back, then I'll
want to step off. That's, that's pretty cool. Yeah. And the new, the new version after it,
instead of you, each time you click, you get right 10 to 20 seconds before you can click again.
That's annoying. Yeah. So annoying. I was hating it so much. I used, okay, nope. I used
to go back and now I have four words in that version. And each time I try something new,
the bug I hate is fixed and I hate it. Yeah. A very specific bug fix kind of.
Yeah, I don't think it's something a Mojang would allow back into the game, unless they could
make it where if you had spent literal hours doing some, like, or weeks or years or whatever,
like playing the, um, the server that it's like, that's like, rarer than the right to be able to
do such a thing. By the way, no, it's going rare. It goes as fast as, uh, it goes faster and normal
flight indicator. That's pretty fast. Yeah. Does it go as fast as that, uh, one by one to know
where you, where you crouch in and you have depth strider, uh, soul speed three, um, uh, speed two,
and, um, and, uh, dolphins grace. What does that make you very fast? It's given by dolphins.
Oh, so it's around the 20% extra speed or does it even more? And I don't know if, well, if you
definitely, um, there are so much really bug out if you, it's kind of buggy thing, but you have to
do when swimming because, um, dolphins, am I right? Um, but if you get a lot of them, you can really
build up some speed. But if you, um, so basically, yeah, yeah, but if, um, someone has designed a
tunnel, which was supposed to be patched, but it isn't, um, which is an incredible, fast way to
move around Minecraft. Um, and I, I saw this design. It's very easy. Um, yeah. And, um,
dead. I was just, yeah. It's not fun to watch games, but it's fun to talk about games, like,
yeah. You know, you know, I do enjoy watching games. I don't know, and it doesn't, uh,
enjoy watching games so much, but I enjoy talking games like you do right now. Yeah, it's
definitely, it's definitely enjoyable. Um, yeah. But I don't know in the indie, but I like
that kind of introduction. I'm not sure if it could indeed talk around the game like this.
Well, we talk about, although there's not no character kind of sound like that. Yeah,
uh, the indie is basically talking about, uh, an imaginary world. Um, but then it's a bit like
playing Minecraft, but, uh, with other people with like, um, with, uh, but then, uh, the villagers
were actually competent people and, um, uh, and, uh, instead of having a keyboard, you just, uh,
talked to, uh, to, to do stuff. Yeah. So not before you can talk yourself through Minecraft,
it's your Minecraft version. You're like, yeah, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I am looking forward for the
new version because, uh, they are adding infinite lava sources. Have you seen that infinite lava
sources better than the never? You know, I think if you get yourself a good, um, what do they call
it an IDK, an integrated, like, you know, a software environment for building code. I think
you'd get so into that because my brother plays Minecraft and, um, I have another brother,
actually much older and he used to be into electronics and building, um, amplifiers for his electric
guitar. And I was in the next room painting, toy soldiers for, uh, uh, uh, game, you know, like a
warhammer game and we were both using the same skills, fine motor skills and tiny work and now
paying attention to detail. Only he ended up like knowing electronics and I just had a lot of
toy soldiers, but it's the same kind of thing. So I think if you get a good code, if you get into
coding, like, uh, constructing, putting pieces of, uh, computer code together with an IDK,
as they call it or an IDE, it's like a game. If you're excited about infinite lava,
you can get it excited about, uh, easily constructing, um, graphical applications or radio
applications or something, just, just an idea. No, I tried to get into that point. I tried to get
into it, but I kind of, kind of, uh, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I enjoy other stuff more like history
on biology. And it's clearly for the fact that one thing is killing another thing,
albeit a creature or a massive army doesn't matter. Yes. Yes. And it's fascinating the way
how they kill it. So on the way you can learn about the programming is killing some,
something killing something off. Yeah. So if you really get to learn it, your daddy doesn't have any
computer luck because you start killing them off. You're very quiet. Are you, you can see, I'm writing
a simulation about biology and having those creatures each other. If you are interested in theology
and want to learn some coding, can you repeat that? Oh, I'm a terrible connection. No, I was just
thinking you are interested in biology and want to learn a big coding, compiling that are some
sorts of biology. Oh, yeah, yeah, that, that's actually very cool. I, um, yeah, it's probably very
hard, but, uh, I had a look at some of them and that's, that's very cool. Like, having an actual
simulation, I saw this thing once and there's this guy, this crazy guy and he decides to just,
hey, let's go build a world and evolve all the creatures from scratch and he did that. He just,
he, he didn't know how to make the world. So he grabbed a friend and told him to make the world
and then he did and then he could just two body plans and suddenly you have a, a, a, a, a, a,
a, a, a, a, a, a, a, an eight armed given, an eight armed given swinging from the tree tops,
trying to catch flying, uh, slow creatures with tentacles. It really, no, I'm not making this up.
He actually made a series on the, on YouTube and it's, yeah, I showed it to mom and that and
they were like, this is secret biology. They are trying to force you into learning biology
and I just didn't care because it was so interested. It, it's really interesting.
There are quite a few video games where you can, uh, set off your organism, aren't there?
And it will, yeah. Spore is one of them. I used to play a lot of spore when I was in a
lawn one of the schools which basically shut you off from the outside world because they thought
it would help. It's didn't but they thought it might. Um, they also gave everyone laptops because
why, why, why not give a whole bunch of, uh, crazy autistic kids laptops. Um, yeah, obvious
things happen. No one, no one was learning anything but we were all playing spore. Well, at least
I was playing spore. My friends were also playing spore. Um, sounds like learning to me. Yeah.
So it's called a multiplayer game. No, uh, all single player games next to each other. Oh,
so you were looking at each other. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We were in conversation about
the games we were playing and sometimes we were playing different games and then I was like,
I want to play the game. They are playing because I'm not playing that game and then we would have
the same conversation about two different games which would just be confusing and that would
be less boring than going outside and doing something. Literally, that was the most boring
place in the earth. They didn't have anything. It was just a car park on the
meath so you couldn't do anything over there. It was bored. Have I mentioned nipples boring?
Me? Couple of times. No, you need to walk a little bit about your boring, uh, school life.
Yeah. Yeah. I have had a weird school life. I, I, I, I started out at a terrible school. So my
parents said, okay, you're not going out that school. You have to move right away. We can't wait
for the other school to open which will hopefully be the right school. So I had to go to one school
which was a very nice school but it was on their my level. So I, so yeah, I, I had to leave
after half a year. So you were too smart for them? No, they needed extra help. They were like a
special, special, like, uh, like for dyslexia helping with that or something else. Um, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. You have two high IQ for the normal. I wouldn't say IQ but I was, um, I was in a class
which was, uh, two high function. I was in the next class. I, um, you basically have like, uh,
like classes which come from one to eight. I wasn't class six with the class seven. So, and, um,
then after that year, I went to the Elon school where they, um, it was basically, uh, they tried
their best. They tried their best but they ultimately failed at being a, being a good school.
If you don't, I went to that school, yeah. Um, no, what do you called it?
Elon, that was their name. Yeah. Um, it was especially for a smart autistic kids. Yet they didn't
understand the smart and the statistic. Apparently, well, some teachers did,
yet some other staff members didn't and it was together with another school in the same building
and it was very, it's very weird. I spent some time in a special educational needs school.
I was, uh, what they call a dinner lady, but I studied education before that I came to teach.
And it is quite, you know, there's, every, everybody's different. Where they're, you know,
I don't need to talk about it. Yeah, it's just like, so, was you working or did you, was your
patient? Heh, heh, heh. And funny, you should say that because, like, no, this is true. I don't
know if you need to get into it. So, yeah, I trained to teach, um, but then I finished my,
I didn't complete my teacher training because I was suspended from my university, um, but never
mind. Like, um, I mean, my course was suspended, but we don't need to. So then later in my life,
I got a job as a, what we call a dinner lady, a lunchtime supervisory assistant. So I was looking
after the children having their dinner, you know, uh, in a special educational needs school. What,
for autistic people, they would call it back then. This was, uh, 20 years ago. Um, but whilst I was
there, I was taken into a room by an aromatherapist who used to attend the school. And she said to me,
she told me, she said, you are high functioning autistic. And I had this conversation with that,
no, I'm a dinner lady. And I don't think I'm a dinner lady, you know, I applied for a job at
the job centre and they sent me here kind of a thing. So it was, it was quite bizarre, but yes,
she was telling me how I was high functioning autistic. I don't know where she got the idea from
or who she was talking to, but they, they terminated my job there. Right. And then another member of
the school asked me back to teach English to one of the students there. So, you know, life is interesting.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, I, I'm definitely high functioning autistic. Um, yeah, but there is
solution on problems with the kids there was, um, basically shot them off from the outside world,
let them have no social contact. Um, give them all laptops that will certainly cure everything. Um,
and, um, yeah, every, there will be one teacher per class. And, uh, yeah, there's only going to be
one capable teacher in the school because, uh, all the, all the kids trust that teacher, but not
the other teachers. That's what happened. Also, there are, uh, children are not allowed to take
responsibility for the actions. That's a, it's a big no-no, and no one's going to question why,
because autistic people can't do that, even though that's my frequently most asked question,
that that was their stance on autism. So, yeah, got out of there, and then I went to the
school where I'm now, and it's pretty good school. So, it's not meant for autistic people.
The school I'm at now? No. Yeah. No, it's a, uh, I've been in and out of, uh, the whole thing.
My mom found out that I need to be a statistic, and she got me into a school back and forth.
So, no, the whole horrible system, uh, um, around 20 years ago. It's probably much better now.
I hope. Yeah, they try. They, it's not, I think, uh, it, it, it works for some people. It
doesn't work for other people. It just, it didn't work for me. It's your home functioning. It's
horrible. Uh, it was, this school was meant for high functioning autistic kids. Yeah. So,
I was going, it was meant for high functioning, but it, it, it, it, it was given cake each day.
Yeah. It, it, it, my mom, when I hated it, it cannot stop nagging them about all the different
things we're doing wrong. And the only thing I, but saying all the different, my teacher was doing
wrong. It was me. Yeah. Yeah. It's not going. Yeah. School, like, I don't understand why they had
that it's clear that the, the students are smart enough to understand that if there are no
consequences for the actions, they can just throw stuff at the teacher and they won't be given
a punishment, which happened. It actually happened. There's part of the learning curve, isn't it?
If you, if that happened in public, then there would definitely be a lot of comeback. So,
but it's hard classroom because it, you know, one action brings another action and maybe the
person wants to keep their job and it's difficult. No, this wasn't, this was, uh, this was, uh,
this was just, uh, stupid kid, um, throwing in my house. Good morning and happy new year. Good
morning. So, how you used to go to your new year, right? No, don't. I'm guessing maybe Tony went to
the batten or, oh, yeah. Not, not to show how all the time sounds looks. So, for me, I know he was
on time something that you've got a new year. Right. And he vanishes.
But, yeah. I, uh, he, yeah, literally, uh, someone threw a stool at the teacher wounding the
teacher and no one did anything about it. So, we got out of there and we never turned back.
Luckily, my friends also got out of there. So, everything's fine. Yeah. That's happening
high school for me. Someone else throwing something on the teacher and teacher didn't do anything.
That's weird. No, no, this kid definitely got sent to like the, like, the, uh, I don't know,
the person in charge of the school. Yeah, the person in charge of the school did nothing. He
didn't do anything. And, um, can anyone hear me? Yeah, they can hear you. It's not time to hear
except it's not very loud. No, but he's not the most quiet one of all you guys have been here today.
And definitely not the quietest. It's just not the loudest.
Not the loudest. I'm happy about that. Yeah. Because we're the loudest one now.
I don't know what's going on. Oh, that's weird. I'm going to message you.
I'm going to message him saying we can hear you.
So, no, all of the people that pull over the talk has said the game.
So, I guess if you want to stop people throwing stalls around,
there is more than one way to go about it.
Yeah. And, uh, if you want, yeah. Then again, I've been to some good schools,
like actual, a good school. So good that the head, the mistress left to go, um,
to go to the pension and they renamed the street thingy after her.
She was so good. That was, that was pretty good.
Tony connected, but nobody's talking.
You know, I think I'm going to leave at what would be, for me, 10, which is in four minutes.
Yeah, going to get some to eat.
Yeah, probably going to stop whaffling, maybe.
Enjoy your day, Patrick. Yeah. You guys too?
Hopefully, I'll see you guys. Of course, I'll tell you a good bye to you, but you're doing it.
Oh, no, I was just going to get something to drink.
I thought you were going for your food.
You were talking about your food and you left.
And I thought, okay, I need to find someone to talk to.
Yeah, no, this side, I didn't go to the food.
I, uh, yeah.
And that bus, when you get home, he's, I was kind of yelling out,
I don't want to hear any kind of trying to get people to talk when you left.
And then it was, when you went to the radio and talked to talk,
all people talk. It was important to have anything here.
Yeah, I've been just here, sitting here, whaffling for hours and hours and hours.
And no, and a few people have been whaffling with me.
It's, it's, it's being you, K, K, D, G, um, one of spoons.
Zero, nine, is it an L, well, one?
I think it's now, isn't it now?
Is, is that a big eye?
Yeah, a big eye, maybe, um, uh, then, um, that was mass.
Don't forget mass.
That's a big eye is the same letter in my text.
That's true.
I think he said oh nine L or somebody earlier.
I think I would guess.
Oh, oh nine L.
Yeah, I, I, I would guess now too.
Yeah, and, um, yeah, and, um, of course, mass, mass was there too.
Yeah, that's about the people we've been talking a lot when I was on.
Yeah, most of us talking very little, and I'm being on.
And I've been, you have been talking very long.
I'm being on.
Yeah, because most people have just been talking to me.
And because I, and I've been honing down my caps lock continuously for the last,
for the last, well, hour or something, just because you have to talk on,
but you should, you could, you should switch it to content,
and I don't feel like it, and I don't know how.
So, yeah, you don't feel like it, but, yeah,
and I, as long as you've been talking, you probably,
yeah, I've been, I've been talking, we've been talking about a lot.
Like, I'm going to go now, but we, we started, like, when I started,
it was midnight.
So, eight hours ago, on eight, nine hours.
Ten hours ago for me.
It's been ten hours, little less, because I've also been outside,
and that kind of stuff.
No, you didn't talk ten hours ago, because,
didn't talk ten hours ago, but I did listen in ten hours ago.
It's being like eight hours.
I think, and then I don't, probably.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's been like eight hours more, like,
yeah, more eight hours.
I'm going to go last five hours, six hours,
and it's really, really talking.
Bishamon.
Bye.
Bye.
Have a good dinner, or,
by the first hour, whatever you want to call it.
Good morning, Snack.
Good morning.
But, and, is it a happy new year or something?
It's ten o'clock, whatever.
Well, bye.
Bye.
Hopefully 2021 will not be a 2020 or worse.
See you in a, at the end of the year, in a game.
Yeah.
Bye.
Bye.
So one of the spoons.
Hello.
I'm still old.
Yeah, I can still have you.
I wanted to just, kind of, if I doesn't talk on,
I'm so tired.
If I don't talk, I, doesn't talk.
and I just cannot stay on.
Don't worry about it.
I've got a lot of things to do.
I'll switch between headphones.
I'll just pop in when it's interesting.
Yeah.
No, I kind of, because you've been most on, I thought,
OK, I'm going to poke the beer that's been most active
the last four hours.
Yeah.
All right, thanks.
Thank you.
No.
Oh, I see, apart from Padley.
Yeah.
Because he's in living and I need to poke the next beer
that's been most active and that's you.
You, you doesn't think I've been active,
but I always look for the second one if one lives,
because I cannot be a member and having a quiet time.
What, what, what else are you doing?
I'm thinking this might be idea of activity
for being half asleep and lying down or something.
I sit in my chair and having a member
full screen on my computer.
I got you.
So I was trying to read other things,
but it's quite, I'm not accustomed to people talking,
usually, will involve myself in that conversation, you know?
But if I want to concentrate on electronics
or sorting my house out, then I can't be,
I need something to get into.
And a conversation is to, it requires too much attention
and concentration.
Yeah, I cannot deduce a member
and something else I have hard time doing multitasking.
If I don't talk at all, then I can halfway do it.
But if I, doing to poke in above the hair under,
that doesn't work for me.
I cannot multitask like that.
Some people in here can do it.
I cannot do it.
And I, sounds like you do have problem doing it.
It depends on the activity, you know?
Like, there's some things, if you're gardening,
if you're washing, washing up for something,
talking kind of, sound like it.
Yeah, I can't eat and talk, it's bad.
No, no.
But I can listen in and then stop talking.
It's in written and then say,
I will do it and then start eating again.
Right, I think also if you're all doing the same thing,
then you can talk about that and do it.
Or if you have some activity which doesn't require,
you know, you're just packing stuff.
It's always the same.
You could, you could join in a conversation.
So work, I listen to a podcast and it's quite complicated.
But if I'm just cleaning something, sweeping, you know?
Then it's, it's no bother at all.
I can do my job very well,
but also get a lot of good information.
There's no way I could do a complicated task
and listen to a podcast.
Yeah.
Kind of, are you one of a programmer?
You sound like that,
that you kind of,
bragging on on the DA thing.
Did you say programming and my programmer?
Yeah, I did well.
So you started like,
you want to kind of get the dragon on it and programming.
Dragon?
Pundragon.
Dragon.
Probably better his name.
You probably pronounced it right.
It because he said it, part of it.
It said, it's Irish, but it's also Niederland.
Yeah, yeah.
Patrick, English people would say Patrick.
They soften the day, I think, in Ireland.
And maybe, well, I can't say for sure.
I would have said Patrick.
Yeah.
And he says because,
and read it Norwegian and then pronounce it Norwegian.
And that's why I bet you all the names.
Each time I need to read something I've not read before.
I always picture them in Norwegian.
Do English.
I sometimes try to English them.
And they got used horrible,
because not my language,
I not try to English them.
So I do my own language that doesn't,
I make word that does not exist anywhere.
Of course.
I think it's okay if you're using, you know,
parts of words in that language.
So if you're using parts of English words,
then you'll be understood.
It's just a function of language generally.
Yeah.
It's the moment I need to pronounce something
that I know what is in my language,
but I try to English them without a translation.
And I need to write it out in this text box.
I'm very happy about this text box.
Without it, I'll probably be very stuck sometimes.
Yeah.
I've been learning Russian for a few years.
And I have a Russian parent,
like a teacher now.
She's my friend of mine.
And that helps a lot.
But yes, to have say Google translates
with speech, you know, say that word,
it helps a lot.
Yeah.
So guess where my good English is from?
What do you mean?
How did you learn it over somewhere?
Yeah.
I don't know.
Have you heard about application called member?
Yes.
So did you just listen to people?
Yeah.
That's interesting.
So my whole English,
how to pronounce the thing is from member?
Ah, but did you learn the language from somewhere else?
I guess, because I would need a lot of pictures
to learn any words.
Yeah, I have that.
I have, again, this...
You've been listening to Heckapublic Radio at HeckapublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network
that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Heckapublic Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binwreff.com.
If you have comments on today's show,
please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the creative comments,
and the contribution, share a light,
lead a dog license.
