Episode: 3342
Title: HPR3342: 2020-2021 New Years Eve Show Episode 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3342/hpr3342.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:12:32

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3342 for Tuesday, the 25th of May 2021.
Today's show is entitled, HPR 2020 2021 New Year's Eve Show Episode 2.
It is hosted by Honki Magoo and is about 61 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, the HPR community stops by for a chat.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Now, I can remember being more at ease on IC services when I was younger,
because maybe because your balance goes off to get older or something,
maybe it doesn't start, it depends on all sorts of factors I'm sure,
but yeah, I make sure my driveway is well cleared or salted.
It can't live sort of weather, and so I pull over going up and down it.
There's a fella down the road. He put in a couple of years ago
in-ground heating for his driveway and ties in hot water heating from his hot water heater.
That is very clever.
The Edinburgh installed such a thing in, because Edinburgh is a quite a hilly city,
and there's one particular slope that they installed there in,
so just the load is a bit of snow and they will switch that on and it all vanishes.
So yeah, it's a great idea. I'm sure it's not good economics for a house,
but still good idea.
I believe I think it's Iceland, they have hot water pipes that they use for that kind of thing,
because they have natural hot water springs or whatever they call them.
Yep, being such a volcanic area, it's plenty of that, I would imagine.
Do they not run a lot of their energy supply from the hot water coming up from the volcanic areas?
Something like that, I'm not sure what they do exactly, but they do use it.
Yeah, I think they use the geothermal energy from the one.
Yep.
I had a friend who went to the Reykjavik in Siv, Iceland, it's just beautiful.
Somewhere I want to go, because I've seen the pictures.
Yeah, it's somewhere I'd like to go to. It looks amazing.
All the hot springs and the volcanoes and that, uh, whatever it is,
rift that goes through part of the island, where the two technotonic plates
are buttoning up against one another, is that what's happening there?
Yeah, I think it is, isn't it there?
You can actually see that as a sort of cliff through the island at some point.
Yeah, I saw a video, I think it was like Tom Skar or something about that.
But what is that?
No, I've only got a vague recollection of how that will work.
But I think there are undersea continuations of this thing.
It's two technotonic plates colliding, I think that's why the volcanoes.
So, yeah, it's pretty spectacular place in the island, you go on.
Oh, I think it's splitting through volcanoes and colliding for rift clicks.
They're not in the plate technotonic so, isn't it?
Is it not the case that all along the coast of the USA, it's all collision, isn't it, rather than,
and that as you, as the plates collide, one goes under the other and then you get,
it sort of gets absorbed into the mantle and that causes volcanoes.
Is that not the way it works?
And I'm going to consult Google for this one.
Subduction, one way, yes.
There's also separations where you get hot spots coming up, don't you?
But there, and they can form volcanic islands and that type of stuff.
Isn't that what the Galapagos islands are?
Not sure.
Sounds right.
I've always just tinkered around with the idea of geology, never really got into it.
My daughter did a course on geology at the university she was at a few years ago.
They leave freshers as they call them.
The first year students got to choose various modules from a whole set, of course,
is throughout the whole university and she chose a geology one.
They didn't go much into that sort of stuff, but they were hunting for fossils along the
Scottish coast, I think.
It sounded pretty cool, I wouldn't know why I didn't do that.
Yeah, fossils are interesting.
You're being in Florida, all you got to do is run down to the coast and look for some short teeth
to find the black ones in the water.
That's true, I have seen, I believe, something like that, but I don't recall,
I'm not a big fan of the beach.
I'm a huge fan of the beach, it's the people I have problem with.
It's not having clues on part day, I'm not a big fan of that.
Prefer to stay away from the whole thing, just stay inside.
I think I consider those of that to some degree.
I've certainly not been overly bothered by this lockdown business, I mean, I'm retired,
so it's not affected me workwise, but I'm actually quite enjoyed having an excuse not to go out
very much. It's getting, I could do with a bit more, getting out and about soon, but the year's not
been too bad. I actually switched jobs just around the start of the pandemic, so now this is my
perception of how my job is actually is. Do you think it's going to be continuing the way it is?
Now, I'm just asking that because it looks like some businesses are actually going to accept the
fact that people can work from home and carry on with that, I don't know. What do you think?
I think it's going to keep this way. I think, well, my company in particular, they were already pretty,
they allowed people to do, to work from home. I just think that people are now going to take that
more liberally than before. I was allowed to work from home from time to time. I was in IT,
working for a local university, and I did do a few projects myself. We didn't have many,
in my team, we didn't have many programmers, so I ended up writing some stuff, just nothing
exciting, but I did ask if I could do that from home because it just kept the interruptions down
and they were fairly easy going about that, actually, which was a bit of a surprise because
there was an attitude that if you weren't at your desk, you weren't working, but that seemed
to have relaxed even then, that's about 10 years, 10, 15 years ago. So I'm sure that now
that whole message has got through the management hierarchy. Was that Edinburgh University?
No, it's about five universities in Edinburgh. I worked for Harriet Warth University,
which is an engineering university, quite close to where I live.
Nice. Yeah, it's got mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, petroleum engineering,
and all those such things. It's quite an interesting place.
Yeah, in my old university, we used to have also petroleum engineering. There were in the
mines department. Whereabouts are you? Right now, I'm in Stockholm. I come from Portugal.
Oh, right. Oh, yes, I remember. I remember remarking on the fact as Portuguese guy in Scandinavia.
I do remember commenting on your shows at some point on the community news, but yeah,
we used to get a lot of Norwegian students at one time at Harriet War. I think because a lot
of them are coming over for the engineering possibilities. And also Chinese and Singaporean,
who were doing building engineering, that type of stuff. Yeah, there's also a lot of Chinese here,
but I mostly see them in the computer science department. Yeah, I think the mix has changed
at Harriet War. My son's doing an MSC there, just now in computer science, and yeah, there's a lot
of international students there in general. Well, I'm going to have to go and do some domestic stuff,
so I'm going to leave you guys for the moment. It's been good to speak to you all. Catch you later.
Talk to you later. Talk to you later. Good luck. Good luck. Thank you.
I'm doing domestic stuff as well. I'm just, you know, not paying complete focus. I'm just doing general things.
Did anyone use termux on their Android device? Termux? Termux is an advanced terminal emulator
for basically a Linux environment as an app on Android. Yeah, I just didn't catch it phonetically.
Yeah, I tried it a few times. It's cool, but the Android keyboards. The functionality is not really
with the command line itself. It's being able to run scripts whenever needed.
Yeah, I never really got into running many scripts on my phone.
I still kind of see it as a phone somehow. I don't even have an Android phone. I need one,
because I don't really like the iPhone anymore, but money. The wife ends up taking a lot of
tricks, and it's easy just to have her be able to push a button in my phone on the servers.
That sounds like a show. It does. It's a very short show. Probably happening.
I think there's more details you can include. Come on. I can't hear that guy. He said that by
the way, just very quietly. Can you hear me now? Yeah, thanks. It's Tony from Mintcast.
Hey, guys, happy new. Well, I don't know whether it's new year where you are. I don't think
you did yet. No, I'm not yet. No, not for a while. I've moved in on OpenSeed by the server.
But what's happening? Are we able to tell him or are you just, you're making an up on block?
Can you hear me? Yeah, I was just going to say what's happening in your ways. We've just gone
down into another lockdown here in the UK. In the Canadian, some of the provinces are doing good.
Some of them are not doing so far. I'm in one of the ones doing fairly well. Take it, you're in
Canada, if you're talking about the provinces. I am in Canada. My folks are back down south,
though. They're all right, but they're just north of Florida there.
Here in Florida, we're doing well. Not really. We don't really know what we're doing.
I'm over on the west coast of the UK. Is that bad?
Yeah, we've half the countries now in the highest lockdown tier. Over 80% of the countries in tier
three, which is just one down from that. Well, that's not so good. So your tier three over there,
is it like our red zone where you're only allowed to like a single family bubble type deal?
Can't have like extended family come in? Yeah, tier four is even more strict than that.
You can't have anyone come around your house at all unless you're bubbled with someone who's
vulnerable and lives on the road. Yeah, I don't think we have anything like that in America.
America loves its freedom. Nothing like that in Sweden.
Is it echoing for everyone else? That might be my fault. I'll put my headphones on.
Yeah, I think so. I hope. Sorry, my children are screaming. I think I can deal with an echo.
Yeah, it doesn't bother me so much. It's just, I don't know. I don't want the recording
or anyone listening to probably. That's better. It makes it sound a bit more experimental.
You know, some nice distortion effects. Lofi. I couldn't get pushed to talk to set up. So I've
got it on the so that it cuts out when I don't speak. Oh, yeah. I think my, uh, it's weird.
I think I said this earlier. I have my push to talk set the middle mouse button. So I just
paste stuff constantly, but it's so convenient. I have it on print screen. Oh, actually it's
scroll lock. I couldn't find anywhere in mumble. It tells you how to set up the key. Oh, you just
press the, the thing that says push to talk and that immediately asks and it doesn't let you
continue before you select the key. No, it wouldn't do that when I try to. Oh, that is weird.
I'm on mumble 132. I'm on 1.2.19. Well, maybe that's it. Yeah. I know if you're on Linux,
there's like issues, you have to use the flat pack or whatever. I'm on OpenBSD. I'm on Mint.
Mint marty. I use a pop iOS myself. Pop iOS. Is that a system 766? Yeah, it is.
Yeah, actually, I do. It's the, that sounds awfully convenient.
That's a, that's a podcast. It's an episode show. That's sort of looking for a show,
which I'll probably never do because I'm too scared. Yeah, I have a couple of shows and
that I haven't been able to record yet. I started and halfway through. I'm like, okay,
I'm trailing off too much. I'm kidding. I don't know. I like, like, shows are evil. It's kind of
let it progress and they reamble on. That's how I talk and I appreciate it. Same here.
Yeah, same here, but I still don't like to put out those shows.
I understand. Neither. That's why I have such a long show history.
Yeah, I have the, the longest year of my resounding zero.
I'm sure you're not the only one.
I always notice it seems so common that two people have the same idea, like, not the same idea,
the same idea to talk at the same time. I don't know why it happens so often.
Yeah, but did anyone listen to my series on the mobile cars? Yeah, I listened to the first
couple of episodes. That was really nice. Good. Not the whole thing because eventually I stopped
listening to podcasts for a while. Yeah, I've only caught however many. It's been like a month
and I've only caught some of them. I've been thinking about doing an episode for a show,
but I'm a bit nervous about it and I don't really know where I would start.
Have you not recorded anything yet? No. Why don't you just start off with your deck journey?
Just talk about how you got into technology if you use Linux, whatever, just talk about that.
Yeah, that sounds a good idea, actually. It's usually a good start off one. That's what I did.
I think I'll work on that. Ken would be very happy to have a new host.
And I think my audio might be sorted. Ah, yes. Curious as we could do.
It was just a bit of a mission to get the VM that I'm running this on to see all the hardware properly.
With audio, every time I restart my computer and I haven't found a fix to this,
it automatically defaults to trying to output into my microphone.
It is. It wants to default to output to your microphone. Yeah. Are you running also?
Yes. You should be able to do that. Maybe try switching to the bolster area.
Oh, yeah, sorry. No, I am using bolster audio.
Hi, it's just my stick here. Do you have one of these PCs that have auto assigning sockets on them?
You know, they've got like the actual motherboard itself, auto assigned, the actual socket,
because I've had that issue with it. It'll think it's a different device. I think it's a microphone,
but it's actually a speaker or whatever. Yeah, I'm not sure. I don't know specifically enough.
But I know it is a USB microphone, so it's not like it's anything special.
So it makes sense. It would have errors like that. It's just a cheaper thing off Amazon.
Yeah, sometimes the USB microphones also have an output for headphones as well,
so that could be what it's picking up.
Mine does. I'm holding my microphone while I've been holding it. That's probably not the best idea.
Mine doesn't have all this. Yeah. Mine sometimes defaults to my webcam. I have to change it.
That's quite interesting. Yeah, mine sometimes defaults to my webcam for input, not for output though.
So are you all using Pulse Audio? Yes. Does anyone use just all of them?
I think I'm just using all of them. I think also I was basically from the late 90s.
I'm not sure if a lot of people would still use it. Well, it's whatever it is. It defaults on
mint anyway. I remember in 1999 when I just started working on Linux, you still had to recompile the
kernel. If you install your sound blaster, because it's sound blaster 1.1 or something.
Yeah, then you had to get that also working.
Yeah, that was a bit sooner than I got into Linux. I didn't get into Linux until 2006, 2007.
Yeah, same time for me. Yeah. Ubuntu's got a lot to answer for.
Oh, yeah. Definitely a late start like 2016 here.
Ah, right. I think I started in like 98.99. It's more right around with curiosity.
Yeah, I worked for ISP and all our web servers were obviously read at what was at that time.
4.7 I think. Nome and KDE and those things didn't exist. Yeah, just at that raw x background.
Interesting times. TWM. Sorry, I missed that. Was it TWM?
I can't remember what it was called. It's just, I think it's just called like capital X.
It had like a dot y dot and black dots background and your cursor was a big X.
And then you had to right click command and then do things like that. There was no actual
interfaces. It was just sort of like a layer for graphics or utilities built on graphics.
What about to you, curiosity? I'm in South Africa. I was just about to say, it was also that sort of
99-ish era when I first got involved in the security bits of computers. You know, working
with a ISP, you tend to get curious about these things automatically. So me and one of the other
call center guys, you know, we just started messing around. PHP was still fairly new and then
I found that you can actually run system commands using PHP. And back in the day, I mean everybody
was so lazy. So you literally just, everybody logged in as root and then you configure your web server
and bobs your uncle. So I found that you can cat the passive file using PHP on a web browser.
And yeah, we did that to the Oxford University language division, something. And next morning,
I was called into the office. Yeah, that was a really interesting one.
Are you on the coast or are you inland? Inland.
I've visited a few of the coastal cities. Been to Cape Town and Durban and Joburg.
Yeah, Cape Town is based. I am just a little bit north of Joburg in Pretoria, capital.
I would not mind living in Cape Town there. Although not at the moment, it seems like it's one of
the go-it hotspots at the moment. Although basically all of South Africa we back to level 3 lockdown.
So no booze. And I wish they gave us hits up on that because now everybody's going to be dry
on New Year's Eve. Yeah, they've locked down all the pubs here as well. Although you can still
go and buy it from the off licenses and the supermarkets.
Yeah, on this side we have a bit of a like a rebel community. So when we first hit the high level
lockdown and they took away booze and cigarettes and all of those things, we started distilling and
made a bit of bucks. I mean, I'm a bit of a rebel that way. But yeah, people paid ridiculous
amounts of money for just, you know, a little bit of rum, which basically is just fermented molasses
that you distilled. So yeah. So you're a bit of a moon shiner.
Yeah, it's at Africa. It's fairly legal as long as you've got your permit and you cannot have
bigger than a hundred liter kettle. So it's legal, but it's illegal to sell. But if you're going to
take away everybody's booze, you know, for responsible people. I'm not talking about alcohol
leagues and party animals, whatever. You know, at night, I'd like to have a drink or two just
before I go to bed. And for that sort of community, I've got no problems applying them.
Yeah, in this country, you can make wine and beer, but you can't make spirits. You can't,
you can't have a still. Is that the UK? Yeah, yeah, here in the UK. And I believe it's the same
in the North America. You can't have stills. No, you can have stills in the US.
Well, a private one for personal use. Yes, private for personal use. And you can,
your output has to last in three gallons per year. All right. Okay. Three gallons per year.
That's a lot of booze per year per year. I don't know.
I think I'd do a little bit more than that a year. I don't know anybody who does less than.
If you think about the average bottle of spirit, it's a 750 milliliters. I don't know how much that
is an ounce or whatever you use in the States, the major. But you have 750 moles. And you could
probably do two of those a month. That's 1.5 liters a month times 12 roughly 12 liters.
50 milliliters. That 26 ounces. 750 is 1.1 quarts. Yeah, when you put it like that. And then the
three gallons just seems like such a small number in general. But yeah, I'm definitely a small number.
Usually when you're running a batch, you want to hire a number of three gallons because you have
to chop off 10% on the head and 10% on the tail at a minimum to save quality and keep it from being
toxic. Yeah, we tend to do a little bit more graces than that because the good stuff is anyway sitting
in the middle. So I normally would strip from my 100 liter boiler. I would probably get about 12
odd liters of distillate. And I'm from the stripping run. And then I will start running, do a very
slow run in 300 mill increments and label them, bottle 1, 2, 3, 4 until whenever. And then I start
when I start mixing. I would start from the center and then I'll move outward. So let's call,
let's say you've got 30 bottles, started 15. Then it's 14 and 16 and 13 and 17 and so forth. And
until you start to get some off flavors and the rest you just chuck. Yeah. So you don't
can pour them all together and proof them all so they're all the same. No, once I've mixed it. So
I would do tastings from the center and the ones that I like go into a single container and then
I will add some American white oak for rum or if I do a brandy, then I'll use French oak for that.
Gotcha. So you do your proofing after your tasting. Usually for us, it's the other way around,
we proof, then we taste or we we test proof and then drink. This sounds like a great
talking about this. Go back to the 400s. I think there's already one there.
Is there? Wow. I think the first one was. Yeah, I think it's talking.
When I do the proofing, the reason, yeah. So basically I would keep it as raw as possible
and then oak with as high as possible percentage of ABV. And then I would leave it on oak for
three months, six months, whatever. And then I will dilute it down with distilled water until I get
to the flak for something that you're going to drink neat is about 38% and for something that you
can use as a mix, I'll put it to like 42%. So do you burn your barrels, like char the inside of your
barrel where you're doing your proofing or do you just let it? I buy little cubes of previously
used burnt barrels, but it's got a like a second scorching applied to them and sort of one inch cubes.
I think the most famous one that we get here is from Jack Daniels. So they buy barrels from Jack
Daniels, cut it up into one inch cubes and then just burn one side and then we use it like that.
Up in Newfoundland they have the spirit that they may call it screech and the rum bottles from
or the rum barrels from Jamaica and they will fill the rum barrels up with water and let them sit
for a while to steal that water. Oh that sounds pretty awesome. So it's Ken being around today.
He was in earlier. Yeah he usually comes on first thing.
Did he go take some care of some domestic stuff? Yeah yeah he usually has stuff today.
Oh no I'm sorry Dave's stuff. He went can we have to go take care of some work? It's the head work
too. Yeah yeah it's not a bank holiday until tomorrow. Could I run my Uber Eats this year?
I'll chat now. Did anyone had their first call? Yeah first what?
Hi Ken. Hi Tony. Hi how are you doing? Not too bad, not too bad.
Waiting for this year to be over. Like me. Aren't we all?
How are you? Very good health. I hope a lot better than I have been. I've had some physical stuff
going on the last couple of months. That's good. That's good. Well not good but it's good to
hear us cheer up. Starting to yet. Good good good good. We're coming up to a new year in Australia
I see. Yeah it's the begin. That's so we all want to see if. Wait it's so glad two's already
in the new year. It's in four minutes according to my clock. Adelaide. And then Brisbane
an hour later. And then Darwin an hour later. Yeah. I think Latuz on New Zealand. I thought New
Zealand. Yeah it could be actually. Yeah New Zealand celebrated in two hours ago.
So many students on the website that just let's you know when new users happening. I'll put a link
in the show notes to that very thing. What about a link to the show notes? Yes on the hike
a public radio page. Oh I even must have missed it. It's just something weird. I think it's like
let me look. No it's on the home page. Yeah it's on the home page. I've just I've just put
something in the show notes. Oh yeah no it's there. Let me put the link in the result one more
second. That's a nice nice clock and different places. Yeah time and date.com is brilliant. Yeah
Sunday you can just click next on previous times. Melbourne are 52 seconds into the new. Yeah
this one is Adelaide in 30 minutes. Still at 16 hours in my time and not quite there yet.
I'll pin that tab so it doesn't go away. 10 seconds. Hey happy New Year to Melbourne and Victoria.
Yeah it's my clock off because it's happened 10 seconds. 14 seconds. It's been 15 seconds since it
happened. Okay time lag must be brutal. I'll drop off again because I have a few tickets to
fill up. Tony will talk to you later on this evening. Yeah I'm not going to be around much this
afternoon. I just started popping and say hi but I'll probably be around more this evening.
Tomorrow's another day. We'll keep it going. Try and do it all over the whole weekend.
I'll try and last as long as I can here. Definitely we'll be making it 10 years off to
go to bed before then. But I'll be here for four years. So what's the name behind the
Oh 9 L or one or whatever it is? That's an L. Geez what did you call me?
I don't know. I don't know what I'd rather be called here. Oh Neil? Oh Neil.
That's like an eventrister. I don't know if I'd rather go with a real name but
I don't have anything else to get me called. Oh 9 all. Oh 9 all. Yeah.
Most people just go with their 9 but I don't know that sounds dumb.
And I'll see you obviously. I've got I've got a friend who's called 6. That's his surname.
Perry 6. Seriously? Yeah. Seriously. He changed it by deep poll.
Jesus. He's more than wasn't too happy. Yeah I don't think I would be if my child
changed her name to 6 would be a bit disappointed in him. 6 sounds more like the first name for
you know the 6th child. I read what he was his only child so that didn't come into it.
After two they all get referred to as members anyways. Speaking as someone who has
that situation usually just get every name like all of them until they get the right one.
It's like playing Wacomall. You know you for. It's an MP naming scheme.
I'm going to name all my children in camel case. Just just so everyone thinks in line.
The blue and their name will be all in one word. God that's a joke right? No.
It's an effective way to get them a nickname. They'll be names after. I don't know something
something that's just going to confuse everyone. Call back to that extricity comic. The
comic. The shani drachia. Johnny drachia. This is amazing. I mean you can always give them names with
no vowels so that they're not actually readable. Isn't that just Polish? Good point.
I think all polls are actually lying. None of them are real. I met one.
Nate didn't. It's an illusion. He was half a talent so he was only half an illusion.
Like a hologram. Exactly.
I get a fancy toy for Christmas. I need to talk about
that. Intrigued. I get an old LR710 of 192 gigs of RAM. That's that's very interesting.
I picked it up also ebay. No. 30 bucks. 200 was shipping. 200 Canadian both. Do we cheat?
Oh geez. Let me convert that to numbers for everyone else.
Does multiply it by 0.7? That's not that good at math honestly.
It's roughly 160. 160? Okay. I think we have some prints.
It shipped from London so that was pretty cool. I think I'm going to put prox mocks on it and
have a couple nice big ZFS. Do some fun things. I already got about 48 terabytes. I'll just be
moving things from low powered devices to that. Yeah. For storage space. I try to keep all
my media mind like I download piracy. I don't have enough storage space. I only have 10 terabytes
which I thought would be enough forever. Do you just keep forever? No, I'm a hoarder. I can't
delete things. So you should look into multiple drive enclosures for hoarding and nice ZFS to keep
in large the amount of data that you have and it's just going to cost you power for powering all
the drives. Yeah, I think I don't think power will be too bad. I don't know. I say that now.
Watch in 10 years. To control heat, you should try and stick to 5400 RPM drives and try and avoid
7200. Use more power and they create more heat. They're faster though. So speed is a thing,
but if you're everything is a ZFS pool. Speed's not going to be a problem and I mirror everything.
So I got 48 terabytes of raw storage, but I only have actually 24 terabytes of actual.
Yeah. That's a nice setup. Yeah. It's not all on one box. It's spread into three different
and their split in between Arch Linux was dumb and free BSD. So the ZFS has been incompatible
between the system. None of the sudden sounds louder than that. I keep on my sensitive documents
in three different locations, physically. Raid does not count as a backup. Yes, I know.
I've been trying to set up some sort of a network storage array.
Oh, curiosity. You have my shared interest. The thing is, it's probably about a year now
that I've gone back into security research and things like that. So I wanted to set up
something similar to Troy Hans database, but something that I control myself so that I can run
my own statistics and things like that. So start with getting things like that collection,
one to five and what's it exploit underscore in and you know, all those things get everything
into a single Mongo database and then split the user names and passwords. We sort them alphabetically
to basically break that link between the logging and the password. And at that point, I believe
it should be legal to keep that data. And then you can start to run your own statistics on that,
but holy crap, that takes a lot of space. How much space are you talking about it needing?
I think just to import all the data that I've got access to, I need probably about 15 terabytes.
Then I probably need double that in order to export the data where I break the link between
the user names and passwords. So it needs basically go double and then I can wipe the original source
data with the logging credentials are still linked. So yeah, I'll probably need close to 25,
30 terabytes. Are you able to store the data in plain text? Yes, I can, but that makes the whole
anonymizing of the data quite a bit trickier, I think. Well, after you split the data from
where it's linked to unlinked, can you go from it being linked in whatever format it's in now
to plain text after you unlink it? That can work, but I want to set up like a spark type set up
to run analytical queries. So I think probably Mongo or some sort would probably make more sense if
I want to start build statistics of things like how long do people typically use a single password
for or across how many different services they use the same password, things like that is what I
want to calculate and write a report on. Gotcha. So plain text is probably not your best bet. The only
reason I was asking for plain text was with CFS pools and Z pool compressed everything and plain
text compressive 40 to 60 percent. Yeah, for compression, I think that'll be absolutely the best
way to go. I mean, I think, yeah, storing the data like that makes sense, and then if I have
specific analytics that I want to run, then you can just spike some data usage for a little bit and
then drop it again off to it. If you have access to segments of the data, you could test,
if storing in plain text is going to actually save you that much space by getting a subset of your
data out and dropping it on a not on a setup, but just on like a Z volume ZBL, just create a ZFS volume
in a file and enable compression on it and test your storing there to see how much you're going
to gain or lose, but in my opinion, that would take a lot of time and I would just go straight
storing whatever format you're going to store it in. Yeah, no, that makes sense. I remember when
before I started importing everything into Mongo, because I've got a subset of the data that I'm
working with now, which is about 300 gigs, and the original source text files were just over 170
gigs. So, yeah, having it in Mongo makes it substantially bigger, and I didn't even create
and exist yet. So, it's just got the default ID on this, or underscore ID in next.
Sorry, I had text that's been enabled. I was just trying to disable that real quick.
So, when you have everything in Mongo, it increases the size and you haven't even put indexes in,
am I following you so far? Yeah, that is correct. So, I would say just storing the data in Mongo
probably increases the space by 20%. I know that Joy Hunt uses a different technology,
but it's something that I'm not familiar with. So, maybe it's time to, you know,
trade into new data trees. What about using something like Postgres instead of Mongo?
I tried that. Holy crap, the queries are so slow. So, just querying count of a specific email address
in a couple of hundred million records takes literally 10 minutes for that query to run,
and I don't have the space to create the index on email. So, yeah.
So, acquiring space, what are you planning on for as far as you're putting drives together to
make space for this? Like what size are you targeting? I like the two terabyte drives because I
fairly secure. I don't need redundancy because this is, you know, a full research purpose. It's not
not really important data. So, I'm thinking just like every month by two or three two terabyte drives
and then just start building an array of them. I first thought about, you know, like,
create like a NAS using Raspberry Pi's, but they're a bit slow still. So, I want to have a look at
Raspberry Pi 4. Maybe that starts to get better because I know that there's an interface that you can
buy that connects to USB 3 that converts it into SATA. Or actually, I think, isn't Raspberry Pi 4
don't they use USB-C? That would even be better. Or there's even a standard that plugs into the
GPIO. I'm not sure. I need to look at the new Raspberry Pi's, but that might be a viable option.
So, just create an array of these things and just do them in parallel. Yeah, the Raspberry Pi 4
does have USB 3 on it. But is it 3.0 or is it 3.1? I'd have to go and take a look for that.
Because that's almost full speed difference right there.
I have to use it to focus on my machine downstairs and I have a 5V external enclosure and I've
got a bunch of, I've got a Z-pool in that. But if I had the enclosure is rated for 3.1 and I've
had it plugged into a machine with 3.1 before and the speed difference for the same pool is insane.
Yeah, it's 3.0 to USB 3.0 ports. Yeah, I think even 3.0 might still work fine because
seeing us at the research only, I can run my analysis through the night and then just on the next day
get the results saved that into a text file and use that in my reports.
If you're looking at external drives to try and focus on getting eSATA rather than anything USB
whatever. Yeah, I think that's going to still going to be a while before. But USB takes that up,
but maybe I can build some small nano ITX platform. You could buy a compute module and one of the
boards for that does have a PCI Express slot. Don't some of the oil droids have a PCI? Possibly,
I've not done much single board computing apart from with the pie.
Pie was just a thought to try and keep costs down. If you're going to use something like the pie,
maybe you might want to look at some of the old Intel atom boards and then you don't have to screw
with the ARM architecture because the ARM is going to screw you over if you're trying to build
raids and whatnot. That's going to point you over. Yeah. There must be drivers and things out there,
though, because servers are moving over to ARM and obviously they're going to have raid
capability, aren't they? Some servers are moving over to ARM and some servers have raid capability,
but for things like CFS, CFS, you still have to use the DKMS every time you go and do
think any kernel upgrade and I do not trust that. It's a pain. Yeah, I'm not big into server technology,
so you probably know a lot more than I do. Oh no, I'm just some good electric.
What does everyone think of the Raspberry Pi 400, by the way? Looks cool. Looks like
something I've got it. I probably was getting it for like my kids. Yeah, I was just a bit disappointed.
They didn't go for eight gig with the release first release. I think they probably will eventually,
but I just saw it was a missed opportunity. I know it would have cost more a little bit more,
but I've also noticed that the Raspberry Pi's are slowly getting more expensive,
which kind of defeats the original selling point of super cheap computing.
Yeah, you've still got the $35 base model with the two gig, and gradually that'll increase,
as technology prices reduce as they always do, or seem to, you know, you'll probably end up
with a four gig model at some stage for $35. I had 16 of the original Raspberry Pi B pluses,
and I dizzyed chain them all together in a Beowulf cluster, and a switch was about the same price
as the Raspberry Pi's were. I've got an original 256B from the second batch of 10,000 that came out.
You can sell that one to a museum. My mates got one of the original 10,000.
I'm still using two of my Raspberry Pi's. Well, the initial B pluses.
Yeah, I had 16 of them. I have two left, and I'm still using both of them.
Wow. Yeah, there's a lot of them out there, and they're still in projects that you built them for,
and they still work. There's no need to change them. The great thing is that I brought to my
service. Sorry. That's exactly what I use them for. One of them is just an arc loan server to
keep all my org files on locally, and that's all it does. Manage my org files, because I use
org extensively, and then the other one is my IRC balancer. It runs ZNC, and that's all it does,
and I want it always there. Really? The etherpad that we do in the show notes on is running out
from the banana pie, which right around probably about as powerful as the Model B plus of the
Raspberry Pi. So now, take into the account the cost of the pie, and then take into account the
cost per terabyte of an enterprise SSD, which is between $120 and $140 US. So you probably get
six terabyte enterprise SSD for, we'll say, $800, and then link that. How many pies does that pay for
when you're getting the higher end model of the Raspberry Pi 4? I find the thing for the box. It's
just not there anymore. The Raspberry Pi 4 for the eight gig models, 70, eight gig
of RAM model is 73 quid here in the UK. That's bouncing right around the $100 USD mark, right?
Yeah, probably a little bit less with the current, I don't know what the current exchange rate is.
I'll go and check. The server I just got off of eBay was 105 quid? I know whatever the exchange was
about to go down. Yeah, a pound is 136 in dollar terms.
Okay, ladies and gents, I need to step up, I need to go on a shopping run, get some cold
meats and crackers and cheese and things for tonight. So I'll probably be away for an hour or two,
and then my little see you guys later. Okay, I'll probably.
Stay safe, bud. Yeah, have fun. Same day. I've just done the calculations. That exchange rate,
it's pretty well exactly 100 bucks, 99.96. Yeah, that's what if you're getting the best Raspberry
Pi's you can get right now. Enterprise SSD, a six terabyte enterprise SSD for
get seven Raspberry Pi's. Yeah, but it's chalk and cheese really into it, totally different case,
you know, use case scenario. But Mr. Curiosity there was wanting to build a NAS. Yeah,
by myself, I price everything storage in terms of storage because storage is the most important
thing for what I, my family, are local media for. We use storage for ripping the blu-rays and
keeping the 4K home videos and all the pictures and all that stuff and you want to keep all that
stuff safe. I know. It soon builds up as well. Yeah, I mean, we've got probably eight terabytes of
pictures and videos from the past 10 years that the wife and I have been married plus a couple
hundred gigs from before. Well, I've got two four terabyte external drives that I store all my
video and graphics on and they're just over half full each, you know, because one's a mirror of
the other and they're just over, just over two terabytes full. I don't rip blu-ray, I only rip DVD.
We're coming up on New Year's in Adelaide, by the way. We are, yes. 98765-4382-1-0. Happy New Year,
it's an excellent 20 minutes, 30 minutes. And then we Brisbane. I don't know, I just find it
harder to keep it as Tuesdays. My in-laws had a seven-year-old camera. We got them a new camera
for Christmas this year and one of the first things they noticed when they took the camera home after
Christmas was that the file sizes for the pictures were about three times the size of the file
sizes of the pictures of their old camera. So the first thing that my father-in-law did was he
went into the settings of the camera and he picked the smallest file size possible for the camera.
What? I always do the opposite. Why would you do that? Yeah, you want the best quality,
not the worst. It's logic because he doesn't want to pay for the space to store things, so I'm
going to let him figure it out. Yeah, but given that in the old days you used to have to pay for
printing and processing and all that, you still, with modern camera technology, you still saving
bags of money. My father-in-law is a penny-benture, so it doesn't matter where you're saving money,
I want to save more money. I thought I was the tight wood. I'm pretty tight. I like quality. Yeah,
I think I said it on Minkas couple of weeks, a couple of weeks ago or a few weeks ago that
so sometimes buying the best quality pays off in the long term anyway, because you just
spend discovering that painfully with hard drives and SSDs. Yeah. I don't look at the
deep hard drives anymore because it's been too painful unless you're willing to buy
five of them at a time. Yeah, there's certain times that you buy the best and certain times you
go to eBay and buy cheapo cheap. Well, if you're going to buy eBay cheapo cheap, put it in a raid
zero and expect it. No, I'm not thinking of tennis. Yeah, thinking of other things necessarily.
I wasn't thinking of good quality stuff, but if you want to tinker with electronics and stuff,
sometimes going to eBay and buying cheapo cheaper stuff is, you know, it's a way, because then you
know, you're not worried if you blow it up. I think it's only cost you 50 cents. Go to Ali Express and
buy it and bulk from the sourcing. Yeah, you know, pinning the turn. You know how sometimes you
just lose the ability to type? That's happening to me right now. So I'm just reading on you COVID
regulations for where I live and what I can and can't do. What's, has there anything interesting
on there? Yeah, well, we're under a stay at home order, went into it at midnight. So unless you
work and you have to leave the house to do your work, if you can work from home, you suppose to,
if you can't, you can go, you can leave the house for that. You can go and buy food or send,
you know, medicines and things like that. But I'm just coming to look at you can leave home to
visit people in your support or to provide informal childcare. That's nice. We can't even have
that here. We go back a phase. So when we go out from where we are now, my in-laws are not allowed
to come over and watch my kids when I do things like go to work, which I have to do. And my wife
has to do, she is a nurse. It says here that you can children under 13 or as part of the childcare
bubble and the caring of vulnerable people. So if you've got a relative who's, you provide care for,
you can go and do that. Yeah, well, in America, but it's terrible. It's wasn't really refers to
daycare groups and we don't have that. In the UK, if you're in what they call an essential
occupation like nursing, they provide childcare. So if your children are school age, but they've
shut the schools, the essential workers can still send their children to school or to childcare
facilities. They don't work that way here. Yeah. I just realized every time we've been
linking a new tab and turning my make on. Right, I'm going to disappear for a while. It'll probably
be this evening before I come back. So I don't talk to you again before new year in your part of
the world. Happy new year. And I'll be back later. All right. Let me see. Okay. Yeah, I think I'm
going to go to that. I'll probably be back in either one hour or eight hours, either or. So
I guess happy New Year's, if you happen to have a great New Year's.
See you. I don't know how to disconnect.
See you later. Yeah, there we go.
It's very quiet. Well, hopefully people won't notice it once the truncated silence comes in.
I should just pipe the sounds of my children through here. That is an option.
New Year. It's a more loose weight.
Hey, good morning and happy New Year, everybody. This is Short Fat Ball Guy in Northern Kentucky.
Morning. Short Fat Ball Guy. Happy New Year, everybody. Short Fat Ball Guy in Northern Kentucky.
Happy New Year, everybody. You got some echo there, but
that is a lot of echo. I know you're listening because you just posted too
mustard on. So I too will have a coffee.
Coffee. I'm making coffee. My wife has wheat or making coffee.
Sorry, what was that? I said, I am making the coffee, and then my wife said, we are making the coffee.
Yes, I do. I'm making the coffee.
Fine, are we going to make the coffee?
So I can now have a one-way chat with Claudio M, who's a mustard on commenting to my discussions
here on the HBO Live New Year show. I don't see his comments. He's unmasked on.
Yeah, I'm just, he's not just not on top of my feet for whatever reason.
Shall I hurry? I still have to get the coffee.
Right, what's happening? I still haven't decided to actually make coffee.
I've made coffee. Turns out the reason people don't like my coffee is because I've been using
a tea strainer as a coffee filter. But I like it.
This morning I had the horrible experience of making coffee with not hot water.
I was wondering why it wasn't working. I'm sure there's a name for that type of coffee.
I mean, it could be cold brew, but then it doesn't work in, you know, a minute.
I get to jump off y'all, but I'll be back later for y'all.
A bit of the night for us. Yeah, so I was like, see you, I guess.
Yeah, it's going great. It's vacation time now, which is going to end soon, sadly.
Are you being far from here? Do you still know or not?
No, no, I didn't have the time in the end. I mean, I would
often end up working around the same time. Still, I had a lot of stuff to do, but not anymore.
Life, yeah. The expression, thank you for reaching out to us.
It's becoming more and more prevalent here. I find it a really irritating sentence.
And what context?
Dear Mr. Fallon, thank you for reaching out to us. Yes, we did fuck up and whatever.
But yeah, thank you for reaching out to us. What?
I'm not reaching out yet. I won't. I don't know. You know, you called desks.
You're using it a lot. Yeah, kind of weird. I generally avoid
contacting help desks. Unless it's my internet provider, in which case,
yeah, I will bug the hell out of them. I had a reason to call my ISP's hopdesk and I ended up
doing a HPR interview with a CTL. Really? Wait, when was that? January.
Next year. Yeah, I think I listened to that.
Seems like ages ago now. No, it's due to most in the first of January 2021.
See, you made too many interviews. I mean, you don't make enough interviews.
Actually, I ended up talking to the dude for a year and a half. That's quite nice.
That's a pretty long conversation. What was it about?
What did I have to tune in here? I'll give you the summary.
Could there be an ISP that wants to be free open internet for privacy security and quality
in this interview with Uncle Scholter to Horst, CTO Freedom Internet. We discussed the history
of the internet in the Netherlands, inspired by the work of access for all. A new ISP
was found to be privacy security and quality at its core. Thank you, Kevin, telling us that we
need to welcome in the new year for Queensland, Australia and five more Brisbane, Port Moorsby,
Guam and Cairns. I miss those places. I miss going anywhere. I miss the commute to work.
I'm supposed to go. I never thought I'd say that, but there you go. Yeah,
fortunately, my commute to work has substantially reduced at some point in the last two years.
Mine has disappeared. It's now the back room. Oh, yeah, sure. Now it's disappeared also, but that's
another thing entirely. Indeed. Don't mention the virus. I need to make a call now.
Go ahead. I'll sit here and start slagging off Claudio until he just gets fed up and comes on.
Well, I'll use this opportunity in there to restart the streams, I guess, saving of the streams.
You've been listening to Hecropublic Radio at HecropublicRadio.org. We are a community podcast
network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show, like all our shows,
was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is. Hecropublic Radio was found
by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club and is part of the binary revolution
at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment
on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is
released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
