Episode: 3086
Title: HPR3086: HPR Community News for May 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3086/hpr3086.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:32:47

---

This is HACCO Public Radio Episode 386 for Monday 1 June 2020. Today's show is entitled
HPR Community News for May 2020,
and is part of the series HPR Community News. It is hosted by HPR Volunteers
and is about 54 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
Dave and Ken talk about shows released in comments posted in May 2020.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthos.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthos.com.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon. You're listening to another episode of HACCO Public Radio.
This one is the Community News for May 2020 and I'm joined as always by Dave.
Hello, you're also joined hopefully not, but you might be joined by my neighbors
who are all out in their various gardens making noises and stuff.
But it'll just add to the ambience of that thing, you know, it'll be lovely.
Until somebody starts a little more than I'll run on each other.
Ah, but it's normal May.
Well, if they're all out in the garden, they probably don't want to be cutting the graduates at all.
They'll have to get out of the way to do it, so hopefully we're good.
So this is HPR, HPR's community podcast network, where the shows are contributed by members of the community.
So our podcast listeners are the people who submit shows.
Just one second, I need to shut a door, Dave.
And this show is where we once a month give a roundup of what's been going on as far as we're aware in the HPR community because we are but two.
And this is where we introduce new host Dave.
Well, I'm sorry to say there are no new hosts this month.
What's one last month, but not this month?
I'm not angry. I'm just very disappointed.
I must say this COVID-19 thing is really messing up my podcast listening experience.
It's doing a lot for me to be able to record podcasts, but as far as listening goes, that's more of an issue.
Yes, I know. I can't catch up with the backlog I've got.
I've got from 10 gigabodes down to 8.8 or something at the moment.
Wow, that's really hard.
Yes, really hard to get any further.
So shall we go through the shows for last month?
So the last one was on the Friday, the first.
And it was a case for unattributed messages.
And it was by Ahuka.
And also known as Canada brand.
And there's a comment there from Brian.
So the premise of the show was.
And anonymity has an unfortunate consequence of enabling tools and trolls and abuse.
And Brian and Ohio says enemies.
It's sad that Ahuka considers his fellow citizens on the other side of the political spectrum, his enemies.
Also, all governments, not just Russia, so political discord for their gain.
Just listen to Voice of America and check out all the CIO A ops in Central and South America.
Quit picking on Russia as a straw man.
I think to say really.
I never heard that.
I never heard any straw manning.
Yeah, I suppose we're not as sensitive to American politics as.
I guess Americans will be.
Yeah, seems reasonable.
So the following day we had HPR community news.
And there were six comments on that show.
What was the one where I abandoned you Dave left you all to yourself?
Yeah, I probably needed the practice.
Yeah.
Anyway, Tukatoruto says thanks.
Thanks for keeping the flag of HPR high up and doing the community use episode all by yourself.
Listening to the recap of the whole previous month's worth of episodes is one of those things that I look forward to when a new month starts.
Tukatoruto, you need to get out.
You don't need to stay in them till lockdown is over.
But then you need to get out.
In a safe manner, you'll be all right.
So I felt on a band to answer this as I usually do it.
And I said no problem.
I appreciate the feedback to Tukator.
It's a abbreviated thing.
I also feel the community news is an important part of HPR on the show must go on as they say.
And then we have a comment by Tukkey.
Blood type distributions.
Dave mentioned in passing that all positive would be an unusual blood type.
One might think so when you're just looking at how they all these work.
Aliens.
Thank you, Dave.
All you need is one A and one B.
Alil.
And then the all positive would be overruled.
You might be tempted to believe that it's 25% of each of all A, B and A, B.
But that assumes an even distribution of genes.
My blood type is A plus and I grew up being taught it was one of the most common ones.
When I moved to Hong Kong, I learned that the blood type distribution is your universal.
Someone told me that my blood type was unusual.
While A plus is not exactly unusual in China and I assume Hong Kong, nearly 50% of the population is all positive.
While A positive is at around 25%.
It is also not as dominant in Sweden as I was led to believe.
37% of Swedes are A positive, while 32% are all positive.
While in the UK and the US, all positive is somewhat more common than A positive.
The reverse of the Swedish distribution.
And he links to a Wikipedia article.
Blood type distribution by country.
And then I'll do a hookah says, I love the show you did a great job, Dave.
Though I'm guessing you would like to have come back next time.
So I replied to you.
I replied to Clackin.
And I said I think I was confusing because I have learnt this stuff with I know about this stuff.
I can't have that model.
And now I think of it.
I was learning about blood groups more than 50 years ago.
And I should say this is an adentiment.
And done very little else with it since then.
So yes, there's times when you can rely on your memory sometimes.
Maybe back to the comment.
It's an interesting subject though.
And I must go and refresh my dwindling, slash dwindled knowledge about it all.
And I would jump in and suggest that somebody should do a show about it.
Save you the effort.
You have plenty of stuff that I have on my list for you to do, Dave.
Yeah.
I look at many things that I see in daily life.
I just found a really interesting paleontology, YouTube thingy.
I was thinking, oh, you should really be highlighting paleontology.
And I think, is it really my thing to do?
Well, I'd like to make a hash of it, then.
Anyway.
So, referring to a hook, I say, thanks to hook.
I'm glad you enjoyed the show.
In having run through it earlier, I went and mumble refused to record anything for me.
I obviously gave myself an accidental rehearsal.
So maybe the show wasn't as disjointed as it could have been, smiley face.
Yes, it's more fun when there are two of us to discuss and banter a bit so I could throw the normal setup.
When I remember that it's on.
Happens, it happens.
This one, I listened to while queuing for the recycling center.
Getting my Python 3 code working in Python 2.
And this was a Mr. X modifying some of his old code, trying to get a working on a thing,
a new Raspberry Pi or something.
Yeah, yeah, the thing that he uses to listen to is podcasts.
I actually got this meld tool from him, which is absolutely excellent.
Oh, I thought he had been mentioned before.
I've been using it for years and I'm sure somebody's recommendation.
But yeah, it is a brilliant thing.
My favourite.
So, should we move on?
Any comments on that one?
No, I should say it was a great show and I do feel his pain.
It sounds like this Python 2.3 transition stuff is really, really horrible.
But it's what happens.
It's a thing that happens is happening in the world as well.
I got into Python later in the game so I started everything as Python 3.
Don't do any Python, do it all.
Same here, same here.
Keeping track of downloads in Elm.
The tutorial shows us how to keep track of data is been downloaded in Elm.
This made perfect sense while I was listening to it.
Yes, yes, same here really.
I can see you on everything else to see about this show.
If you came back and looked at this page afterwards like now, you'd go,
Oh, goodness, what was that all about?
Yes, yes.
You wouldn't say I allowed that.
Would you know it would be too sensitive?
No, no.
Although I did have a smidgen of the Dave Morris effect over engineering something here that you're downloading.
But I suspect with the tutorial, it's part of a larger project that we will see at some point.
I assumed it was part of his space game thing that he was building.
I don't know whether we actually said it as much, but yeah.
So then we had the Linux in laws season one, episode five, porn and Skynet.
This is the one where they did the Nvidia thing at the end.
And Bendy says, Skynet, why?
Wow, I didn't realize Skynet was really Nvidia.
I'm going to bid my graphics cards right now.
Thank you so much for the heads up.
Yes, they're having fun with that stuff.
The following day, it was CRVS with some dim hints.
And I thought to myself, that's got to be right up your alley there, Dave.
Yeah, we had a little conversation about this.
I think there were a few issues with the way he'd put together his notes and stuff.
Not a lot of that, anything.
Anything that's imaginable.
But yeah, he's quite of them, he's just.
So yeah, this is pretty good.
It's a mistake here when it says dim info plus equals end dollar.
Just send in an email and ask him.
Anyway, yeah.
My only thing about this is it's very clever and I'm quite impressed.
I don't know why you'd want to do it or why I'd want it.
But maybe I'm just stuck in the mug and don't see the need to have things in this.
The xdg.config directory.
I mean, it's nice that things have developed to place themselves there.
That's great, but things like VIM and VI and other things.
There's a lot of other things that don't follow that line and forcing them to do so is quite a job.
But if that's the way you feel it should be, then fun.
Well, it makes the other desktops work.
Make it makes it compatible.
So actually managing dot files is a thing, then certainly helps with that, isn't it?
Would be nice to have somebody give us an introduction and then a in-depth look at like the free desktop and xdg and some of the applications.
I use xdg dash open all the time to open files.
And it will be great to know where the configuration files for saying,
okay, I want to open this with this application, come from the mime types and all that sort of stuff.
I'm sure I could find out, but it would be just easier if somebody told me.
Yes, yes, it's always good to have somebody who knows the way around this stuff.
Give an overview and explanation.
It's much better, it's more fun, more interesting than just digging around in dry documentation,
which I'm not all that good at, to be honest.
So the next one arose from an issue I had, which was working on a show they find in Raspberry Pi on the network 3052,
about putting quotes inside a, inside a bash sparing hand, I thought, hey, I've got a bash expert here online.
What's going to come of this four hours later?
Four days, four days later.
It was just a thing, occasionally I think, oh, I am not as clear about this as I should be.
So their boards, likely that a lot of people were similarly unclear.
So why not just make, make, make myself clear and on the way share the, the clarity.
So that's what I did.
And yeah, bash is a little bit of the way it handles quotes.
I mean, partly because it's a rag bag of bits that have gradually accumulated, I think,
but not, not, not, not to mean that that's a bad thing necessarily.
No, it just happens.
I just sort of, you know, bought it the scrapyard type of accumulator.
Anyway, so comments.
Nobody who a long time commenter, but are they a horse, Dave?
Let me just check that.
No, Dave, they are not.
That's amazing, isn't it?
Isn't it? Yes, yes.
It made some very helpful contributions over the past few months.
So yeah, it's surprising.
Very, very shocking impact.
Shocking.
Shocking, I tell you.
Anyway, nobody says, further simplifying, there are actually more than two types of courting and bash.
In addition to the single and double, there are also NCC and localized courting quotations.
And by the way, this is not going to be an easy comment to read.
For this problem, I would have used the NCC quotation, Aliash Show Network dollar single quote, end map.
Du, du, du, du, du, du, you're going to have to read that.
Personally, I find it a bit more readable.
It might not be as portable, but that shouldn't matter as the episode specifically addresses bash.
There is a, there are explanations of NCC quotations in the bash manual.
So what is that there?
There is, you put in dollar, then the quotes?
Yes, there's a thing in, in bash where dollar and then a quoted string allows you to add all sorts of backslashy things inside it.
So you can put unicode sequences in there if you want to and backslash N and backslash T.
And all that sort of stuff.
So yeah, it's great, it's really good.
But let me go on to my comment.
I said thanks to you.
You're of course perfectly right.
I tend not to think this way of doing things.
Maybe because I originally learned unics on HPUX and Sanos and Ultra exception a long time ago.
And I might be accused of being stuck in my ways.
I did think of mentioning this in the show, but didn't do it because it was a snippet.
I didn't want to go into too much detail and make the episode too long.
I did link to the relevant page in the documentation.
There's a link in the comments here.
However, feel free to add the bash scripting series yourself.
I look forward to hearing a different view from you and you of course.
A little boy next door.
Yes, got a good pair of lungs on it.
Yeah, no, good.
It's also nice to hear kids.
It's amazing.
Now, you know, kids are playing a lot more in the street.
And here, since the lockdown, kids are playing more in the street.
But the number of accidents and deaths hasn't decreased because they've moved from the highways to children getting knocked down.
And pedestrians getting knocked down.
Anyway, yes.
So that's...
Anyway, after depressing everybody, let's move on to the next show.
The joy of pip tools and pie end virtual environments.
In the little bit of Python series, but clacky.
And there were two comments, clarification from clacky himself, Arata.
We want to pipe in virtual and works just fine.
I confused myself when creating the NYX Python virtual environment, which doesn't work.
When I thought I was creating an Ubuntu Python virtual environment, which actually does work.
Just absorbing that.
Sorry.
To Toto says, interesting and insightful.
It's been a while since I needed to do Python package management.
But thanks to this episode, I'm ready next time to need arises.
Yeah.
I think it's kind of important if you ever plan to distribute your Python program.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I am not good at thinking at that level.
I'm afraid so it is good to get a occasional kick in the backside to win that.
It's a good mindset to be working with.
Absolutely.
And the next episode was Tony Hughes.
The first in a mini series on matchbox and die cast restoration.
And Tukutoruto says, sounds good.
Look forward to this series.
I haven't ever stripped matchbox cars, but I've done my fair share of miniature stripping.
I'm interested in hearing how you handle this as these models are both metal and plastic parts.
Yes.
It's really intriguing.
Tony Hughes himself applies saying feedback from Tukutoruto.
Thanks for the comments.
I'll be covering how I go about dismantling the models, removing paint from the casting and plastic parts.
It's part of the series.
My next episode will be about basic tools and materials you need to get started.
Cool.
I've been intriguing because these are toys from my era.
Well, my era is before this, but I do remember them.
You look at some of these poor tatty old things.
I think it would be nice to bring it back to life again.
I'm really impressed that Tony's doing this.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
All the cars that he has remind me very much of the cars that I had, because they were all in this state when I got them.
Having had five brothers used it, four brothers used it before me.
Yes.
So kids tend to be a bit hard on these things.
So the following day was something that I had planned to do for months or years, actually.
And was surprised that I'd never gone brown to it.
And I heard that the escape pod series were in trouble financially because of their room.
Yeah, they're still trying to pay their authors and, yeah, during this period, it's a top firm.
So I had several ones that I wanted to put on the show, but I thought this one was the most appropriate for HP.
Yes, it's a lovely, lovely episode.
I've listened to the escape pod for a while, but I missed this one.
I never heard it.
2018.
I had to reflect and listen to it straight away before I, as I was posting the show, which is a bit notable.
No, well, sorry.
Sorry.
I went back to, and downloaded all the escape pod shows and listened to them from the start,
while I was doing a renovation at one point here in the house.
They are absolutely excellent.
And there was one other show that I wanted to put on, but I can't find it.
But this one, actually, I ended up hearing it come into my feed.
And then I was thinking about, I've already listened to this twice before.
So I won't listen to it again, but, you know, I had the face mask and stuff on.
And then I ended up listening to it for a year, third time.
I really, really thought they did a very good job on this artificial life form.
It's basically about a artificial robot who gets into...
Is it anime, I think?
Yes, sort of a fandom type of...
Yeah, exactly.
It's in the name, isn't it?
A fandom of robots.
Yeah.
That's what I mean.
Yes, I could really sympathize with that.
And the author's written a...
I'm going to find out more from my particular source.
And the narration is absolutely excellent.
Top notch.
Yes.
I've heard him many times.
He's got a really good delivery.
And there's some excellent people on that.
The thing is, with the skateboard, you can't always know if it's going to be a nice, uplifting episode.
This one definitely is.
So, it's a good, a nice episode to start off with.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
It's a bit of a...
You can come out and think of...
Yeah.
Oh, I wish I hadn't listened to that.
It was just...
Yes, exactly.
Good.
That's not to say the shows are not good.
It's just, you know, you're there in tears sometimes at some of the episodes that you go.
Oh, I...
I am an internationally renowned worse.
So, that's fine.
I'm allowed to do that.
Anywho, following on.
Federated blogging with Wright Freely.
And this is part of a hookah's social networking...
social media thing.
And Taki says,
Federated links for talks on Fediverse thing.
In addition to the archive.org location above the talks are also available
on the Federated free social web at Ante gives a link.
That's cool.
Yes.
Yes.
Nice.
There was a distraction free tool for writing, which is pretty cool thing.
Yeah.
Yeah, interestingly, I'm talking about WordPress and Microsoft Office and stuff.
I'm sorry, WordPerfect at the time that you just sat down and wrote.
And then Microsoft Office Command and people productivity went down.
I actually saw that from day one.
Yeah.
We had WordPerfect somewhere other on a machine in our department.
I was working at, but I never used it myself.
We were all writing documentation by getting it punched on punch cards.
So, you'd sit with a coding sheet and write stuff up, get it punched.
And then there was a text processor which read the cards and produced stuff on that
line print or a daisy wheel or something like that.
That's the state we were at.
So the following day was keep calm and virion.
Is that how it went?
Yeah.
Text to, the text to speech thing made it, made the right message by my pun.
Sorry, just to find it.
Sorry, I guess.
Oh, you were the one who wouldn't let me put puns on your bash series.
Thank you very much.
It's all right to put your own puns on.
Come on.
I think Andrew and I were debating what to call it and made some suggestions.
And this was the one, this one that we both agreed with.
I mean, it doesn't mean anything, but it just sounds good.
And after 225 shows, not counting all the community news ones,
you still don't know how to use a USB recorder.
Who could know that if you got a multiple ports on your laptop
and there's several USBs, if you plug it into the first USB, it works great.
Plug in the second USB, it doesn't.
You get this incredibly shitty noise.
It was not as bad as the next time I tried to do this.
But it's just, I don't know, I don't understand why this laptop would do that.
Oh, it's weird.
I do, of course, mess, because the gods of audio recording can fall on any of us at any time.
Well, I'm back to my, just for anybody who's listening and might be vaguely interested,
I'm back to using mumble on my main desktop.
And the way I managed to solve that one was by recompiling mumble to make it work,
whereas before the version I had was not playing ball at all.
So yeah, yeah, the gods of sound recording really, really hating.
Well, this is a nice episode.
Great to, I ended up listening to this one twice because the first time I was making a bike shed
and they are rearranging the bike shed.
And I didn't know if I had got to the end and then the second time I was down shopping
and thought, I'll just listen to it again, because it was worth it.
Wow, that's a punishment.
I like the pain of making tea.
But we had fun anyway.
We enjoyed it.
I'm enjoying the reasons.
Shinwagi, Taken, Taken.
We'll maybe do another one before two, I don't know.
It depends.
And Dan Dixon was on the following day.
And this one went viral in my work.
And I posted this.
And about how to use a push to talk thing.
And some people have adapted us to use it on the map on the Mac as well.
So there you go.
I have actually found a Android Nano here.
I don't know if you can hear me clicking that.
That is intended to be my push to talk.
But I got distracted.
His code is good, but very.
It's as a two-cutor or tall level as far as my Python is concerned.
So I was thinking of modifying it just the basic bling script sketch.
Because I'm not interested in the LED light and all that flashing.
I just want off on off on.
So I've been kind of hacking at that yesterday.
And then I had to stop because it was exercise time.
Well, yeah, I think it's a brilliant thing.
It's really amazing.
It's just a character.
By the way, Dan Nixon.
Sorry, Dan.
But yeah, a brilliant piece of work.
And the pictures were great too.
It really adds a huge lot to these things.
And we got to see some pickies.
And we got our act together.
We got my act together.
And we managed to get the pictures properly interleaved with text and whatever.
And with thumbnails and stuff.
And this prompted me to write some scripts behind this to do this in a less human intervention-y way.
So I can't screw up.
That's where scripting comes from, Dave.
Oh, absolutely.
Yes.
It's all about protecting yourself from yourself.
In my case, anyway.
Absolutely.
No, but I really want to get this work.
And I've, because I'm sick and tired of having to find a key on my laptop.
And I want to have one of my, uh, basically on all the computers that,
rather than a printed one, I was thinking of just getting a,
yeah, one of those thick, thin nanos, you know, about the,
about the width of a credit card and about a centimeter, half an inch wide.
And then kind of shrink wrap them or, you know, put them on,
put them in some clear heat sink tubing.
And then use the onboard LED as they,
as the light to tell you whether it's on or off.
So that's kind of what I'd like to do.
Yeah.
Yes.
Yes.
I think tubing is wonderful stuff.
Different sizes.
Yeah, I got a little,
I got a little, uh, uh, uh, USB oscilloscope thing,
um, from BitSchool that uses that.
So, might work.
Yeah.
But I have a lot of cool working.
I might get in touch with him and, uh, ask for his help.
Cool.
Yeah, I'm in hand.
Look to the code.
Yeah.
I'm going to have a look.
It's, uh, it's a great little project.
Really, really, really impressive.
10 finances.
Brilliant idea.
I must try this.
I'll probably use different parts.
As you can tell.
Yes, I am.
And I've got nowhere.
Thank you.
And you know why I've got nowhere?
Because since this lockdown thing,
I've become the house, uh,
from morning until night,
I have to fix things.
Just 24, seven.
My, I can't use zoom.
I can't use this.
My laptop cables fallen out.
My charger is missing.
My door has,
my door not has stopped working.
It's just brutal.
Oh.
That's not happening here.
I think my kids are not around.
Not much anyway.
So, yes.
Yes.
How do you?
So, are we able to add a comment from Jesra who says,
an amazing mix of custom hardware and software.
Thank you for sharing.
I've found down a rabbit hole of links to software.
I think, you know,
I need it.
It's one of your days.
This is very much up Jesra Street.
I would think so.
Absolutely.
Cool stuff.
And the next one.
Health and health care.
This is another one by Ahuka.
And it is about the coronavirus to date.
And Zen Flotter gives a link to the magical forest
or apious comments.
Capitalism is successful.
As it models nature's kill or be killed ethics.
At a conscious level.
In short, yes.
You're going to get out there and you're going to die.
The problem was in allowing China into this global community.
Not whether or not you're going to hide in your house.
Okay.
Don't know how we got back from that show, but.
I think I hope it's sort of.
Making a few comments about how capitalism wasn't helping with this.
Capitalism is driving the.
The.
Remove the lockdown.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, yes, yes.
Yes.
See that now.
Yeah.
Which is, which is a common analysis.
And it's also being used as analysis in the UK.
And here.
Really.
It's far far too early for reasons.
So I disagree with Zen.
Floatron every level, I think.
Okay.
Well, he says you're going to go out there and you're going to die.
So I don't know if he's pro or anti actually here.
Capitalism is indeed a killer be killed type ethic.
Although I don't think that that's necessarily models in all of nature.
Because there are plenty of species who cooperate within the same species.
And.
Elephants lions.
Where were we?
What episode were we at?
3079.
Which is porn and Trump.
Where the lads discuss audacity.
Kidney live blender price wild water house coopers.
The current war better things and etc.
There are no comments on that show as yet.
And the following day we had a show by myself.
Ansible ping trouble shooting a basic and civil install.
I just not an answer expert by any means, but.
I do like it as it's something that you can run on your laptop.
And just configure stuff in a standard way around your network.
So what I wanted to do was give people basically the.
How to on how to get something up and running.
So you're not to make trouble shooting a little easier.
Yeah, very, very helpful.
I think it was an excellent journey through through the basics.
I found anyway.
It'll it'll pass me fairly quickly.
But the point when I start trying to do this, which I do intend to do.
Using a battery pie, maybe.
And then I'm sure this will will start to become clear and will be very helpful.
Yeah, the steps in the episode are there.
You should should take you about 15 minutes in total to go through.
That episode and you know install Ansible.
And then you can install it after you're finished.
If it's if you don't like the concept.
No, it looks good.
Yeah, it's definitely something I want to do.
Okay, the following day we had to go tour to who was talking about testing a formal verification of software.
And there's harking back to episode 3057 where you forgot to mention why somebody will want to do it.
And there's lots of people in my work with swear by this methodology.
So I go to a good discussion.
Yeah, it sort of opened up windows to things that I wasn't completely clear about aware of.
I guess you can say so.
I've seen people doing this sort of stuff.
But in a sort of computer science construct context.
And one didn't buy and never had to do this.
Then I'm not that sort of a programmer or more of a sort of nuts and bolts and nail and plywood.
So yeah, it's not a cheap operation.
The message I took from it.
But important in certain contexts.
If you're building stuff to run a ventilator for patients or an aeroplane or a car or whatever.
So these are these are important things.
Well, you know, it just says money on the long run.
There earlier you can text the scope of the better.
So the next show was a discussion on RFC 5005 part one.
Paged an archive feeds.
Who cares, question mark?
I care.
I care very deeply.
I love equally love and hate this protocol.
Yeah, yeah.
I do actually understand that point of view.
You work with it more than I have.
But the times I've messed around with both RSS and Adam.
I've found them rather frustrating.
This extension seems to be a cool thing to have.
But I don't know how well it's going to exist in the real world.
Now and there in lies your problem.
I've had reason to think that this is going to save my bacon in two locations.
One being here on HPR.
And the other being in work where it would allow the offlining of a online database.
And what where it fails and it does fail.
It's it fails in its vagueness and it fails in the archive archive.
The the fact that an archive can never be touched again.
Means you it's essentially useless because we can't use it on HPR.
We can't have one archive.
And then every day add another episode into this archive episode.
So that would mean we would need to archive a month or archive or whatever.
So then you have lots of different archives linked together.
And it's just completely horrendous to deal with.
And also vague in this.
How you interpret the specification even with two or three different people on it was different.
And I had a different interpretation as well to what the specification says.
So essentially it's unimplementable them.
Great idea though.
And the first last and previous thing they did mention on the HPR feed that we have two feeds.
And we have two feeds specifically for this reason.
One is that we maintain the two week feed.
And then there's the full archive feed of everything.
And that is a pain that is boss.
Yeah.
What can you do because this doesn't fix that problem.
Unfortunately.
So there you go.
That's all I have to say about.
I did read start reading the RFC itself.
We've been quite fascinated by RFCs and stuff but.
But got lots of sheds and masks and all that stuff in it.
It's certainly readable.
But.
Very.
Yeah.
The implementation.
As you say might well be.
Yeah.
The struggle.
It is quite readable.
Well.
I'm also.
The what I found interesting in this was the how Google.
You know, the Microsoft is known for its embrace extend extinguish dialogue.
I think.
They made a very valid point that anything that Google touches you should be very wary of because.
They will embrace extend and then abandon.
And I think a lot of people are very sore about Google reader since.
Since they dropped Google reader.
I think a lot of.
There's a certain population of the tech population that had.
Decided.
Okay.
That's that's enough.
My whole Google.
Thank you.
Yeah.
And with it with it went.
The popularity of RSS where you could.
Where you could use it as a feed mechanism.
Yes, people will say that.
Podcasting has never been more.
Open.
But you.
They.
Or SS feeds themselves maybe used.
In the background.
And then I some feed or XML.
And I use them interchangeably here.
But.
The majority of podcasting.
Now would be more than happy to hide the feeds from people and give dedicated feeds to.
Apple iTunes or whichever stitcher or.
Whatever these proprietary world garden.
Podcast listening applications are.
Yeah.
I was having a conversation with.
Tie the guy who.
Organizes.
Ember.
He's a group.
Yesterday about this.
Just.
He.
Part of a new podcast that he was.
He was advertising.
It turned out that it's available on Spotify and.
No RSS was.
Was.
Was visible.
I did quiz him about that.
And.
You could find it if you dug deeply enough.
Dave Lee was kind enough to.
To dig and find it.
But.
We're having a conversation about why this is so.
And it is exactly the same.
People are trying to make money from it.
And just having it out there and available is not the way of.
I'm doing that.
It's seen.
Yep.
And it's.
Let's.
The Clebs have too much freedom.
What kind of that.
I'm sorry.
Did I say that out loud?
No, no, no.
Coming with our left wing.
Communist views here.
So.
I knew.
More than like.
And.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're an anarchist.
Oh, get off the ship.
That's right.
And.
Yourself and the stretch had a chance when we all have the pleasure of listening to it.
And I also had the additional pleasure of watching this video that Dan Nixon added into
the into the mix.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I'm.
I haven't done that.
Yeah, actually, I haven't done that.
I was asking.
I've just emailed the stretch to say, do we know.
What this, what the thing you referred to actually was.
And I haven't heard back from you.
He's a busy guy.
But yeah, I'm just looking back.
That.
Video.
Very good.
Well, I really comment.
He says group based tape format is.
Tell.
Excuse me.
Tefifon.
Thank you.
Tefifon.
And there's a good review there on Tecmon's YouTube channel.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, he's excellent for talking about these types of things.
Yeah.
Oh, good.
Good, good, good.
I listened to this yesterday, I think.
So to tend to be reluctant to listen to my own stuff.
And this one, I thought was going to be a total nightmare.
It was a bad dream, but it wasn't a nightmare.
It was fine.
It was fine.
It was fine.
It was crap, but it was very small.
It's a rabbit drop.
It's a big steam.
It was fine.
Well, I was listening to it on the bike yesterday and it was absolutely fine.
Yeah.
And now the next day, the really, the audio book club is just to note the sellers here.
And it was Star Trek, the continuing mission.
And the podcast for the next one is Tinture, an apocalyptic proposition.
Tinture.
Tinture.
Tinture.
Tinture.
Tinture.
Tinture.
It's Tinture.
It's my grandmother always used that word.
It's a valid word and it means a suspension or dissolving of something or other in alcohol.
So you have a tincture.
There's no tincture of that.
And she would think it's also a Victorian.
She was a Victorian.
And it was used as slang to mean just about have a little tincture, which was, yeah.
A little glass.
Oh, you can run.
That's right.
Yeah.
So tincture is the word.
Ahuka says.
And I agree.
Missing 50, hearing 50 makes me miss him again.
And I must admit, I was surprised to discover that I appeared in this episode.
But good work for the reviews, folks.
Yeah, it's a great shame to say to this.
But it's good that we have these reminiscences.
We just sort of banish off the face of the HPR world.
It's nice to have these reminiscences.
Yeah.
And it is nice to know that they're on archive.org.
And the best of 50 and 50 is up there for anybody, new generations of people to listen to.
And I'm sure whenever the first probe heads off for the new worlds that a copy of archive.org will go with them.
Other life forms will have the joy of listening to our musings here on the network.
Yes.
Yes.
We could like to speak.
Speaking of aliens.
No, it's not that too.
Architecture of robustness by Huka.
Definitely not really.
Although, if there were aliens on the planet, a retired project manager would probably be the most clever disguise of any of them.
Just saying.
And social networks platforms, histories and stuff.
This is how do you secure networks against attack while still be opening to strangers.
This was a...
Probably people haven't listened to this one, but this is a very good...
How do you strike that balance pretty much?
Yeah.
Quite a problem.
And why are there some links here?
I've only just started looking at these because then a lot of time.
And, yeah.
I hope it's great for the links.
So, thank you very much for that.
So, going back to the previous show's comments.
Bash tips 21, but Dave Morris.
Nobody also had a comment about that.
Seeing, personally, I feel like the best and most complete resource for Ock is the Gwok manual and links to said document.
To which Dave felt that he had to reply.
I do, I do.
Well, nobody's comment was in response to something where I'd said to CRBS, I think.
That we'd done a series on, because he made a comment about Ock.
And that was also available on the resource.com.
We don't know if nobody thought that I was blowing my hand to trumpet in some sort of way and saying that we have a far better resource than the Gwok manual.
So, I always felt the things to point out that wasn't the case.
So, what I said was, thank you for your feedback.
I interpret you correctly. I think you made this understood the spirit of my earlier comment.
I was replying to CRBS when he mentioned the use of shibans in the context of writing Ock scripts.
I took him to mean that this particular episode had helped him to buy an insight, which assisted with this understanding.
In my reply, I pointed to the series that Beezin and I had done on Ock where we tried to introduce people to this tool that made them in and references the Gwok manual along the way, of course.
There's no contest with the Gwok manual itself, as is what we were implying.
The manual is obviously the most comprehensive interpungent of resource on the utility and the language.
The resource which Beezin and I had tried to provide was simply a way into concepts which may have been daunting and somewhat inaccessible to some.
Our role was one of supplementing the manual itself and not superseding it in any way.
I hope this clarifies any misunderstanding. This understanding may have been.
So the next comment was on blood witness and more, more and see says I love this book can't wait to listen to this episode.
David hit is amazing and there's other stuff to listen to and gives a link to David hit.com for such podcasts.
While I agree with most of his opinions and information that have been a few things I absolutely disagree with them about.
But I get to hear a different point of view from someone and.
Yes.
I don't know to the drop his phone at that moment.
So there has been pens pencils paper and ink comment on that one.
One of your episodes by Archer 72 saying this episode leaves me wishing I were a writer and an artist.
I am interested. It is an interesting medium that my daughter not artist may take up.
Since she has been sketching pen drawings lately.
To which bookworm or actually I do bookworm and then you can do the year to own replies. How's that?
Bookworm says to the same up. So David my apologies for the late comment. I had intended to get it in prior to the community news, but life happens.
I too have always been fascinated by these tools.
My fascination was multiplied by both of my parents working in parallel industries when I was younger.
My father worked in an art and drafting supplyhouse. I'm a mother in an office supply store.
Instead of turning to found pens, my disposition is towards ballpoint pens.
While I do agree that the art and degrees writing tools I have leaned toward advertising pieces and novelty pens.
I have pens in my collection from as early as the 1950s and 60s.
Mostly local business advertising, a few national chains, brand names.
Art class in middle school introduced me to papers and textures and artisan papers.
I am proud owner of 100% handmade journal. Not my body, I don't have the skin level.
The 300 pages of paper is all handmade from recycled cardboard and denim.
And the entire volume is bound in hand-tooled leather. It's so nice. I'm scared to write in a little more.
Well, well, thank you for doing that. I'm worried you were doing it.
I seem to fall off the network and come back on again automatically, which is a...
Can you press record, please, because my recording is very dodgy.
Yep, sorry. I didn't do that.
So, yeah, I don't know what happened. I was getting unable to resolve post-name with the DNS.
My husband's DNS got enough money.
Anyway, continuing. Shall I? Yeah, we good?
Yeah, please. I'm trying to see you actually have my recordings here because...
You're very depressing. Very depressing.
So, I said in reply to Archer 72. Hi, thanks for the comment.
I know what you mean. I'm no artist myself.
My daughter took out in science at school. I must have developed her art skills since then.
She always tells me to keep sketching if I want to get better at it.
That's what she's done to try and get to a place where she can start to combine her science interests with her art.
I guess the message is that you can develop abilities if you keep trying.
Yep, do the next one as well.
Yep, we're applying to Bookworm.
I said, thanks for the comment. It's much appreciated.
My interest in fountain pens didn't really drill until I was beyond school age.
School had the effect of making me dislike using them because I was forced to do so.
I've been a frequent ballpoint pen user for my university student days,
but it was easier to write rapidly with one when in lectures, while the places where rapid transcription was needed.
I can see how an interest in the older 1950s, 1960s designs of ballpoint pens would be a thing.
Quite collectible. Your hand made journal sounds wonderful. They're the cover too.
I've never owned anything so good, but I do have some notebooks that I like so much.
I've never used them, I've probably never with them.
Your reaction to your journal is perfectly understandable.
I'd like to hear more about pen collection in the journal if you feel you could make a show about them.
It's my only case.
Okay, and then we have the comments of this month's show.
And there wasn't a lot on the milling list.
And there are no events, pretty much because of the lockdowns.
On the any other business front, which is me telling myself,
I'm a person I am, but having sent in nine updates to the attack in summaries.
Cool, good news.
Okay, so without further ado, I think we'll bring that to the end because my neighbors start at Sunday.
That would just cut the grass here yet.
Okay, thanks everybody.
Thanks everybody, and remember to tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of...
Acre!
Public Radio!
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
