Episode: 3119
Title: HPR3119: Converting to FFS2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3119/hpr3119.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 17:12:13

---

This is Hacker Public Radio episode 3,119 for Thursday, 16 July 2020. Today's show is entitled
Converting to FFS2. It is hosted by Zen Flota 2, and is about 40 minutes long,
and carries a clean flag. The summary is
FFS2, Fuguita encryption and UID's and 9 volt batteries.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org. Support universal access to all knowledge
by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
.
.
.
.
Hello boys and girls from Zen Flota, your favorite magical for a squirrel farmer human being
converted into squirrel by aliens in the 1960s.
And that is my promo interline for my character Zen Flota the Squirrel.
And I thought I would do another audio here and go back and read through some of the comments
that people have posted to my last three shows which span over a year.
I'm not a frequent host here, but I'm finding that I am enjoying doing what I'm doing.
So I'll do it for a while and see what happens.
On Fuguita as a desktop, I got a comment from Luna Jenberg that says hello.
We have Firefox both as a flat pack and a snap now. Well, I didn't know that Luna.
Thank you very much. I had heard that they had made a snap out of Chromium
but I hadn't heard anything about Firefox so that is an interesting and interesting development.
And I think it's about time that they did this.
I do think it's about time.
Let's go to my Fuguita serve show.
And I got a comment by Norrist.
The idea of running your home router off a read-only file system is very interesting and it is.
It's very interesting.
Also, in OpenBSD, once you get your system set up, you can put it into a special mode
that won't allow any rights to the hard drive at all.
And you can make a router that you cannot write to the hard drive under any circumstances.
And you can put that on a timer, say after it boots up within an hour, it just flips into that mode.
That's if you wanted to take Fuguita from the Raspberry Pi ISO or image that
Call has on Fuguita.org and build that router that way.
You can put a timer on there after it boots to just lock down everything to where no one can mess with anything.
And that way, the only way to change anything would be to unplug the power physically
and take the USB key disk out to OpenBSD desktop somewhere or server and work on it.
But yeah, you've got some options there.
Let me go back even further in time here to let me find.
There's a show I did a year ago concerning Spectre and Meltdown in OpenBSD in our future,
which is still a concern in mind.
And I will be talking somewhat in this audio about that.
On the Lenovo IDEA pad that I just did a show on for the desktop, I decided to run Fuguita,
the 64-bit version of Fuguita on that.
And on the main hard drive, I now have installed Linux Mint 19.3.
And I was going to do some side-by-side comparisons.
And of course, Linux Mint is going to have a lot larger range of software that you can run.
But I found it interesting that if you look at any of the ferronics speed tests from years gone past,
you see that OpenBSD is roughly four times slower than Linux or FreeBSD. It's pretty slow.
And yesterday, I did some speed tests on the IDEA pad and noticed that the AMD version of Fuguita is only half as slow now as Linux Mint.
And I attribute that partly due to their Spectre patches that they put in the Linux kernel,
because the BIOS on that machine has not been touched since it was bought from the store.
So it has whatever BIOS that the Lenovo put on at for Spectre.
And I also noticed that on the Dell Mini 10, which is what I'm using to make this recording, my little Dell Mini 10,
it's also just about half as slow as Linux Mint is on the larger I3 equipped IDEA pad that has a clock speed of like 3.1 gigahertz.
That's opposed to this thing at the Dell Mini, which has a 1.6 gigahertz clock speed.
And the Dell Mini is running the I386 version of OpenBSD, and it's only half as slow.
And I did that by running Handbrake and converting some odd files into MP3s and doing a few FFF MPA actions.
I noticed that the Dell Mini is only roughly about half the speed of the IDEA pad.
And it should be much slower, you'd think, with the 3.6 version of OpenBSD on it.
So those Spectre patches, which do not work, they do not protect you on Linux or FreeBSD, have seriously chewed into your performance.
That was a shock for me because it felt kind of slow running Linux Mint.
It's kind of doggie and compared to most, you know, the previous years of Linux that I can remember.
But anyway, there you have it. You can run your own test and come up with your own results.
You know, there's two ways to patch for Spectre. One of them is the BIOS upgrade.
And the other one is what the Linux kernel puts into effect when it boots.
OpenBSD does not have any Spectre patches. They just decided to turn speculative processing off within the CPU.
If you have an i3 like that one over there, sitting over there, that shows four cores on top, you know, four threads, whatever you want to call them, cores.
You'll only see two on top running OpenBSD because it shuts down speculative processing.
Whereas on the Dell Mini 10 that I have here, it is an Intel N450 Adam processor dual core.
And we're running a 3D6 version. And when you run 3D6 up onBSD, you don't have to worry about shutting off your other cores because you don't have speculative processing in a 3D6 version.
And the other thing is the Intel N450 is totally immune to Spectre attacks.
It was a processor that was made some 13 years ago that's really old. It has one gigabyte of RAM and it is immune to Spectre and meltdown.
And I talked about that in the video that I made a year ago on Spectre and meltdown.
And there's one comment from Claudio. Hello fellow Puffy Disciple.
Pretty good episode on the speculative execution stuff that Intel and others are dealing with.
And don't feel alone. I also run OpenBSD as of late. Been dabbling with the BSDs since three years ago.
Of all of them, OpenBSD is the closest to my heart and it is to mine too.
I mean, it's the best running one of the bunch really. I mean, more stuff runs accurately in OpenBSD I've found than anything else I've played with.
I'm running up in BSD current on an old Toshiba Prodigy M400 convertible tablet PC as well as on a ThinkPad X230 I think he said at work.
Yeah, certain things like wireless, aren't up to par yet as they are in Linux or even free BSD which I also run on a laptop at work.
But it is a great OS with great security and support.
Another hacker public radio contributor by the name of SIGFLUP I think it is.
And I've heard of him before he's done. I've listened to a couple of his also runs OpenBSD.
And to be honest, her use of it was what I'm trying to read this. My assets going. I'm getting old. You've got to realize that.
And her use of it was what?
PQed my curiosity to the OS.
So rest assured you're in good company as an OpenBSD user on hacker public radio. Well, thank you very much.
And hello to SIGFLUP if you're still out there. I haven't heard a broadcast of SIGFLUP in a while but I think it was a few years ago.
I remember her making a podcast that I've listened to some of the past hacker public radio episodes and heard that show.
So anyway, I've talked about several things and the fact that even Brian Lunduk, you know, and like him or hating, Brian has made the comment.
And so is his little group up there on YouTube that, you know, Linux has really started to get slow thanks to the specter patches.
And yeah, it is. It's awful. And it doesn't protect you from the specter meltdown attacks. They've proven that those patches won't work.
That's what's so horrible about it. And that's the reason I did that podcast a year ago about specter meltdown.
I anger toward Intel and AMD and the management engine they put in and the fact that their speculative processing that they designed in the CPUs is flawed.
And you know, it's a year later and they're still releasing a CPUs that have flawed processors.
They're still trying to patch their way out of something that they need to redesign forward and they haven't done that yet from what I can gather.
And that's a pretty bitter pill. You know, if you go out by a $3,000 desktop or something or more expensive and find out that it's still not patched up to stop a specter attack, that really stinks.
And that's what got me into Figuita in Open BSD and talking to Call, Comma Moda over in Japan, the Manomix Figuita.
Originally, all he made was the I-36 version of Figuita, which is what I run on this Dell Mini 10 because it has only one gig of memory.
And so I'll either run the I-386 version of Open BSD, which I have installed in the hard drive or I will run the I-386 version of Figuita from a USB pin drive on it.
And I won't run anything else because, you know, boot up, it's less than 80 megabytes.
And then when you put a desktop on top of it, it's still down there, you know, somewhere around 200 megabytes or less, I believe.
So you have plenty of room for web browser and I'm still using Firefox on it right now as if we are still in 2007 as it was with Linux back then.
And performance is fine. I don't have any complaints. Like I said, it's slower, naturally, or it used to be slower than Linux.
I don't think it is anymore. It's very competitive with Linux. Let's just put it that way.
You don't notice the difference unless you're just running handbrake all the time and you notice that handbrake on Linux might take you 50 minutes to rip some movie where Open BSD might take an hour and 40 minutes or an hour and 30 minutes, something like that.
You do notice it, but it's not enough that I notice it because the Dell Mini 10 takes my Wi-Fi routers, both of them, the one I built and the store bought one to the max.
And it can fill a pipe. It writes the USB pretty fast.
Not as fast as the IdeaPad does. USB has changed in the last 13 years. This is a 13-year-old notebook. What do you expect?
And the USB that's on it is USB B or something, I guess, or maybe it's USB A. I don't know. It's old USB.
But I've got a funny story to tell you. I've had up in BSD the I-36 version installed on this Dell Mini 10. For maybe four, five years, it hasn't been long.
Before that, I ran Slackware on it. I ran the 64-bit version of Slackware and then I ran the 386 version of Connochet OS, which is a knockoff of Slackware. It's the free version.
And I also ran FreeNix, which is the free version of Slackware. And I made several videos on that that I put in my BitShoot and library channels of those days.
And enjoyed it. And I did most of that work right here in the Dell Mini 10, but Linux just got so fat that you can't run it in a gig of memory anymore.
You'd have to run TinyCore Linux to do it. And that means the only two operating systems that I could really run on this would be NetBSD or OpenBSD or maybe TinyCore Linux, which I've tried and, you know, it's fun, but it doesn't have enough to keep me there.
So OpenBSD is a good fit for me on this machine. And as of the last show that I did, I'm a very unobservant person if you might have noticed.
You know, I'm slow, I'm old, you know, when I was a kid, I've been a hammer radio operator all my life, okay, since the early 60s.
And I just found out that Kawamoto over in Japan is a hammer radio operator too. And he's in his 50s somewhere.
He's the guy that does this operating system I'm talking about. And he and I started exchanging males. And he gave me some of his private information and some of his private YouTube accounts, repost family videos and stuff.
I'm not going to give all that away. But anyway, he's also making Morris code readers and senders using a Raspberry Pi 3 in Figuita, which I thought was fascinating.
And he's he's getting off into it. When I was a child in the 1960s before Vietnam, here's what I had.
I had a helicopter receiver and a hammer and transmitter. They were all tube type radios. And the only high tech item that I had in the house that was mine was an AM transistor radio.
My grandparents gave me some time at the turn of the 50s into the 60s. And it was a transistorized AM radio, which was a big deal.
Because when I was a kid, everything was tube based. And my neighbor who fought in a war to Mr. Jackson had a shortwave radio. And I forget what kind it was.
I think it was a Bernstein and Applebee or something like that. A brand from a store that no longer exists.
That had two large batteries and it almost the size of a car battery. And it would take maybe five minutes to get that thing started.
I mean, once you flipped it on, you had to wait for maybe three minutes for the tubes to warm up before you could start tuning it around.
And it would stabilize and you could tune in radio France or the BBC or something or voice of America and listen to shortwave or you could listen to AM or in his case, he could also listen to FM.
And the FM bands was something brand new that none of us in Tulsa Oklahoma had ever had. I certainly didn't have it. All I had was an AM radio.
But Mr. Jackman was fascinated with this radio that my grandparents bought me because it was so tiny, this AM radio would fit in your hand.
And of course, it was transistorized. And I take the back off to show him the battery as opposed to the batteries that he had to buy for his radio.
You know, for those two batteries he bought, he spent, I don't know, three or four dollars for both of those batteries, which back then was an incredible amount of money because you got to remember boys and girls back then gasoline costs three cents a gallon.
That's what my dad paid for it. When it went to five cents a gallon, he about hit the fan and threatened to have a revolt.
And you could fill a car with groceries and entire station wagon. My mom and I filled our station wagon with groceries.
One Thanksgiving, I got my dad to hit the fan. He couldn't believe we bought that much damn food. She spent $20.
That was an astronomical amount of money back then.
So, yeah, these two big batteries that Bill Jackman would buy for his two radios were huge. I could maybe show you some on the internet. They probably still make them.
You know, I'm sure for lanterns and stuff like that. But it took two of them to run this thing and it would only run for maybe four or five hours for those batteries or dead and it's gone.
I am transistorized radio, which I took the back of it off. It was plastic to show Mr. Jackman had a square battery in it, which fascinated him and every other neighbor in the entire neighborhood had to come over and take a look at my radio.
Because no one had ever seen a square battery. No one had ever seen a nine volt square battery. This was high technology that no one had seen, not even the stores.
And sure as crap, as soon as I wore that battery out, I had a hard time finding a replacement because they hadn't even come to the stores yet.
So that radio set without a battery for I guess about three months before we saw the first nine volt radio batteries in a blister pack at your local pharmacy.
Because typically you went to a pharmacy to get stuff like that. Grocery stores didn't carry them and there was no Walmart back then. Walmart did not exist as a company.
It was either five in dime where you went into buy your army men and playing cards and your your jacks and chalk to mark up the sidewalk so you could have board games with the kids or a basketball or football if you had the money.
But you couldn't find a nine volt battery in a store like that. They wouldn't carry any high technology items like that. That's too risky. You can't have high risk items like that in a store.
So anyway, we'd go to the pharmacy and the pharmacy would have all kinds of batteries and lo and behold, they had the nine volt battery.
Other than that, you could go to a serious department store and order one and they would they would let you know when it came in.
Anyway, that just fascinated the neighborhood. So that was my high technology item and I still have that am radio around here somewhere. It's quite old. It was made in Japan and it's not American.
Even though I know they have an American version. I saw some pictures of it. I did not get one of those. I got a Japanese made version and I don't remember the name of the company that made it. It might have been Sony.
But at any rate, that was high technology when I'm a kid. So I'm fascinated about running something on this Dell Mini 10. I mean, this Dell Mini 10, if I could have this back in the 1960s, I would own this country and be able to take over the whole industry and everything else. I'd have the most powerful computer and small computer in the face of the planet.
Anyway, let me stop my rambling and just explain to you what I'm fixing to talk about next is on the last podcast or maybe it was a previous one. I talked about the Dell Mini 10 and I talked about all the jacks that are that's on this thing and let me just flip it around again.
Here's an ethernet port. There's a USB on the right hand side of some kind. I guess a USB B maybe or a then there's a microphone and a headphone jack.
And on the left side is VGA out, which I think I said was RGB last time. It's not its VGA. And two more USB ports and that's it. And then there's a power plug on the back.
And you know, I hadn't even turned this thing upside down since I bought it because I bought three of these things and gave two of them to the daughters and they've since thrown there's a way foolishly.
But you know, I noticed on the bottom of this, there's two clips and I can actually change the battery out of this thing and it hasn't been changed out in 30 years.
So I thought about contacting Dell to see if I could get into the battery for it. I may not be able to get one. I might have to tear this battery apart and put new cells in it.
But the battery's still there. It's still seriously working. I'm not any rush on that. But it's a sealed unit. It has no CD-ROM or DVD reader in it because it is a sub note.
But it's only 10 inches across the screen. So it's very tiny. And for me, it's still easier to carry this thing around than the idea pad 330. I'm afraid it is.
And I'm just not getting that much out of that idea pad. So I've kind of shelved it for a little while.
And I may end up installing Open BSD on it or continuing to Renfagoot, I guess, in the AMD version like I have been.
But honestly, the keyboard on that thing is not as nice as the keyboard on the Dell Mini-10.
Technically speaking, it's not a chiclet keyboard on the Dell. It has some feeling to it on the Dell Mini-10. The keyboard is better and the trackpad works better too.
And that's what just pisses me off about all the new technology with Intel. You know, being a person that's a fan of new technology as you can tell from my discussion of an AM radio some 50 years ago.
That what they're giving us now really irritates me to death, even though it was cheap. I'm not liking it.
So anyway, as I said earlier, Open BSD, the 36 version had been installed on this Dell Mini-10. And it'd been on here for probably four years, I guess.
I decided to switch over and I'm not unhappy that I did it because it saved the life of it because of I'd stayed with Linux. It would be in the trash can.
And that is just a crime. It is.
So originally when I installed the 36 version of Open BSD on here, I kept upgrading it every release every six months.
It has the original fast file one system on it, fast file system one, FFS one.
And as of Open BSD 6.7, they have upgraded their installers to the fast file system too.
And you might ask, well, why didn't you just reinstall it? Well, I don't want to do that. You know, I don't want to do that.
I needed an external operating system that was Open BSD based to allow me to arsink all the files off of each partition one at a time onto a spare hard drive, USB hard drive.
And then create the file systems from FSS, get rid of the FFS one file system one partition at a time and create a new FFS two partition.
And I've done that across all the partitions. There were eight of them in here. I think seven or eight.
And copied everything back. Got the boot loader running. And now the Dell Mini-10 is on the FFS two file system.
And that forced me to get a copy of Figuita i3d6 to do that.
Well, here's where the story gets interesting. And the exposure of my stupidity comes out.
I'm not the most observant guy, obviously. At any rate, let me pause this for just a second.
Well, at any rate, I downloaded the latest copy patch 10 of Figuita i3d6.
And I noticed that Kawamoto had added two more features to the latest release of Figuita as a patch 10.
And you can now encrypt your D drive storage drive. In other words, that's the drive that you dump your memory off into when you shut the system down.
That will have all of your web browser contents and SSH keys and everything.
You can now dump that into an encrypted partition and also boot from that encrypted partition, which I thought was cool.
But he put that feature in there. He's also added the ability to put UUIDs in the no-ass file.
So you can specifically state a drive without having to use a drive pseudonym like SD0 or SD1 or HD0 or HD1, you know, so on and so forth.
You can specify UUID for your operating system drive and your D drive, which I thought was great. Those are two great enhancements.
So I immediately downloaded the i3d6 file system, the FS copy, and zipped it.
I'll make sure and check the MD5 signature before I did, and put it to a USB key and booted it up in this little down many 10.
Well, as I'm looking at it, you know, there's only three USB ports on here, and I thought, gee, wouldn't it be great if I could run this thing with an SD card like I do the IdeaPad 330?
And all these years, I had not bothered to notice all the features of this Dell Mini 10, apparently, because as I ran my hand across the section where the SD card was on the Idea 330, I found something funny.
Something felt funny down there with my left hand. I thought, what in the hell is this?
And I started picking it with my fingernail and outcomes this little cover for SD card slot. There's an SD card slot in the Dell Mini 10.
You know, they made this thing 13 years ago. Did they even have SD cards back then? Anyway, I'm shocked. Then I thought to myself, well, I've got an SD card.
I'll plug it in there, but I'll bet you the Dell Mini 10 won't boot to an SD card.
I bet you won't, I mean, I don't have any, none of my expensive laptops in this house with the exception of that IdeaPad sitting over there will boot from an SD card.
None of them will. The IdeaPad is the only one. There's no way the Dell engineers would make the Dell Mini 10 from 13 years ago boot from an SD card.
I mean, just the thought of it is laughable. Nonetheless, I plugged in a 64GB SD card, you know, a large SD card.
And I instructed the USB installed Figuita i36 to make a new drive of it and give me an encrypted D storage partition and set up a swap at everything else,
which it did gleefully in some 10, 15 minutes later, I had one.
So then I said, well, here goes nothing. So I halted the system, took the USB pin drive out and put it back in the box, leaving only the SD card in here.
Push the power button and then hit F12 to select my boot method.
And when I did, I did not see SD card in the list of boot options and I thought, oh, well, I'm screwed. You know, I'm not giving a boot from that.
So I turned the power off again, put the USB stick back in there and just booted normally from the USB stick thinking, well, it was too much to ask for Dell to be able to boot to an SD card from a 13 year old machine.
They probably didn't know how to back them, you know, I'm sure it was new technology.
Any rate, you can boot from the SD card in Figuita.
And as it comes up, it allows you to select the operating system drive, which I changed immediately from SD zero, which was the current USB stick that I had plugged into.
SD one, which was the actual card that I just installed to the SD card.
And then I asked it to open the encrypted D partition on that SD card and bring those contents into memory so that we could start the operating system.
And that all worked fine. Once it got booted, I could pull the USB stick out and not have to worry about it.
And I proceeded to then plug in a larger USB drive and begin to dump the contents of one partition after another, changing them from FFS one to FFS two.
One at a time. I mean, this process took from three o'clock in the afternoon yesterday until like one or two o'clock in the morning. It was really quite late before I finished with it.
And it did take a long time to dump the contents of each one of those partitions, especially you use it local. That was massive.
That's where all the programs you stored and then put it back on in an FFS two format.
And all that worked fine. In the morning, I decided that I would go ahead and reboot the system and see how my work had come along.
And when I did, I found that I screwed up the bootloader and Open BSD would not boot on the Dell Mini 10.
I couldn't get an operating system boot. So without thinking about it, I rebooted again and pushed the F12 key and pushed the boot from USB device from the bootable selection.
And the system began to came up. But what I realized was I didn't have my USB pin drive plugged in.
You see, the Dell Mini 10 counts an SD card as a USB drive. And it did boot up from the SD drive, the card drive, using the USB drive option, which is different from the idea plan where it tells you that it's an SD card.
You know, the bias prop is different. Well, I was just happier than hell because this is a second machine and the oldest machine in the house that could boot from an SD card and I was just floored.
I mean, Dell really impresses me with the Dell Mini 10. This little laptop is more capable than most of the other brands of laptops that have been made since 2007.
I mean, it's just extraordinary. It's extraordinary what Dell did with the bias and how well this thing works. Even though it's only got a 250 gigabyte hard drive, that's more than enough for me to get a round on and a plug-in couple of terabyte USB drive when I need some extra storage.
You know, it's great. Lightweight, everything works as if it were designed by aliens from another planet. It's really amazing.
So anyway, I still had the problem of fixing my broken boot on the main hard drive for the installed version of OpenBusD67.
What I decided to do next was I just took the install 67.file system image from OpenBusD for the i386 version, put that to another SD stick.
Then I had the operating system boot into that and I reinstalled up in BSD doing an upgrade, which you can do.
And all the upgrades will do. You're probably thinking I just wipe my operating system out. No, because that's not the way up in BSD works. It doesn't reformat everything.
It just upgrades everything back to the initial start of OpenBusD67. And it repairs the boot letter for you.
So when you reboot from that process, you're sitting at patch 0. In other words, you have to do a sys patch and have the system automatically fix itself for the last 10 patches, which is all you have to do.
Then reboot from that and everything is fixed and running. And that's great. You know, I like that. And everything's running.
I'm making this recording to you using the Delmini 10. It file systems all fixed. And I now have a SD card i386 version of Figuita with set to patch 10 that I can use for an emergency operating system should things go bad.
By the way, I can also take that i36 version booted on the idea pad 330 and use it for an emergency operating system as well if I needed that in some capacity.
So at any rate, it was a successful adventure. Took quite a long time to do. But we have everything set up the way we want it known.
I think I'll probably just continue to use the Delmini 10 because I'm not locking the new systems.
There was some talk that Lenovo was going to build another think pad that would be of the same build quality of save the x 220, you know, or some some variant of think pad from past.
I haven't heard if they have decided to do the it or not, but if they if they do, I might be interested in it. But honestly, I'm still waiting for somebody to develop like maybe the pine book might be an answer.
Even though I'm not sure what the build quality is of the pine book, the pine book is is one of the first examples I believe of us getting away from the Intel architecture and not having a management engine and not having to worry about specter attacks, you know, which I think would make everybody happier.
Because Intel just isn't doing it for us, you know, if if Intel really cared about us as a company in my opinion, they've removed the management engine so would AMD. There's there's no reason for them to have it.
And a machine that we own.
And they need to redesign their chip to avoid the specter text or maybe risk five will come into play someday and we'll start seeing that who knows.
But anyway, I'm very happy and all excited about this and also surprised to find out that the 386 version of Open BSD actually runs fairly competitive fairly competitively with with Linux meant 19.3 seriously.
I mean, of course, you're going to have more programs and maybe a few extra desktop features with the sentiment desktop that you're not going to have with XSE or known through or whatever you get with Open BSD.
But really, there's just not enough in Linux that interests me that I want to play with it for the risk.
I'm not getting the performance I once did and a lot of the applications that they are putting in flat packs that you can get for these systems like Linux meant for instance, telegram, you know, we have telegram here at Open BSD, you can get telegram purple.
And I don't run it because it requires you to give them a phone ever.
And it seems like every time somebody comes up with some newfangled thing, it's either proprietary or somebody's found a serious security flaw in it like with telegrams.
What do they call it group chat, which is not encrypted that anybody can read?
Kind of bad news for everybody, but yeah, I prefer more secure as far as performance goes.
I think I've got enough just out of the Dell mini 10 to make me happy. Seriously.
I mean, I can make videos, produce audio files, make, make shows or hack a public radio, do whatever I need to do with this operating system.
Linux, they're moving away from the 36 variant, maybe Open BSD will someday and if that happens, then maybe the Dell mini 10 is finally dead.
You know, I won't be able to find an operating system for that.
That will be a sad day really for a really great notebook that has only one gig about a remnant in a small hard drive.
I mean, this thing has just been my pal for a long time.
I mean, every time I take it into a room, people look at it. They want to see it because, you know, they haven't manufactured this particular device for over decade.
And it's still very attractive to everyone that looks at it. It's a wanted item.
So if you can find a Dell mini 10 in a garage sale or an eBay or whatnot and might need some refurbishing, you know, it might be worth your trouble just to get one to play with it.
All right. I'm going to cut this podcast off because I can't think of anything else.
Dead to it. I'm not going to make it quite an hour, but it has been an exciting 48 hours for me and I've really enjoyed working on Open BSD in the Dell mini 10.
I hope you will have a great day. Take care of yourselves. Happy Fourth of July to all my American friends.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Otherwise, status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
