Episode: 3721
Title: HPR3721: HPR Community News for October 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3721/hpr3721.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 04:41:07

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,721 from Monday the 7th of November 2022.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for October 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR Volunteers Dave, Ken and Rowan, and is about 54 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, HPR Volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in October 2022.
Hello everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
It is Community News and joining me as ever is...
Hello, it's Dave Morris from Edinburgh and from the other side of the pond.
Hi, it's Rowan from Baltimore.
What state is Baltimore in Rome?
It's in Maryland where like 60 miles north of Washington DC.
Super.
I should know that.
Yeah, if you don't ask me, I couldn't have told you.
So I was looking at where the little stores were in your area, Rowan, but...
So I know a little bit more.
Okay, here's for your Hacker Public Radio's Community Podcast where all the shows are submitted by listeners like you.
And right now we have a call for shows open, so it will be an ideal time to sneak those shows in and help out the projector.
And this show itself is released on the first Monday of the month.
And we go over everything that has occurred in the last month.
And this is where Dave normally introduces the new hosts.
Yes, yes, and oh wow, we've got three new hosts. Welcome all new hosts.
We have Paul Jay and we have Mode 7 built in a lead form.
Yeah, through me slightly.
Because of my ancient brain.
And we have cchits.net team.
So what we'll do if that's okay with you guys is we'll nip through all the shows that were released last month.
This being October.
So last month was started with the Hacker Community News for September 2022.
And there were no comments, which is good means we said nothing controversial or annoying.
We were just talking beforehand about possibly moving this time.
We currently link it to UTC, which is great for computers, but not so good for humans because three o'clock appointments tend to occur at three o'clock and not two o'clock and four o'clock.
We might have a discussion about switching to a more a better time.
And if you have times that would be better, then feel free to suggest them in the show notes.
We do record it on the Saturday prior to the Monday.
So misinformation, disinformation, fake news, you are a product and target for it all.
This was from lurking prior and it has one comment from some guy on the internet.
Roan, would you like to take that one?
Sure. So some guy on the internet comments. Bravo, Bravo.
On the next slide.
Sorry, I'm showing my newbie skills at this. I forgot to actually click to the comments. Bravo, Bravo has the subject.
This was a great show. I love the difference in opinions and the topics are brilliant. Please provide more.
Excellent. Look who's just popped in. Hello, Archer 7201.
I think Archer 72 likes to be observed rather than that.
I shouldn't speak for him in that respect, but hello. Hello, he says.
You're welcome. You're welcome if you want to join.
So the following day, we had Spectagram from tattoo, which was a way to edit audio in audacity.
Specifically clicks and stuff. And I had never considered this even possible.
Brilliant.
Yeah, I have seen the Spectagram.
Oh, yeah, that's nice, but I'd never considered using it for anything.
I haven't actually tried yet, but I will be doing so very soon, I think.
Yeah, I think I've only ever seen that like using it when you're like watching, like watching a video.
Like when they do the visualizations, but I've never thought about it.
And it's like, oh, yeah, I guess you could like actually use it for editing.
Can you delete the certain parts out or certain frequencies and leave the alone?
I don't know. What's up clear in the podcast?
I didn't come away understanding how to do that.
I don't know whose fault that was probably mine, but if there was a fault at all, but yeah, I don't really know.
But to know that there are clicks and nasties that you maybe have missed in scanning through otherwise, it would be an advantage anyway.
For me, I think it seemed more like a way to mark like where in the timeline you needed to look for them.
Yeah, that's sort of what I got from it, but I could be missing something too.
Okay, and one guy in the, some guy in the address had comments.
Did you like to take this?
Yeah, he says, I gave it a go. I had no idea this was in audacity.
I was very excited to know there may be a way to remove the hum of my HVAC, but this still isn't possible.
This was a nice short rabbit hole to wander around in for day or two.
I learned more about audio frequencies and how to interact with them in audacity.
Great show.
Oh, that's strange because you can remove the hum from HVAC.
Yeah, my son did a degree which involved that sort of sound editing, and he did show me that you can put various filters in.
It'll take out 60 hertz and stuff like that.
But also, if you just record like a minute of silence beforehand and then go into tools or effects and noise reduction or something like that.
Yeah, remember, I don't have it open and it says get noise profile and then you highlight the area that you're not talking it.
And then you select the whole lot and if it finds that anywhere else, it'll remove it off.
So that is possible to use that whole the time.
That's what I do with all of mine actually.
Okay, following day, episode 3699, old and new video game board games with guest bin or sea.
This is a podcast by Celeste and it was an interview basically on favorite games, Linux games, retro games and board games.
It's really good. It was more of a sort of guest host sort of thing, I think.
Yeah, that was how I read it anyway, but I love these chat type shows.
And this is great. I found it very interesting to listen to.
And I enjoyed the dynamic between the hosts. That's always the fun aspect in my mind.
Yep, very true.
The following day, episode 3,700, only 300 more left.
Actually, no, this is episode 4,000 in total.
4,000 episodes with a 12 episodes, 300 of them.
So introduction to that files more on DOS this time, it's batch files.
And that is where I started my scripting experience on DOS.
Yeah, yeah, I do like who could do these things. It's really nicely put together show, I think.
It's definitely a walk down memory lane.
I always imagine there's some poor sucker out there just waiting for the next show to fix some ancient computer program thing that's really in DOS and a virtual machine and a virtual machine in the cloud somewhere.
Yeah, yeah, I better get on to the back of the MS series end for those guys.
Yep.
The following day, we had an introduction by Paul Jay.
And wow, he has had a very wide and varied life.
A programmer from the hardware op, full stack programmer from the silicon op.
So I expect loads of shows and this one was on Ryzer FS and why you would use it and perhaps why you would no longer use it.
Yeah, I actually did use it for a while when I was at work because everybody was saying how wonderful it was.
And yeah, I didn't have any problems with it, but then I stopped working on it.
So I didn't bring it home and use it home.
But yeah, it did everything I wanted to do, actually.
So there are a few comments. I'll do the first.
And Ron, you can do the next one.
Why not? Why not?
See what you did there? Very interesting.
Thanks, Paul. Really enjoyed the show.
And comment too from Kevin O'Brien.
Great show.
Thank you for sharing this. Good information.
Beezer comes in with a comment saying perfect first show.
This first show is everything an HBR episode should be told us about file system many will not have heard of.
But not only that undoubtedly inspired many of us to look deep into the subject matter.
Thanks to your excellent delivery.
Then when you go said excellent first episode.
Thanks for your introduction, the episode and for discussing Ryzer FS.
I used it as a primary file system ages ago and enjoyed hearing about it again.
And from Brian and Ohio.
Great show. I enjoyed this show very much.
Looking forward to the series of shows you alluded to in the episode.
I wonder if you might tell us about your programming language sometime.
Might it have been a list or even better a fourth?
Keep them coming.
Cool.
And David and Mr. X got together to talk about an Easter egg.
Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.
I've been so much time discussing with them about the legality of what and that thing at the end.
But then it was I realized you were writing that music yourself on the sign which effectively.
Yeah, so effectively you on the copyright you can do whatever you want with it.
You're using the sign as a tool and then piece itself as a way out of copyright itself.
Yeah, and it wasn't even an audio file.
I think Mr. X actually recorded it off his sign.
Oh, it has to do with something.
So yeah, yeah.
So we had a comment from King Easy.
Jerusalem says, the closing song gave me a start.
It's a tune setting in our church's Psalter hymnol. What a great tune.
There we go.
It's a popular tune in the UK because there's a thing called the promenade concerts that are run in London.
And the last night of the problems as they call it, they usually play.
That's one of the tunes that the orchestra plays and it's sort of a, I don't know.
No, it's not, it's a theme. It's a, it's a national theme or a national song or something like that.
I don't know whether that's official or not.
And it's the unofficial anthem of the, that's England.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah, Scotland doesn't come into it.
Did I just crash mumble or am I still here?
You're here.
You're here.
Excellent.
Next day we had, speaking of crashing, the McCurdy house tour by operator, brings us on the house tour.
And actually, that room did a lot of the bits and pieces in this mix.
That's to you.
Kelsey's referring to items that I have no clue what they are.
Yes, generally speaking, I always like his shows.
They always inspire me to do more taking care of things around the house and repairing things.
It's sometimes as easy to slide into that.
Oh, we can just, you know, get a new one.
But yeah, it sort of tracks for a American family home.
Yeah, but a lot of the stuff.
As he's talking about the, you know, this assumption does, I know what he's talking about.
I don't know.
The Hershey bar is a classic example.
We don't have them over here.
So what the hell was ours bar?
Well, I see you love me.
Means now to know the difference, but great, great stuff.
The bar is nearly another two thirds of that episode, but the recorder fails.
So she truncated it down.
You'll have to re record the other two.
Oh, wow.
So this is the follow up by archer 72.
And we can say whatever we like, because it gives my work.
And this is the spreadsheet template for doing new budgets.
And how to do the settings and stuff in the Libra office.
Quite useful.
It's amazing what you can do in Libra office.
But it's amazing how difficult is to find, you know, proper guides to what's possible.
There is a Libra office site where you can look for hints and tips and methodologies and stuff,
which I've used at the past.
But they're, you know, necessarily give you everything you want.
It's out there.
There's also a stack of thingy.
There's very subtle.
Stack overflow that will give you some input, I think.
And I think in this case, this is something that I wouldn't have thought to even look for in the spreadsheets.
I do like trying to use Libra office, but it's definitely not as many tutorials out there on where things are.
When you're trying to find where they've touched some something you know that's going to be there.
Like in the pivot table, I was trying to get subtitles the other day to show up.
And I was like, where?
And you sort of had to, you know, I finally found some reference to it, but it was like not obvious at all,
like how you would, how you'd turn sub subtitles on or not some sort of subtitles on in a pivot table.
You should open office.org has tutorials that apply to Libra office since after 72.
And don't forget, who goes classic series on Libra office, which he has got the full blog post up.
I think I was bogging him to do a book about that, a printable PDF or something on the Libra office as well.
On that entire series would be very useful indeed.
The year of the free BSD desktop, I talk about configuring free BSD as a desktop OS and give tips for those coming from Linux by binRC who else.
So in a few comments, the first one is by D&T.
Time running out in 2022. Thanks for outlining the installation of free BSD.
I tried it out this weekend and I'm kind of surprised. A lot of stuff is available via PKG.
Wi-Fi and touchpad don't work out of the gate, but I don't care.
My only criticism is that the GUI setup program like Slackware is really not worth it.
Setting up arch Linux is just as easy, but because you apply your decisions set up in mostly the same way you do any other day, you just learn more about your system.
I'm glad to have installed it so I can fiddle about around with it.
Is that a little mean something completely different to me?
It's an archaic expression, but that's based on an English perspective.
It was a term my father would say, what are you peddling around with? No, it's a comment.
It means just to mess around with stuff to do in a semi-time wasting way, I guess.
Yep, that's pretty much the framework I know it in.
So, comment two from Kevin O'Brien.
Great show. Very good job here, giving detailed information on using this operating system.
Bill, I see he comes in with some additional links in the comment, and he says he found some helpful things, some Linux to FreeBSD, quick start, sorry.
As a link, I'm not going to tell you the links, but they're there in the comment, and some more information about supported hardware.
Looks good, maybe we should stitch that into the show itself, so that it gets transferred across to the internet archive version.
Very good, very good. That would be a good idea.
And the future of technology, a philosophical look at the future of technology by Locking Prior.
And I reply, wrong, wrong, wrong.
Microsoft is into open source because overnight, their server business dissipates it.
When Dockerization came along and destroyed their server market, they had no choice but to get on the bandwagon, like they did with BSD, TCPRP stack back in the day.
The strategy was, is, and forever will be, embrace, extend, and extinguish.
Do not mistake Windows subsystem for Linux as being our friends. They are running Linux binary executables native on Windows and not the other way around.
This is one piece of software designed to counteract corporate Linux asking for Linux laptops.
Selling an operating system is very, very profitable and is required for growth.
It locks you into the desktop, it locks you into office, and it locks you into teams, just by the way.
What I'm commenting there about is that this argument that everything is going to be on the cloud and the operating system doesn't matter.
And then that's been pushed that the operating system doesn't matter.
Whereas that's, that's kind of what I'm saying.
Remember at the beginning of COVID, all the, all the video and conferencing memes were about being on Zoom calls,
whereas now at the end of COVID, the majority of businesses are using teams for their work.
Anyway, I continue on. Just to prove that this is not a dying business.
I link to an article how Microsoft makes its buildings, and I quote directly,
according to Microsoft data, Windows revenue increase increased 1.9 billion,
or an increase of 9% driven by growth in the Windows commercial and Windows OEM.
So let that sink in, 2 billion increase in Windows licenses.
Windows commercial products and plant services increased by 18%, driven by increased demand for Microsoft 365,
Windows OEM revenue increased 9% ahead of PC market growth.
So, do you and he says,
I'm the views you can follow and are not necessarily the views of Hacker Public Radio.
Do you know blah, blah, blah, blah?
And D&T says capitalism or technology.
Interesting talk. Thanks for this.
After listening, I was thinking that maybe adding a third co-host whose views can trust more with your own
could make your shows even more thought-provoking.
As for this episode, I have so many thoughts.
It wouldn't be right to expect and to read them in the community news show.
But I think I can summarize them in one question.
Is it possible to talk about the future, a future of technology that has nothing to do with capitalism?
I like the sound of that.
Windigo says, relatable.
The quote, you need to be quiet now.
I don't like your future. It's one I can relate to.
I often feel the same way when I see trends in development technology, etc.
Heading away from the parts that I enjoy and find interesting.
The HPI episodes on Go For Fourth and other older technologies do make me hopeful that we will always have our niche, though.
Yeah, and I think I've seen things what goes around comes around.
We're basically back day after day to a dumb terminal mainframe situation, really.
You know, you can call it as a smartphone, but it's essentially a dumb terminal.
And your mainframe is your Google's and cloud and your Google and Apple clouds.
That's basically your login to your mainframe.
You don't need nobody cares what terminal you're on.
But I personally think it's very important because what's coming around the next hill will be a return to individual computing.
I return to PC on the desktop, you know, everybody having their own PC on the desktop, everybody processing locally.
Simply because somebody will come up with a good way of rebranding it and all the problems that we had with Blah will be fixed.
And we won't like that future either, but yeah, there you go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
I find myself disliking the future as much as the comment.
Be quiet and I don't like your future.
Let me just be clear here that I loved this episode, Luck and Prime.
And so what's this, what's this friend's name?
Brad, Brady, I do love these discussions.
And if it was anybody else I wasn't going to put the comment in cause I know these guys can handle us.
Yeah, I've given them a lot so much praise down to the years.
to the episodes that, yeah, if we'd all think in the group or where we'd be.
I very much echo and comment that these shows are really good. I look forward to hearing
more of these, just the sort of things I want to hear.
Okay, we'll move on.
Recovering a mass of 3.5 horsepower electric motor from a thread mill. Revival of future
robot parts is from mechiotronic. Mechiotronic. Sorry for butchering your handle every time.
This stuff, in a way, it's good that the days of landfills at the side of the road are
now, are gone, boss.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
But on the other hand, you do miss an opportunity to bring out harder. I tried to sneak
out a few bits and pieces from the harder bin in our local recycling center and the guy
took them from me and smashed them in front of my face.
So, yeah.
Okay.
I think on my mention, there's a channel I watch on YouTube, a German guy who, sort of,
a Bavarian area and there, the scrapyards around there, a full of amazing stuff and he
does shows where he goes and collects sort of van load of stuff and takes them back and
repairs them and builds them into interesting things. So, yeah.
Cool.
I expect that to be on your, on your next YouTube channels.
Sorry.
I think it might already have been. I'll, I'll maybe, yeah, I'll check and see anyway.
So Spoon says, gravity generators, if the DC motor has permed on magnets like most battery
powered drill drivers, then you can just turn the wheel and get electricity from the input
terminals.
The advantage of such high power unit horsepower is that you don't even need years to take
advantage of the concentrated sources of energy like your own body weight or sex of grit.
As you probably know this by now, when you're in barn tertiary, then your mental scope finds
wider focus.
You can make good batteries and capacitors on the bookish or barrel scale, which are far
less toxic than lead or lithium.
Right. That's a show right there, that line.
It is.
Absolutely.
Yes.
And it looks like mechatronic applies electricity hadn't thought of it that, but then you have
to haul the weight back up unless you can take advantage of tides.
But then you have underwater problems, taking, taking advantage of a local stream to turn
the wheel would probably work.
Ultimately, I'd like to build an electric buggy slash robot or something like that out
of it.
My builder has a mill race at the back of his house at why he doesn't have a some sort
of power generation from us.
I don't know.
Wow.
Well, it's another channel that I'm sure I've mentioned before, a guy who moved from London
to South Wales and bought land up on Upper Hill and he then built himself a turbine to run
off the stream.
He's going to business making these for other people around the area in Wales and stuff.
He is really interesting to hear his outlook on making stuff, but so he was no doubt
reference the show, which you've discussed that.
It sounds like another YouTube show is coming up.
Some guy on the internet says, cool beans.
I love projects like this, taking something old or discarded and making use of it.
How do you learn to repair circuits, small motors and other electronics, which is a hobby
expanded into life or do you have training?
Insomnia is a hobby.
Good Lord.
Trump and John, I do not.
I do not envy you, sir.
But this is a show about how John basically deals with Insomnia and TNT says, sleep with
me.
The hilarious podcast recommendation that guy truly has talent, as you said.
So here in HBO, we've had to change the outro music, because people like to fall asleep
toward those atones.
I did really enjoy this episode.
I thought it was a unique way to take advantage of a poor situation, poor sleep situation
at least.
And I have been known to use some podcasts.
I won't name which ones to get back to sleep to if I wake up in the middle of the night
and I can't turn my brain off.
I once had the great compliment from somebody I won't mention who said, oh, yeah, I listen
to your podcast, I go to sleep at night, they send me to sleep.
So I thought, oh, very good, this public service I'm doing, you know what I'm doing.
The following day, we had relationships to games and console generations, which is
some ramblings by mode seven.
And I looked just like you did.
I couldn't figure that out until the text to speech said, read it out for me.
Oh, yeah, struggle with these.
Yeah, that's a good one.
Some ramblings were the next generation consoles used to mean to games, gamers and game
developers.
I'm not particularly into games at all, but I do accept what he was saying in this episode.
It's quite interesting, the buzz, the spark of a new platform.
I thought it was a great show, good, good first show, and I'm just impressed that people
can speak more or less of the cuff I would guess because he was driving, he said as
he was doing this and put together a well-reasoned, well sort of planned show like this, very
good.
Super, more of that type of thing we say.
Changing plans again, this was Hukas and his Mrs. Hukas travel plans around the US and
D&T says traveling, great stuff, I should remember to keep a diary next time I go somewhere.
Thank you for laying this stuff out a valuable reference to have.
And Kevin O'Brien says you're most welcome, glad you enjoyed it, my first travel diaries
from January 1979 with my now wife and I went to San Francisco and there we got engaged.
So I've been doing it for some time.
Now I'm in the process of scanning in old diaries, OCRing them and getting them into shape.
Nice, the OCRing is a good idea.
A little bit of a little bit of a number of shows, yes.
Yeah, because I'm doing my inevitable skill and go episodes, I think I might have one
more in my archiving series to do.
Yeah, and OCR will be a good one because you can do it after the fact.
Very good.
I, yeah, I've written diaries so when I've been traveling it, I've never occurred to me
that to do anything with them other than leave them in a box in the attic or something,
but I might think the earliest one was 1988 or something going to the far east and Malaysia
and Thailand and stuff like that, but I probably wrote crap like, oh, I fell asleep on the
coach again, blah, blah, blah, blah, and it was, so I don't know, this is maybe with
the internet.
See if it's anything in it, and it may just be the ramblings of somebody who can't write
diaries.
Very good.
Then Floor 2 gives us a review of cars and I didn't know where this was going, but it
is interesting.
I find it's interesting that basically the premise of the show is that there are no
cars, everything's like trucks and 4x4s and big honking vehicles.
Yeah, that was something I hadn't appreciated.
I had assumed that if I'd gone and looked at these websites, there would be a multitude
of cars, but no, I followed up and looked and now it's all trucks and SUVs and electric
cars, which he discounted as being something to talk about, and I think that ties back
into capitalism and technology, which is sort of, you know, where things get pushed.
Oh, it comes down to a tax decision, wasn't it?
That their vehicles under one tonne were going to get taxed more, there was some weird
thing like that.
So I don't remember exactly which, but I know also that certain frame types, because they
can be used on a farm, so like your trucks, they then get a dis, you know, they're not
charged as much because the idea is you don't want to hurt the farmers, but of course,
even 90% of the vehicles are built and are not ever seeing a farm.
Yeah, and then you don't want to be the one in the mini-cooper, like down on the ground
when everybody else got the big trucks and going to run over you, you want some fighting
chances of I'm going to crash.
Yeah, there is that too.
You never know what way things are going to go, although I had to say, mini-coopers are
very popular, at least in my area.
The last CCH show ever, this is a comment and I think it's my turn.
The comment from, excuse me, some guy on the internet says, big human equals big vehicle,
Americans are too big to fit in cars a lot, so we'll need 18 wheels to car us around
in the next 10 years.
You may very well say that, but I could possibly comment.
Absolutely, it makes me laugh though.
Now, the last show ever, CCHit Show ever, so disappointed with that CCHit Sunday, really
I was very sad.
Anyway, I forgot to mention during that show that it was intended to go out on HPR the
whole time it was intended to be a dual recording going out on both, but just to be on the
safe side, I asked the community.
And some guy on the internet says, I've never heard this site until now, sad to hear
the project is ending, but I'm happy to know it existed.
I love the things played at the beginning and end of the show.
How do I find that track?
I search the internet archive for more hits, other on the other sites like this.
I know I have a hunger for CC music.
And the love bug says CCHit's theme tune, SDOT Scotty, or some guy on the internet.
The theme is GMZ by Scott Alpham, and it gives the URL to the music.
It's a shame about CCHit's demise as it is such a good project to be involved in.
As far as other CC music sites are concerned, there is Jemento and the Free Music Archive,
but they both have their own quirks and foibles, shows that select and feature CC music like
the bug cast disclosure, my own show, filter out a lot of the chaff and probably insert
some to cheer, Steve.
Excellent.
An excellent show, the bug cast, who's been supplying most of the CCHit's songs for the last
part.
But I'd realized to listen to the bug cast and then skip over the songs, knowing that they
would become awesome CCHit's leisure and then I could play them one by one.
Very good.
I didn't realize the relationship between the bug cast and CCHit, so that was interesting
to hear.
I certainly used to listen to CCHit's, but sort of got less interested in CC music after
a while.
I think probably getting my hearing not being so brilliant has been the cause, but it was
a great idea, brilliant idea, and it was quite a delightful thing to exist.
So yeah, sad it's gone too.
Yep.
We'll see.
We'll see.
The following day, Bash Snippet's short circuit evaluation in the Bash Boolean Expressions.
Dave, I had to get some coffee when I was doing this.
Okay.
Well, mostly because I've been doing this for ages and I don't know why it's new to you,
it's not new in the sense of it's a new concept, but I didn't realize that Bash would
behave.
I was thought of it as a bit of a toy system because I'd come from other command, no actually
that's not fair because some of the earlier command actually batched thingies that I've
used in the past were quite sophisticated, but Bash has actually improved a lot on it,
but it's still got a feeling of being slightly thrown together in places, I find.
So I was a bit surprised that it would do that, and it doesn't say so in a way that makes
sense to me at some.
Yeah.
So anyway, I just wanted to do if anybody else didn't know and would appreciate being
told.
Yeah, no, no, it was good.
It's just the sudo app guess and and sudo app upgrade is my introduction to it, and then
I realized well, you could do it the same way with the two pipes.
Yep, yep, yep, yes, but the thing, I think the blank spot in my thinking was that that's
the same as a Boolean expression that you would use in an if, you know, so that's where
your different short circuiting is happening, that was the revelation for me actually, but
I just pointed out that they were similar in case anybody else had a similar blank spot.
Yep, good to have it in the series.
And we have one guy on the end, some guy on the internet, Scotty, it's brilliant handles
no matter what we use it.
Scotty, great show.
I didn't know Bash had special names for its expressions like short circuit evaluation.
I really need to work on my short hand expressions, for example, pipe and and cleaner scripts.
The examples in the show notes are very valuable, thank you for providing them.
Now I can break my computer in style.
Yes, yes, I like the, I like that comment.
And some guy on the internet had his own show threat analysis, your attack surface with
some hacker news stuff.
So this is a bit like Tokki to me news back in the day.
Good round up.
Do you want to do Claudia M's one there?
Room?
Sure.
Claudia M says great episode, really enjoyed this news round up, looking for more Scotty.
And ZenFloat 2 says, oh no, as a title and oh no, as a body of his comment, which is
alluding to some of the remarks in the show in case you weren't quite aware of it, as
I wasn't when I first read that comment.
D&T, that's just an amazing.
Kevin O'Brien, wonderful, I think you could fill the whole left when Deepkeep dropped
out, please keep doing this.
And I said beautifully done, love this, your assistant did a fine job.
Excellent, excellent, excellent.
And some guy on the internet had the next issue as well, quantum computing encryption,
password management, password generation, and Google and Amazon are listening.
And the easy says 10 foil hat engaged, thanks for the show.
And one of spoon says proton mail shopping for law enforcement.
The case of the French activists was a useful wake up call for many.
They were arrested as a result of information relating to email account creation and identification
of the device used.
Essentially, Swiss courts will force proton to provide all available information if a
crime has been established.
Remember, new legislation is created daily and comes into effect straight away.
In this case, the activists was campaigning about gentrification.
Proton have since provided other documentation clarifying ways to avoid them having any
useful information together.
However, you won't usually notice that stuff on the front page of advertising for many service
providers.
At least nobody disappeared in this case.
Thanks for the stimulation, Scottie.
I enjoyed the show very much.
So I wrote a comment and I said very interesting discussion.
Some great and important topics, excellent show.
They spoke about fair phone and I actually have a fair phone 3 plus, but I haven't replaced
standard Android yet because I'm concerned they'll break the phone being a bit inept
with phones.
It's an okay phone, but I hate Android and it's unmodified state.
I get daily calls, that was another thing I was mentioned from, I get daily calls from unknown
numbers.
I look them up on a site called whocalled.ucode.uk, and mostly find their spam calls and
I block them.
My network provider, which is gift gaff, seems to be flagging spam calls using your database
like this, which is very useful.
So I assume many people get this sort of stuff nowadays that you get an income and call
you've never seen before and it's marked that it's classified as spam.
I used to be heavily into email encryption.
I even got into, I got my PGP key signed in 2014 at Phosdem, at Belgium.
I'm using it a lot less now, although the latest Thunderbird has apparently good support
for PGP.
It's the shame this didn't become a more generally accepted method of making email
secure.
Yeah, a bit too difficult, but deep deep says, phone, tiling, Windows Manager.
Great show.
I've been hanging around you guys and become a weirdo, classic love, that was a quote from
the show.
I'll make a good t-shirt actually, but hang around HPR and become a weirdo.
Wanted to let you know that a YouTube personality named Robert Braxman sells dig Google phones.
He regresses Android phones to run only Android open source project.
A fingerprint can follow you around as you switch phones in combination of three cell
towers, your phones sends the most time in.
Then tiling window managers, there's a program called WinRangler runs in the background
and adds three most popular tiling window arrangements to any window manager or desktop environment.
It talks to the window manager through the WWMH specification to add features to any
window manager.
I like flip-bugs and if you ever try it and want, I have a configuration files that adds
pseudo tiling to it.
Great show.
Thanks.
Deep Geek.
Love to hear another show from Deep Geek.
So the next show is the last show for the month I got into tech, my journey into technology
by lurking prior and there has yet no cons on that show.
Interesting.
Journey.
Go and row and you go.
I was basically going to say the same thing.
Yeah, I really enjoyed it.
It's really interesting.
His path winding through, especially through the navels.
Now it's going to go out of my head.
Atomic power.
So the stuff and everything is just pretty crazy it seems.
Yeah.
Fascinating journey through military routes to get the areas today.
I wonder how common that is.
I don't know people that do.
That sort of thing, so it's interesting to hear about.
Right.
So that's the shows.
Then we have the other comments that we missed.
Part of the other comments to you, other shows.
And one on your show actually grown, which was fixing an automatic cutoff mechanism to an electric motor.
Some guy like that says, thank you.
This is a very satisfying show.
I was worried for a bit when you made the first cut on the board at work.
But when you returned with an update, I was excited.
Are these electric motors, motors worth purchasing over gas?
No, I see everything electrical as proprietary design.
Unless it demonstrates otherwise.
I just don't want to buy a more that comes with a monthly service free from John Deere.
Thanks for the show.
Nice.
I didn't even see that.
How do we get notifications?
We just have to look back at it shows.
Oh, you know, it's a speed.
I guess I need to start up.
What's it called?
Subscribing to that feed.
Yep.
I have that feed in my Thunderbird because you can watch RSS feed.
So I see all the comments coming in.
Most of which I post, of course, but I see them that way as well.
But yeah, if you have an RSS reader that's easily run, then that's a good thing.
Thunderbird even supports it.
So I look them there.
Yeah, I have to add it to my Thunderbird.
That's cool.
Thank you.
So for HPR show 3694,
Robo tripping rave lords of the apocalypse by mechatronic.
Some guy on the internet says, please continue.
I love HPR for its diversity.
This type of show sounds like it was a lot of work, but it's fantastic.
If you would do a future show of this type or continue the story,
lower the music a bit, it was difficult to hear in some places.
I also would love some more backstory on why the X86 certain die size chips were destroyed.
I know you said a neutron star caused it,
and I'm not looking for something super scientific.
I just like more story.
Thanks again for the show.
So I commented on bin RCs show 3695,
how I watched YouTube with newsboat,
and I said hi.
Great show, but I have questions.
This was most interesting.
I tried out newsboat after installing it with MPV and YTDLP.
I tried your configuration files,
the starting point, but I got an error.
I found newsboat didn't like the line bind key,
the capital U bash bar BA show URLs.
I used show URLs, which I found in the documentation,
so it's probably just a typo.
Also, what's link handler?
If you mention it in the audio, I missed it.
Next for the show, I suspect I will be using newsboat from now on.
Oh yeah.
He actually did answer some of these to me directly,
so I should maybe ask him to incase anybody else has stumbled.
Something added as a comment to mine might be a good idea,
but anyway, whatever.
Okay.
And Nate has a response to the same show.
Use of in-dividuous instance to get their channel ID.
Thanks for the newsboat reference.
So I think that's it.
We have mailing list discussions.
And it was about the last CC hits show,
which we were talking about.
And the all-f conference called participation.
We have the call for shows open.
And also, I was surprised.
It was the previous month about people wanting to help out
on FOSTEM.
So I'm going to request a day for FOSTEM.
And if people want to help out on the day behind the boot,
representing HPR or your own podcast,
feel someone's credit comes.
Feel free to help me out.
Would be good to have another name or two.
Even if you don't want to be there the whole day,
but if you can grab us a sandwich or stand in while we go get
a rest, go to the restroom or grab a coffee or something.
So that would be awesome.
Just have a few people who could help out for an hour or two
or if you could help out for one day.
That would be excellent.
Okay, Dave.
Tell me what you've been up to.
Well, one of the things was to keep on doing the same thing,
which is to upload stuff to the Internet Archival.
Re-upload shows which hadn't been fully uploaded before.
Of course, we didn't do it that way when they got uploaded.
So we're now at the end of October.
We had reached 1035 shows done.
And 523 left to do.
And since the start of November, I've been carrying on with that process,
of course.
So I forget what the number is now, but it's a few more.
So I reckon the rate I'm going,
if I can keep it up over Christmas and New Year and stuff,
should be done in early February.
Very good.
Excellent.
What else have we got on the agenda?
Anything else?
Other than, at some point, I'd like to do a little more of a push
on moving the site generator into a state
that we could actually move it to the main site.
I know there's, I created some,
what do they call it, a project on the repo,
and started putting some task in there.
I mean, I know it sounds like you're about 15 interrupts,
I understand this is not going to be fast.
I did sort of put a target date of New Year's of this year,
just to sort of put something on there,
but that was without, you know,
that was just a general if life is good for everybody kind of date.
But I don't, I guess I just need to have a little bit of understanding
of like what needs to be done to make it, you know, possible.
Because I don't, you know, I think we,
it's at a state where if we work out a few things,
then, you know, we can get it working,
and then we just fill in whatever's missing later.
But like I said, I just think maybe offline
or at some better time for you, you know,
we could even maybe even do for court
an episode just discussing plans or whatever.
Yeah, the date switching it over before December is about idea,
given we're doing the New Year show.
So first of January will be a better deadline, I guess.
Sure.
Yeah, but let's do that.
I need to have a think about it.
I need to have a read of it.
I need to get more sleep first.
That is important.
So that's it folks.
Anything else, Dave?
No, nothing really of any merit or interest.
So I'm just looking at the queue
and we're knocked.
Yeah, we have lots.
One, two, three, four weeks free until the end of the year.
Two, three, four, five, six with no slots filled at all.
So yes, feel free to send in shows people.
And I see the same names coming up again and again and again.
And that's been a thing with HPR
that just relies on the same people over time.
But you really, if you can send in four shows a year,
not one show a year is great.
Anybody who sends them one show a year, you're off the hook.
But if you're, if you could do four shows a year and just send them in
that would really help us out.
And you can record them at the same time.
So like, you know, record them one recording session for a year.
You're part one, part two, part three or part four.
And then you can upload them throughout the year.
So you don't even have to think about it for the next year.
So peeps, if you've got shows, can you throw them in?
That would be absolutely excellent.
And with that, I will recommend that you tune in tomorrow
for another exciting episode of Dave.
Hacker.
Public.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio.
At HackerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by
an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our sings.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released
under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
