Episode: 3465
Title: HPR3465: Walmart Onn 7 inch tablet gen 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3465/hpr3465.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 23:58:41

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3465 for Friday, 12 November 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Wal-Mart on 7-inch Tablet General 2,
It is hosted by JWP, and is about 14 minutes long, and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, podcast about a new android, go tablet high purchase.
Okay, guys, I heard Ken Fallon's request for shows, and I've been kicking around the
telegram, the Hacker Public Radio Telegram Group, a topic I was recently in the States,
and well, I was in Texas, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Mississippi, and there's no corona there, guys.
There just isn't. No mask, no anything. It was fantastic. Not anything at all like Europe.
And while I was there, I happened to visit several Wal-Mart's, and so I think I told you
previously that I had bought a on 10-inch tablet with keyboard for 99 bucks.
And so I decided that I wanted to try another model, and so I have an affliction for
low-budget Android tablets, and I have quite a stack of them, and it's not like
some of our friends that have netbooks stack to the ceiling, but it's quite the stack of tablets.
And so I went to Wal-Mart, and they have an in-house brand called O and in or on.
And I had some experience, and the performance is okay, the screen sucks, the sound sucks also.
But you know, for the price, it's not bad. And last Thanksgiving, it was on sale for $28,
the 7-inch tablet. I really wish I could have got it on it. But I instead, I ended up spending
a better part of $100 before it was also done with a case and a memory card and all this stuff.
And so does it perform better than the Kindle 2019 Kindle 7? And yes, it does.
It performs better. Unfortunately, it uses something called it's Android 11, but it uses the Go
version. And so it doesn't do things like Google Podcasts or whatever. So again, I got the 7-inch
tablet on Gen2 in-house Wal-Mart 1, model number 1,000, 261, 9-1. And overall, it's pretty small.
I measured it. It has exactly the same format as an Amazon 7-inch 2019. So it's exactly the same
as far as physical measurements. Okay, then the first thing that you need to know about it on
is that there is none of that nice scratch resistance that you get on an Apple tablet or an
Amazon Fire tablet that this doesn't exist. So you definitely need to put a screen protector on it
or you need to get a pretty big case on it or it's going to get scratched up pretty quickly. And
that's exactly what happened to the 10-inch one that I got before COVID in a similar Wal-Mart
situation. Okay, and so it's a two gigabyte, which is a whole gigabyte more than the Kindle one
has. It's got a USB-C connection. The speakers really, really, really suck. So don't look for it for
like speaker stuff. And it's not a fast shark, but it's got a headphone jack. It's got one of
the craziest SD card slots. One of the hardest to ever get it in. So I got a 32 gigabyte card on it.
And it's just so I can have a movie or two on it. The storage on it is, I mean, I can upgrade
the storage at least to 128. I'm pretty sure without a problem. And for sure to go ahead and
get the case for it. Now, if you get the screen protector, you could probably pocket it and do
something, but I have yet to find a case like the fire. So for me, the fire is still a real go-to
thing, especially on that plane because of the case. So it all fits in a cargo pocket.
And I have the noise canceling headset around my head. And boom, Bob's your uncle with a
external battery. For sure, it'll go the full 12 hour flight from Frankfurt to Seattle.
And for sure, for sure, it's going to do the 9 hour flight from Frankfurt to Houston
for the Kindle. And so this is a, although it performs a lot better, it doesn't have the apps
that I would have thought from a pure Android. Again, Google podcasts are my main thing.
And it comes with rudimentary documentation. Unlike my 10 inch that was a full version of Android,
it had a almost all of the apps you could disable or remove that came with it. So if you didn't
want any of that, that's the crap that came with it. It is very, very close to us. A pure stock
Android. And it came with the charger. And the camera is nothing to think about.
You know, nothing to think about. But if you did manage to find a case,
you know, this might be a halfway decent kid's tablet or something like this. And let me
hear how you even found the price. So the whole thing, let's see, what it was, what did it cost?
So the tablet was 59 bucks. The case was 12, 1250, the SD card was 12 bucks.
So that's what we're looking at. And probably I could have got it cheaper on sale. So for sure,
I saw something that said that it was on sale for $28 last thing, giving it the thing. So
as far as this apps go, which if you turn it on, it's a little chunky with the, but it's so fast.
So you go in and go down to about the tablet and it shows the device name,
emergency contacts, custom build version, one of those software update versions,
and model and hardware. And it has a, it's extremely responsive,
extremely responsive. And I've never had a go device before and the storage. So with the storage,
so it's got, you know, with the apps that I have on it, it has 16 gigabyte preinstalled,
so it's at 7.74. And I've already put 9.23 of the 64 gigabyte SD card on there. And most of that
is, it's all film. It's all film or things that are ripped, things that are ripped. And as far as
apps go, it's got, you know, I put those things on the BBC on it. I paid for a black player on Android
many years ago. And it's got the, of course, the Google stuff, the calendar, the, the chrome,
the contacts and the chrome is probably fast. So docs, drive duo. So it has Google files, but I
found that, that again, I paid for the FX file manager. So FX Pro file manager, I think it was
a buck 99, best buck 99 ever because it connects to anything. So you can connect it to, you can
connect it to, to tablet to all of your online storage, all of your, your home now, so your whole
thing with that FX for a buck 99. And it comes with a text editor. That's, that's not too bad. And so
of course, Gmail, Google Go, and Google Go is a, is a pretty interesting thing. So, so you can,
it's a, it's, it's sort of the, the low budget way to search, or search function with Google Go.
And, and, and it has a bunch of stuff. So the, it's got the con virus, Instagram, all kinds of
things on it. So the, the, the, and some things do work. And so because I'm such a Microsoft
fanatic, because of my work, it, one drive and one note work flawlessly, I've been using a lot of
Google Play books because you can get, I don't know, you give yourself a, a $10 limit on Google Play
books. And you'd be really surprised what, how many books you can get in a really readable format
for 10 bucks on, on, on Google. And for instance, let's see, I opened, opened up, opened up my,
my Google, my Google books, my library. And for 10 bucks, I was able to get the Walden,
Oliver Twist, Pride and Prejudice, the wonderful stories for children, Frankenstein, American
history and 50 events, Russian history and 50 events, ancient Greece, the bore wars, the US
history, revolution to reconstruction, world history, who did what? Zingray, the ultimate collection,
all the historical novels of, Zingray, Robert E. Howard, the ultimate collection, 300
called classics and adventure novels, Edgar Rice Burles, Western Megapack,
all of Max Brown, 90 plus volumes, the Civil War, history and hour, 25 self-help classics
illustrated, David Copperfield, 20 additional 20 helps, 20 self-help classics, Oscar Wilde,
Common Sense by Thomas Payne, self-reliance by Ralph Walgo Inverson, 50 masterpieces of detective
fiction, you have to read before you die, great expectations, a very short history of America,
volume one, The Crusades by Henry Freeman, Dingas Khan, US history and the history of
China and 50 events, the rights of man by Thomas Payne and the complete work of Dickens,
and all of this was either free or the entire thing was under 10 books, so and it takes up
almost no space on your on your on your watch, so you I don't think it's as hoggish as a kindle
and for sure it's not hawking as much as a kindle does and so yeah it it do the it's done a
pretty good job of of doing that and and I saw and so for sound I again I did the the black
player for the MP3's on on the thing I like to listen to news in Austin, Texas, so I use a
KUT has an app for their MPR thing again, MPR is a little liberal so you have to be take a
deep breath sometimes but still for public for public channel it's it's not too bad right and
the Spotify and so I'm doing Spotify too and really really even though I pay for prom,
Spotify is a lot better a lot better even the free edition seems to seem to be worth it with the ads
and of course when we started with Amazon and the prime music and everything it it wasn't
the wasn't on Spotify yeah so so it's it's pretty it's pretty simple and oh by the way the FX
player for 199 also does video and does single MP3's but no it plays back so in other words you
can watch anything you put on the SD card as far as movies go it can be there so overall
you know I would say it's okay remember remember with anything that you buy at Walmart
to get the screen protector it's it's you know it's absolutely imperative because it doesn't have
the anti-scratch thing that the that your Kindle fire or normal Kindle or anything Apple
or anything Samsung will have so just just it'll get scratched up really easy if you don't have
a screen protector on all right hey well we're coming up on 14 minutes or over 14 minutes now
so hey I'll let you go and thank you so much and if you have any comments you can reach me at
jwp5 at homel.com you'll have a nice day and be kind to one another
you've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org today's show was
contributed by an HBR listener like yourself if you ever thought of recording a podcast then click
on our contributing to find out how easy it really is hosting for HBR this kindly provided by
an honesthost.com the internet archive and our sync.net unless otherwise stated today's show
is released under a creative comments attribution share like 3.0 license
