Episode: 3481
Title: HPR3481: HPR Community News for November 2021
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3481/hpr3481.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 00:17:10

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3481 for Monday 6th of December 2021, today's show
is entitled HDR Community News for November 2021 and is part of the series HDR Community
News.
It is posted by HDR volunteers and is about 94 minutes long and carries an explicit flag.
The series HDR volunteers talk about shows released and comment posted in November 2021.
Hi everybody my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio.
Today the community news for November 2021, where has the time gone Dave, where has the
time gone?
I know I know how I feel too.
And joining me tonight is, hello, that mystery voice is Dave Murray's.
We're doing a slightly earlier today because a lot of stuff is happening in my life at
the moment and Dave was kind enough to move this forward, not all of it, not all of us
is nice, unfortunately, but there you go.
So this is the community news for November 2021.
So what's HPR and what's the community news?
HPR is a community podcast where the people who submit the podcasts are listeners very
much.
In fact, someone would say exactly like you.
If you ever thought of becoming a podcaster, then this is the way to do it.
You record a show and you go to our upload page and you fill in the form and you send
in the show and then you become a podcaster, couldn't be simpler.
Great show to start off with is how you got into tech, your history with technology and
how you made it to pressing that upload button.
We'd love to hear it.
Don't worry.
We'll give you loads of ideas for new shows.
So as this is a bit of a one way speaking to the masses and having no clue how many masses
there are, we make sure that we do a community news show.
Once a month where every show is provided with a little bit of feedback and our thoughts
and suggestions on what has gone on.
We also take the opportunity to read out the show notes and go through anything else that's
on the mail list, which is the governing body of HPR.
More or less.
I reckon.
Have I got to the moon there, Dave?
I think so, except we're not reading the show notes, we're reading the comments.
That's correct, Dave.
I'm not reading the show notes, I'm sorry, I'm not.
You would think after 16 years we'd have this down, but apparently not.
I think life gets like that sometimes.
Anyway, it's traditional that we read out the new hosts and it's traditional that you
do with that, Dave.
Don't worry about that.
So it is, yes, yes.
Well, we have to agree with the wives, because I butchering in names, that's why, yeah.
So we have, we're getting some fairly easy to read names in our new hosts.
We do have two new hosts this month, or last month, I should say.
November, one of Spoon's, a great handle, I do like that so much, I'd love to know the
history of that one.
And DNT, who we mentioned, I think the last show as a commenter has submitted a show.
So that's all good.
And I think they go on to explain where their handle comes from.
So that's pretty good.
Yes, that's that's good.
Super.
So let's go through the first show last month, which oddly enough was the community news.
The community news, we do, we release on the first Monday of every month.
Why?
I don't know.
I think we're mad.
Consistency, that's what we strive for.
And we've had tradition tradition.
Tradition, yes.
Do anything three times and it becomes tradition.
Yes.
So there was an amazing lack of controversy, which, to be honest, I'm delighted.
So it's good to get too much of that sometimes.
Yes, we could do it a little bit of a little bit less controversy and a lot more tech
here.
So we move on to the next show.
And that was a flat two with a series on databases and I remember this one particularly
well because I was underneath my, underneath the floor in the crawling space.
So anyway, enough about crawling spaces, Dave, databases.
And why tables are difficult, is that what this one was about?
Yeah, there's about tables, yeah.
Yes.
In various contexts, in the context of preparing documentation using Mark Dan, various other
things and HTML's tables and I imagine database at some point, but I don't think we've
quite got to database tables yet, but I don't doubt that we will arrive there soon.
Yeah.
So this is a how to format data.
So it's more about the argument of do you use tables or do you use sequence of mappings,
which is, I call, an interesting question.
Well, yeah.
Now the point about mobile phones being unable to make a good job of displaying tables
because they're the size of the screens and stuff and also the fact that not all web pages
are configured correctly for that purpose, it is a very, very important one I think could
because I just test my phone when it does this and so I'm sure a lot of other people feel
the same way.
I particularly love it when you have a table that when you zoom in, the text around the
table gets bigger and bigger and bigger, but the table remains the same size that I particularly,
that one is where you deliberately go the extra mile to be anti, you know, to make it difficult
for your people viewing your website.
Yes indeed.
Also, John Culp, John Culp, this is why you do the intros of the New Hostage tables
and font size.
He says, I love this episode that too.
Somehow I find it really entertaining to hear all about the benefits and difficulties
on tables and it's something I dealt with a good bit myself, but mostly in the context
of ebook editing.
In addition to the problems you mentioned, another one I find vexing is the impact of
font sizes on tables.
Yes, John, I feel you're bad.
One of the best accessibility features of ebook formats and ereaders is the user's option
to change font size.
When you're getting all like me and you typically increase the font size, you find that tables
rarely survive the change unless you've got a big screen like a tablet.
I will try almost any option to avoid making a table in one of my own ebook edits because
it's too hard to predict screen size and font preferences.
This will usually do the trick just as you propose in your episodes.
Now I want to go look at your ebook.
Good.
Comment 2 was from Gumnoss, I imagine, but storing data in rec cell format.
I'm not sure if you've encountered GNU rec utils before it gives a link to the GNU.org
page.
It's a nice flat file way of storing and querying data in a format similar to what you described.
It's fairly easy to convert to CSV or other tabular format.
It plays nicely with virtual control making it easier to tell when a column encodes really
a row in a group has been edited because the diff just shows that one cell encodes rather
than the whole CSV line is being modified.
It's also pretty flexible when it comes to omitted or duplicated fields.
I've taken to storing our household address book in this format and then transform it into
other formats as needed.
Now I had never seen that before and I had a look at the GNU documentation and I will
say as with past experiences with GNU documentation, I found it difficult to follow, but I was
love.
Yes.
To show.
Absolutely.
Yes.
I know.
I'm there ahead of you really.
I also looked at the, I'd never heard of it.
I also looked at it and I did have a play with it and I thought it was absolutely lovely.
Somebody has really come up with a great idea here to solve the sort of problems that
we've been talking about with tables and lists and CSV and all these other formats and
it's great.
It's absolutely great.
Yes.
We could do it.
Somebody doing a walkthrough of what you'd love for, I think.
A counter call.
GOOMOS.
GOOMOS.
I want to say GOMNOS, but GOMNOS, am I bringing a sort of custom to seeing a capital G that
I've got GNUNOS?
Nearly.
Yes.
Go GNU in it.
Has GOMNOS done a show, Dave?
Shall I check?
Haha.
Oh, my guess is no, though I've seen the name in the comments before, but at the about
horse page, Dave, I'm waiting for the page to load, Dave.
Haha.
No, no.
Alas, there's a big red, red circle around the search field for that, Dave.
No, I'm not angry, Dave, I'm just a bit disappointed, but what an excellent show that
would make as a first show, don't you think?
Haha.
I can't disagree with that, Joel.
No, absolutely.
Excellent.
The following day, living in the terminal to the obligatory sequel, and I read that
as the obligatory squirrel, I don't know what's happening with my brain today, probably
related to yesterday.
Alie, at very tired, black colonel tries to handle the feedback from the previous episode.
Anything to do with terminals as popular here, Dave, on the HPR?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Yes, he did seem to be struggling a bit as of my notes about this one.
He was very entertaining, though.
I did enjoy his show, but he was going back through stuff he'd been talking about and
had answers, too, with comments on and stuff from the previous show, so, very good.
Excellent.
And, yeah, definitely a host that hit the ground running, I have to say.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yes, I shall look forward to move from my friend.
Super.
The Linux Inlals, the open source initiative, this was a good interview, actually.
They're getting Devin Nielsen, they're getting quite a lot of interviews.
I'm not sure if I prefer the interviews over the regular shows.
I do enjoy the interviews, and Devin Nicholson is a great interview guest.
She has quite a sense of humor, I didn't enjoy her sense of humor, just sort of smile
and just about everything she said, so yeah, I enjoyed that a lot of great stuff.
So Olivier said, turn on the DB link, hey, I see that you have linked one of our blogs,
and I'm just writing to the election, or the URL has changed, so have we changed that already?
No, the person who released the comment completely forgot to make the change.
Yeah, the person who, the other person who read the comment also completely forgot to make
the change.
So the person who also read the comment will leave that tab open, and see if we can do
that later.
It's probably good.
Sometimes I reply to people and say, if you just queried admin at ASPR, then we'd just
do it without you needing to send in a comment, but in this case, the comment is a good reminder
that we have.
Yeah, so yeah.
Dodge and burn, Lear Mords with Gibb with Dodge and Burn, and I had this, I had a double
take to see whether he was correct or not, but apparently it's a thing.
Yeah, yeah.
I think I had it before, I'd just seen it in passing, and it hadn't really paid much
attention to it.
It's not quite clear why, why it's all dodged, but it sounds like a sort of comedy duo
in there in the old days of black and white movies or something.
The names are not intuitive at all, he says on his own blog, dodge means liking and burn
means darker.
Yes, yes, he did make a point of trying to explain, but not to explain why I feel, but anyway,
that's not really a focus, and again, there's no comments on this, but during every month
we will skip over a hookah shows, not giving them the credit that they deserve, but this
is like foundational stuff, you know, it's there, every piece of architecture rests on a
solid foundation, and nobody looks at us, but it is a fantastic series I'm learning so
much from this.
Absolutely, yes, yes, it's always the way it's, well, yes, that's great, but I don't need
it, and then the day comes when you do need it, and you go, oh yes, I found it, and
he's the answer, yay.
Yeah, so yeah, the following day we had, we read out last month, we had, we didn't have
time to read out all the discussion about the branding, and it was important that we
get feedback about changes to the branding, and this was the, this was the show where we
read out that entire mail thread, and Mike says, is Mike turning your turn?
I think it's pretty mine, I think you did go through the last one, please, through.
So Mike Eastpeak right here says, TTS, I made a small error in my comment on the subject
about branding, I said a bit between TTS and raucous music, was an advert for AHH, another
honest host, because it's for archive.org.
Now, I like the TTS, it gives me the chance to decide earlier whether to carry on listening
or press to leap and go to sleep, but the current TTS engine settings are used to boring.
She sounds like a woman who's been awake for a week continuously, no prosthody, no intonation,
Eastpeak is much better in my humble opinion.
Really Mike?
God, I thought Mike was a supporter of Eastpeak.
I could also speak faster for me personally, it could also speak faster for me personally,
a lot faster, but I know all you've wrote on dependent times more degrees, my face.
My living is, yes.
Yes, Mike has done a lot about Eastpeak previously.
So this month has been essentially a test month where I have interpreted as best I could,
the feelings of the community and have tried my best to come up with something that will
please everybody, please some of the people, some of the time more than the time, but not
all the people all the time.
So in the great sense, compromise that we have, we've lowered down this whole month.
You should have heard various different permutations of the intro and outro.
And after Mike's comment as well about the Eastpeak thing, I went and changed the voice
from Lynn, from the Lynx, lot of LynxLynx.org podcast if people remember that one.
To back to Eastpeak, which actually was a lot more difficult then it should have been.
Lots of hoops had to be jumped with one of those things that with the Eastpeak or with
the festival engine, you could specify the frequency of the sample rate, but not with
Eastpeak.
So then I had to convert it to this and to that and then it's just a pain in the butt.
But it's done anyway, both ways are now available.
So if people have preferences, then that's fine, there's, so what we have now is we have
the intro and it's a quiet intro, the guitar one.
It's the same music for the intro and the outro, quite short.
There's the little bit of silence, then the text to speech comes in as an overlay over
that, over the intro music and then basically the show.
And the whole thing, so that the text to speech does include important information like the
license under which the show has been released.
So this in this particular show released under this particular license goes, the default
generic outro has information about what are default licenses or less of the way specified
it's black.
And because enough people seem to find the intro and outro are they at least the text to
speech thing useful, I personally did, I knew.
So that's left it and we've, the outro has been cut down as well and we've included
a very quick thank you to the people who provide hosting, the exact text of that is likely
to change as well, but that also just makes this, I think, easier and shorter as part of
the outro.
That needs to be re-recorded, unfortunately, with all the stuff that's going on here.
I haven't been able to get my wife into a sound booth where we can record is what
if somebody wants to, and I didn't want to either because the outcome of that show and
today's show is that unless people are complaining about us, we're just going to continue on doing
this and going to assume that this is the correct direction for theme music from now on.
Host, don't provide intros and outros and we have this format which actually is a lot,
a lot easier to process and we were able to get the, was it you that sent me the FFN
peg of the wave form?
Yes, yes.
That's absolutely brilliant, there is one thing that I wanted to do, we've added normalization
to the shows which you see quite a lot, but what we don't have is loudness normalization
which I sometimes need to do, I get the wave form and then I can see if there's a massive
difference between the intros and outros and then I'll go in and do a loudness normalization.
I wanted to do that using scripting in Audacity and the Audacity plug-in to do that, it's called
Mob's pipe, something Mob Pipe script has been brought into the, is no longer a plug-in
that you can add, it's something that's part of the main Audacity build, but apparently
none of the distros are shipping with us, so it's no longer available as a plug-in and
it's not in the code, so I don't know where it is, so that's kind of frustrating, so if
somebody can tell me how to do loudness normalization with FFNPEG that will be absolutely awesome.
Yes, I'm sure there's some knowledge out there somewhere but can be hard to find, FFNPEG
is a beast, it's fantastic though, there is nothing with audio, a lot of the scripting
that I'd previously been doing with Sox, I just switch over to FFNPEG because it's a lot
easier, it just doesn't care. So where are we? Is that, that's not so much, is there anything
else on the intro? Now that we're talking about it, do you want to bring to my attention?
I did notice the last show I listened to, which is probably one in December, because there's
an odd buzzing sound in the guitar intro, I'm not quite sure, I'm not sure, it's in every
show, I'm not sure if that's getting clobbered by some process later on once it's been attached
or something, but I meant to highlight and point it out to you which I haven't done yet,
to try and remember to do that after this show. And can I ask anybody if there's, if
you've got comments on the quality of the audio of any show, go to that show itself and click
on us and add the comments to that show, particularly if you're doing the future feed. So if
you're following the future feed, which I'd love all you audio file people out there while
you're getting your setup to be perfect before recording shows, for us, if you could tune in to
the future feed and give us a heads up on whether the audio meets your requirements or not,
and what do you think it could be? Then we can give you the, actually, if you just browse to the
source files are available to you for padding and fixing. Well, anyway, technical issues aside,
it's more about the structure, but how did you feel the structure that we have now reflects
the feedback that we got both on the mailing list and on the matrix channels, Dave?
Well, my view is that it does a great job, actually. I did, excuse me, I keep stopping to
clean my throat. I did have a message from somebody on Telegram saying what's up with the
HBR's intro, I chose stuff and I can't bear it and things. But who, I said, we've changed it,
go and have a listen to the latest one, we came back to it, it was wonderful, I love it. So,
you know, that was an audience response, then I think we're probably heading in the right direction,
actually, we're quite close to the goal that we all envisaged. Yeah, I think it's just short and
of 30 seconds and 30 seconds each side about a minute. It's not 40 seconds each side, so it's not
not hugely massive. It keeps the HBR theme and we thank who we need to thank and we also
provide the information about the show itself. So, yeah, I think it's working. Yeah,
I would because I did it. So, yeah, anyone's got comments. Please comment on this show telling us what
what you do and you do don't like about it because as with the mailing list, if we don't hear
from people, we assume you agree. Okay, moving on, enough about this. Metal marbles, I have no idea
what way this was going to go Dave. No, no, quite. But it's an introduction to the host with a reference
to semantic playgrounds. I loved this show. If it's nothing else, I love the handle one of spoons.
Yes, yes, I do enjoy that very much. Keep them, come on, please, keep them, come on.
Yes, I, yeah, yeah, I was a little bit sort of bamboozled by this one. It was one of those.
I marked down as, go and listen again because I think you missed some of the subtleties,
but the business of how you remove rust from things is quite interesting as well as all the other
stuff. I had, you know, I do spam checking on all new hosts, on all shows actually,
get spam checked, even ones from one of those. So, which involves just scrubbing through the audio
to make sure words come up. Is this spam or not? So, and usually afterwards, I
yeah, I, as you know, Dave, we're not supposed to listen to the shows prior to them being published.
That one was very, very tempting. What? Is this, is this, what is this about? Is this about this?
Ah, right. Okay, right. What I'm going to do is publish it and then listen to it.
Yes, yes, absolutely. Oh, gracious, loved. Interesting. Yes, yes, looking forward to more.
Follow me, Clonzilla, a backup story. Roan walks through the process of backing up his laptop with
Clonzilla. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, out of the depths, it came. You hear the sound.
You know your hard disk is about to die. Will Clonzilla save you? Tune in to Roan's show to find out
exactly how and why. Okay, that was a bit weird. But the show is an interesting format.
Yes. It's, it's not the sort of sit down and listen closely type of show. It was sort of
have it going on in the background while you're doing something else. But it was, there was a certain
level of pain in there. It was good to share that, I think. So, yeah, and the, I think I just
have to do two on master on Matrix said the bird sounds in the background were good and I
wholly agree. It was quite nice to have those that seemed to be in sounds and stuff.
Yes, agreed. I also like these shoulders because you know that he's going to pause to
regardless of whether it works or not. So there's a problem. And we don't know if it's going to
get fixed or not. So it's like, is it going to work? Is it not going to work? I've been there.
Thankfully, it's not me, but there's also an element of I feel your pain as it goes on. But Clonzilla
is a very good, a very good tool if people haven't come, it's not as popular now that whole, you
know, cloning a hard disk as it used to be, but it'll still save your buttocks if the midden hits
the windmill. How's that? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. As somebody who just recently lost his four terabyte
western digital disk, I did, it did died in a controller because I had, what's the thing that
monitors your disk? The name is smart, smart and clear all right? Yes, SMA RT is the, the
mnemonic, isn't it? And it said, your disk looks a bit yucky, you better back it up quickly so
I went and backed it up quickly. So yeah, it seems to be totally dead. I've got it in an external
disk caddy thingy trying to do something with it and it seems to be totally and that's really dead.
So yeah, yeah, fun. So I do simple thirds of that whole process.
The following day, being irrational by Andrew Conway, and I was listening to this on the bus
coming from work, which I thought was a very irrational thing to do, and it turns out I was right.
Yes, and he recommends some thoughts on how we think started rattling about my head in the show I
riff on that. I'm talking about the importance of our irrational mode of thought.
Well, yeah, yeah, a fascinating and different view and very true. I wrote down rationality isn't
everything. We do some things that aren't strictly rational, but more intuitive or subconscious.
So being irrational isn't necessarily bad. That was my summary to me. But yeah, it's got some
excellent points there, and it needs more thought and more work, I suspect, to understand them
well. Just going by gut feeling is not enough, but there's a lot of things that we do, which are
based on that sort of thing, instincts and just generally irrational, but intuitive behaviors and
stuff. Yes, I agree with them to a point, but there is a point where I don't agree with them.
Brian and O'Haya says, a certain deepest task of all, as I always enjoy the show I loved
into my new to me, arm-based running laptop show coming excellent, running slackware, and my fortune
says, I have hardly known a mathematician who was capable of reasonably, that was Plato.
Yeah, yeah, interesting. Very, very good. Okay, moving on. But a good show, I like this, I like it.
Keep throwing, throw that sort of stuff into the mix. Yeah, yeah, yeah, Andrew is quite a deep
thinker, so it's good to hear this sort of thing from him. Yes, but he's usually wrong. He's usually
wrong. And best to discuss that with a pint of Belgian beer in Vostem. I still am waking up at
night with arguments about counter-arguments to his arguments to me and Vostem about the GDPR,
but only we will, if whenever we get back to Vostem, I will happily argue with them more.
Yes, yeah, looking forward to that time as well, yeah. Speaking of people who we miss at Vostem,
and are looking forward to meeting at Vostem again, is GDPR with his Walmart on seven-inch
tablets, Gen 2, like these throwaway little episodes about stuff. Yeah, GDPR is a great
collector of strange and wonderful bits of hardware, which he dotes on and looks up to very
carefully and stuff, so yeah, that's good to hear this stuff. There's one comment from
Bite Man Music, it's a name, I haven't heard for a long time, real numbers to an off-hand comment.
I'm always of two minds on low-cost tech when I see it. It can be a burden on one side of the
economic ladder and a boon on for another. I usually fall on the side of access to technology,
can provide a net good. I do over a field compelled to point out Mrs. Sippy has the highest
deaths for one million people in the United States, I think, JWP, but otherwise about it.
About that comment about useless tech, I have two tablets that I got. One was on the recommendation
of the Linux link tech show and the other was given to be my father-in-law and both run Android
and both have been universally useless, so I'm not to throw them away because they're fully functioning.
They're also, I'm not to give them away to the secondhand shop because I would spare you from
spare people from the torture that the pain and torment of that actually have to use them.
So I'm in this quandary and it's the same with some of the, I've got a stack of laptops here,
all laptops that were given to me or that died, they're no longer supported, they were Chromebooks
that are no longer supported. So what do you do with these? I'm struggling with where do I put my
baseline for? This is the minimum piece of tech that I have. I don't mind keeping a few laptops around,
oh, this is an EEPC from back in the day and it's now running the latest version of Linux, but
you know, poppy dog I just installed, that's great, I've got everything running, it's fantastic,
but am I ever going to use it? No, when I plug it in, you know, it's the family,
those sounds really large, it's really loud and but it's quite small and it's in the unique
piece of tech. So yes, I'll probably keep it, but the rest, you know, crappy old laptops,
do I, what do you do? Do you use them? Do you give them away? Will somebody else find use for them?
It's a difficult one, I've just tended to throw in the recycling.
Yeah, all of that sort of I used to collect this sort of business, I had some
mad idea of using some old desktop machines clustered together, but when you don't see how much
power those things, you don't want to have anything to do with it. So there you go, if I've
got an emotional attachment to us, that's fine, but as with everything else,
there can only be a limit. I'll ask for the other laptops that I've received from somebody else,
I'll, if they're fast enough to play Minecraft, then I'll put Linux elements, give them into
the second hand shop. Yeah, yeah. So, YHPR has less downloads, another one from GWP.
Far he has violated the rule, Dave. That will not have two shows from the same host in two weeks.
Oh, no, that said, we had a call for shows open, so yeah, what are you going to do? What are you
going to do? Also, it's GWP, he's got loads of guns, and he knows how to use them, so
do whatever you want, GWP, it's fine. Plus, he buys us beer over and fast them, so do whatever
you want, GWP, it's fine. There's one coming from Ken Fallon, so this show was about
why he thinks podcasts maybe on the deadline, he switched from being 16 hours in the car
to being working from home, and then second reason, he doesn't want to listen to shows about
people who don't share the same values, and the third is the US Army opened up their online library,
so you've got lots of audio books, yep, three valid reasons, and I say I just checked again,
and the last quarter there has been a recovery of subscribers up to 11,000 listeners to pre-luckdown
levels, I don't know why I didn't actually put in how many we have. I suspect this was triggered
by the return to work and the loosening of restrictions, however, as winter hits the northern hemisphere,
and another wave approaches, I predict the falling numbers again, actually I should do that in.
As the winter hits the northern hemisphere, and another wave approaches, I predict a falling of the
numbers. Yes, yes, yes, I think you might be right. Hello, yeah, I was just watching a summary of the
new Omicron Omicron, I don't sure how to pronounce it, Omicron variant, and the general consensus
seems to be it's not as serious as everybody can work top about, but who knows, who knows,
we can do the interview for another nasty, another nasty bag.
Protonmail in the terminal,
Protonmail, yes, is a mail client, and this is a show by DNT, and this was interesting.
This also made me think, maybe I will stick with Thunderbird after all, because wow,
that's a lot of work to get your email going. This one I also listened to twice, to be honest.
It's when I'm going to come back to what strange names of commands, not much a few a lot.
That's right, when I was processing the notes, I was like, what was this?
I'm fascinated with the fact that Protonmail didn't want you to use external clients.
I've got a Protonmail account, which I use very, very rarely, and I was disappointed that I couldn't
point by Thunderbird at it. But obviously, human ingenuity has come up with ways around this,
and it fascinates me that all of this exists. I'm definitely going to have a play
of that, see if I can look at stuff and control Protonmail.
Webmail thinks fine, but I don't want to be using Webmail.
And then it's not Webmail. It's not Mail. It's a proprietary messaging application,
but they call Mail or like the thing where you go to a website and you have to give feedback
and they say, oh, send us an email, and then you're dumped into a form. It's not an email.
It's a, you might be an email to you, but it's not an email to me if I can't use my own email
but only, okay, fine, I'm done taking it. Yeah, yeah. I quite like the ones where you
says send us an email and you click on it and all the behind-the-scenes Thunderbird opens
a right thingy window, which usually is behind the web browser and
you're like, what's going on? Well, you're always a web browser and there's 50 different
email pages open. That's right, because you've been here, isn't it? Where did it go? Oh, I can't find it.
Yeah, that happened just the other time. That's it. But yeah, yeah, I do quite like that.
I do quite like that capability. And yes, we used to run with Webmail at work at university,
for a while. What do we use roundcube and various things like that? I can't remember,
but they were just alternative ways of getting to you. I'm at Mail and later to your horrible
Microsoft Mail stuff, but that's our whole other thing to talk about. But yeah, I just,
I mean, they seem so limited. They are so limited. I think comparison to proper clients.
Anyway, yeah, but intriguing. Yeah, and this one I'm filing away for, there are a lot of tools in
here that I will mix and match later on. Yeah, that's on point. No, it's some good lessons to be
learned from this. I'm just, and there's some full show notes which have been attached as well,
which is, which is great. So yes, congratulations on the quality of the show notes.
So the next day was distro upgrade intervals from my Raspberry Pi. It was a cold morning.
I was sitting on the bus waiting at the recharge station because the bus runs a battery,
so it gets recharged. And you have to get out of the bus while the recharge is a topic for another
day, Dave. Not really relevant to a discussion about Debian long term support distro upgrading intervals
on my Raspberry Pi, but quite interesting actually from from that point of view. Indeed, indeed.
I was enjoyed to hear from Mr X. He's always got a different take on these various things.
And yeah, he has difficulty keeping his Raspberry Pi's up to date. And I sympathize with that.
That's another task for me to do soon is to get Ansible doing the right thing and
exactly creating them all and good stuff like that. But yeah, this is why my response to this problem
was to my idea was to just use a clone, a new image every so often go around to each Raspberry Pi
take out the SD card put in a new one and then use Ansible to blow it down. And that's fine.
And the theory will work, but it's still scary, Dave.
Yes, yes, yes. I haven't really got my head around all the things I want to do. I'm just making
a list of all the all the stuff because I like to share all my et cetera hosts across all my Raspberry
Pi's. Oh, on reflection, maybe I should just run a DNS off my pie hole. So, you know,
yes, there's all sorts of I always get stuck in the in the weeds of these things. You know,
I think, right, here's what I'm going to do. And then I look, ah, yeah. But before I do that,
to do that, and before I do that, I have to do something else. And yes, I agree. And what you should do
and not me because I will never do it, but you should do is write it down and then record
as you're asking people what their opinions will be. Yeah, yeah, which is the best approach for
for all of these these good things. Yes. And in the industry, yeah, past past month, I also got
fiber installed in my house. So my new router to play to not be quite the same as my old router,
not too surprisingly, but it doesn't let me run pie holes. I want to solve that.
The following day, we had Linux in-laws. The great battle or not are relating to
SQL, no SQL, redis, et cetera. And again, you're wondering where early on with this, but
good technical show, actually, that didn't have any comments.
Twitter. No, I, um, I came, it's fascinating. It was a fascinating show.
And it got a good insight into the relative merits of SQL, no SQL and stuff. But I wasn't quite sure
I understood all the pros and cons very clearly. I'm not sure if they, maybe they've pointed
other discussions about this, but yeah, I wouldn't know which one to choose given that a lot of
the SQL databases have responded to no SQL by putting some of the goodies from the no SQL world
into their relational databases and things of that sort. So I'm thinking mostly of Postgres,
which I don't use much these days, but you know, it's, it has certainly got
the ability to store great big blobs of JSON in it and work good stuff.
So yeah, I'd like to know more, basically. And I think that was the outcome of the show,
that's depending on which sound you are, the waters are very muddy, you know, no it is.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, there are lots of consultants getting lots of money to give you the
answer, but they want you to hear. Well, I'm glad it wasn't just me being a big OPE. Not
totally following it. There's, yeah, recently an article from past our internal chats about
this very thing about, you know, people are claiming, people claimed that SQL databases are
dinosaurs, but the article, while not adding anything new today to the discussion I called myself,
did say, no, they're not dinosaurs, they're sharks. Yes, yes. Yeah, very good point, very good point.
Highly highly evolved killing machines that are still as relevant today as they were back when
they initially evolved. You do not need to evolve significantly in a further to continue doing what
they do. Yeah. So next day, more on dusk this time, it's external commands and emergency
group disks. How to chuckle at this, I have my first, my second job at a Ken's multi-purpose
super disk and all the staff that will know those in their pockets. But no matter what happens,
you could go up to any computer plug it in and there's had all the drivers for all the
network cards that we had and it had a DOS menu that it would connect to the high men that's
this stuff, depending on what PC it was, and then connect to the novel network at the time and
download the drivers that you needed and re-image the PC and all sorts of stuff.
There's four packets. Unhappy memory. Well, I'm not happy memories for DOS.
Not on happy memories, but just memories. Yes, yes, yes. I think I said before I didn't really
play in this arena very much because the PC guys do have real teenagers. I was looking at, yeah,
well, it's a debatable point really, but I had to look up to the mainframe as we called it. It
wasn't really, it was a mini bunch of mini computers really. But I had to look after that. That was
what I did, nine to five, and the PC guys were all up doing their joy things and including
installing the mobile network, which I thought was reasonable, but yeah, did the job.
But yeah, so sorry, this all passed me by or I passed it by, so it's interesting to hear
though. Tracers, all what happy memories. Thank you for bringing back memories from
early in the computer career. I still have an MSDOS 3.11 emergency boot disk because it was the
first to support hard drive conditions above 33 megabytes. For the longest time, I kept it in the
very front of my floppy disk case, but then I tossed all the old PC floppies. I remember
the location is to the esteemed location of stock on the fridge door with a magnet.
Likely, you won't boot anymore, but still brings back memories. Keep up the good work.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I found the boxes of those types of one point, or they one point for
make or something. This one I was clearing that out through recently. Plus also the box of
BBC Micro 5 inch with a 5 inch disk. Yeah, those are the real floppy ones. Yeah, it did have
some 8 inch somewhere, but we had 8 inch. We actually booted our Vax cluster from a device that ran
CPM and needed an 8 inch floppy disk. So that was what poked the Vax cluster node and said,
oh, wake up and start booting and all the stuff that they did. And yeah, so people used to say,
well, that's a very exciting looking computer you have. But what are those funny PC things
on the stand in your in your control room? And we'd say, oh, yeah, that's how it works.
Yeah, anyway, enough of Dave's day is Kevin O'Brien says, you are most welcome. I'm glad
you enjoyed it. They're more in the pipeline, but once they're done, there won't be any more of this
series. I wrote these 20 something years ago and I still get happy users who find them on my website.
That's a great achievement there, Kevin. It's really something to be proud of to have such a
relation. Can you imagine the poor sucker who gets a job like, you know, fulfilling their dream
would be an IT specialist in some factories somewhere and then there's a dusty old PC that
completely controls every part of production. That's never been upgraded and it just works.
Yeah, it's what it's running DOS and you know, what the hell is this? And then you're his,
you hit Kevin's word page and it's called, I love you, man.
Yes, yes, I love all these stories. We had an engineer who used to come periodically to do
do maintenance on our machine and he is one of the things he did was he went around various
factories and stuff that had Vax equipment in it and he came in one day and said,
oh, I've just been to such and such a mine. There's a lot of mines in this part of Scotland and they
said they were in problems with their Vax, so I took it off. It was full of cold dust.
That's why it wasn't working. I like that. I wish he'd taken pictures. They would have been great
to go in in some sort of historical document. Speaking of history and legacy,
we have a Sony Walkman WMF41 from John Colp, a quick talk about my favorite legacy audio devices,
a genuine Sony FM8 and cassette Walkman. Oh, did I want one of those when I was a lad, Dave?
Did I want one of those? Yeah, yeah, I know, I know, a wonderful thing.
Trace says capacitors. Thank you for sharing, tinkering with vintage electronics weight,
referring to the Walkman as vintage makes me think feel really old. It's lots of fun.
Do you find the need to replace capacitors in equipment of this area?
Aira, I have noticed the various radio gear from a similar age that capacitors have drifted far
from spec. Thanks for an awesome podcast. And Keith says they really are great devices.
Thanks for making this. I do remember getting one back in the early 80s,
however, that's no longer around. Shame I threw it out many years ago now.
I'm going to get out my dad's Walkman on the weekend, though, and see if it still runs.
I kept his Walkman WMF2015. It gives a link to a website as I knew it was, especially,
it was special. Hopefully it still runs if not, I will fix it up.
And John himself replied, recapping. Thanks for the comments, Trace. Yes,
the Walkman is vintage nowadays, and we're in the same boat old-age-wise.
I have a couple of things that probably benefit from being recapped, but I've never gotten
into the weeds that far yet. One of these days I've got some time in front of me,
I would like to replace the capacitors on my pioneer, real to real tip deck.
It feels like this would probably help the weak left channel. No time right now, though.
Cool. These were fun machines. I never had a Walkman, but I did buy a sort of Walkman-like
thing when I was in. When I first went to Singapore, you could get a lot of electronic stuff
in the various... Plastic utility.
Some of that was quite good, though. The technique in Singapore was that people would go into
the main shops and say, can I have a look at the search and search, and then they'd say,
thank you very much, and they walk out and down the street and into one of these markets and
buy the same thing for considerably less. If you knew what you were buying, you'd get some good stuff.
You also get some amazing crap. Anyway, I do have that around somewhere, which I found
and I was tidying recently, so I must have seen it. It actually works.
So the following day, consuming an AQI API, just because the sky is here doesn't mean it's safe to
breathe. Okay, that come out like a... It's like come out like there's a... What is this?
Let's go out now. It's happened to the light. Yeah, yeah. It's a different one.
Aphorism or... Aphorism or something. Yeah.
All the same, Dave. I think it's the word developer. Yeah, that sounds easier.
Yes, a bit sad, actually. Sign of the times. Just because the sky is here doesn't mean
that it's safe to breathe. Probably. Just because the sky is here doesn't mean we need to come
up and around. Anyway, one comment. This is about using the API for air quality index.
Yeah, yeah. This is cool. This is excellent. I do. This is a real piece of hacking I do
to feel. It's really good. And the... Yeah, to actually get it to alert you to
bad days when you need to put the blankets up the windows and hide under the bed or something
is good. Yeah. And to protect this privacy, I changed the last due to and longitude of his
house. Just in case he didn't already. Kevin O'Brien says, I love the show. This is a perfect example
of hacking. Fantastic. Yes, yes. I quite agree with that. And people out there, this is...
this is how the web works. Or at least it is until web3.org comes when it's all going to be
playing new blogs and you can't look at it anymore. But this is stuff that you can do. You can
access these APIs. And so long as you don't pull the urine, then with the number of calls per
second, they won't even know. Yeah, yeah, it's the way it should be. I've got a thing here to tell
me when the next 44 buses due, which is working on that. Nothing clever that I've done. I'm using
somebody else's software to do it, but it's useful. Should I need a 44 in the next six minutes,
I know I can run up there. Excellent. Well, we've got our speed up then.
Now we had a show from our ham radio series, which has been getting quite a lot of activity at the
moment. Dave, the love bug, explains his journey into amateur radio, initial setup and successes.
Excellent show there. And do you want to do trails? Come on, spin some of them.
Yep. Tray says congrats. Grats on earning your amateur radio license. It's always interesting to
learn some of the difference between operations in different countries. For example, here in the USA,
it's generally frowned upon to call CQ on the 10 meter and 70 centimeter band. He means a
literature that he corrects that in a second, two meter band instead of 10. And these are
littered with repeaters. We often simply transmit our call sign. I look forward to additional
amateur radio episodes. And I'm planning to post one about my go box build. So you may
ever get a planning phase and into the building phase. About you just 73 means.
73 is something that I'm planning and doing a show about shortly, but it is a short cost for
best wishes. Cool. So if you ever see amateur radio, the 10 to sign 73 and then the person
or the set 73 as a best wishes, just best wishes. A double clue. I'm sure
and lots of people get annoyed about that. Just to try comments on his comment to correct his 10 meter
to 2 meter. But should we say that we are able to edit comments if you want us to make a
correction? I'm certainly happy to do it. It's a trivial thing to do. So if you ever find yourself
having sent a comment, we made a small mistake, please, or other entire rewrite, then I'd be happy
to make a correction in that. But I hope to. Sure. Yes, Tray should definitely do show about
a go box. There's no idea what that is. And I was thinking there about the CQ thing.
You'll find that there's lots of stuff with your license telling you what you should and shouldn't
do. But in practice, it'll be slightly different. So in the exam, they examine their looking for
the answer, which is always give you a call sign and go seek you blah, blah, blah, because that's
the best operation practice. But in practice, do whatever there is that other people do.
Doing answering, doing whatever other people do in the exam is not the correct approach because
you will fail. That being the nature exam, of course, yes. Yes, exactly. They're not looking for
the right answer. They're looking for their answer. Yes, yes. Using answering, yes, use a bit of
common sense is not a valid answer. No, no. HFUR and audio fun, operator. And this is, yeah,
lots of interesting ideas on this, actually. Yeah. Yeah. Also the GitLab, link to GitLab
anonymous.com is in. Yeah, I think. Oh, it's moved off that we need to update the URLs.
And I have a comment on this one, which is, no, please don't add silence to the audit.
Hi, all. This is a great idea to record a piece of silence to use as a noise profile for using
the effect dash noise reduction feature in modesty. But please do this before you upload to HFUR.
So this show was about asking hosts to leave a piece of audio at the beginning, a piece of silence
so that a, as yet, unwritten piece of background scripting would be able to use that as a noise profile.
But unfortunately, my point in this comment is that on piece of unscripted software would be called
Kenneth fellow. And I, I don't want that. Oh, yeah, back to the comment. It is opening a kind of
words to ask hosts to submit this before having a process in place to deal with it. If we learned
anything from, from is, is, include or not for the intro or not, you'll think of this. I don't
know what I was thinking when I wrote this in it. Is that everyone will do their own thing.
Will the silence be at the beginning or at the end or is it in the middle? Is the silence in the
intentional? Will Chong case silence work? And it's a great idea for a host, but please, please, please,
do not do this. So that's the end of the comment. But maybe I can be a bit more illicit in saying
that people do not do the same thing all the time. Even the same person between shows sometimes
would upload the intro. Sometimes wouldn't. And it was a pain in the ass. And it prevented
automation of their shows, submissions, because we never know if somebody has put in the intro or not
or sometimes you would see two intros in or sometimes you would see intro at the beginning and
the outro at the end. And all these things have to be fixed by somebody because it cannot be
automated. Putting in silence at the beginning means then that I would need to do trunkate silence,
but perhaps the show is about the silence of listening to the birds on the heat or something.
And then all of a sudden, you have a show that's gone from two hours down to five seconds.
Yes, indeed. It's my point coming across to, I even have a sense of my feeling at this topic.
It's yes, yes, yes, I can just sort of sense a message here. Oh my, gradually, yes, yes.
And also, I am also a bit low to mess too much with people's audio because there's an element of,
you know, when somebody submits a show, there's an assumption that we're going to convert it to
different formats because you sent it in and flak and we don't load it in log. So therefore,
something happens. However, where does editing of the audio start interfering with somebody's
vision of the piece? Yeah, so that are we now censoring by cutting up blocks of silence,
for example? So be very, very careful about messing with the audio. The best thing to do
is have people do that first. You send up your show perfectly every time. And if you don't know
how to do that, you send it up and then you tell us, can you please fix the audio?
Oh, yeah, perhaps he's stricken narrative. Just when you thought all your automates and problems
were going to be over, that somebody, I know, Operation is a good guy. Some very, there are some
actually very interesting discussions in that episode. Oh, definitely, definitely. So do please
keep them coming. How I watch everything using open source software, use a lib real
lib real elect, Cody, a tuner and a Raspberry Pi to create a great media server, Minix,
excellent load to the show, and lots of tips as all, although I don't watch as much TV head end,
brilliant, absolutely brilliant piece of kit. Yeah, obviously, well, I know he knows a lot about
this, because he talks about these subjects on the show whose name just escaped me.
The Linux loadcast. Linux loadcast, correct. Yeah, it's fascinating collection of pieces to
to do the job. So yeah, fantastic stuff. On my list, now that the house of them
redone is to put up several satellite dishes to pull down channels with TV head end,
which allows you to basically monitor, monitor feeds, and then you set up an automatic recording
and stuff based on those feeds. So cool stuff, cool stuff, keep them coming. My
must email set up by Arthur 72, there at the corner of the room, Dave occasionally when he speaks,
but doesn't speak that often, but when he speaks, we hear Dave, we hear. Oh, absolutely.
Now this is, this is powerful stuff. This is, this is really good. I, yeah, I've probably said before,
and I've said this to Arthur 72 himself, but I've tinkered with mutt and never really
got to a point where I could use it partly because I probably wouldn't put enough effort into
intersecting it up. But yeah, I think how, doing it would be a smart move, it would be great.
So he's obviously mastered this. So there's a lot to be learned here, thank you.
I have the feeling myself that the more you, the more you use these terminal programs,
it's a bit like, it's a bit like being able to use Morse code when you're a, uh,
a ham radio operator. Sure, you might have a license, but if you're not able to read Morse code,
then yeah, you're not real. If you're not, if you're not running, Morse has an email tried,
you're not a real hacker. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's, um, I feel the boss, Dave, I feel the boss.
Yeah, yeah, I know I, I, back in the day, I used to use, when the very early days of email,
well early for us anyway, because we, we moved from the university standard way of doing email to
the, uh, the internet is the way of doing it. And then we, we installed email everywhere. And we,
we had, we were using, um, sort of bulk standard Unix email things like bin mail and send mail and
and all of that sort of stuff. And the mail clients were, yeah, like say bin mail or Elm or,
and then we went into, um, M H and X, X, X, M H and E X, M H, all of which did, did these things.
So I've been playing in that area and, and I've had enough of it. And I never, I, I,
that's the end of it. And the end of it, I sort of went, okay, so now maybe I should try the same
with mutt. And then I went, oh, I can't bother anymore. But, uh, yeah, I should, but, but, but I'm,
I'm, I'm enthused by this. So I must go and, uh, have a, have a bash at this.
Good. Thunderbirds great and all, but, uh, there are times when doing stuff with a mail client like
this would be, would be really good. So, uh, yeah, no, it's a good, really good show. Enjoyed it a
excellent. Pitting a fourth brine in Ohio, uh, talks about the fourth language and,
with different versions, where you can get them and the pros and cons. Didn't even know this was a
thing, Dave. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I, I don't really know much about fourth, but I did think of it
back in the BBC micro days in the early 80s, um, where there was a, a romp you could buy
with four on it. But, um, yeah, this is, this is really good. This is really good. And it's a very
odd language, but very powerful if you're prepared to, uh, to, to make the move, to, to it, into it.
It's, it's, um, pretty interesting. Cool. Um, if brine never leaves, you'll have to change
us handle, you know, whoever moves to cross the deadline, somewhere else.
Yes, brine X in Ohio, you know, yeah, brine X in Ohio anymore.
Yes, yes. I'm intrigued to know where he goes with, with fourth, now he's worked at which
version he's going to use. I'm most interested to hear what he's actually doing, doing with that,
and, uh, that type of thing. It's very cool, but a lot of, a lot of really relevant information
in, obviously, the voice of somebody who really knows what they're about. That's fantastic.
That is the end of the shows for this month. Normally, I would skip forward, but, uh,
we've decided in the interest of time, we'll cut that out to the script this week.
So we'll do the missed comments from last month, and this one was, um, engineering notation
by myself and Kevin O'Brien, said it was an odd word to use to really call
exponents, suffiscus, where you're from. I've never heard that usage before,
to which I replied, which is further down the list there, three, four, five, four. Okay.
Uh, shall we do those? As soon as we're on them.
The comments to pause shows, let's stick with the list, do that. Let's go, go with the thing
in, in order. Yeah. Two hundred and nine, how I connect to the awesome old cast planet,
a mobile bike, like, uh, he commented on his own show. Things happened, do that? I see since
2016, in 2020, 2016. Wow. I know, I know it seems like Goni yesterday, isn't that?
In 2020, Tavzara recorded HPR 3034, and he gives a link to it as an update to this show,
explaining how you can make matrix, authenticate your neck when it connects to IRC.
Cool. And I'm happily using, um, element, client to connect into IRC now via.
All right. Okay. Let's go ahead and actually, um, don't really should. Yeah. Really, it was just
click the link. It worked. Wow. Okay. Yeah. It's clever stuff.
Uh, flat two hours, comment on flat two's portias show, and it's by H H S K L H S K L B portias
more gelarity. Nice expedition, some things would need further slash correct explanation also
to flat two exclamation mark. Blame us on portias, not so well on documentation. Now and here,
only this one is very important, though, not portia specific portias XZM modules.
And there are offs, squash, a spec, etc. For example, slacks do not overwrite anything on your
machine. They interrupt your file system calls and make them believe that there are things there
that are not really there. So deactivating a module or restarting gives you an unchanged file
system again. And if two programs conflict in shared resource file versions, you need not
uninstall something. You just activate slash deactivate the modules. These modules may just be
different versions of one library file. That is, you can make a single file or directory a module and
always your initial will not be corrupted by workarounds. Hard read, but very good comment.
Yeah. Might be worth a show in itself, because that's like sprinkle of gold dust right there.
Yes, yes. The show was in 2018, 2672 by Clot 2. So, for me, I'd need to go back and remind myself
what that was about, but yeah, it looks like there's some really useful information there.
And I would love to know what HHK SKLA DBY's handle is. And if they could record a show,
submit it to us. Although, if they're listening to 2018 now, we may not get a show until 2020.
Yes. Which is fine, which is fine? Indeed. So, the next one is a comment on
Taj Saras show from Clackay, 3034. The show is most free-no channels have since moved to Libera,
Libera chat, I'm not sure. I'll make a show about why and I'll show about how to connect to Libera,
and here's the spoiler. And he refers to a link connected to Libera chat through matrix. Instead
of hash free node underscore hash of costplanet colon matrix.org use slash hash
costplanet colon Libera and dot chat. Yes, they have their own gateway. Instead of chatting with
at app service hyphen IRC colon matrix.org to store your login and password chat with at app
service colon Libera dot chat. Very good. Play games with IC. That's very useful.
And Taj did their commission, did commission themselves to two shows if I'm reading that correctly.
But I'll make a show about why and the show about how. That's two shows there.
Just say not that I have a list of my desk and everything. But it's just growing.
This doesn't exist. Yeah, yeah. Insert sound of hand writing in the background.
Ken Fallon says to a show about Ken Fallon to a comment about Kevin that we just read earlier about
suffixes suffixes suffixes. Kevin's comment saying that he'd never heard them call suffixes before.
They probably don't, but I did. The goal of this series is to communicate via audio the location
of the symbol. Although looking at the definition, it's not a bad word to use. The free dictionary.org.
For dot com forward slash suffixes.html. suffixes are more for mixed themes. Yeah, thanks.
Sorry. Sorry. For letters with particular semantic meaning that are added onto the end of
root words to change their meaning. Suffixes are one of the two problemal kinds of
affixes and the other kind is prefixes which come at the beginning of the root word.
It's amazing, Dave, when you've got dyslexia or something, how much you don't care about
stuff like this. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's difficult enough just just getting through.
Exactly. Yeah. Not that. But my goal with Kevin, brace yourself. There's going to be a lot more
stuff where I'm bending the boundaries of usage of words with some of the other stuff that I'm
coming up that I'm trying to explain. I'm currently putting something into my head to try and
explain reactants. So, yeah, tears won't be flowing out of your eyes when you discover what I
got to use for experience or that stuff. Yep. Yep. You're going to do the last one. Sorry.
Somebody's my daughter sending me messages which I'm trying hard to ignore and failing.
Great reminder says Trey, comment three to your engineering notation show. Thanks, Ken. I've
been using these prefixes for decades and taking them for granted. Thanks for the reminder that
this is not common knowledge. It also reminds me of a question of which I've never found a good answer
in North America. Capacitance is expressed in microfarads or peak of ferrets, but nanofarads
is not used. It said you would see values like 10,000 peak of ferrets or 0.01 microfarads.
So go figure. Yeah. Can't add to that. But if you did know the answer, that would make a good show.
Genuinely, I know, I say that all the time, but actually, I usually also mean it. But in that case,
I am interested. If somebody did know the answer, it could be a bit like their wider aid spaces
in front of a four drum program that's chat to you asked on the new world order.
So we've covered all the other comments on guessing. There was a time I could have answered that,
but I've completely forgotten four trend now. Anyway. Oh, it was punch cards. The first one's
absolutely completely. But it's one of these certain columns have certain significance as a
continuation column and a label column and all that stuff. And then the back end of your card was
an eight column numbers. So if you dropped them, you could re-sort them. So there's a comments.
Began file procrastinator for me. I forget what that's about. Oh, crawl for shows. Of course,
it was a theme was possible cause of solution to subscriber attribution trying again without
increasing. Okay, this is me commenting. Yeah, we've already covered this. This is me commenting
on the other show. Generators recordings. I'll give you a quick fast forward of it.
So we've done the show. We've
generally out is gone from one minute 10 seconds, been shaped off. So it's now
now. Yeah, everything we've already covered. Yeah. Okay. In that show last week and also today,
we today mostly all of this, all of this grand. Yeah. Yeah. So there was one board to keep the
music, keep the text to speech. It'd be nice to keep the all music, though somewhat quieter.
As an opinion. And then episodes in Spanish and other languages.
So the question I've been asked if we accept episodes in Spanish. This is something people
would be interested in in the main field feed. If so, how often them? What about other languages?
So I've got asked by a host, can this semester show in Spanish? And yeah, I didn't instinctively know
what the answer to that question would be. I still don't know. No, no. My the sort of feeling that
I didn't actually voice at the time was I'm all for a role manner of different languages, but
it would just like when you watch it. And I do watch things on YouTube in other languages,
but they are made much more accessible if they're subtitles. The closed caption stuff in YouTube
is provided by a lot of people. I'm currently watching a lot of Japanese stuff,
because my kids are hoping to go to Japan next year. And the English subtitles are absolutely
brilliant. And they're not auto-generated, they're made by the... Yes.
And that type of thing. So something, some sort of written translation of what was in the content
would be so so so helpful, because just like if you ever watch, if you're trying to learn a
language, watching something in that language, but with the translation can be amazingly helpful to
get a better handle on the language. So that was that was the only thought I had on this. I should
have sent an email to that effect, actually, but I didn't. Andrew Conway says, I have no objection,
but my language skills aren't up too much beyond English and perhaps French, so I wouldn't
understand most non-English shows, unfortunately. I do try to speak more slowly and clearly in
recording for HPR than I do normally, as I'm conscious that the audience aren't all primary
English speakers. I realize I fail at this, especially when excited. Andrew Ikei Ma-Nalu.
Yes. Okay, I won the beer for that one.
The next one, Hi Andrew, I do not know perhaps try and make a French or Spanish channel,
or act can make a Brazil Portuguese channel, but it's kind of doing so much in open-source
these days. This came from JWP. Yes, yes. Easier said than done. Technically all this is possible
because there's human resources, but there's also the how do I check for Spanish? Yeah, this is
a comment I made on that good point. Claudio Miranda has posted a show on this Spanish show and
it's in the feed. It wasn't Claudio who proposed this, but I'm interested to see how it goes,
and what we could do is I've been asked at Fostem as well, is it possible to, because obviously
where we were, German, French, Dutch, people are interested in other languages. So if this was a
thing, we could have Hacker Public Radio bought for under different rules, but multi-language.
And then we have it speaking to you as the other janitor date. We have the series. We have the
tags. We can do this technically. It's not an issue. The question is, do we put it into the main
feed or not? Submit the shows. Let's have a listen and see what happens.
Yeah, yeah, I agree with that actually, because I'm quite looking forward to hearing Claudio's show
that he's submitted. Spanish, I don't know any Spanish though, I've been to Spain and I've heard
the language and you can pick up a fair bit just from context and stuff. So I'd be interested
just to hear if I could do anything with it. And languages are fascinating.
But there might also be the case of, oh dear, I just missed that. I tuned out totally.
I will say though that if you're doing a technical show in a language, that is a great way
to learn the language because that really helped me learning Dutch because you go into a meeting and
it's like, I don't know. We have two new servers, note them with them. Rache in the data center
and then Komeljuli through Met A to lunch tight. And you know, what? Something about servers in
the data center and then you go for lunch. Okay, that's pretty much it, you know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So it is a great way to learn the language. Then you're screwed, of course,
when you go out and somebody wants to ask you the way to the bibliotech or something or
to the library or something. But it's a start. So Claudio says, I think it would be a great idea.
Maybe put a disclaimer at the beginning, stating in which language the episode is
in before it begins and those not interested can just skip. Yeah, that's definitely something.
I think what you suggest as well, Dave, is good to have a transcript available that would also be
useful. Yeah, I was personally thinking of doing a show on Gaelic. Not I was kind of
fluent in Irish Gaelic. Irish, as there's no one around, but Gaelic is there's no elsewhere.
You know, childhood playground sort of level. I was thinking how to approach that.
Definitely have the translation in the show notes, but possibly maybe doing it afterwards.
The English runs, you know, read it once in Irish and then do it in English afterwards.
Other reasons for doing this, it would be useful. It's something that I've been asked on
more than one occasion to. For some reason, Dutch people, there are a large amount of Dutch people
who believe that Irish is not a real language. That's the thing what I'm talking now is what we
consider to be Irish. An Irish version of English. That was not completely. It's not a completely
different language. Okay, well then, yeah. It's one of the, is it a Celtic based language?
We will cover it out on the show, Dave. It's just, it's really interesting. There's so many
Celtic languages around. Anyway, yeah. But it would be interesting to see how that would
pan out and what people would think of us. Not too many of the feed, and if there is, I'm sure
after a period of time people, little Peter out or not, we'll see. So, D&T, who is, do not translate me
at the end of me, I like this, says in reply to this thread. I think a non-English show initially
be posted on the main feed, and then depending on the volume, it could be split off into a separate
feed. Good, interesting. That, the show has been in English, but has nonetheless extracted
contribution not in English. I wonder if it would be useful to encourage non-English shows to
declare whether they invite other hosts to record an English adaptation on a translation
of their show, or maybe the licence says it all. And I guess it's only a matter of time for someone
to post a show in interlingual. It is for Antony, to us. Actually, that email pretty much summarises
my entire feelings on it. And it's good to be sitting here debating something on the channel,
not actually knowing how it's good to pan out. Or, you know, not people getting stressed about
stuff or whatever. Or also, mostly, not having to do anything about it per se.
Just watch it. Yeah, watch it. Yeah, because, you know, we can split off domain names,
different feeds, not really a huge problem. Yeah. Technically, it's an evening's work.
But, yeah, there you go. SIGFLOADS says,
Thanks for adding links to my episode. I'm usually not that good, which you're not.
I think you're just confusing the mail list with Admin, not Hitchcock.
Yes, yes, still. That was you who you added some links to it.
You're usually better at it than I am. I just process them quickly into the right
side. I can go back to eating my dinner or whatever I'm doing.
We're just not paying you an octave. That's what it is. You do get us.
So, sorry, I was just going to do Kevin O'Brien's email, who says,
Great Week of Shows. I was struck by how good the shows were this week,
and that they include shows some new or really heard contributors. I hope that continues.
John Colt brought back memories of the days before podcasts for Nike Walker,
and listening to tapes, Jessica gave a perfect example of what it means to be a hacker.
Yeah, well, I said, I love both. Explain how you got into amateur radio,
operator explained how he does audio processing, and Minix explained how to use open source software
to watch shows. I enjoyed all of them immensely. That's a great, great email.
It is, it's nice actually. It gets on the positive feedback like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a good summary. I hadn't quite joined all those threads together.
And it's absolutely right. Yeah, two.
Sleekflip wanted an image ad of the platform running a GIMP on a cell phone,
or a mobile phone if you live in this part of the world, for obvious reasons.
Obviously. Yes, of course. I have a question for other
platform users. Does your phone run really, really, really, really, really hot?
Or is it just mine?
And the last one was HPR commuting user. Do we have any other business to do?
Finding the tab and engaging. Yes, we do. We have a round here from Ted.
We do. We do. Yes. Do you want to, do you want to rant it?
The rant is, if you're sending us a link, if you're not uploading your show,
you need to send us a URL. It needs to be publicly available URL, not behind authentication.
So if you can't, if you yourself cannot get it from an anonymous
IP address using WGET or curl, then don't use the URL thing. Your show will be considered to be
not available on the server. Okay. It is a non-posted show.
Your show is liable to get deleted. I've just met that up at the moment.
Because of angry. Yeah, it's not posted on the server. It's not available.
The show is not posted. Yeah, server, it has to be available or we can't process it.
So you're basically blocking up a slot for somebody else that could be using it.
You may now speak of all the shows on archive.org. It seems reasonable enough though.
Yes, all the shows on archive.org I managed to buy dint of every day or pretty much every day going
and uploading five shows of the old ones. I do five at a time because the internet archive can
get a bit overloaded at times. Sometimes it takes seven, eight hours before it actually gets
through the more. That was the time for the last lot. Anyway, but I'm going to do 115 by
that measure. I've added a count of how many are left because it's useful to see 369
still to do. We're getting close. We're getting close. We're getting close.
We're getting close. We're getting close with 369 episodes. Any other measure of any other
podcast will be like, oh my god, that's like 30 years of shows. But if I can manage to do
a hundred a month, I'm guarantee you that. But shouldn't we should get that done in four months?
Yeah, pretty cool. Yeah, so just as long as I don't forget each day to upload some stuff.
Very good. By the way, I'm not getting annoyed with people with links and links. It's not always
obvious when you use the services like when you shared services like Google or whatever.
That you're not sharing it publicly. I think recently Google has done something I even
seen my son set me a link from their Google Cloud stuff on school. It's seen in a work before
and all of a sudden you needed to be logged in in order to download via the URL.
Great. Yeah. Okay. I just put one last comment about tags and summaries.
As you have noticed that the project has finished and just to refer to show three, four, five,
six, which is the last community news where the list of contributors was posted. I'm not going
to refer to that anymore in the future. But Tim, you've done all there to deal with the techy
shores, Dave. Are they done? Are you available in the database, kid?
They will get to them at some point. That's one point, dude.
All right. Do we have anything else? I don't think we do. I think that's us.
Okay. Thanks for all your help and support, Dave. It's massively appreciated.
No problem. And tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker. Public.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
Today's show was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out
how easy it really is. Hosting for HBR is kindly provided by an honesthost.com.
The internet archive and our sync.net. Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released
under a creative commons, attribution, share like 3.0 license.
