Episode: 3586
Title: HPR3586: HPR Community News for April 2022
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3586/hpr3586.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 01:51:06

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3586 from Monday 2 May 2022.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for April 2022.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by HPR volunteers and is about 66 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag. The summary is.
HPR volunteers talk about shows released and comments posted in April 2022.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fowland and you are listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
This is Community News for April 2022.
A genuine week today is...
Hello everybody, it's Teddy Boris.
How are you today Dave?
Not bad, not bad.
Surviving, you know, it's a bit wet here and it ran a bit chilly, but otherwise good.
It's fresh out here in the lowlands of Holland.
Should have fairly similar weather I would imagine.
Yes indeed.
For those of you new to this spiel, those of you who are not new, I'm already fast-forwarded.
This is the HPR Community News, HPR's Hacker Public Radio.
A community podcast that was started nine on 16 years, seven months and 17 days ago Dave.
Hard to believe.
Absolutely, that's an amazing day long time.
And for the last ten years or so, or more, we've been releasing shows every day without fail.
Touch wood.
Yep, that's good.
Just because I don't believe in superstition doesn't believe in me, Dave.
Yes, yes.
But do the wood spirits live in MDF? That's my question.
Yes.
Oh, cool.
Right.
Take two.
Right from the start.
I'll end it all this out.
No, I won't.
This is the HPR Community News for April 2022.
Yeah, this is actually a bit of a mess.
What the community want to hear this dribble or not?
It's all part of the rich texture that we produce.
Yeah, rich texture.
There's a lot of says in the script.
Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast where shows are submitted by listeners very much like you.
In fact, identical to you.
In fact, we could do with some shows from you if you haven't submitted them already.
And community news, the janitors come and basically give a rundown of all the shows that have been gone.
All the stuff that's been going on in the community for the last month or so.
And we make a point of going through to the shows and welcoming you hosts,
which is something that you tend to do, Dave.
So can you do that now?
I can.
Yes.
We have two nice, easy to pronounce names.
We have Lee.
We have Sarah.
So we're not going to congratulations on welcoming to both of you.
Thank you very much for submitting shows.
And people with awkward names are also welcome here on the network.
Yes, yes.
But yes, sometimes we make a mess of the names.
Just to let you know.
Yes.
We love you all equally.
So the first show last month was heavy hacking down at the quarry.
And finally, we've got Tim Timmy.
Marshall to submit us a show.
And he had submitted one before, but it was basically the script, which I'm not aware of.
So this was great to hear him.
And there are some comments on the show.
Scroll scroll.
Right.
Jeremiah Schroder says, couldn't agree more.
Hi, Tim Timmy.
I couldn't agree with you more about the vice in 120 Joe.
So the same thing happened to me just outside warranty as well.
Love the show.
Yeah.
That sucks in that happy picture.
So Kay Olin says, great show.
Hi from Fredericksburg quarry in the great state of Virginia.
You forgot to say what pressure you needed to get the manifold up to before you applied the gasket cover.
Also, I was wondering who your supplier was for the hang riffs.
More becasue are no longer supplying them and the brackets for the 100 at least.
I can't find, you can't seem to find them on this side of the pond.
Any help will be appreciated.
Shipping state side is not a problem.
So yes, we had a comment from Clayton Minor, who says this brings back memories.
Hi, Marshall.
I retired from the Flintstone trade more than 20 years ago.
It was great to hear the familiar signs of a quarry again in the background.
Was that a Paulman granulated?
I had five minutes in while you were working on the perforation grid.
I don't know how lucky you are with these modern marvels.
We mostly had dodges where we worked and even brand new they were.
Pain to maintain.
So those are a huge step up from the old Blake Crusher, the boss and his power bought in Philly.
Man, we all hated that thing, especially five finger fret.
Even now they drag it out for every company picnic.
It's the right of passage for every new apprentice to get that back to life for a day.
Good times.
Thanks again, Clayton.
And Wendy goes as thanks for the contribution.
Thanks for the wonderfully informative episode.
Another one to talk into my list of favorites.
Also, I know we take episodes regardless of the audio, but thanks for putting so much effort into getting the high quality recording.
It really makes the world of a difference.
Looking forward to your next episode.
And Jezre says, I started falling asleep.
The side of the rock crusher was lowling.
I'm now in the process of making our long loop to help me sleep at night.
Yeah, absolutely. Good for you, mate.
Good for you, Tim Timmy.
Thank you very much for pulling that one out of the bag.
So I had something else planned and didn't get to it.
So the following day, the second of April was the HBO community news.
And do we have any comments, Dave?
Surely not.
No, no.
Surely a show as controversial as that warms it a few comments.
I really not.
I know a common side of what is NVMe and my ears is important.
So I had no idea I'm completely out of it with my whole arousal repires and off.
I had no idea what's happening at the end.
Can we respect them now?
No, I mean neither.
I didn't realize that NVMe was the only thing very special.
I just thought it was the name of a card with some memory when it was something.
All right.
There's a lot to be learned there.
And the Wikipedia article gives you some quite useful pointers I've had.
Yeah, thanks.
JWP is a few of these and they're all quite interesting.
Popcorn episode two, programming mathematics and asymmetric literacy.
And the audio is special, no audio mathematics equals logic, etc.
So he's added some show notes to this and some links.
There has been a comment by some guy in the internet saying public service announcement.
Friends, don't let friends drive while doing maths.
It's it was in in the car show, I think.
Very good.
Nice comment.
Fortunately, every single point that Colonel makes is wrong.
And they will be an upcoming episode on that.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Which is where we'll have a look.
We'll prompt a few more episodes from how, how quick can we port this ticket?
Speaking of people who are usually wrong, the Linux involves rust marketing.
A shameless plug for the hipster programming language and why to use it.
Yes, good lord.
This was really like the part of the logical broadcast for the rust foundation.
Yes, yes.
Quite pro, pro rust was not.
Yeah.
And then there are no bones about it.
Good luck to them.
Yeah.
They probably have a point there somewhere but I wouldn't like to admit it.
Some of the lads of work are interested in this so I pointed them to the series.
We'll see what happens.
Yeah.
Okay.
The following day, five comments on the old file systems from DOS.
Discooperating system or dirt was a dirty operating system actually in the Wikipedia article.
Is that right?
Yep.
Do you want to do the first one?
Yep.
Yep.
ZenFlo22 says squirrel applause.
Ah, 1980s fat and assembler.
This was exactly why we drank beer when we wrote COTO 3 AM.
It was a good programmer.
Well says good blast from the past man.
Just entering and he makes me feel old brackets.
I'm old.
This was a very good one.
Complete, clear and sufficiently simple explanation of how fat works.
Understanding the old file system is a very good way to enter the new file systems,
which intend to solve money or the problems I hope you mentioned.
And remember the days of DOS are also very nice.
So Kevin O'Brien says thank you.
I'm glad you enjoyed it.
Your English is better than my Spanish at this point, but I'm learning your language and hope to
use it Mexico.
I'm already planning a trip to Spain.
Excellent.
Some guy on the internet says, I'm not old enough.
Was RAID available on MSDOS?
If so, could you perform RAID 1 using floppy disks?
Kevin O'Brien says RAID on DOS.
I have to admit I never looked into it when I was running DOS in the 1980s,
even getting a hard drive with something of a novelty.
Well, here's how you do RAID on floppy disks.
You put copy A.
X copy A.
Oh, it was X copy.
Forward slash E.
Forward slash something else.
A colon, B colon.
That would give you RAID.
Yes, yes.
To stand for something inexpensive disks.
Well, they were not inexpensive in the days.
The following day, we had, when they go back with quite a popular episode,
the Meatball mystery.
Namely, I'll definitely leads to a question about the genealogy and American history.
So, so my turn, I've lost.
Go for it.
King Easy says, Meatballs and such.
I thought the episode was enjoyable.
I then went to the back counter, I'll be listening to the opposing views on tattoos.
Need references to the show.
An alcohol.
Those are interesting with both Windigo and Mrs. Honeyhew.
And Windigo replies, thanks.
Glad you enjoyed them.
There were many enjoyable episodes in the HBO backlog.
I'm looking forward to hearing your contribution on the HBO collection.
You just did a Ken there.
Well done, well done.
Very good.
No, this one I had a comment on some of the episodes every day on the master on the
Twitter's.
And this one got a lot of attention.
You know, yeah, I learned stuff here.
I didn't know that spaghetti and meatballs was not Italian.
It's an American.
And I was like Italian out of day, if you ruined it.
Oh, we're going to have to make an edit.
Surely not.
You've heard it.
You've been amazed.
It's true.
It's true.
It's true.
More about NVMe.
And there was one comment on this one.
Some guy in the internet said, thanks for the information.
I never looked into the details of M.2 SATA or NVMe.
I buy the Western digital M.2 SATA disk because they're fast and cheap.
What do you think about using an NVMe disk in a type C enclosure to run live USB sessions
with persistent persistence like Norman Biesti?
So JWP still needs to get back to us on that one.
I think people do.
There are enclosures for these things, aren't they?
Yeah.
You can use them as external disks.
So maybe.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know myself.
Follow the question.
I've got anyone that has experience with this?
Drop us in that line.
Record a show.
It's not that hard.
Following day, home coffee roasting part two, D&T.
I think no comments on this are largely because most of the comments were on the previous episode.
It's good though.
I'm still learning a lot from these.
Yeah.
I'm learning that's, yeah, my way I make coffee is very cross.
That's all I'm learning.
But that's fine.
That's me.
I know where I am.
I know a place in the world.
Yeah.
I'm not really into grinding my own coffee as much as I was at one time.
So roasting it myself though, I'm not sure I want that to.
I'm going to be going down that road.
But I do know people who might well do that.
Yeah.
I'm going to appreciate this.
Following day, first episode from Lee and what that cork or this one was.
Following the local news for the blind visually impaired.
I must say I was.
This one really brought me to tears.
I don't know.
It was a minute.
And it was absolutely great to hear this.
And great to hear the free liver open source software was facilitating this effort.
Yeah.
And a wonderful thing.
So I've lost track of this.
I'll do the windows.
So for a comment.
Winnego says enlightening episode.
Thank you for the episode.
I was completely unaware of these services and found them highly interesting.
Brian Dash in dash Ohio said.
Good show.
I really like this episode.
Good insight into how audio production is done on the next part level.
I'd love to hear how Lee is connected to the project.
And maybe how you got into the audio stuff.
I bet you Lee is a fourth guy.
I bet he is.
Brian out there trying to pedal his fourth.
So we have a comment from El Mussol who doesn't comment often as far as we're
whether he's very much in the background helping out with minor things.
He should be a related another podcast related.
And he says.
And elderly relatives at our talking newspaper arriving weekly.
It was a highlight for a couple of my great aunts when I was growing up in the 70s in the
UK.
I know that groups have both cited and not folks organized listening coffee mornings through
church at that time.
It's interesting to think that then talking books are a thing primarily for visually impaired people
only.
Whereas now audio books are a thing for everyone.
And the rest of their existence is standing on the shoulders of giants.
Great episode that reminded the people to do good stuff for other people for reasons
of a financial reward.
And he forgot to mention.
He forgot to mention that it should be said that the local newspaper in question
was this still extant clear their own advertiser and times.
Super.
That's sort of the option.
Yeah.
Anyway.
No, I think.
In England.
Don't sell it for you.
I reckon.
Yes indeed.
Yeah.
I'm Edinburgh Blether.
Mr X and Dave Morris catch up.
After nearly a year.
Was it a year, Dave?
Oh, it was.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
It's amazing how time slides by as we said several times probably.
Yeah.
And yeah.
Some guy in the internet says declassified.
These are the recordings captured by the United Kingdom's National Crime Agency.
In a 40 year investigation of the famous hacker Dave Morris and the notorious Mr X.
Some may argue we wasted millions of pounds in man hours to capture this audio.
We argue the knowledge of all in English probably was worth it.
Which first to Dave Mr X do another.
Naturally.
Naturally.
Naturally.
I have to say that like declassified.
These are the recordings captured in the United Kingdom's National Crime Agency.
In a 40 year investigation of the famous hacker Dave Morris and the notorious Mr X.
Some may argue we wasted millions of pounds in man hours to capture this audio.
We argue the knowledge of all English plumbing was worth it.
Naturally, I go back and edit that.
So yes.
Brian in Ohio says show glad to hear you guys a still game in quotes.
Smiley face.
Excellent.
Excellent.
Actually, I should have done that in British accent.
Like the.
Over those.
During the war the newsreels were from.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I don't pretend I do not know Dave.
I do remember them.
See them in the cinema as well before the film.
What's up there?
What's up the Cockrole or the.
You have to look the software.
I can't remember.
I can't remember.
There was a sort of radio mask thing with.
With the sort of radio waves whizzing around it in some context.
I can't remember what.
Yeah, yeah.
That was awesome.
You can be sure it was a plum air accent though.
Okay.
Now is not the time to be looking at it.
Somebody knows.
Do you sure?
Please.
Where are we now?
Oh, yeah.
First impressions of Ubuntu 22.04 as a daily driver.
Not wise.
This is impressions of the latest LTS release of Ubuntu.
I will take the first one.
Some kind of internet.
Yikes.
I agree with you on many things like not having to tinker on production machine.
It just needs to work.
However, I wouldn't broad brush the Linux community as, in quotes, bearded geeks living
in a trailer because the two something different.
I'll do a show with as a proper response but I'm happy you're enjoying Ubuntu 22.04.
Looking forward to that actually.
Yes, yes, yes.
So ZenFlow2 says, your review.
Hi, I'm a 40 plus year veteran of commercial software development.
Now retired.
I actually started writing commercial software in 1966.
Open standards are our new standard.
It's taken me 30 years to accept this fact.
I found your opinions appalling.
I believe you should just return to using Windows as your only operating system.
Well, I clearly understand your needs.
I've seen no future for the rollover and play day that attitude you've taken.
I also am a bearded person who lives in the woods and has a shotgun.
Open BS day and slackware on any cheap low-powered laptop I find in dumpsters.
Excellent.
Proving the rule.
Proving the exception.
I replied.
I come and entitled, how do you pay for software?
Hi, Nightwise.
While I enjoy your, these are my personal opinions and not the views of HBO.
How do you pay for software?
Hi, Nightwise.
While I enjoy your podcast, I must say your attitude seems a little selfish.
You've been around the community long enough to know that development relies on people taking time to report bugs.
Yet you say, I never report bugs on the laser.
The technology just needs to work for you on the laser.
I cannot support to spend hours and hours tinkering.
How do you expect the bug in Mate that Mirror may not have?
How do you expect the bug Mate Mirror may not have with Bluetooth on your Lenovo to be magically fixed if they don't know what's broken?
Given that you're used Linux as a daily driver, you have your own business.
You pay for OneDrive and you can happily pay 50 euros for closed-source software.
I wonder, do you subscribe to Ubuntu?
And I give a link where a desktop subscription can be had for as low as $25 a year.
As for not worrying about desktops as all laptops are in the cloud, let me point you to
and if you open up those two, it will give you the 266 applications that Google has killed.
And the other one doesn't say.
And the other one also has equivalent a number of applications that have been killed by Microsoft.
I've been around long enough to know that I'm also around long enough to know that more the barrier is.
Back in the day, there was the too many dollar software argument was leveled at XFC.
And then the Raspberry Pi arrived and needed the desktop.
Now it's one of the most used environments out there.
Very good.
Yes.
So the following day, hello and how I got into tech.
Hi, I'm Sarah and this is how I got into tech.
So comments.
Brian in Ohio says, welcome.
Great show looking forward to any shows on any of the topics mentioned.
Yes, yes.
And yes.
Mike now he says, welcome.
Welcome aboard, Sarah.
Nice introduction.
I look forward to hearing the shows on various topics you mentioned.
And I'll add your Apple experience to my arsenal of anecdotes from my Apple loving friends.
Yes indeed.
Yes indeed.
That's a good one.
A lurking Brian says, welcome.
Always good to hear from other cyber security evangelists.
Look forward to hearing more.
And Kevin says, Gritio, you sound like someone I want to hear more from.
And as a librarian, are you by chance familiar with the podcast?
Welcome to the Night Vale by Sarah.
Welcome to the Night Vale.
And then you can do Sarah's reply.
Sarah says, at Kevin O'Brien, ha, only am I familiar with it.
I've been to a live show.
Do not go into the dog park, smiley face.
And Kevin goes all hail the slow cloud.
Presumably you would know what that was if you listened to the show.
However, yes.
Sarah, let's see what we can see.
Tundee.
Yes.
Start there and work your way up.
For your natural obviously.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's some quite an interesting journey she's had.
I have worked in a university for a long time and a new quite a number of the librarians.
Some of whom went down the technology route because you know a lot of technology in a librarian
ship these days.
But it's a fascinating subject.
I'd really like to know a lot more about all of those things.
Yeah.
You can come.
And apparently I realized I thought they're working down in librarians, but there are at least three,
according to the chat on the HBO Matrix channel, IarcyJun.
Okay.
Okay.
There you go.
I look forward to starting a librarian series soon, folks.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Interesting subject.
I certainly, certainly subscribe to that.
I subscribe to it all, but you know what I mean?
I do.
Following day, electronic freedom never mind the civil rest.
By the art laws.
By the in laws, even.
The Linux in laws.
And this was an interview with the electronic frontier foundation.
George Georgian affiliation as in the state in the US, not the country in Europe.
But very nice, very, very nice episode.
Makes me something that I like to get involved in, but I do not have the time.
And I would get very stressed.
Oh, my God.
They were a very interesting bunch of guests.
Yeah.
Three of them.
They knew each other.
Two and each other more than the third guy, but they were all interacting extremely interesting
ways and had a lot of fascinating things to say.
I thought, and did it very well.
It was used to those sorts of interviews.
So an excellent show, I thought.
Yeah.
Very good.
Amazing.
They do very good interviews.
They are animals.
Yeah.
Britain says more Europe centric here in the Europe.
We have the E D R I.
And in Sweden, the D F R I, for example, that's more European variance of the E F F.
And that's the European digital rights.
European digital rights.
I didn't know either of those to be honest, but there you go.
Zen Flute 2 says centralised federal power.
Did you just say that you're in that you are in favour of giving the federal government more control of our lives,
after knowing the absolute mess they've created on social media?
What?
Perhaps I misunderstood that comment you made on this subject.
Pin is not noobs.
Archive 72 goes,
cranks up the still,
and sends another episode distilled.
We're calling it distilled genius.
Nice show notes we like.
It's tempted to use this if I hadn't just spent hours fixing my fix SSH on the pie thing,
which I now need to refix because I've taken the default user name out of the pie,
but it's worth a go, I think.
I'm about to do that very thing or so.
So yeah, yeah.
And no, great show.
I do enjoy his use of pictures.
He's got the process off to a TNO.
So we managed to turn what he sends in into something looks like this pretty quickly.
Cool.
Speaking of images, the following day we had raw images,
part of the game series,
how to work with unprocessed images in raw format,
and most of the time people use JPEG,
but Hooker series tells you about this.
Again, loads of links,
and follow the series on his WordPress site, which will be available in the future as a complete series.
It's really good actually.
I enjoyed listening to this.
I knew of raw, I'm not much of a photographer these days,
but I had to fiddle around with some of my sons pictures in that format,
and struggled a little bit with some things.
So it's useful to have my pointers to waste, to deal with them and so on.
Particularly it's various from camera so you need to.
Yeah.
So following day, my daily Linux driver,
and I twice talked about the link systems he uses as a daily driver,
and I went through and got some practical links in for a lot of this stuff.
Oh yeah, I didn't notice that before, yeah, well done.
But I always think it's just nice to see the stuff that people have.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I hadn't actually, having processed the notes, I forgot,
hadn't actually looked at them with my brain switched on, you know.
So yeah, it is quite right.
It is really important to have that level of information there,
because it can lead you off into kind of ways that you will benefit from.
Yeah.
I wasn't able to find anything you could mention something about a Pistero podcast app for the terminal.
I wasn't able to find anything about that.
Never heard that one, never heard that one.
So always best if you as a host send in the links for the stuff you're talking about,
and presumably you have an unopposted notice on where,
even if you scan that or take a picture of it and attach it to us,
then at least we know what it is.
These are my best guesses at what he was talking about.
Yeah.
Good stuff.
Some of the stuff isn't available.
And they know that the things center, for example, is unavailable.
So I don't know how much that was.
I can make a guess.
Rolling a new character.
And this one I listen to while at the computer, which helps,
which can follow along with the code.
Yeah.
It just looks readable now.
I think I'm at a point where I can start reading a Haskell of Dums fighting words.
Yes.
The asking questions later.
Yes.
Yes.
That's Haskell, yeah.
Yes.
I unfortunately was in the middle of doing something that couldn't be left.
So I just heard it and didn't actually read the notes at the time.
So yeah, I definitely need to go back and fill in that gap.
And talk of seven, five, one, and D&T talk about browsers.
This was the D&T's idea of doing the matrix call-in thing.
Yeah.
I think it was a good, interesting thing about browsers actually.
It was a good show.
It would be a good way to just give people an option to record a show real quick and take it down.
I have to think about that.
It's a good idea.
And I'd hope to have time to do something myself, but not time.
It's just the number of brain cells in my case.
Yeah.
It could be destroyed.
They do.
They do.
The thing.
I like it.
It's a good idea because we could.
We could have the beginning of this show say right there.
The call-in topic for next month is blah.
You know, if somebody wants, if there's a topic somebody wants to talk about, then we could do that.
So I do like the idea.
It's just, and this month I had intended to it, but I had the operation and all the other stuff that's gone on here.
And the minute.
So yeah.
Let's come back to this one.
It's definitely a good idea that we should consider in or depth, I think.
Yeah.
And.
And conscious of the fact that I don't want to go into next month's one.
But a collective history on ray controllers.
And this was another one from JWP who's got a lot of stuff there.
And a friend of his did this ray controller history, which I found was super interesting.
So it's all obscure websites, but.
Yes, I didn't know anything about these.
These come on issues.
Was it from your all the sort of 14,000?
We are.
We bought a deck machine.
One of the alpha range machines.
And we had a big raid array with it.
So dedicated cabinet with removable hops with discs and stuff in it.
But I have no idea what was behind it.
I mean, it just was and we set it up and we managed it.
But beyond that, I know nothing.
Good stuff.
Good stuff.
Nice little bit of history.
Yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
You could definitely go and find out more from a particular link.
And follow on from there, if you wish.
Some guy in the internet had the next show, which is part two in the freedom of speech in open source freedom has a cost.
And yes, I'm glad he didn't take my comments to heart.
So it's good.
Nice to have a discussion about these, this topic in particular.
In this one, he concerned about activism in the browser.
Our activism where people are putting political messages into source code.
And wonders if that's going to happen.
You know, advertising is going to come in or not into.
Into source code.
I told us already happened for.
Your thoughts?
Have a listen to the show?
Leave a comment.
Record.
You want to show?
Yeah.
Absolutely.
It was.
It was most interesting.
Some unique insights into.
So very, very useful.
Yeah.
So that was the show's diff.
It was indeed.
That's the last one.
And it's Friday show.
So there you go.
So our 72 had left comment to my show, which was sort of two is one.
Back from 2019.
And he says, and now I know and will forget again.
I'm telling the next time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is on how to automatically split albums into.
Albums into tracks in all dusty.
Yes, I have the same thing.
What's up?
Yeah.
I remember you doing that.
And I think it all that's really useful.
I've not actually needed to do it yet.
But I do have CDs lurking around here.
And a CD drive.
So it would be pretty smart thing to.
To do.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yes.
Useful, useful.
So the next comment was on Jesra's show talking about his experience with Starlink.
And it was from Windigo saying congratulations.
I'm glad to hear you're not at the mercy of satellites in Geosynchronous orbit.
Mixed feelings about Starlink.
But it certainly sounds like a viable internet option.
That's something that has often been promised and rarely delivered.
Viva la Dirt says Windigo.
That's what Jesra calls his place out in the world.
I'd love to go and visit that place.
Some of the weirdest looking for somebody to follow and master on.
That's always a laugh.
You never know what's going to happen.
It does leave an interesting life.
Should we say interesting in the Chinese way?
Oh, it doesn't need a farmer, I guess.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's good for him.
Yep.
I'm on this stuff.
People to invigil an invitation from when I eventually do this trip to America.
Okay.
Comments from Kevin O'Brien taking me back on my show about Vernier Calipers.
Back around 1969, I had a job working in a gauge calibration lab.
Gages are used in manufacturing to test the dimensions of pieces as they complete a step.
And the parts going to a go-no go gauge.
Gages allowed for quick and for very quick tests by line operators.
Our lab had to verify that the gauges were correct.
We also calibrated Vernier Calipers with gauge blocks.
Also, I did not misspell gauge.
That is the correct spelling for this type of device.
That's absolutely fine.
Yes.
My engineering days we had go-no go gauges on the lines.
Yes.
Very much.
Common start in green or red in the last community news and should be ignored in this one.
Good.
I don't think I'd have it as well, Dave.
If you want that.
Yes.
So the next comment that we are allowed to read is one on the ZIG project from the...
It's in yours and it's from Clackett, who says the nitty-gritty of U.S. non-profits.
C. Crow.
Is it one of the guess I think?
It says in the episode that 501 C6 cannot accept donations.
It can, but unlike a 501 C3, the donation to a 6 is not tax deductible as a charitable donation.
A more important difference is that 501 C3 is required by law to work for the public good,
whereas a 501 C6 is required to work for the good of its members.
Yeah, true.
Didn't know that, didn't know that.
I think that was brought up before on the software freedom law podcasts.
And he goes on to say more in-depth discussions about the differences between...
I don't know, here he is.
Between public charity 501 C3 and trade associations 501 C6.
We're Bradley Kuhn, who now works for and has previously founded and managed the software so you can conservancy and a link to their blog.
Yes, that's a useful thing to have.
So scrolling past the ones we've already read.
Kevin O'Brien saying to...
Oh, to my show about removing exit data from an image, he says orientation in Android.
I've been processing a ton of photos from my RV trip, all taken with Android phones,
and I get some with the wrong orientation.
I can correct this in DigiCam, which is my collection management tool.
When corrected, they state direct after that.
Yeah, good.
I read that and thought, oh, that's interesting.
I was looking to about, I've not really had the time.
That's an interesting observation.
I thought I'd seen Android phones occasionally doing something weird in that regard.
I don't really understand it.
And Younglin says,
I'm one of the cool kids now, top secret handshake, followed by a secret knock on the door.
Hello world to the mailing list.
Fine.
Yes.
Well, good for you.
And I requested some volunteers for auditors.
Dave Lee, Jason Entage responded.
And you also had a comment about the HBR community news.
So nice and quiet on the list this month, Dave.
Yes, yes.
And there's not much really to be reading out this time.
So that's good.
Yeah, we did spend a fair bit of time and energy on doing the reading class week.
It allows month, I mean.
So, yeah.
So that's how to rest.
So here goes.
Sometimes it's busy.
Sometimes it's not.
Yeah, yes.
So only on the business.
Yeah.
So I'll do the first one because this one's mine.
When you're uploading shows, especially if you're doing a series multiple shows,
if you could space mount for two weeks, that would be great.
So on that, of course, they were extremely short to choose.
And then that all goes up.
So I'll just reread the upload guidelines.
Of course, they're on the guidelines, but.
So this is a rule.
You have to have the audio recording ready before you pick a slot.
So don't bother reserving a slot on this.
Yeah, the audio.
That said, if you do want to reserve a slot for a particular event,
then contact us and we'll go to the mailing list or just go to the mail list and ask there.
Always try and fill any free slots that are available in the upcoming two weeks.
So in the next two weeks, pick the first slot.
Go for it.
If the queue is filling up, which we mean that everything in the next two weeks is done,
try and leave a few free slots for new contributors.
Because it's nicer not to have to wait more than two weeks is fine.
But two months can be a bit of a downer if you're a new host.
And if you have an average in show, pick an empty week and pop it in there.
So yeah, three months from now, pop it in because we'll probably be shorter shows in the in the summer.
Northern hemisphere winter, southern hemisphere, we tend to be shorter shows.
And if you're uploading a series of shows, consider scheduling one every two weeks.
I'm thinking of making that a thing that every host, any host should not submit more than two shows,
one show every two weeks unless the queue is empty.
What do you think?
That's actually what I wanted to ask a policy change.
Yes, make it make the software detect the fact that there's already one, two weeks within the two-week window
when a slot's chosen that sort of thing.
Well, more about that.
We update our guidelines so that host should not submit more than one show every two weeks.
That's not to say that you can't submit all the shows and just space them out every two weeks.
Sure, sure.
I don't know what people would think about that.
I'm sure we get a flood of comments in and I'll have more of a think about it and maybe pull something to the mailing list.
Sorry to go.
So right, comments between tags with an item that I put in that we had a number of shows in recent weeks
where the tags have not had any comments between them.
Now, obviously they can be put in, although it's a pain and it means sort of breaking the workflow.
But one of the things is it's really hard to tell where one tag ends the next begins.
So my silly example was dog space, fish space custard.
Does that mean dog space fish as in dog fish and custard or does it mean dog then fish custard or dog and fish and custard?
Which one?
And how do I choose?
Or dog fish custard too?
It could mean that as well.
Yes indeed indeed.
So quite what that that show I'd quite like to listen to it to be fun.
So yeah, could you remember to put the comments?
It does actually say it reminds you on the on the form, I think, just now.
If it doesn't ping me and will make sure that gets added.
I'll do the other one which is just asking about what's added into tags.
There's a fair number of cases of host name or handle or the series name being put in as a tag.
Tags are intended to help with finding shows as we all know.
But you can find shows by host because when you're at the show by a particular host,
then you can use their name or handle at the top of the show page to click to see all of the shows they've ever submitted.
Similarly with series, if you're on a series, you can go and look at all the other shows in that series by the same sort of mean.
So putting them into tags seems like it's generally a bad idea because it fills up the tag space
with things that are a bit redundant, I would say.
Yeah, that's not the purpose of them.
So we're officially going to take them out now, host names and series names out.
There's no reason for them to be in tags.
Younging has got a problem with that, bringing it up in the mail list.
Oh, contact us.
The adventure is dictating.
I don't want to do that in the American accent.
New janitors dictating.
Tell the boss what to do here.
Keep off our bugs.
Anyway.
You said she's blizzard only covers audio.
There was a lot of stuff this week, this month.
Largely because we were doing a lot of automation.
And they were actually reposted in the north lot of shows coming from Kevin.
Was on Zervi trip and he promised not to record anymore shows, but he did.
Nevertheless, for which I'm thrilled about cars.
I got a warm fuzzy feeling that the queue was nice and full.
And stuff.
So there was something like 21 shows in the queue.
That needed to be processed.
So I decided finally because I also had a knee operation.
So I was stuck here anyway.
So I decided to use that time to.
To finally optimize the posting of the shows.
I mean, doing that, you know, it's a lot of these things that you would fix yourself normally.
And being a pain in the ass now because now you need to go back and.
Okay, where am I going to accept it interceptors in the workflow?
Because that's wrong.
I don't want to be having to.
Go into the database afterwards.
So.
Okay, the explicit covers the audio.
This is why I was asking for the auditors.
So the auditors mailing list following the discussions from last month.
Previously on HPR, big long discussion about skin interfering with.
The host.
So, but it was.
Am I censoring host by communicating them directly before.
Before the post show was a question that I raised myself against myself.
And the answer was I could have been so in order to prevent.
Or in order to ensure that that doesn't happen.
That we have the auditors are included now on communications with hosts that involve.
Stuff that involve informing them about.
HPR policies, does that make sense?
Yep.
So, for example, in the case that was sent in the effort was used in the title and in the show notes.
Now, we have on our main website.
When you upload the show stuff you need to know page.
You will no longer be allowed to tell us HPR pages on Wikipedia, which we still don't have anything.
All public decisions are meant by the HTML community.
HPR will stop as a project that they're not enough shows.
These should support our patents.
We do not syndicate HPR shows.
You agree to listen to your show CC by SA.
You need to have permission to read just to read your show.
In that entirety, audio for the show will not be moderated.
Now, this is the one.
And your show will be segmented as continuing with explicit content.
So, the agreement is we had this discussion before.
HPR 2210 on freedom of speech and censorship was agreed approach, which is essentially like the record industry does.
So, they have explicit content in a CD and you have an explicit cover on the CD.
And then, outside that, they have a parental warning cover on.
And that's kind of how we agreed as fellow people, community members, to do.
Which means you put a warning at the top of your show on your flag.
It does explicit.
But the issue with that is that our feed itself is not going to be filtered based on the explicit flag.
So, we can explicitly prevent, this is not prevented.
Somebody can subscribe to the clean version, where the explicit fact is set to false.
And they will get shows that are explicit or not explicit.
So, depending on the wishes, but before you get everything.
However, even if you're on the clean feed, you would still see the effort used in the titles.
So, on the website and stuff.
And that's a bit of putting to some people.
So, we've asked the host if they would mind if we removed the effort.
And I replaced this with heck, even though I believe I've ever used that name and anger.
I have no problem using the effort at all.
But being a ham radio operator, I realized that, yeah.
Just because I don't, other people may have.
So, why, why stress people out in a boiler?
I've gone off and around, have I, Dave?
No, you just fleshed out the issue a little bit more than I had in the notes.
It's good.
So, essentially, the explicit warning covers the audio.
So, we do, from time to time, contact hosts about explicit material.
For example, the classic.
Clatou had a scary avatar at one stage and removed it.
And you mentioned it on a newer order.
So, I feel that it's in the public domain to be able to talk about that.
And finally, for me, don't add the intro now, Tronmore.
Please.
That would also help.
I'm fine if you have shows.
If you have already shows in the pipeline with the intro and outro in them,
just send them in and I'll remove them.
But double intro and outro are annoying.
So, now we have the automated text to speech and the agreed approach.
It's a lot cleaner.
Yep.
Yeah, part ahead.
Okay.
So, next topic was just to say that you already heard, actually,
that there are some developments on HBR that have been going ahead in the past month.
I guess we've been doing the work to improve the workflow on the server.
And I've been filling around with a few bits and pieces at my end as well.
So, the key to it all is there's a set of state values,
which indicate where the show is in the sort of flow workflow.
And that's so that we humans can see who,
the steps have all been done or the steps that we need to have ready
before we do our steps is already there.
There's also bits of software that are checking as well.
So, you have changed the calendar page to show some of these state
mnemonics against show, so it gives some sort of idea.
So, I've just made a list of at least the ones visible on the calendar page
with a very brief explanation of what it means.
So, I'm not sure the last ones ever going to be visible there as it went in.
Maybe, but we'll just leave it anyway.
So, yeah, so we've tried between us to make things as simple as possible.
For ourselves, so that we're not spending lots and lots of time
poking around with the shows and hacking on with them and whatever.
So, yeah, that's so far.
It's looking pretty good.
Yeah, fingers crossed.
So, when you submit your show,
it will show submitted on the web page.
And then Dave will download it.
And once you're finished, it will show metadata as processed.
And that's where you can expect the naughty emails from Dave.
You spelt this wrong.
You heard about the images posted.
And then when Dave's finished, I will then post the show,
which downloads it, and then I have a check.
No, I don't scrub the audio at that stage.
I'll just show without actually listening to the media.
But I do look at the metadata if it's the right series.
If there's a new host, be graded, if there's images and all that sort of stuff.
That's what happens there.
And then after that, I will run the transcoding thing,
which takes on the shows and does the text to speech.
There, I scrub through the audio.
I get the way form to see if there's peaks and stuff.
Sometimes I notice actually people sending an audio where the intro and outro are amplified,
but the audio itself isn't.
And it's sometimes due to like a spike in the audio where there's a high peak,
where somebody clicks something or there's a knockout slider.
And if you, those cases, I sometimes go in and edit.
They open it in an audacity and just delete that microsecond where that happens.
And then that allows the leveling to occur.
It's kind of maybe there's something I can automate later on.
I don't know.
And once that's done, it says the media is transcoded.
And then Dave will take that and then upload it to the internet archive.
And that's basically where we are now.
I still need to manually, I manually send everything to the parsing.net,
but we'll do that in the form of some time.
I'm just wondering, do we keep a record, a history of the show processing thing,
or is that just of no interest to anybody?
I am an in-better log keeper.
So things are right.
I tend to add a logging feature to it.
So it just writes, you know, I'm working on show, such and such.
And I just did this to it and whatever.
So it is useful.
I find to go back and look what the hell happened there,
especially if you're debugging things.
But that's just me.
Now, whether it needs to be in the reservations table,
or maybe it might be enough to take them all out and just dump it to workflow
that text file into the HPR website.
If you know that file exists in your episode, you can get it.
Yeah, that might be the key.
Once we've uploaded it to our sync, then dump it out there.
Well, a lot of things about that.
Yeah.
So we can talk that one through online.
What about the next operations?
It's my turn.
It's my turn.
For an operation, I mean, yes, yeah.
Anyway, the other, there's two more topics.
One was to say that the problems with access from Argentina
seem to have been resolved,
somehow from Joshua, I think, who tweaked their firewall.
Remember, Craig?
Yeah, there's some sort of issue identifiers
and attack coming in from there.
And you've got a little bit to block a few too many addresses, I think.
Yeah.
So that's been fixed.
So that's good.
So a person who reported it seems to be happy to have heard from us.
Yeah, no.
Oh, no.
So that's good.
Excuse for not uploading a show.
Oh, that's gone out the window.
Why would you think so?
Yes, yes.
Did you keep it?
Look at that online.
In particular.
We don't get much of Argentina.
That would be great.
It's a first show from the entire country.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
So the last thing then in this,
a realist is talking about the older shows on archive.org again,
having said that that phase of thing was finished.
Well, it was.
We uploaded all older shows to enter archive.
But I think we said last time round,
there was a bunch that needed all of the audio to be updated.
So there was only MP3 versions there.
So we're going through a process of taking the MP3 that we have
and turning it into the web and organ formats and uploading.
And along the way, also making sure they have the audio tags
that they should have.
And so for a tag,
it's a hard to crack.
It's taking a lossless foremost on the confirming us.
It's taking a lossful foremost and converting it to a lossless
foremost.
The reason we're doing this is to fix the metadata.
Yep.
Yep.
And so, yeah.
And we also wanted to make sure that all the shows on the internet
archive are self-contained.
So that if they refer to other files and that type of thing,
they are all on the internet archive together in a bundle.
Yeah.
So shows that were uploaded during 2017 in the range,
870, 1 to 2,429 other ones that need work.
So there's a phase two, as I'm calling it, is to shoot through these.
So I'll just mention what we're doing.
I will be mentioning it again,
but I will keep the statistics of progress.
And staff so far is that I managed to do 131 of these shows.
I'm doing them in batches of five.
I'm trying to remember them to do them every day.
I've got all the automation in place to do it.
And so it leaves us 1,428 to do.
So I'll just keep that.
Those troubles running in that upcoming community news is this.
Good.
Chugging away.
Chugging away.
There it is.
Does he want to live all in all?
Yeah.
It has been.
Yeah.
So I've had time to do other things, I realize.
I also have to record some shows now.
And I also realize I just boosted a tweet there on.
On mastodon.
That's if you add dot RSS to the end of your name on mastodon or URL.
That you can get an RSS feed.
And I think that would be interesting to add to the.
HVR website and to community news to be able to read the.
Yeah, that's a good point actually.
Yes.
Yes.
One point.
Connect to a.
So you need to be out to the IHVR RSS in Thunderbird with its RSS Relent.
But I don't really been paying attention to whether I'm getting anything.
Yeah.
But that would be a good thing to do.
Yeah.
I mean, that's because there's some stuff comes through there over there.
And if you could.
If you're on Twitter on the daily basis and on.
And mastodon mostly mastodon is for the community is to be brutally honest with it.
But on Twitter there's people with high protein fiber diets trying to.
High protein something trying to get the HPR hashtag.
And there's another one something radio high five radio or something or other.
And it just bugs me.
So if you could all any of you who are on non freedom loving platforms like Twitter, if you could.
Just boost the.
The tweets every day.
So mostly they tweets come out is that is the title.
And then mostly I comment on copying and pasting the summary with today on HPR.
And then just more to give it a.
That there's some activity in the community.
So feel free to boost those feel free to comment on there.
Particularly if we can get the comments into the community and you show.
Israel.
So see, adding much more work to his list than he has time to do.
Another story that one.
Okay.
Yeah, that's that's useful.
I didn't realize that there was a protective reason for boosting these things or whatever the time is.
No, I reach.
It's just my personal thing when I when I open it up, I expect that hashtag HPR is about HPR.
Well, on the Twitter feed there are two other accounts that are sometimes we get information from people.
And then there's the.
And then there's the Kenyan.
Higher Parliament representative or something, which is the second, you know, the lower house or the second house.
And so sometimes I get stuff from them.
So I have no problem.
No replying back to people and saying, I think you mean this Twitter handle.
Thank you.
Yes.
Okay.
But when it comes to advertisers and stuff, hijacking our hashtag people, come on.
Surely.
Yes, the way the world is, I guess.
Yeah, not to worry.
Just books me.
Sort of everything else.
I think that's it.
I think that's it.
We.
Yeah, good.
Good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's been busy on the development front, but good.
Yeah.
Good.
That was good to get that out of the way.
It's been years.
I've been talking about it to be honest.
And.
And it's now, I'm just looking at the show.
Six, three, six of three is uploaded to a three, six, one, two is uploaded to a.
So I can clear those out.
And.
Yeah.
That's useful.
You see it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's has good potential to make things much more clear and obvious and avoid mistakes.
Because I always always send in new messages on.
No, I like to get them because I don't go.
I do go to the HBR website every day.
In order to make sure the website's up and nothing weird has happened.
It's just you sometimes you would forget to do that.
I forgot to do that.
And then people were people reported that the website was down.
So I make sure as part of my daily feed to go that go there and get this.
And I also make sure to download, subscribe to the RSS feed to make sure that both of those work.
Okay.
So that's good.
Okay.
I'll go make dinner.
Right.
First I'll edit the show.
Then I'll.
No.
Yeah.
Like that's going to happen.
No.
I will post the show.
And then I will make dinner.
I'm just wondering actually how posting this show is going to work because there.
It's a reserve show.
So it's actually different.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
I don't think we'd really.
I'm going to break my script.
Just allow me to spend four hours trying to fix this.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's definitely going to be some edge cases that can't just out here.
Yeah.
Still.
Not the end of it.
It was good actually in that whole background because those people who said in images, people who
said they're profile, they were new hosts.
There were clashes where she wasn't been posted previously.
So it was.
It was actually perfect.
It's.
Tested nearly every edge case.
Yeah.
Good stuff.
All right.
Tune in tomorrow, folks, for another exciting adventure here on hacker.
Public.
Radio.
Radio.
You.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy
it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an onstoast.com, the internet archive and our
things.net.
On this address status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
