Episode: 3294
Title: HPR3294: Update to MakeMKV to back up media
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3294/hpr3294.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:20:59

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3294 for Thursday, the 18th of March 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Update to Mack M. Cook to Back Up Media.
It is hosted by Archer72 and is about six minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, Update to Mack M. Cook to Back Up Media, now on Raspberry Pi.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by archive.org.
Support universal access to all knowledge by heading over to archive.org forward slash donate.
Hello Hacker Public Radio, I'm your host, Archer72, and in this episode of Hacker Public Radio,
I revisit Episode 3179 that I did on Make MKV, the program on Backing Up Media,
because recently in the past month, they've made an update to where you could use it on your
Raspberry Pi. So I go over that setup. But first I would like to remind you that you, the listener,
have thoughts, ideas, and projects, and as we've learned from previous shows,
sometimes it can be a reference for yourself in the future.
So just pick up a microphone and any recording device, and we would love to hear from you.
I'm using Raspberry Pi OS as a base for this install, but before I do anything with it,
I decided to take the SD card out and image it with DD.
It was only a 16-gig card, so I decided to turn around and DD the image onto a 32-gig card,
and then expand the file system using G-Parted. I could have used the WDR or Raspbian-based
file expansion, but I forgot about it at the time.
Once that's done and booted up a SSH into the Pi and download the code that's shown on the
show notes and configure and make and make install on the two different directories for
the KV-OSS and also make MQV bin files. After that I had to make sure to install CC extractor from
Git um, suitor app, Git install, web tester act, auto-conf, and sysconf tool all online. I'll show
that in the notes. Those are just the precursors to installing CC extractor.
If you do that after that is you clone the repo and cd into the CC extractor and the Linux subfolder
and then dot slash build and that should be seen next time you use the command line for
make MQV. I've been re-ripping a lot of TV series lately so I made a base file and then each time I
do a new series I copy it into a new name and hard code the variable series as to what the
TV series is and so that way every time I call out the script that I'll show on the notes
then I just asked for the season, dis number, and episode and proceeds to do the make MQV
command line, one liner, and it takes the information that it provides from which disk it is and it
makes the directory and goes into that directory and extracts all the files on the disk there
and then there's a loop file that renames all of them from one of its default for the make MQV
program to one that makes more sense that includes series, season, and dis number and episode number
then at cd is back out of the directory into the root directory of where your series is and gets
ready for the next disk so as you see each disk is put in an individual folder which is
the time of processing it makes it easier for me to keep track of where I'm at and after that there's
a tool that I've started to use lately called NNN it doesn't install very well or I mean it's
fine but it doesn't work as well from the repo from the apt repo so I install that from get
hub and I'll show that in the repo I'll show that in the show notes using that I can make quick work
of selecting all with the A button when I'm in the folder that has say the first disk and then
use the hjkl keys to move around like the vim key bindings and move back out of a folder and hit v
as in to copy to paste I'm not pasting with v in the NNN program I'm actually just moving the
files all together and continue to do that for the rest of that they say usually series about
seven disks so that puts it all in one folder and then I quit out of that and use a script to loop
through say probably 20 episodes usually in a series with the pi it takes about 24 hours to process
a season so if I start in the evening it'll be ready the next evening for me to start a new one
well that's about all I have have a good day
I have forever support free software and look forward to hearing from you bye bye
you've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org
we are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday
today's show like all our shows was contributed by an hpr listener like yourself if you ever
thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicant computer club
and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated today's show is released on the creative comments attribution share
light three dot org license
