Episode: 3172
Title: HPR3172: A ramble with the Pentland Squires (part 2)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3172/hpr3172.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:14:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3172 for Tuesday 29 September 2020. Today's show is entitled
A Rumble with the Pentland Squires. Part 2
It is hosted by Dave Morris and is about 50 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
second half of the chat between MRX and Dave Morris.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15 that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com
Hello everyone. This is Dave Morris.
Hello everyone. This is Dave Morris.
Hello everyone. This is Dave Morris.
Hello everyone. This is Dave Morris.
Hello everyone. This is Dave Morris.
Hello everyone. This is Dave Morris.
Welcome to Hacker Public Radio.
This is the second half of a conversation that I had with MrX on 23 August.
It turned out to be fairly long so we decided to cut it into two sections.
So here we go with the second bit and I hope you find it entertaining.
Do you want to mention any other scripts or anything you've been dealing with those?
Just that one or?
Well it's sort of never ending conveyor belt as far as I'm concerned but
I was actually in your latest show you were talking about
the whole business of knowing where you are in the podcast and going back to that
and tracking stuff and that sort of thing.
Now I wanted to maybe do a response.
I see we have one responding to your show in the queue just now, Daniel.
I think it's got something maybe next week and haven't got it in front of me right now.
But I was thinking I could maybe do something like that.
But I managed my podcast in a very, very weird way that I'm going to have the interesting
it would be.
And I actually get used to it.
The base to hold all my podcast info.
I think we've been interesting.
I mean, I'd definitely like to hear it because it's going to be a thing that
everybody listens to podcasts.
It's each class and then it's going to have us the own way of dealing with it.
So yeah, but very interesting.
I think a lot of people use various apps on their phones and there's some excellent ones.
I do use an Android app on the case because it's useful just to be able to do something
and do what you do and have the podcast in a portable form.
So I walk around with the phone in my pocket and the Bluetooth headphones on to listen to certain podcasts
and it's useful from that point of view.
And the app just deals with what's new and what's next.
And let you resume what you left off and then delete stuff automatically when you finish.
And tenipod is on the one I use.
Oh, yes, and tenipod.
Yeah, yeah.
Talking about that.
So I'm going to go and sit off my tangent.
But it's related to what you were saying there.
It's quite a lot of what that before that.
Yeah, I'm finding right in the moment that I'm falling really quite far behind.
Listening to HPR.
In fact, listen to any podcast because what seems to have happened is I've been my whole.
And what with working from home and and just everything will be different now.
I've not only had the opportunity as much opportunity to listen to HPR.
And as I've been in the past.
And also because of all this COVID stuff going on.
I've been certainly in the past and catching up with all that nice and news.
I'm feeling now that I'm getting to the stage now where I can maybe ease back on that.
And trying to get myself back into listening to more HPR stuff.
I think I'm a bit sexy.
I chose behind now, which is.
Yeah.
You know, I think I think a lot of people are doing similar things.
I certainly have been and I've been as you say, that's why I do the phone setup.
Because I listen to particular podcasts for this week in biology.
And they do show every other day pretty much what they're talking about.
You know, things been discovered about this particular virus.
And all of all the related things.
They had Tony Fauci on talking to them in one of the recent shows.
So I listen to.
They get high priority in my thing.
So sorry, go on.
No, no.
I was going to say that.
That was one that you recommended.
I did want to listen to that.
So I tend to listen up until recently.
I tend to listen to podcasts on my chorus headphones.
A wireless chorus headphones.
And it comes.
It's pumped from our last big pie, which I'm all about.
But then there was other podcast that I tend to listen to.
I don't know what they at work.
Maybe at lunch times or whatever.
And that one of it.
The older one would have been ideal for that, you know.
So my plan was to listen to it there.
So I feel that my my trusty Santa Clip with that.
But yeah.
But yeah, that, that, that obviously is.
I have.
I don't know if I can take any of them.
Yeah, I really should.
So that's a very good.
Well, yeah, I tend to.
Yeah, I've got several Santa Clips.
I did a show on this years ago now where we've got a collection of.
I don't know how many I've got.
I was buying them all off eBay at one point.
The second hand ones and stuff.
I've got one or two new ones.
But they've all vanished.
But the ones I've got still still going strong.
So Santa Clips clip zip and various others.
And they take Rockbox, which is the best way to.
To manage podcasts on these on.
I'm a three player, I think.
Because it's very, very sophisticated compared to the manufacturer software in the majority of cases.
So yeah, I tend to have my headphones in and a.
A Santa device or something similar in my pocket.
A lot of the time.
But even so, I'm way, way behind.
I haven't got a count of the number I haven't yet to listen to.
But probably forget it.
But in turn, I've got a thing that computes the.
The size on total sizes of them all.
And also something that gives me the number of hours of listening that I've got.
And that the quantity in terms of file sizes is 11 gigabytes at the moment.
There's no, there's no way I'm.
I'm going to catch up with that.
Wow.
Goodness.
Goodness.
Yeah.
I mean, the.
I don't know these.
I'm always because I looked at the on my on mock piano music.
What I'm just going to come online player.
That's the only Linux player thing I use.
And it had showed you a certain line.
It's shown as the.
Well, I'm actually.
I'm actually imagine now we listen to.
Some late night.
Linux.
But.
I can see that I'm getting so far behind on.
Yeah.
I'm going to bunch them all together.
I think it's.
I'm going to.
Well, that is actually what I do.
I am.
I grew.
As I had added podcasts to the database.
The point I came up with the idea that it would be nice if they were grouped.
You know, they would have classified in some way.
So I came up with my own classification.
Things like signs or technology or.
News or whatever.
Comedy, etc.
And I classify them.
And then I just ID and load them onto players.
So I've got a player that's got.
Signs on.
Or another one that's got technology on.
So I can.
When the battery runs down on the one I can swap to the other one.
And listen.
So.
Play it.
Play it.
Each category.
So.
Did you.
Well, there's only four.
There's only.
There's only four to sat there on my disk at the moment.
That's another.
That's another task is to make a little.
Do dad that I can keep them in.
Available on the.
Yeah.
We have like a charging.
Charging pod with all these.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That would be the thing yet.
So I could do it.
Drop them into the thing.
And then.
Quote the.
Charging.
Thing in the back.
Yeah.
Wow.
Back up one which.
Well, I.
And then.
I broke my.
My.
My.
My old.
Santa quit.
I.
Been in a bit of a hurry.
Sort of being a bit rushed.
And.
I broke it while I was trying to repair it.
So.
But I had a backup one which is brand you never, never used.
Which I've been using now for the last six months or a year or something.
So it's obviously pretty good in this.
I.
But yeah, yeah.
It's.
It's a shame.
That.
We don't make them anymore.
Yeah.
I don't understand.
And.
Why not?
I guess the demand must have diminished.
But.
Churching by the number of people who were.
Calling out for these things and saying when is anybody going to make something to.
To do the same stuff as the.
The Santa arranged it.
And so on and so forth.
You think there would be there would be worth the while of a company like that to.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's been.
It's certainly not there.
You know,
You can really put your back pocket.
That's not quite the same at all.
No, no, no.
This is.
I've got.
I tend to wear like sort of cargo pants.
I've got a big, big pocket on the leg.
So I can put a phone in there and use Bluetooth.
And that works out.
Okay.
No, that's not too bad.
But.
But any.
The thing about the.
The clips and the clips and the clips and stuff.
I was putting it.
Pop into a shirt pocket.
No, no difficulty at all.
You know, much prefer that it's great funny that I was.
I was in.
I was coming back from it from.
I do it occasionally visit the factory as a forward cut.
Just to come back to.
I was just giving a colleague an update sort of thing.
I sent my message that's me first.
But.
I thought.
I can do what they do.
So you don't usually get this thing I've painted to the end of.
in the message, sent from my iPhone, such and such and such, I said,
sent from my Nokia, I give you ten.
Ah, that's good, I like the sound of that.
What was one to have on the lures?
Yeah, it's an excellent bombproof, really.
It just never goes wrong.
I think the other thing is going to fail as a battery, really.
And I think you still get batteries for them.
So I think it worked.
A number of times people would be leaving phones on the desk.
Because it was too big to carry on a bucket, you know?
It's a mobile, it's the clue's in the name, but it's too big to carry.
Yeah, I know, I know.
It's, I don't see to make a lot of sense as I am.
I'm not really keen on phones in general.
But you have to, you know, I can't, I can't survive without one.
No, yeah, I understand that.
I'm very tempted to try a pine phone.
See, that could work as a, as a player of some words.
I think it probably could, but I don't run off about them.
Yeah, about 150 to 200 pounds or something.
Well, finally, I thought it was just less than two.
Was it, was it that, was that the Linux, the Linux, was it?
Maybe we were talking about, surely we were talking about the pine phone.
And if so, there's less thing to do.
So yeah, I've had a few people talking about it, but I don't really know very much about it.
Other, obviously it's, that's, that's sort of going to be, you know, more open than,
than the standard phone file on chalk.
Yeah, I mean, I had got some, I think they're saying they've got some blobs in it.
So I think, but it's basically can do something all the way.
Yeah, it seems quite, today, quite desirable.
From the point of view of, of, of not being interfearable with, by, by the big companies and stuff,
the ones that stick all manner of junk software on them or prevent you from installing what
you want yourself and so on. It's, it's a, yeah, desirable pattern.
Well, I had a very similar situation, a related situation to that, because I had some notes
which I foolishly put, I guess, as for convenience, I put it on my, I have a,
it's a Samsung tablet I've got, and those, they sound some notes.
And I've got a warning to know, there's an update for this.
You want to do it? I'll find out.
And, of course, it was coming from the Samsung store.
So it seems like, I think this is a, maybe the first time I've ever seen this or, maybe the
second pair, I'm not sure, but it seems like the tablet's got, they've obviously got the Google
store, but you've obviously got the Samsung store. And when it pops up, it stores, and I saw
it, it's just glittery, spangly things. It's like, it's like, you could imagine a belonging to a,
a 13-year-old, a teenager or something like that. It's just spangly, spangly things, twinkling
all over the place. It's just horrible. But anyway, so, it's an update, so I offered it,
waiting update a bit, and all my notes were there, and that's fine. And I went to click, click the
note, particularly to see my note there, that's fine. And they say, in order to view this note,
you need to install an add-on, if you want to install the add-on, I'll hop, I'll okay, I'll install
the add-on, click Doki, and it said, in order to install this add-on, do you want to give a
commercial to do this? I'm in fact, we've seen, oh, that add-on itself was an untrusted source,
and what the heck, it's all about, you know, it's, ah, heck.
Yeah, yeah, you're, you become a victim very, very quickly in these things, don't you? It's so
easy to be trapped by all this nonsense. Yeah, indeed, indeed, so I should not, I shouldn't have
put it in the note in that in the first place. So you just kept it, kept it somewhere,
well, I would, I would tend, I would like to think that it's not, it's a somewhere sort of thing,
but perhaps more trustworthy, I would like to think is, you know, Google Docs sort of thing,
not that there was any, and in any way, it's not, it's not, it's part of the Android,
equals fear and whatnot, so it's, but yeah, I mean, this is, there's no privacy anymore,
that's, that's for the work, well, I don't do any issues.
No, but it, it's so tempting, isn't it? It really is. I, to my, I'm not shopping for myself,
just at the moment, because I, yeah, I'm regarding myself as, you know, somebody who needs to,
needs to keep well clear, the world for the moment, and my kids help me out. I've got my daughter,
and I go, go out, I drive and I wait in the car park while she gets the things,
but my son and his girlfriend often go to Lidl, which is a German, quite low price supermarket,
if you're not from Britain. And it's all real. I love it. It's a great place. But,
I made them a shopping list, and I thought, oh, they said, can you do something on the phone?
And I said, okay, so I made a Google spreadsheet thing, and I put, you know, a great list of things
that I, on the case and buy from Lidl, and then I had a column that said, do I want it now or not?
So if it's this yes or no. So if it's yes, then it changes color, and then, and then I wrote a
little macro to sort it, such as that, you know, it puts, it's sort of got a category against it,
so they know where to look for it in case they don't know, you know, I've asked for something,
and they went, what the hell do you find that in the shop? So I wrote this thing, and it sorts
for them and stuff like that, and then there's a column that they can tick to say they go it or not.
So they go to the shops. They went, they went just a day or two ago, and they say, oh, we're going,
little, get you a few things, so I put, I go and say, yes, it's it's done by a spreadsheet,
and then I look at it a bit later on, and I can see the ticks being added to it, as they go in
around the shop, and because they've got a copy of it, it's shared with Google, Google Docs,
whatever you call it, and so they're, they're updating it in real time. I mean, that is,
that is such a beautiful thing, yet it's being run by the evil empire of Google,
yeah. How do you, how do you stop yourself from using these sorts of features?
Evily convenient. That's incredible. Actually, I'm just thinking, that would be handy for me too,
I can copy of that. Yeah, absolutely, yeah, it's just, it's just a spreadsheet, I just added,
just I actually made it like a data base kind of thing, so it's got a table behind the front
table, which has got a list of all the categories, and I just put a number into the, into the spreadsheet,
like you're doing a relational database. That's one of the kind of buildings. Yeah, that was such fun.
So, yeah, yeah. I had a simple spreadsheet, with a Google spreadsheet thing that we used,
and it was, it was, do we go to, we do a clicking click, that's called clicking click,
Facebook, which is another super market in the UK, and we used to go little, but we thought
that the clicking click would be a little bit safer, so that's how, how we do that, because I did
just to go with the shopping for all family members, I did feel quite uncomfortable, and it was
huge big shopping that I had to do for myself, and myself, my wife, mother, mother, father,
and I've got a huge big shop, got quite complicated and quite stressful and whatnot, actually,
in the shop, trying to avoid it as well, so that's from another group of peak, of course, and then,
so we started using the clicking click, and so you just do it online, and you pick up at the
store, you just dive into a bay, and they load it up into the backyard cars, that this is really good.
But yeah, I had a spreadsheet for that, and so my wife started using it, but I think, luckily,
it's just, just too much hassle, but I'll just do it in paper, so I can do that now.
Yeah, yeah, I do that with my daughter, because she says, I don't want to be using my phone when I'm
in the tube mode, she takes it after a father, I think, so I won't be fiddling around with that,
but it sounds very much into it, so yeah, yeah, it's a surprise how easy it was to do it.
Yeah, it's funny, too many about the whole computer thing, because I can remember when I was
starting to work at Queen Wake, where computers get on a British desk, I'm sure this is before,
and I don't really understand what shouldn't have them, but it's funny how some of the older
documentation that's in paper form, they can still find that much of the newer stuff won't be lost,
Well, that's true, yeah, yeah, so I must admit, the document we shared, the Google document that we
shared with our thoughts about what we were chatting about, I printed it out because I was pretty
much certain, but I would either not be able to find it on the laptop, which I can, actually,
or I would get lost between jumping between windows to look at it and back to mumble to look at
that and stuff, so I printed it out because I just feel more comfortable learning a bit of paint
shows my age. No, well, it's funny, all my colleagues have worked at a certain age, they've
been receiving the old one bits of people, and I like to have a bit of people and you can mark
on it and put a ruler across it and what not, but for this, it's actually okay, I'm managing
quite fair, I've got two tabs that work, okay, I've got my own list, which you've got one, two,
two weeks in it, and then I've got your list, so it's actually quite easy, but I don't know what's
going to say, well, memory like I said, it's coming with age, isn't it? It was at the table,
memory, there was always a note, ah, I've gotten a bit of people walking, not can't think,
all the other, I mean, it could have been important. I have to say that I drown in paper work,
paper, though, because I've got a lot of stuff that I've been terrible with things like
invoices and bills over the years, because when I left home, I can remember being told,
oh, you want to hang on to invoices, because you never know, you might need to do something
rather, I'm not quite sure what that, something really hard to say, but I used to,
make sure I filed everything away, I used to keep stuff filed by date and all this sort of stuff,
and in recent years, it's taken me a lot of effort to go through all this,
file that junk going back, you know, like 10, 15 years, because that habit got ingrained,
and I kept, you know, bank statements from that long ago, I've got a nice big shredder,
and they've all gone down the shredder, but, you know, it can be curse, as well, I suppose.
It's about management, really, but, yeah, I'm quite bad, I'm quite bad that way myself,
actually, well, I've, I'm quite as even as organised as that, but I tend to, not with the
close things away, likely, Mrs X is a little bit better than me at that, so that's what you need,
that's what you need, yeah, yeah, yeah. Keep your organise, you know.
That's what I was going to say to you about, so I've been, when I was working from home,
I've now got this swanky company laptop, a really fancy thing, which I'm sick of,
truthfully, that's beside the point, and it runs Windows 10, and up until then, I've had no
experience at Windows 10 at all, and I still, other than running some office applications,
which I have to do, I don't really have any other dealings with the office, but I did notice
that I had multiple desktops, you see, they're, oh, in the PepsiFU1X, well, that's a good idea,
so, and I, at first I thought, this is really good, I've got a really nice implementation,
in fact, at first I thought it was even better than I've been to, but there seems to be a
good problem with it, and it's, I don't know whether it's Windows itself or whether it's
applications, could be more do with applications themselves, but, so let's say you've got
your word processing package on, on desktop one, it's always, so like, Microsoft Word, for example,
you know, that's what we're talking about, and you see, so, you see, like, okay, I've got a whole
pile of, I could have 10 or 20 Windows open on, on that first desktop, so I suddenly, I got a call
where I went to work on a different task, what to segregate all that off, pre-hove to desktop to
and start another pile of stuff, and that's fine, so you go to open Microsoft, and another
Word document, and yeah, it opens, but what you find is you've been sweet off to a desktop one,
again, because, because you've got Word open on desktop one, it brings the next, the next,
the next instance of Word in a desktop one, so it keeps all the ones together on that, I don't
want all the ones together, I only get the whole point of having different desktop, you know,
yes, yes, yeah, somebody, that smacks if somebody who's never actually really used
mobile desktop having designed it, that kind of sounds really well. I had, I had to be look on
the online, the Google set, as you do, and people were like, oh, it's just terrible, they're
the same problem, and there's hundreds of people saying the same thing, why do they do this,
this is completely nuts and stuff, so it doesn't look like this, and I'm tough to, well, I think you
can maybe get add-ons or something, they can sort of forget to do that sort of thing, I mean,
obviously, I kind of stole that sort of thing on a company laptop, but yeah, I just need to do
that with it, basically, what I do is I'm really, I try to be really sick of myself, so I'll say
that okay, I'll have my email, my communications programme, like, see, I look at whatever,
on one desktop, and then my other applications are trying to stick to my second desktop,
but I'm really, really on the third desktop, and I'm all over the place basically at that point.
Yeah, yeah, when I did use Windows, I didn't particularly need to use it until
later on when, when Outlook Mail became the main thing, I used to just use it as a remote desktop,
I had a, they gave me a Windows PC, which I just put in the corner with no monitor on it or anything,
and I yes, used remote desktop from my Linux, which seemed to connect to it and stuff, and
do the odds and ends that I really, really needed to do, because Outlook is the my old client,
so business, absolutely a business, especially having come from unixie things where you could,
you could, you could write extremely complicated rules to say, if I get a message from this person,
and it's, and I've got this number of messages already from that person, and then put it in
the folder and delete some of the old ones, so all those sorts of things you could do,
no way you could do that without, yeah, rubbish, very frustrating, yes, I, this is it,
it's, yeah, I've, I've made it frustrating myself as well, but you're, you're just forced to use
it, so it's, it's, it's for it as a guess, you know, yeah, it was, it was like that,
that fine work, it was, how dare you go against the corporate policy and that sort of stuff,
that sort of thing, so there, of course, that's good stuff, I don't know how we're doing time-wise,
Dave, you know, we're, we're a bit over an hour, according to the mumble or recording thing,
shall I briefly tell you about 3D printing, I've been doing, oh yes, we've been doing
yeah, fun enough, a local amateur, he's got a number of 2D printers, I've never actually seen
any operation, and I know we've got some in the company, again, which I've never seen in the
operation, but I have seen the examples of printouts, prints that have been done, but it does sound
like a fascinating, but yeah, very complex, yeah, yeah, it is, it is that, yes, I am so far I've just
been downloading things and printing them, well, I've made one thing, it wasn't for me, it was
my son's girlfriend, she wanted a little plastic dish to do some stuff with, she's very much
into modeling, handmade models and things, so I managed to design and make that using a
program called OpenSK, it looks like it's open scan, whatever, which is quite, quite neat actually,
as you start to understand it, but the whole business of printing has been a little bit of a
black box, as far as I'm concerned, what happened was I bought a printer and my kids jumped on it,
I like a thirsty man to water, and they said, what can we do this, can we borrow, can we use it,
so I hardly got a look in, I'm not complaining, and I said, I'm going to print
a thing, fancy printing this, and I said, tell you what, we'll do it for you, so it's very kind
of them all, but I never got to really experiment with it and do much with it myself, and I
have the habit of it, so things that you know other people can do quite well, and you can't do
yourself, there's a reluctance to get into things, so I've been forcing myself to learn my way around
my own print, so I've been fiddling around with slices, and, yeah, I remember them, top with
slices, so what's a slice in the card? You make a 3D model, so you're making the thing that's got,
actually it's quite neat, because you can make a two-dimensional image in something like Inkscape,
and then you can put that into open SCAD and say, right, take this as your starting point,
now extend it in the third dimension, and then do some other things to it, so I've got one that
somebody did, where they made it just a basic structure or using something like Inkscape, and then
it's been extended into the third dimension, and then it's had holes punched into it,
put the screws in, and so you can do things like that, but once you've got that thing that defines
the three dimensions, you then need to turn it into the actual path that the printer will follow,
so you need to give it precise details of, you know, move the head over there, extrude,
plastic, move there, et cetera, et cetera, and the way that this sort of additive 3D printing is
done is done like, you know, icing a cake where you just keep piling the icing on top of itself over
and over and over again, so the slice there is a thing that turns it into the printer path,
produces a textual thing called G-code, which defines all sorts of parameters of the printing,
you know, the temperature of the extruder, the temperature of the bed, if you have such a thing,
and where to start what sort of material you're using, and then, you know, and then all sorts of
factors like that. It's tons of things. Yeah, that's kind of what I was hearing from this chat,
because I'm sure they were saying that there's so many parameters to fiddle with, and you know,
it's a bit of an art form, I think, really, you know, and you might find it as you're using it,
as I think heats up more, and as you do more, and there's things wave, and you've got to
alter the parameters, and the temperature outside, and there's so many things, I think.
Yeah, things get out of alignment after a time, and you've got to watch out for that, and so forth.
Yeah, so I've been printing bits, so I can mount my Raspberry Pi's on a din round. I did a
LHB episode on the din round, so I've been printing some more, and I've had some disasters
just recently, where, and then I suddenly realized what I've done wrong, the temperature was wrong,
so the plastic's getting put down and more put on top, and the stuff underneath is melting,
and it sort of squidges. So getting all that right. So I've printed stuff on one thing yesterday,
it came out really nice. It's not perfect, but very, very nice, and so I'm getting quite
enthusiastic about it, so. What was the item you printed? It's another one, it's a mount for a
Raspberry Pi, so I've just recently bought a Raspberry Pi 4, and I want to put it alongside my other
Raspberry Pi's on the rail, and I have a shelf here, so that's the plan. But yeah, there's a whole load
of things that one, an infinite number of things one could print, fancy doing things like a head
phone, hang out, so I'm going to keep my headphones, and yeah, there's lots of things, lots of
things. Sounds like an ideal continuation episode from your last day. I know, I know, I did put a note
to myself that I should do a sort of follow-up thing, maybe I will do that soon. Yeah, excellent stuff,
very excellent stuff. Yeah, so that I just just thought there might be interesting to end.
Well, I mean, it's also very popular topics, I think, because I've got 3D printing and all that.
I've never had no experience at all myself, but yeah, I think it's another show, and that's so
that I'm very good, you know. I know there's quite a lot of people who either listen to or
contribute to it, who are into 3D printing, but not many people have put shows in about it,
you could definitely do it more personally, I'll be passionate to hear that, but yeah,
yeah, maybe that'll happen. Good point, good point, good point, yeah. So, shall we
one things up then? Have you got anything else that you wanted to, any burning issues you wanted to
to deal with before we... I mean, I have other things on my last, but I think, you know,
what would be here? It could be a bit too long, I guess. Yeah, yeah. We should, like you said,
last time we should maybe come back and have another shot with this at some point, because we sort of
tentatively considered doing get-together and chats on a purely basis when we were doing this in
the real world, as opposed to production, and now the same argument is there. And the real
real shame, because we've been very nice to meet up at the at the hell end. That was so cool,
it was really good, yeah. Well, hopefully next year sometime we'll be able to do it.
But we're planning on going, well, we're contemplating going to, if it's quite, and this will be
the first chop that I visited, there'll be Ikea, you know, so we're not going to visit Ikea,
because we're off the next fortnight sort of thing, so. But yes, we'll see how that goes,
I mean, really, the only places I've been to, I've been to my work that, two, three times,
something like that, but that's obviously when you have to go, you have to go sort of thing.
And we've got one of the systems, and you know, they've got hand sanitizers everywhere,
footprints in the floor, and all this stuff. So they're quite, quite careful.
Yes, well, I think it's possible to do these these types of things very safely, if you,
if you think them through, yeah, the only systems, and that sort of thing will work, but well,
but I was saying to go into the zoo, you know, when you go into the building to check in and stuff,
they're very, very fuzzy about people keeping their distance and giving up very well-spaced part,
and that sort of thing, everybody's masked inside the buildings, et cetera, et cetera.
So that, you know, that feels, that feels great, actually, because we've really well-managed.
It is, it's funny, I've got this, I view, I think that's the one that I view, Facebook.
That's how it works. I've put off for a long long time having anything to do with Facebook,
but I have, I am actually on Facebook. Well, I have, yeah, I'm on Facebook, but I've never
reposted, I've never had a like with this, like anything, just a time limit, you know, but there
was a, I sort of post came up on the, on the, on the fee basically, and it was, it was from a relative,
and the, the level was basically, I don't know, one of the American states, I can't
remember which one it was actually, and so they had, I think, I think, the movie, like,
a headdress or something like that, you know, and this was kind of at the height of things,
really, and they had a picture that said something like, you're back, I think, was, was, was, was,
was the thing, the quote, along with the, the, the picture basically, and it was all the employees,
of the, and the, the salon, and they were all, all, all lying, hugging each other, all had
this and something like a good idea to me. Oh, no. Yeah, yeah, it's, it's a very, very difficult thing,
because it just, it's, it's like, we're very poor as a species, but estimating sizes of things,
magnitudes of things, you know, and, and I think this is one of those things that, that, unless
you've got a lot of experience of what epidemics mean and what, what infections mean, you tend not
to, not to fully comprehend the, the details of it, you know, so people have become really
dismissive of it, and also bored of it, and thoroughly bored of the whole, the whole thing that's
solved, but, but that is not the fact, because the, you know, the enemy is still out there waiting for you,
you know, indeed, I've had arguments saying, oh, she just, but, you know, there's more people
dying from, from the financial implications and, and blah, blah, blah, blah, and, but, but, I'm sure
I heard that, they reckon that if, if the statistics were that, I don't know what the current
running total is, but I'm sure they said that it had we not had a lockdown in the UK,
we, it was estimated that we'd have had, I think it was 500,000 deaths, that's, that's on the
premise that the NHS would cope, which, of course, they wouldn't, so it'd be even higher than that,
so it's insane, you know, suggestion, you could do nothing, it's, it's not, there was a,
there was a, because there was, there was actually on the, on the video, there was a typical of a,
so that was a, which I, accountant, I think, it was a, what you were saying was, no, it doesn't,
it doesn't, otherwise, obviously, you know, it never, you know, people, having a lockdown, it,
it never saves anybody, it just, it just delays death, but it doesn't, because if, if the health
service, it's overrun, many more people die, so it, it, it, it definitely saves deaths, it's
absolutely, without, without a shadow of a doubt, and yet, it was suggesting, you know, a lot of
people don't save deaths, they just delay it, you know, nonsense, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, well,
I mean, if you can delay people my age and sort of level of health, we're all practically
delaying until such times, there, there's a vaccine, and if a vaccine turns up then, and we get
immunity from it, and it looks like, but it's pretty likely that that will happen, then, then,
we're, we're home and dry, you know, we're not going to want to walk out there and I've
said, catch the damn thing just because, so it's inevitable. Yeah, it doesn't make any sense.
No, I watch our, I think I'm very, I may have mentioned this, I've made, made
mentions about it, I haven't repeated myself, but it was a Christmas lecture, because I've shown
you, I'll make it very, very brief, that I heard immunity works, and if, you know, if you've
got enough people to learn about you, and you would have if you had the vaccine, then it's,
it's been just stops, it gets stopped in this chat, basically, so even though everyone isn't immunized,
if enough people are, then it's much much safer. So, you know, it's, it's, yeah, it's, it's, it's
crazy, it's crazy. Yeah, yeah, and the other thing, I listened to this week's
virology, as I've said, and one of the things they do, they have a clinician who's some
new, based in New York, who's actually down the front line, and he, he was talking, and the
latest time he came into to talk about his experiences, so far, saying that the, the, the death is,
is one thing, you know, it's, it's a terrible thing, but it's a lot of people who have it and
recover, but you end up with consequences, which are absolutely devastating. The number of times
people have, people have had the lungs scarred to such an extent that their ability to breathe
is, is diminished to point that they're, they're effectively, you know, likely got silly
coses, or one of those sorts of things, you know, have to be on oxygen all the time, or in some,
he said he, he come across some patients who had to have lung transplant as a consequence,
and there are things like, there's a heart damage that this thing causes, and, you know,
and there's also neurological damage that it causes, and, you know, there's a, there's a,
there's a list of things that this damn thing does, you know, and it's not, it's not a trivial thing
you catch at you, yet at the same time, and there are people who have it, they, they show no symptoms,
they come out the other end of it, sh- having shed the virus, maybe, they come out the other
end of it, with immunity, and they never knew they have it, you're going to tell by doing an
antibody check on them, so, you know, there's, there's such a range of responses to this damn thing,
yeah, like, if you're the lucky, one of the lucky ones who's, who's immune system can view with it,
then fine, but if you're not, then you know, no, you have no means of telling, no, sorry, and, and,
and that, yeah, can fix every organ in the body, sort of thing, this is that, I, I remember
hearing that as well, and, and the fix it was having on, on people's brains, it's just, just, just, just,
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, the same, all sorts of consequences, so, yeah, yeah, it's,
it's no means a trivial matter, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's tough, it's a, well, I think, okay, a bit of it,
wow, wow, I'm actually not, on that very theory though, yeah, yeah, but it is, it's a topical, it is,
it's a topical matter, yeah, it's, it's funny, you know, I, I, I feel a real, um, loyalty to HPR,
but at the same time, I'm having, to be honest, I'm having much less time for HPR, and just in recent
times, you saw what's going on, and I do need to try and, I mean, I've posted the odd show, you'll,
you'll notice, but, it's, you know, it's, um, yeah, but it's it's, it's, it's, um, it's, it's,
it's, yeah, I've done myself, of course, um, but it's finding the time and, and getting organized,
and it's, um, there's just other things going on, which I'm just, of course, I'm at everybody,
because to me, I was looking, I think the show Que was, was getting a bit on the phone side,
so if you're all listening out of the area, you know, but, uh, yeah, it's, it's difficult,
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's I think everybody's affected by I certainly found myself the rate at which I could produce stuff falling away and you know
It's like motivation has dropped off. I heard listening to podcasts just just earlier on today
They were saying I just don't seem to have the drive and the motivation to do stuff at the moment
It's you know being in the in the same environment all the time and yeah
It's it's message you have no sort of ways
Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's funny. Yeah, my my my wife has has links with
with
American people and
They were saying that yeah, it's going to be obviously the one the winter's going to be the real concern and putting aside the fact that you know
The implications for the virus coming back in the winter and the health service coping and all I put in that to say just
That being dark and miserable and just working from home, you know, isolation
Yeah, and of course keeping warm and oh, it's I'm not I can't say I'm looking forward to one this one. That's for sure
No, no, no, it's true. It's true. It's getting that gap motivation going and keeping it up. It's going to be going to be hard, I think
Yeah, and of course my car
Yeah, but got a little bit to behold it in one in one corner
Where the the metal workers change from metal to bust so
And it's it's it's due an MOT in in the near future
And it is getting very long in the tooth so they can serve and as I was just saying to EC's X what happens if I take it to the garage and say
No, no, no, sorry it fails
But then what do you know that's like that means cash shopping and that's not going to be another interesting experience
Oh, I know that I know that feeling so well. Yeah, yeah, my my uncle
Is what used to be a bodywork, especially as he had his own his own garage and in Norwich and he used to you know
People bring in cars and that sort of state and he would be
removing the rust and patching them up and welding them and whatever to do all this
I used to help them out on the case and so
Munch of cars
Back in the day tended to be very poor as far as
Corrosion and that sort of thing it's concerned, but you know, they're made of made of steel iron or whatever
Corrosion is an issue
So it's well what what happened to my case is it I think I had that
Screen was better looking for many years. I wasn't aware of the thing
It's going to water very very quickly sort of thing
But it has headlight washers so I just assumed it was that but it was obviously jumping into the cello
All the time and they you know, but it I mean it is a was a 14 year old car
So I can't really complain too much as it is an old car
So and it's still with the label on all that so it would just see what happens
Probably not a big thing if you if it even if it is something that is that doesn't pass the mo2's for you not a massive piece of work
Yeah, hopefully hopefully
I mean I'd actually do a quick like a I like the idea of an electric car with him
Getting the electrical outlet
Petite and other things, you know, you're just
I did contact a company, but it's all you get to get a changed dog for the cabling and you've got a post and so on
Can you not do that? You know, just you're all no one other than that just be puning and I'll be you know
But you didn't spend just nothing. I thought well, so I'm getting very complicated
No, I don't think I don't think it changes my fucking garden
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's a consideration. Do you know, he's a little story before we go
I had a guy knocking at my door at about quarter to 11 or something the other night and
Oh
How's that this time and I looked outside and it was a guy
You know with the the boiler suit on and stuff and that there was his his van just outside from the the local
Power company and he was saying
Your neighbor's not got any power. Is there any chance I could come in your house and run a cable off you're here in coming
He was gonna take a take a tap off the off the
Yeah, the cables that came to the meter and they said I'll just run it through the little box and that and it will be
Just round the corner and into the neighbor. I said, yeah, okay
It seems to think it would be safe, but you didn't have enough cable
Yeah, I've never had that before
That was a little bit of surprise. I wasn't quite sure what to say, you know
I'm quite friendly with the neighbors seem seemed a bit mean to say no go away. Yeah
Yeah, it's just a bit awkward that isn't it?
I'm gonna go to love with these people
But but why didn't he actually went the way and came up with the generator for them and
That they've been damaged onto the cables that came in in the street and the recent weather had presumably
Was to further thing, but yeah, so it's a pretty unusual
I think I'm just thinking that maybe maybe maybe I'll get
Can we please of course one of his you're very split in the two best figures is getting so long
Well, I'll them I'll check it out. I don't mind doing me the editing and stuff
So I'll have a look and see after I've done some silence truncation and that sort of thing
But they will be a huge lot of wonderful
I won't try to buy a vast man. So yeah, because you could almost you could almost have him the first bit as a
You know going through the list and then later on we sort of just started talking general stuff
Maybe because I mean I have to say I'll probably say whatever you think, but that's the email. I got two shores over me
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, there's not to be said for that too and and yeah
Save people from those enough
Yeah
That's good. It's a big catch up. Well, I really yeah, yeah, it's a lot of fun
It's real I do enjoy doing this. I actually enjoy listening to these things as well
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's been brilliant. So thanks very much
We'll call it call it a day at that point
So how is it?
Well, we can do the hacker public radio
Bye bye
You've been listening to Hacker public radio at Hacker public radio dot org
We are a community podcast network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday
Today's show like all our shows was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is
Hacker public radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicon computer club
And it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com if you have comments on today's show
Please email the host directly leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
Unless otherwise status today's show is released on the creative comments
Attribution share a life three dot horizons
You
