Episode: 3030
Title: HPR3030: My new Samsung tablet
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3030/hpr3030.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:26:55

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3030 for Friday 13 March 2020.
Today's show is entitled, My New Samsung Tablet. It is hosted by Mr. X
and is about 28 minutes long and carries an explicit flag. The summer is.
A general discussion about My New 10.5-inch Samsung Galaxy Tablet.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15. That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at Ananasthost.com.
Hello and welcome Hacker Public Radio audience. My name is Mr. X and welcome to this podcast.
As usual I'd like to start by thanking the people HPR for making this service available
to us on these hidden groups. Hacker Public Radio is a community-led podcast
provided by the community for the community. I mean you can contribute too.
I'm not a microphone like I'm doing right now. I'm sending a show. I'm sure you must have
something interesting worth talking about. If everybody can contribute a show we'd have
loads to go around. Come on and give it to go. You know you can.
So anyway this is off the cuff. So podcast. You may work out, cut me in my car.
Kiki too isn't it. And driving to work. I'll try to stay up beeping but this is my first day back after
the festive season. I don't know when I'll get into actually uploading this to HPR.
But so it's the third of January. I should have been back yesterday but couldn't face it.
So we've got the season not to go in yesterday. I can't put it off any longer. So going in today.
Traveling into the city centre. Edinburgh. It's a currently 13 minutes past six.
According to my car clock. It's five degrees centigrade.
But it's quite still. The weather's mild. It's still a year suppose.
And it's dry. So that's a main thing.
So I came into possession of a new device that I got at Christmas.
I think this isn't going to be a view as such which is my thoughts on this new device.
I think probably a bit of a fussy person. Or should I say I don't handle change terribly well.
I think it needs to stay the same. I think we're all tend to be a bit like that with some more so
than others. So it's a new tablet this device I've got. A new Android tablet.
My previous tablet was a Nexus 7. Probably around 2013. So it's quite old.
It still functions. Still functions fine. It's been a truly magnificent tablet as far as tablets are
concerned. But the battery life is a bit. It's not as good as it used to be.
So it wasn't actually Christmas gift as such but it was just something that came my way.
So the tablet in question, my new tablet is a Samsung Galaxy Tab 10.5 2018. So it's an old model.
But it's brand new to me. It's a brand new tablet.
So first I thought, well, I started using it. I thought, well, it's a huge big screen.
I haven't been used to this 7-inch tablet. It's quite a change going from that to 10.5.
The first thing that amazed me was the battery life. It's absolutely phenomenal.
It's just insane how long this battery lasts.
I guess the Nexus has just gradually got worse and worse.
I guess it makes it seem more extreme than we did otherwise, I suppose.
But it does last a heck of a long time. I think when I'm back at work,
I'm going to charge it once a week or something. I'll see how it goes with it.
So that's the first thing. Patch life is fantastic.
The next thing I noticed was that when I first got the tablet,
there were usually three buttons on the Android tablet at the bottom of the screen.
And sitting there for the Nexus and most other devices,
the left button takes it back to the previous screen. The middle button is a home button
and the right button is a task button. Well, Samsung have those remapped so that the task buttons
on the left and the back button is on the right. There is actually an option to change it
and I did end up changing it. But being a bigger screen, I can kind of see the logic that maybe
you might use the back button more than you might use a task button so you don't stretch the far over.
And I've kept it a traditional way with the back button on the left.
And talking about task switches, with the Nexus when you switch tasks,
I think this is quite normal with doing things. Again, obviously the Nexus 7 is on a very old version of Android.
So you get one task or one application lane on top of each other, like a stack of cards almost.
And the Samsung tablet, this as well initially. But the way that the applications were overlapped,
basically the front application on the stack was almost down to the bottom of the page.
And the second application was right at the top of the page. So with this huge,
big, screenable, wasting heck of a lot of space. With the Nexus, you remember seeing three or
four applications at once because they were evenly distributed throughout the length of the page,
rather than a great big step, which was completely unnecessary. And it meant that
you needed to swipe quite a lot to go through the tasks. But there were some updates
came to the Samsung tablet after turning it on, and it actually gives you a kind of tiled layout,
which is quite, which is certainly better than the previous setup.
Of course, if you've got more than six tasks open, then you've got to scroll left and right.
I don't find that quite as intuitive and more swiping required. So
I think it'd prefer the Nexus Mac20 view, because I can, that's fairly often have more than six
applications open. Let's me just join in the city mic pass. It's a piece of the port, it's very quiet.
So the next thing I would say is that the screen,
I believe it's not the highest resolution, but I actually have very happy with it from that
but if you, it seems sharp enough, it's not fuzzy or dotty or pixelated and all that is,
it seems, you know, it seems at least as good as an excess.
What I found is that the
comfortable viewing brightness,
well, you can, you can, yeah, so the comfortable viewing brightness seems very low down the scale,
so it means that, and I think I want to, I want to, I want to, it seems incredibly bright,
and, and in fact, I tend to, the, the brightness up just
briefly. There's actually a segment at the top where it goes orange on the, on the slider,
and I could just feel the brightness of my eyes burning out. It was so bright. I mean, I could actually
feel the heat on my face almost, it's just astoundingly bright. So, you know, I mean,
I've used my Nexus 7 outside in the regard, and I think the Nexus 7 at the time had
a bit of average brightness display, but this Samsung is just, it takes a ticker completely different level.
But it means that, that, they could do with it being a bit more
logarithmic, you know, the stretch out the bottom section so that it's less sensitive,
and, you know, when you're up at the top end, surely, that doesn't need to be so, so smoothed out,
you know, I feel it, it makes it a little bit tricky to set the, the brightness.
And there's, there's an auto, auto brightness feature where there's a, of a sensor, a tablet that
adaptively adjusts the brightness. But I found that it never seemed to get quite right,
and I end up fiddling on whether what it is control. So, I found it is actually better to turn that off.
I still have to adjust it, but not as much, whereas with the Nexus, I just set it and
watching it really touch it at all, and I was out in the garden. So, I guess,
there'd be a bit more refinement in the Nexus software, compared to the Galaxy.
Well, I suppose it's just this pros and cons to everything I suppose, I just don't like change.
It could just be that I couldn't it. You've also got a, I kind of,
mode where you can cut back the blue light content. So, it makes it, you know, it sort of changes
the, I wouldn't call it the temperature for this play, makes it a bit more orangey sort of thing.
For night viewing, I've had to leave that all the time to tell you the truth, just softening it a bit.
But, again, maybe it's because in Nexus it's aged over the years, gradually, you know,
it seems so bright and white. And in fact, there's a mode you can set so that a certain time
it goes to a black and white mode to make it gentle on your eyes. There's a kind of feature
that you can turn on. So, I don't know why they don't allow you to turn the, they're just blue
at night at a certain time, that seems more useful, but they don't. It's just, it goes to black and white
mode, you know, great, can agree mode. But, for some reason, I seem to suffer from
eye fatigue with this tablet. I don't know why. I even, I sort of introduced the brightness,
turned the blue content off, or down, I should say. And the most recent thing I did was
increase the zoom. And so, it's basically the four sizes and whatnot. And I find it quite
difficult to see the time on the top edge of the screen. I find that was a, not only was it a bit
small to start with, but it was also not a good contrast against the top task bar, or what,
or what have you called it, along the top of the screen. Yeah, it was much clearer on the Nexus.
So, you end up squinting tight, look at the time. I also came into
possession of a pair of Bluetooth earbuds, and this is a new experience for me.
So, the coming, we pouch, I think there's an apple, I think an apple do something like this.
So, the pouch thing, they can change the earbuds. So, I must have an internal battery in the box,
that they sit in. The earbuds themselves don't, the battery doesn't last too long, I guess,
that's the idea is, once you finish the last thing, you put them back in the box,
hit the button, and it tops them back up again. So, it has a bigger battery in the actual
box, it holds the buds. The, the sound quality itself, it's clear enough, but it's in a lacking
in base, even more so than normal TBA buds are very, really quite tinny, perfectly good for us,
the podcasts, and voice content, in fact, very good for that, but not great for music,
due to the lack of bass. But, the thing that did amaze me with these earbuds is the,
the range, I've got to, I've got to be Bluetooth speaker, which I have used occasionally for
listing, I might list it, so I'm just listening to amateur radio stuff, and sometimes at the weekend,
just to get that sort of thing, and I have to make sure not to make pull the tablet too far from
this Bluetooth speaker that I've cut out, you know, I've seen me sitting with the tablet
in the hallway, and that way, I can go between the bathroom and the bedroom, keeping up too far apart,
it's just a tiny bit too much, then the link is broken and then that's it. And I assume that
these ear buds would be the same, and, gradually as I was trying to find out, I was kind of
kissing the range, and actually what I discovered was that the range seems to be ridiculous,
and I don't know, I'm guessing it must be something to do with the tablet as well,
this is on the new tablet, because obviously there's transmitting a digital signal from the tablet
to the ear buds, so maybe it's a Samsung tablet, I must try the speaker or not see how it goes, but
that upshot is a found that I can go, it seems to be anywhere in the house, you know, upstairs,
downstairs, any room, and the Bluetooth is flawless, not a crackle, not a glitch, nothing,
not a dropout, it's just insane, so I was always under the pressure that the Bluetooth was very
short to distance, and you know, it doesn't sound like that, like digital compression, sort of
gurgly sort of sound that you get, so the quality is really quite good, I think these things were
a cheap pair of these fake-up lead buds, but it's not for that plus, it's just such a thing,
I think there's not like 20 pounds reduced, there was something about that, it was, it was
Mrs X, it came up with these, so thank you Mrs X, so yeah I don't know how I'm going to get on with
this tablet, I guess only 10 will tell, but I do seem to suffer from my ice chain, that's the biggest
problem, I'm probably just a facie, facie devil, let's see what's behind all this,
I think if there's anything else a bit of the tablet that I can comment on,
oh well, yes I got a, I also got a thought, because the screen is so large, I could almost use it,
almost like a laptop, and I've actually listened to an episode of Clat 2, it was one of his older ones
because it took me age to catch up, and he was talking about his, in his mentioned before,
about his hatred of touch screens, and I get to sympathise that they're okay for consuming
content, and I'm actually what they're all about, but I find entering a text, a real pain,
really the slight, interesting text, a lot of it is easier with the bigger screen I've mastered,
but I'm finding that, I mean like I can use the, you know you can swipe to enter text, I can do that,
that's often what I do, and obviously you can talk to the thing, correct the errors you can do that,
and I think, I don't know if it's a feature of the Google keyword or not, but I think you can
select your finger along the spacebar, and the cursor appears on the screen and moves left and
right, you know, so you can change the cursor position by sliding your finger along the spacebar,
and this also works on the Samsung as well, but I've finally feelings to do with the Google
Keyboard. What I did notice is when I do that with a Samsung, we bubble appears in the screen
with a magnified section to make it easier to see precisely where the cursor is on the screen,
that's really nice, that's a really nice feature, I like that, it simplifies the
positioning the cursor, to make corrections and whatnot, but that shot is you really just can't
be a flaming keyboard, you know, and since it's a death of the sign that got to do the
keyboard, and the EPC with its weak keyboard, everything's touch screen now really,
so anyway I've got myself a Bluetooth keyboard for this tablet, and it was a cheap thing,
and you know, actually it works really well, it's got a nice feel to it,
it's got illuminated keys, so you could use it in the dark if you wanted,
I really find that I can type really quite well with this keyboard, really quite comfortably,
whether it want to do a huge amount of coding or writing a novel on it as another matter,
and it is a bit bendy and flexible, but it's sold enough,
no idea what range it's got, I don't suppose you could use it around the whole house,
but then how could you see the screen, how could you separate it that far apart,
you know, but it's quite handy if I was wanting to type a long email or send a long sentence to
somebody, you know, I'm not really a social media person, I just tend to do a few things on the
tablet, it's just a handy thing to pick up and look to look at, you know, what's the news headlines,
what's the weather, that sort of thing, you've got the convenience that you just open it and it's
instantly on, and shut it, it's instantly shut, doing to reboot or hardly ever, you know, it's
to convenient device for consuming content, so that was it, the new tablet, the earbuds,
and the blue screen, bluetooth keyboard, that was, what's that for somebody really,
I felt this was an heck of a waffle, but I have to maybe trim this down a bit, I cut this out,
I don't know what we'll see, I'm not going to work yet, I'm going to be about 10 minutes away,
the traffic's been quite light, I should have been for a shock when I, when I travel home tonight,
not being used to the heavy traffic, I've had a different, you know, I've been off, I don't know,
two and a half weeks, something like that, and I haven't driven in that whole time,
so it feels a bit strange being back in my old car, everything seems to work, I'm glad it started,
yeah, I got a new car battery just last year, because it was, it's struggling, it wasn't,
it's struggling as such, it was turning over very pretty slowly, so you could tell that the battery
was labeling, I always think well, there's no point prolonging these things and just, just trying,
can you, that we're going to get cut out in the middle of the winter and the car wouldn't start,
so it's just got a new battery and a huge difference, anyway, I think that's about it for this
episode, thank you very much for listening to it, hopefully you didn't find it too boring,
I'm trying to make it sound up meat, but at this time of the morning, I'm first day back at work,
it's been tricky, I gotta go first, see if I think, it's not a good deal when I'm behind the wheel,
anyway, thanks again, and if you want to contact me, you can contact me at MrX,
at HPR, at googlemail.com, that's MRX, AT, HPR, the AT symbol, googlemail.com,
so until next time, thank you, and goodbye,
see you soon,
something like that.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
NECCA Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
On this otherwise status, today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a life, 3.0 license.
