Episode: 3255
Title: HPR3255: garage door part 2
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3255/hpr3255.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 19:45:49

---

This is Haka Public Radio episode 3255 for Friday the 22nd of January 2021.
Today's show is entitled Garage Door Part 2.
It is hosted by Operator and is about 10 minutes long and can remain a explicit flag.
The summary is Tuesday season cough cough.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honest Host.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honest Host.com.
Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Haka Public Radio.
With your host Operator I'm going to be talking about Garage Door Repair.
Again I'm going to kind of go over what I did live and because of course I keep wearing my Stupid Plantronics headset
thinking that it's going to record perfectly fine and it sounds like garbage when I move around.
The general consensus is the Garage Door wouldn't go down and did some troubleshooting press the button.
It seemed to kind of do it randomly.
The sensors seemed kind of pissed off but you know we put them back in line and it still kept doing it.
So I started messing with the little sensors, took the bottom case off and looked at the gears, made sure all the gears were happy.
I took the load off of the Garage Door opener so I detached the Garage Door and pressed my child press the Garage Door opener button.
He kind of opened and whatever and it still wouldn't go down.
After a while I started noticing that it wouldn't go down but it would go up every time.
It wouldn't go down but it would go up every time.
I know there's like a load sensitivity and I tried turning that all the way up on the downside and that didn't help.
Also my kid woke up a couple of days ago he's sniffing their sore throat five in the morning and the next day he woke up with sniffling nose and the next day I woke up with his sore throat.
So here it is twenty second and we got tested Monday. Probably not going to have enough time for results for the test but yeah it's a gift that keeps on giving.
But anyways I tried to realize it wouldn't go down. I went back to thinking that it had to be the sensor but before then I tried to short the sensors for the Garage Door.
And when I shorted them it made it worse because I guess it completed the opposite of what I thought.
So it completed the circuit and made it think that the Garage Door was always the laser was always whatever.
So then I disconnected it from the other terminal thinking that it would think that it's always open and it kind of fails closed.
So I think the PCB board knows that it needs some kind of signal from those sensors and if it doesn't have a signal from those sensors then it assumes the worst and the Garage Door comes back up.
So if your Garage Door won't go down at all except for split second then you know it's the sensors are shot or misaligned or whatever.
In my case it seemed to be random it would go down for a second and two and then it would come back up or it would go about halfway and then come back up.
Or it would, you know, sometimes it would go all the way down.
So I still mess with that I mess with the sensitivity of the load not put it all the way up to nine still did random stuff.
Then I put it all the way down to one and the same thing and I put it back on five which I guess is the default load for what it should have on there.
All in all this was about 29 minutes of recording I talked about some other stuff like the grease that I use was like a white lithium grease WD40 and I tried the silicone first.
But it's safe on the plastic casters that I have.
So you know, you don't want to put, obviously I don't want to put WD40 on anything because it's garbage I don't, you know, WD40 doesn't work for anything except for, I don't know what.
It's the whole water displacement thing I've heard.
I'm sure I've talked about it or whatever but anyways, I'm trying to put WD40 on anything unless it's something metal that's rusty and I don't care about it.
And I want to just break up kind of use it as like blaster sort of I don't use it as a lubricant.
I use oils or whatever.
I'm silicone's or a grease but.
Blaster cells and garage or grease which I don't know how it compares to like a lithium grease but it feels like it's about the same.
But I put the white lithium grease pretty much everywhere after deciding that or I had the garage door grease that I used everywhere.
And then I used the white lithium grease on the actual gear parts and metal bits.
The garage door grease I used and then the white lithium I used I think on the casters and stuff.
So I made sure I actually kind of pulled the casters up or down and made sure that they would kind of freely spin and didn't seem like they were all gross.
And I greased them up and that was like a year ago.
But I think what happened is somebody ran into the sensors again on my wife's side again it's always my wife's side for whatever reason.
Ran into the sensor and got it screwed up and it was fine except for when you try to use a garage door or whatever.
So I did like a minute max thing so I I pushed the laser pointed the laser up until the light went out and I kind of logged that position in my head.
And then I put it all the way down till the light went out and I logged that in my head and then I split the difference.
So I got my up and down calibrated.
Then I just reinforced the bit the actual arm on there and I should have actually bent it all the way back inside as far as I could because people it's kind of sticking out and people.
People are obviously kind of tripping over it and bending it.
But I just bent it forward and logged where it stopped.
The light turned off and then pushed it back towards me towards me and and logged when that went out and then I kind of split the difference there.
So the idea is it's more or less in the center and then I tested it like four times and we're perfectly fine.
What else can I say about it?
You know be careful with your minute max whatever you have a has a little dial on there and you can set the minute max threshold for the length.
So when it stop the men stop in the open stop in the closed stop positions.
That those you have to do be careful with them because if you get them wrong, your gradual get quite upset when you try to push the garage or shot.
Any more to push.
So I've done that once before on this garage door particular where I had the max the closed door set too far and it just went out and had like the whole like bent like had the whole thing kind of bent for a second and you don't want any of that happening.
So start out in the middle and then start pulling it out farther and farther and then when you think you've got the down configured you can pull the latch on the release.
And it shouldn't be any stress on there right it should just kind of fall.
Maybe fall a little bit but you don't want any stress at all on the garage door while it's sitting idle right.
So when you're when you set your your maximum down the the close max.
You want to pull it off of the rail.
Pull it off of the garage door opener and if it falls down then you know you need to push it down just a slight bit more and just less is more.
Keep turning it very ever so slightly until you feel like it's it's there's there's not as much attention there.
You certainly don't want to load on it while it's closed and you also don't want to push it past its prime and like push it into the ground and call it to like bend.
But it's real yeah it's this really straightforward.
The police get all screwed up and I've had one come off the pulley and that makes a big mess because it like pulls up the garage doors like at a crooked angle.
But there's videos on there how to adjust attention talked about the springs.
There's different kinds of springs I put two on there.
I talked about this my first graduate thing.
I put two springs on there thinking that oh two springs is better than one but math doesn't work like that because they have to rotate a certain amount of times and as you rotate them.
And there's not enough tension on them on the downside when you try to tension it back the other direction it wants to push the garage door back down because it hasn't spun around enough the other direction for it to like want to go back up.
So it actually I actually bought two springs for no reason so I have two springs on like garage.
I don't need to use both of them.
They're better there. It's crazy.
The advantage there is if I do ever need another spring all I have to do is just set the tension on the spring that I'm not using.
Take the tension out the spring that broke and put the string on the tension on the spring that I have the extra spare spring basically.
And now I'm good to go. I don't have to take anything apart or do anything. I just have to keep from that thing spinning around and hitting me in the face.
If you've ever heard a garage door spring exploded it's pretty violent. It's just like a blow out and you're like what was that noise and then you go to leave the house later that week or the next you know next week.
You find out your graduate won't open at all.
Anyways, I'm gonna try to get some sleep and hopefully this mess is not whatever that shouldn't be named.
I'll stay safe, take it easy and hope this helps you guys out later.
You've been listening to Heka Public Radio at HekaPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast then click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is.
Heka Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution, ShareLive, 3.0 license.
