Episode: 3194
Title: HPR3194: Linux Inlaws S01E16: The count and the questions
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3194/hpr3194.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 18:34:31

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3194 for Thursday 29 October 2020. Today's show is entitled
The Count and the Questions,
and is part of the series, Linux in Laws. It is hosted by Monochromec
and is about 68 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summary is
Linux in Laws Season 1 Episode 16. This is Linux in Laws.
A series on free and open source software. Black Humera.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15 that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
This is Linux in Laws.
A podcast on topics around free and open source software.
Any associated contraband, communism, the revolution in general
and whatever else, fans is vertical.
Please note that this and other episodes may contain strong language
offensive humor and other certainly not politically correct language.
You have been warned. Our parents insisted on this disclaimer.
Happy mum? That's the content is not suitable for consumption in the workplace,
especially when played back on a speaker in an open-plan office or similar environments.
Any miners under the age of 35 or any pets including fluffy little killer bunnies,
you trusted guide dog unless on speed and Q to T-rexes or other associated dinosaurs.
This is Linux in Laws.
Series 1, episode 16 with account and the questions.
Dracool, how is life down in Transylvania?
Ah, the knife is a bit sparse on the blood side. It's very thin.
Let me just check my cupboard for some supplies.
Ah, no, that's not a still alive. Excellent, excellent. I'll go for that one.
Perfect, perfect.
For a moment while I have my lunch.
How?
To straighten you down there. Still out and about with the access and the linchance?
The linchance, yes, and also the salvatory. He's on the doorstep.
Why is that?
Because we moved to Italy for some reason, not Transylvania?
Oh, come.
I don't know, you are speaking in Italy.
Welcome to the Transylvania of Linux in Laws.
Yes, you have to enter the right station.
This is the long awaited Halloween special.
Why don't you introduce us to the concept?
What we have in mind for the next 24 hours.
The concept for today, sorry, sorry, that's not me.
So today we have a number of questions sent in by our listeners.
And we have a special on the subject of Halloween and how this relates to technology.
People in technology and open source.
Excellent, excellent.
And of course, as you can hear, the business, no expenses were spared on sound effects front.
And yes, man, thank you.
And today, actually, we do have a very special treat for our cherish listeners.
We're going to do a full blown episode that's what you're listening to now.
And there will be a B sites.
This B sites episode will only be hosted on Linux in Laws.
It's a once off.
Simply due to the fact that we had so many questions.
What that we said that we're going to do all the show because in that case, the show would be approximately 25 hours long.
So we condense them into two parts.
One part we're going to take a now plus a little bit of property on humor with humor in addition to humor, sorry.
And then we have the B sites, which is another good chunk of questions.
And then we're done for this episode.
And then we will resume the normal schedule afterwards as usual.
So that you know the links or the link rather to the B sites will be in the show notes once this goes live.
And as I said, the B sites will not be hosted on Hacker Public Radio.
There's the ones off, but rather on Linux in Laws.
So Martin, why don't you get us started with the first question?
Yes, so yes.
So the 24 hours is not a good idea because I have to sleep in the daytime.
So this is why we purely stuck to 12 of course.
Okay.
Is your microphone in the coffee not working?
Let me just go.
Yep, she's still there.
That sounded very much like your wife.
No, no, this is just a snack.
They're not the same, are they?
Don't mention Emma. Yeah, she's not here.
But she has written it next year, but more than that later.
She used to be an active writer.
Absolutely.
It must be our only listener.
Right, where were we?
Question question.
Okay, any particular question you would like me to address?
Or does quite a few as I mentioned?
Yes, I know, but just pick one.
I don't know.
And then we can discuss that in an open source context.
I found the, I found the world wildlife fun thing very good.
I just had a glimpse at this.
You found them not good?
The world wildlife question.
No, it wasn't a question with regards to actually our favorite subject at hand,
nocturnal species and animals and stuff.
Not the ground.
What is your referring to here?
No, no, no, of course not.
No, no, no, it's questioned that with me.
You are here.
Exactly.
Sorry.
I think it's in an envelope.
A label 16.
And I think if I recall correctly, the question was sent in by a guy called
Dracul also known as the Transylvania and Peler,
which I find quite strange because he actually writes,
do I really exist as in do vampires really exist?
If so, do they count as protected species?
If so, what does the world wildlife fun do about this survival?
But that's a very interesting question.
It is, it is.
But I'm not sure why you are writing it because I'm not entirely sure how this is related to the Linux in laws,
but we can have a go, right?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Why do they do this, of course?
Otherwise, there wouldn't be recording this episode.
Never mind writing letters.
Indeed, indeed.
Okay, protected species.
Well, there aren't many of them, I think.
Well, there's werewolves.
There's vampires.
Um, there is trolls, I think.
I don't think trolls are around the same category there, but which is.
I'm finally confused about which species we're talking about now.
No, yes, maybe.
I thought we were talking about vampires.
Yes.
Are they protected species?
I think so.
I mean, they're on the brink of extinction, no.
I think they've been going for quite a few thousands of years.
They seem to be doing quite well on the survival rates.
I don't think they're near any protecting personally, but.
Well, I don't know.
I mean, thousands of years.
Are you sure?
Oh, yes.
So yes.
They live forever.
I'm just drinking with your blood.
Yeah, but I mean, the first, I mean, no, certainly.
The whole vampire thing goes back to.
Really, somebody called blood, the Raku, uh, who happened to live in Pennsylvania from a completely mistaken.
As in the modern form of vampires, anyway, I think there were in Babylon or something like this as an ancient house.
There was also a concept of a nocturnal creatures sucking lives, um, the second blood out of out of living people.
Like this.
So I reckon the concept is way older than just blood, the Raku, but I think that's.
Yeah.
Here's a question.
Here's a question for you.
Do mosquitoes count as vampires?
No, they don't because if a vampire mosquito bites you, you, you don't turn into mosquito rights.
And more specifically, you don't live forever.
So no, mosquitoes wouldn't be vampires.
Okay.
It depends how you classify that.
Well, it's a blood-tucking animal.
That's what you.
Yes, so far I'm with you.
But there's a couple of other traits that classify, so I'm part of.
Well, they live in coffins.
Only do the day, yes, correct?
They can't stand sunlight as we all know.
I'm going to watch this with your biological background.
How does that work?
There is a documentary called blade one and two and three.
The way it works essentially.
Once it turned, you have something like an anaphylactic shock.
Once you ultraviolet ray reaches your skin.
It's quite down to a molecular level.
Of what is kind of like it's like a master sunburn essentially.
Only with a side effect that you die instantly.
Nice.
That's the way it works.
Yeah, so that actually that relates to question 29.
Why is silver efficient on effective on vampires?
Let me actually recount this.
It is actually explained another documentary called Vlad the Impaler or something like this.
The essentially when Judas is not before I hanged himself basically he got 13 silver coins.
And the connection between Judas.
And Vlad escapes me.
Maybe it does.
There's some connections people look it up.
Or maybe Judas actually I think Judas was the first vampire something like this.
Because he wants to hang themselves.
He couldn't die and lived on as an as an as an as an eternal curse or to speak.
And I think this is may this may be the connection with the server and and and vampires.
And you just say as we all know, werewolves are actually just a kind of.
Offspring or other variant of vampires exactly pretty much like like like the Vulcans and the Romulans are related right they go back to a kind of common answer.
Yes, some others same goes for werewolves and and vampires and hence and that's exactly the reason why they can't stand each other.
So yes.
So the easiest way to to to kill actually is a member of either species is just basically to carry a silver bullet with you in a lot of gun of course.
Well, yes.
But okay, another related question number 32 is.
Can vampires are they susceptible to COVID-19 when they drink the blood of a similar very infected person.
The counter question is not doesn't matter because they are eternal as in they can't die unless.
I don't know now being hit by some now.
Unless being hit by some at all.
So the bullet are bad jokes like drum jokes or something.
So the answer is so the answer is no.
They are obviously also maybe bat related so a bat or a originated disease would probably not harm them for enough for enough.
Yeah, good.
They can turn into wolves.
So if a battery-related disease would hit them, there would simply either say either assume a human shade or would simply turn into wolf and that and that's the bad disease gone.
From biological perspective.
No, that sounds pretty clever.
Excellent. Maybe you should all become vampires on that subject.
Your modern day choice of vampire.
Who would you choose and why?
My modern.
I don't quite understand the question, but maybe you can elaborate modern.
I guess we're kind of moved on to.
Part two of the quick fire, but this is a similar scenario.
Well, I mean, you can have the choice of a politician, a media mogul, a computing mogul, an open source project leader.
You may not you consider a vampire, which one?
Which one?
These are hypothetical questions.
I see.
I see that we're trying to confuse our listeners, right?
So these are not written in questions anymore.
No, this was question 35. Did you not get it?
No, I didn't.
Is there something?
You're supposed to go with broken.
Here we go again.
And like some other dns by systems.
You only posted some dns.
No, Martin, I'm not.
Okay.
Anyway, so what would your answer be?
I reckon I would go for Boris Johnson.
Interesting choice.
And why?
I'm sorry.
Because he basically pulled Brexit off and he will run the country into a grump and into the ground pretty much like drug wounded back in the olden days.
When he basically eliminated all the people down, transferred here because without blood, you cannot live.
And if you turn them all into vampires and if there's no blood supply, eventually probably these vampires will starve to intern.
I thought he's in the cows instead, perhaps.
And once the cows are done, what do you do?
What do you do then?
Eat the chickens.
There you go.
Yeah, but I mean, you see Martin, the concept is eternal life.
Well, life is debatable, but eternal anyway.
So this is the reason actually why you saw that massive wave of people leaving turns to venue around around a kind of 700 years ago.
And as we all know, most of them actually went.
I don't know.
I wasn't granted 100 years ago.
But then you're not the politician, right?
No, I don't know.
That's correct.
Far from in fact.
Accent.
Okay.
Would you like to pick a question next?
Yes.
Somebody very, I can't go back to computer science now.
Is it at least that dangerous to run?
How do how to crack P equals NP?
As a portable runtime equals non-programmer runtime.
I think we're talking about transistors here.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm sorry, I'm talking about complexity theory now.
Complexity theory.
I think it's called in English as in the theory about.
Farneet state automata and their runtime.
When tackling certain classes of problems.
Mm hmm.
Okay.
It's a bigger non-programmer runtime complete problem would be the traveling salesman.
I you have a graph.
And you have to find the shortest way in this graph.
But you have to hit each and every note in this graph.
I eat the shortest way or the shortest route, rather,
to hit all of the locations or towns on a given, on a given route.
Yeah.
So the question is what again?
Are polynomial runtime and non-programmer runtime complexity classes equivalent?
This is an unsolved problem, right?
Well, yes, Martin, that goes back to university days.
Probably you can recall that lecture when you still kind of made up your mind whether to attempt this or not.
Yeah, hey, I mean, you've got an unsolved problem.
Thanks for this.
It would have been better, Martin, to attempt this lecture.
But hey, you were in your early 20 cents still young, right?
You've probably had different priorities.
A few years ago here.
So yes.
Okay, so what is the question again?
Will this will this be ever proven?
Well, this is the same as saying one equals zero.
Is that going to be proven on service by definition?
No, it's asking these are unrelated problems.
Well, this is where you're wrong.
Why?
Because you usually are.
I don't get it.
I'm never wrong, Martin.
Let's see.
Yeah, this is obviously not the right attitude.
You don't learn anything, are you?
Well, I know everything already.
So what's the big deal?
Right.
Almost almost.
I see.
You're also one of these eternal beings, like our friend Dracula.
Friend, I see you.
Okay.
Here's one for you, Martin.
Okay.
How can I compromise quantum computers?
Yeah.
Well, that's quite easy.
Isn't it?
You just turn off the call supply and then just blows up.
Martin, the question is not how to destroy a quantum computer.
But rather, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how do you, how can you break into it without breaking it?
Essentially, I, how can you take a look at the, it's inner workings.
And then you, and then it's useful afterwards.
Like you break into the computer system.
I yourself as a system, basically, with the buffer overload.
Is there something you want to tell our business here?
No, I'm just making the, I'm just making the sound, right?
So like you break into software by, for example, buffer flow, but then you're still able to use that software.
Without you blowing it up, like formatting or partitioning the heart, this is something like this.
It's an interesting theoretical question.
I don't personally have any access to quantum computers.
I'm not investigating this scenario, but in case you have, why don't you tell our dear listeners?
Well, it's, it's, I don't think it's that, it's that, it's that complicated because you essentially just take another quantum computer.
For example, if you want to, if you want to crack quantum encryption,
you better use something that is equal to fast.
So another quantum computer comes to mind.
Okay.
This obviously requires having a quantum computer.
As a matter of fact, one, you break into one, you break into two.
Yeah, but I mean, you're talking about.
Just near Kelvin, right?
It doesn't have to be absolute.
Is it zero degrees, is zero degrees, Kelvin?
I mean, now you can, now you can be down to, I think, 269 or something like this.
Yeah, it's an almost room temperature.
Well, I guess it is for four or seven parts.
I think.
Okay.
No, I'm sitting theory and sitting here.
If you do ever get hold of the quantum computer, let me know.
That's it.
There's another very interesting question that goes back to previous episode, of course.
I think that the grumpy old quarters are just a little bit lost invention.
How can you prove their existence?
Okay.
That's actually quite easy, isn't it?
Because we just get them on the show.
Yes, indeed.
But then you have another question saying, I just invented them and you're using voice doubles and whatever.
No, no, no, no, no.
And the grumpy old quarters are not a Linux in loss invention.
Very important.
They do exist.
We know the person.
Well, I know I know at least one of them personally.
I haven't met one of them.
Yes.
Yes, you have not one of them to exactly.
So, yes, they do run their own podcast totally in kind of things in loss.
And the reason why we give so many plaques is essentially we will love them, right?
So, that's straight forward.
Grumpy old quarters, if you're listening to this, please get in touch.
Where we don't follow to having you on the show.
What do you mean if they're listening?
Surely they are.
You're not sure.
I don't know.
I don't know.
We have to stop plugging in.
I don't know.
We do.
Don't forget about it.
Grumpy old quarters.
If you want to receive further plaques, make sure that you send us.
Questions that you are listening to that podcast.
Okay, let's go back to the questions.
Right.
But you were just talking about breaking into quantum computers.
How about breaking into four knocks to make it more profitable?
And specifically, specifically using open source technology.
Working or not?
This is this is really easy.
I mean, you just.
Okay.
Of million bucks.
Right.
You're a little bit of recognizant recognizant.
You're pre-reputed.
You're pre-reputed.
It's our kind of.
Gracing imagine in imagination, but not that practical.
Really.
About quantum computers.
You're talking about one of the most hard and places on the planet.
Well, our listeners are asking, right?
This is probably the guy in charge of security of four knocks asking.
How do we do that?
I cover myself.
The question is not how expensive it is to break into four knocks,
but rather how you would do it using open source technology.
The devil, of course, lies in the details as usual.
No, essentially, it's really safer because you just.
You do a little bit of recognizance using open source tools.
I you take a look at the parameter as in the.
The fence essential that they use made up of made up of.
Intrusion to technical systems, intrusion parent systems.
You map the infrastructure.
There you find the holes.
If any, and then you go through these holes.
Don't bother with physical access, because as I said,
it would be pretty hard.
To do it that way.
Unless.
I have a question here.
How do I move a bar of gold through a internet connection?
You would need something called the teleporter,
which hasn't been invented yet.
OK, OK, right.
So I'm not a prerequisite to have a teleporter.
OK, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I think there's there was.
I have another idea.
That's right.
You can go ahead.
Sorry.
There was there was I think another kind of.
Ancient documentary called the fly with the guy called Jeff.
And we tried this by say it miserably.
So I think this prototype wasn't exactly.
The most efficient one.
Yeah, so I have an even better solution,
which is to use the flux capacitor.
And you go back to the time before the four blocks was built,
make a little hole in the ground and.
They'll access hatch to where four blocks are going to be built and turn on.
And you can just take on a goal when they after they built it.
And what does that have to do with open source?
Well, you can run the flux capacitor on open source officially.
Can you?
OK.
It's yours not.
What do you want to win?
That sounds like a recipe for.
It's a handy tip for you.
I'm going to run you.
I'm going to run you.
Right.
OK.
Yeah.
There's another one.
Very interesting question.
What's the correct spelling of OS X 10.99.99?
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
I'm sure.
Yes.
Why don't we defer that one to Clorio to write in the answer for?
I think that's what you're listening.
Please write in the answer.
That's very important.
If this question is not from you, that is.
Does he not say who it was from?
No, it doesn't.
There's no name on the envelope.
An anonymous envelope.
Well, OK.
Excellent.
Yeah.
I am not a good boy.
Given the fact that Richard storm is a T 10.
It doesn't make that the whole enforcement movement evil.
Martin, this is a very interesting aspect.
Isn't it?
It is.
I mean, imagine Martin.
Imagine actually that Richard is actually a terminator sent back from the future.
Yeah.
Discuss.
Well, my question would be who has he come to terminate?
He comes to mind.
And by the way, he's done a very good job on this.
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
You tell.
Well, Emax.
Something called the new public license and so far in innovation.
Yeah.
Open source movement.
If that brings about.
There's button.
If you don't know what opens up.
OK.
You want it.
It's a beautiful podcast.
Yeah.
The little looks in laws.
This is all.
I recommend this.
OK.
So.
Thanks.
You don't.
A lot of them actually.
Terminating.
Any close source of values.
He's doing the opposite by creating.
Open source software.
Well, I see a terminator though.
Isn't it?
Well, I can.
Have you.
Have you.
Have you ever.
I mean, just.
Wonderman.
And.
Yes.
It does.
Perfect.
Given the fact that this is a football niggles kind of running on top of something called windows.
Even Microsoft these days has fully embraced the notion of open source and WSL 2.0 is just another example.
I suppose.
Maybe you.
That doesn't really.
That doesn't really answer the question that he's not a terminator.
Well, he managed.
Or whatever you want to call it.
Well, you.
He managed to break into the fortress of brightest of brightest of other planets called Microsoft.
Yes.
OK.
So, but your average bird burglar is in the terminator, right?
It's it's.
Yeah.
I don't think he can be classified as a terminator.
Well, the question says.
It is a good thing.
Your your terminator status is filled.
Well, the question is given the fact that.
I'm sorry.
Is it 10?
It doesn't say if.
Richard is a 10.
Well, I think it's.
It's mainly question.
Who sent this question in.
A guard called Eric Ravens.
OK.
He's according to the end.
Eric is listening.
All is forgiven.
Do continue writing.
Very good.
Eric.
Don't worry.
All is forgiven.
Richard has stepped down from the FSF.
Yes.
OK.
Have.
I don't know.
Do you think we have sufficient answer this question?
It's.
It's the best question in the world.
Is it to be fair?
Yes.
There's another one.
Actually, what's going on?
Saturday.
And.
How can we ensure that the 45th US president.
Is not Saturday next to sex.
Successful project.
That's actually a very valid question, isn't it?
It's a very good question.
And I want.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
Of course, but it doesn't matter.
I don't think.
Saturday.
Into open source.
Are they.
As.
Shoot listers.
Of course.
No.
Nvidia used to be the.
Pre-decessor of something called Saturday.
Go back to one of the previous episodes where it's all good.
Where it's all explained.
Yes.
So.
No, it's not open source.
But maybe Saturday and 2.0 will be.
I don't know.
But that's the future.
I mean, yes.
Okay.
So.
How can we ensure this?
I think the.
There has to be some serious.
Activity or action to prevent this because it hasn't.
Happened in the past, as we can see.
So if we want to prevent this in future, then it's going to take some serious effort.
And you.
And yeah, I mean, there's obviously.
I mean, that this is what is the 45th.
45th.
45th president.
Yes.
I think it's.
I think it's according to American history.
This is a guy called Donald Trump.
It's not completely mistaken.
Well, I mean, the answer is straight forward, right?
I mean, it's okay.
Okay.
What do you do when you open source of project?
You take the source code and do what with it?
You make it public, right?
So that people can slice it open and take the look at the.
I don't want to.
It's just things slicing open.
Exactly.
So what you do with Trump?
You put up on the table.
Slice.
And then take a look at the at the inner walkings.
Okay.
It could be missing.
It doesn't matter.
I mean, if this is a hybrid as a robot technology combined with.
Human tissue, you could be pretty sure that this might be actually sourdance work.
If it's just human tissue, well tough luck.
It's probably not time.
But I'm sure that a guy called what's the name Biden, right?
Biden will be more than happy.
But the fact that now it doesn't show this slice open on an operating table.
Well, I mean, as I think going forwards, we should probably be slicing open all the candidates
just to make sure that they're not cyberdying next.
You might run into a problem with an organization called Peter.
I think P.E.T.A. or something like this.
You tell me.
Yeah.
I mean, you're funneling the show notes, people.
They normally care about whales and other species.
Exactly.
If you just continue to slice open presidential candidates might have an issue with them eventually.
Hmm.
Well, you do want to be careful on this one.
We've been back together again.
Okay.
Okay, so shall I go next?
Let me have a look at this next question.
Oh, this is related to cyberdying.
Anyway, how can cyberdying be turned as in?
This is this is straightforward.
It's actually what you do.
Simply we mean.
Yeah, you think you talk.
Yeah, no, no.
Of course, even even more simple.
You simply better take your flux capacitor capacitor capacitor capacitor capacitor capacitor.
Yes, it's straightforward.
You take your flux capacitor jump back in time.
On open source.
Yes, absolutely open source the first Nvidia code base.
And there you have it.
That'll change the course of history.
Linus Torvalds of course won't say fuck Nvidia.
And this is how you introduce open source cyberdying.
Right.
Okay.
So when we meant when we when we interpret the question as being turned from close software.
Good point.
Good point.
Yes, this is obviously a job.
Very good.
Hmm.
Here's another one.
Don't know who wrote this in.
Probably what one of our pals.
What is this Dennis character character history of running companies into the ground.
And what are the Linux inverse doing about this?
Okay.
For those listeners for those few listeners who do not know who Dennis is.
Dennis is our CFO our chief financial officer.
That Gordon to Martin has a history of.
Or who has actually a content history has a history of of building successful startups.
And all the rest of it.
But it was higher on a whip actually by Martin without me, not even knowing it.
So it's.
Are you saying you wrote this question?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No, I don't know.
No, it's a distinctly recognizable bit of handwriting.
No, hang on actually.
It's actually this that this is Dennis mom sending this.
Interesting.
Well, Dennis mom, you should know Dennis, right?
So.
But let's tackle the let's tackle the let's tackle the second part of the question.
What the Linux and those are doing about actually a very good question.
We should we I mean, we could terminate him, not him, but this is his contract right.
I mean, the company was doing.
The innocent was doing quite well without a for issue financial officer.
Well, it was until you got the contract with Rainbow Escorts, right?
So, um, I think that's why we had to instate a Dennis is role because the expenses were getting
rather out of hand.
You mean your expense rainbow Escorts.
Martin, if you try to expense rainbow Escorts, this is your fault.
I had a company.
I had a corporate account for this.
Yeah, this is what I mean.
This is what Dennis was.
Martin, Martin, you see, Martin is what is the what is the what is the first?
The what is the first and foremost trade of a corporate account?
You tell me.
How does it work?
Stay again.
What's the what?
What is the first and foremost trade as an character?
Thank you.
Characteristic.
Thank you very much.
Off a corporate account.
That is corporate.
Yes.
So far.
That this is where you're going wrong.
See, we are not a corporation.
Well, this is debatable.
A corporate account.
Martin is where you confirm or sure a supply of certain services are good.
That a specific baseline of revenue will be guaranteed by buying more or less in bulk.
I see.
Hence the prices of individual items on this account go down.
Yes, so you know,
if you know what I mean.
Yes.
Yes.
Very good.
Yeah, it still doesn't account for the fact that your corporate account is costing us 100 times more than my expense items.
So this is why Dennis is not too impressed with your financial management.
Martin.
If you and and selling if you teach it is not.
If you want our bills.
If you would have.
Anyway, we have continued.
Yes, we want that later.
Yes.
Let's leave the shame with commercial plaques until the very end.
Okay.
Sorry.
If you would have continued.
Expensing individual services by rainbow escorts.
So you know, on your monthly expense claim that would have been way more expensive.
Then.
Then putting these and and a couple of extra runs on the corporate account.
Because we are actually.
We are getting or we used to get before I moved you back to my to to to my.
To my payroll not pipe payroll.
What's what I'm looking for to my account.
You get paid for this.
Yeah, man.
That's good.
You're not anyway.
Okay.
Martin, Martin, the discount address at rainbow escorts was 70% on this corporate account.
So where you would be paying this price more or less with Emma and friends.
Like in what was it?
Like 300 quid for an hour or two.
I would be paying only 30% of this.
On the corporate account.
Do you see what I mean?
Yes.
You're both buying.
I.
Okay.
So.
So.
Never mind.
Never mind.
Never mind.
Who owns this corporate account.
I was running by exports.
As far as.
Just.
Put it on the account.
Martin.
Do not.
Do not.
Do not.
Fence this going forward.
This would be.
Be handy.
If this email you sent with this corporate account information actually made it to myself.
But if your post was broken again.
My post isn't broken Martin.
You are posting this broken apparently.
It's calling spam spam filter that.
You have an outgoing one as well.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Hang on.
There's another one actually about rainbow escorts.
A certain Martin visa writes in.
How can I get in touch with Emma or frame by escorts?
And then it says for the really desperate.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Anyway, Martin, you should know this.
Why are you writing this question?
Yeah.
This is obviously.
Another month.
Right.
Yeah.
Somebody is.
Yes.
Is it?
I see.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Yes.
So moving off the rainbow escorts subject.
Well, I.
Sorry.
We didn't ask the question.
Of course.
Of course.
Straight forward.
You could just get in touch with Martin and Martin.
We put you in touch with Emma.
Are they a secret organization?
Sure.
No, no, no.
Are you.
Or you can, of course, visit.
Visit Martin's newly built adult entertainment website.
Uh huh.
Which is hanky panky minus Martin visa.com.
I think.
Excellent.
Something like that.
Anyway, use your famous search engine.
Martin, which we're probably show up on the very search.
On the very first search result page or something like this.
Just search for Martin Vista.
Either porn or edit.
Edit.
Edit entertainment services.
You find it.
No worries.
Oh, that's useful information.
Our open source lifters.
I'm sure.
Absolutely.
Okay.
Now then.
So.
This brings me on to a.
Very topical question.
Being.
I have a Sicilian challenge at hand.
How can I get in touch with.
New York City's HQs and beyond as featured in episode to be.
And first of all, Martin, you should probably explain what a Sicilian challenge is.
Say challenge in Sicily.
And what does.
And what does New York have to do with it?
Well, there's a lot of them leave over there.
They open it.
Very good.
Very good.
And then they started putting horses heads on people's pillows.
I think extra extra very good.
And of course, you want to take this Martin or.
Well, I think.
Did you wrote the sketch?
Didn't you?
We could always ask our friend Claudio.
Yes, yes, yes.
So we could ask the guy called.
Who happens to live on this in.
In Sicily.
Okay.
Do you tell about Salvador?
Who is this?
Yes.
Salvador is from.
Liverpool.
And he invented something called.
I think.
Okay.
He lives in some.
In Sicily, doesn't he?
See.
Okay.
That's kind of.
Yes.
Right.
So.
To the answer is.
And.
Salvador.
Adredis.
Ork.
No.
No, no.
This is anti.
No, no.
Here's Nick is actually anti.
I enter.
And you'll find this.
Nick on Twitter and GitHub.
I think.
Anti res.
Oh, isn't his.
His.
Picture also werewolf.
A wolf of certainly aware of.
I'm not sure.
Hmm.
Okay.
That's very topical.
Very topical for this episode.
Maybe we should ask him.
Yeah.
Why don't you write an email?
Well, I'm sure he's listening.
So.
Salvador.
If you're listening, please do get the touch.
We need to help on this question.
Yes.
Okay.
Excellent.
Right.
Now.
What is a question from?
Sorry, you go ahead.
Here's a question from Rob in.
Basing stoke.
He's asking.
What is next month's letter of numbers?
I was just about to ask that.
To ask that very same question.
All those.
Although another.
I don't ever in writing.
Answer straight forward.
Actually.
You used to use the flask.
Precious capacitor.
What's again?
Make it time jump.
No, no, no, no, no, not.
How is this?
Is asking what are they?
Ah.
Use a flask capacitor.
Make it time jump.
Write them down.
Bring them back.
Simple.
Our flask capacitor is unfortunate.
The under maintenance right now.
So we can't.
We can't tell you.
I'm afraid.
Ah.
So here.
This brings me onto question.
99.
Where can I get hold of the blueprint for a flask.
Baster.
Good question.
Um.
Check out GitHub.
Okay.
Maybe it's on there.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I simply break into time.
But I know.
That's always a good idea.
I'm video for that matter.
Of course.
Yes.
Well, you could always go and.
Is it Jensen in the kitchen?
Um.
And asked him personally.
There's another good question.
Here will.
I really love the sketch about.
Leo's trouble with reconfiguring English history using the command line.
If you episodes back.
Can I count more on this?
Sorry.
Can I count more?
No, can I count on more of this?
Exactly.
Yes.
Count on more of this.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, you can.
Although the dark has been.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, can you count more of this?
If we have.
Perhaps the handy.
And maybe the big picture is that.
Yes.
Unfortunately, the dark side has taken a little bit of a break.
Um, of the last few episodes.
People this will change.
It's just a matter of.
Well, doing these sketches.
Too busy doing dark things.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Which I can't really talk about.
Anyway, doesn't matter.
Yeah.
There will be more dark side things coming up in the near in the very new future.
So stay tuned on this one.
Hmm.
This is quite topical.
This is something for you, Martin.
The question being written in by a certain Mrs.
I suspect my husband.
Significant other part of every pet is having an affair.
What are the meats at my disposal using open source?
Is that your wife writing it?
Why do open source for this?
Ask your wife.
I don't know if she's if she's written this.
I don't know.
It just seems like a.
They're quite a few.
Pretty straightforward solutions for this available.
Good job.
Require building something yourself.
Like GPS trackers breaking into phones.
And these open source.
Well, it didn't have to be open source, right?
They just have to work for this purpose.
Well, your wife or whoever that Mrs.
Visitor is specifically asked about open source.
Well, I guess this is just a trick to get their question on the show.
But open source.
Mrs. Visitor, it has worked.
Although I do apologize about the answer because clearly this is missing the mark.
Okay.
What would you answer me then film?
Take a look at GitHub and other course.
In terms of what's out there.
I mean, for example, you can of course use an open source tracker app on your Android phone.
This is straightforward, especially on the router device.
It's not that complicated.
Given the fact that.
Android and Android Android Android.
No, it's it's sufficiently enough basically to have that person own an Android device which can be rooted.
Because essentially what you do is you take that Android device,
root it yourself and then put your tracker upon it.
Yes, this.
And.
And that's not the question.
Yes, and the subject in question doesn't even have to know about it.
The beauty of course is that.
Android itself is based on something.
Or the whole of Android ecosystem is based on something called the Android open source project, the AOSP.
These are the open source parts of the of the underlying operating system.
Including all the Java APIs and what have you.
As the stuff that currently the highest supreme court in the US is debating or something.
I don't know.
You heard about this mark, right?
I don't know.
It's not politics actually the open source.
No.
There was about what this week last week.
I can't even remember.
There was a final hearing or session about.
Oracle versus open source.
Sorry, Oracle versus versus Google with regards to the.
Potential potential copyright infringement by Google.
When they use the JVM API findroid.
Okay.
Makes sense.
Never heard about it.
Okay.
There was a company called Sun.
Sun invented Java about.
25 26 years ago.
No, we are recording.
We are recording this in 2030 but rather in 2020 just for the reference.
So and then Andrew roomstein came along and invented something called Android,
which she subsequently sold to a search company called Google.
So the whole notion of an Android phone was born with the operating system.
The trouble is of course Android uses something very similar,
very resembling to something called the JVM Java virtual machine.
As a matter of fact, Java was the first implementation language for Android.
Meaning Andrew did have the advantage that you could program and the.
Any app that you wanted to to to to to develop in Java because the.
API look pretty similar to what Google invented to what Oracle invented about.
As I said, 10 or 15 years prior to this, that of course meant that.
That of course meant that the manufacturers for apps running on Android were able to.
Use skills, highly skilled.
Most of the time existing workforce that was able to program in Java.
By simply making the.
API of the underlying operating system, including graphic libraries and all the rest of it.
Very similar. If not completely the same like to the existing JVM, of course,
Oracle didn't like this. So they drag Google in front of court.
And now it has come to the front session.
Oh, that's right. Yes.
Okay. Cool. So by the time this goes out, I reckon there.
I think the high court or the Supreme sort of high court.
Oh, there. The Supreme Court has two options.
Either they can take a fun ruling on this.
Or they can be furthest back to a to inferior court.
So let's see.
Of course, with any final decision being taken that would certainly have a very.
Potentially very severe impact on the corresponding copyright laws.
Nevermind on the open source movement as such.
Because of the implications essentially.
Because if Oracle would gain the upper hand, that would mean that you cannot reuse.
Existing APIs for your project.
To some extent, which is of course a damp now for any innovation.
Okay, I think we are almost done with the questions as I said in the beginning.
That's quite a few more, right?
Yeah, there's quite a few more. There will be besides.
We are taking feedback.
At Linux.
At, of course, the known email address, which is feedback at linuxinloss.eu.
And Martin, of course, now wants to plug the merchandise store.
The merch store as it's affectionately known.
Why don't you plug the merch store?
Okay, sorry, I thought you were in the middle of speaking.
Why do I have to do all the talking?
Oh, because that stops you from drinking more beer.
Very lame.
So yes, the shop.
Yes, we have the shop with the t-shirts and the mugs.
So those of you who would like to support us are actually own a very cool t-shirt with an in-nose and associated contraband on it.
Please visit the shop on our website.
Thank you.
And yes, at the moment currently you may need to use Google Translate since it's all in German, but that is okay.
No Martin, it's not.
No, the URL may have a German top level domain, but the shop is in English.
The shop is fixed.
Excellent.
Yes.
Good job, man.
Very good.
And Martin, from now on, I think we should conclude every each and every show with our motto because that has been laying to the wayside for much too long.
And of course, the motto is...
You totally go where no man has gone before.
No, no, no, no.
Repeat after me, Martin.
Linux in-laws, you come for the knowledge, but stay for the madness.
Now we do it together.
I'm going to do the first part.
You're going to do the second part and then we swap just for just for measure.
Okay, Linux in-laws, you come for the knowledge.
Stay for the madness.
No, you go first.
The next in-laws, you come for the knowledge.
But you stay for the madness.
This is much better.
Okay.
So it has been decided.
In series one or season one, episode 16, the in-laws made a very, very important decision.
Each and every show will be concluded with famous motto.
Available on t-shirts, marks on all the rest of the merchandise.
Martin will do the first part and Chris will conclude with a final and second part.
And of course the motto is just once again for our business, Martin.
Linux in-laws, you come for the knowledge.
But stay for the madness.
See you next time.
This episode of Linux in-laws is brought to you by the Transvaining Cooperative, also known as Vlad and Friends.
Ever wondered how your source coach can survive the mists of time?
Fred not, the open source coach vibrator.
Forget GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket and all the other nonsense which promise something that they can hardly deliver on.
Only with us your source coach can become true.
You can become truly immortal.
All it takes is a small pinch in the neck.
Some lines of code drained for good cause from the code base.
Not unlike a blood donation, a little bit of waiting until the turning transformation has finished and the code will not be able to die.
Unless a change of license makes it proprietary of course.
Similar to silver or garlic, I am afraid that there is little we can do about this.
Once tainted by this, your code will perish before long, like every other proprietary code base.
This podcast is licensed under the latest version of the Creative Commons license type attribution share like.
Credits for the intro music go to blue zeroosters, for the songs of the market, to twin flames for their piece called the flow used for the second intros, and finally to celestial ground for the songs we just use by the dark side.
You find these and other details licensed under cc hmando or website dedicated to liberate the music industry from choking copyright legislation and other crap concepts.
How are we doing?
Everything on right in Pennsylvania.
The blood supplies running dry.
Indeed.
Yes, send more targets, please.
Why do you why do you not leave here?
Because it's not good for you.
I agree, but only if it's talking about every news news.
We are doing a bit of a health session at the moment.
Why?
Well, because the gym is closed and we are sitting in our desk all day and it's just not very healthy.
This is rubbish, Martin.
I mean, I'm not sure why if you don't have to convince me so no select.
It's just an occasional abstinence.
I was for today, I see.
Yes, indeed.
Well, for the next two hours.
Why don't you make it for the next few minutes?
I just found out actually that you cannot upgrade content.
Why are you using centoists?
I do.
Well, I just think you remember you telling me that their package repository is a rubbish.
Say it again.
I distinctly remember you telling me that their package repositories are rubbish and so on and should be avoided.
Therefore.
So the close I get to the service actually using centoists.
Okay.
And sometimes actually Fedora doesn't cut it.
So I need something that remotely resembles Rao.
You do?
Why?
Because sometimes the packages in Fedora are just too new.
If you know what I mean.
I mean, especially if you have customer who is under the impression that for the production is probably not the best choice.
Customer.
Yes.
This is work related.
Of course, obviously, people that play money.
The company is in charge of this company's value.
I'm not sure if you're familiar with the concept.
It's called a job.
I don't do jobs anymore now.
No, no, no, no.
It's more of a vocation.
Anyway.
So let me.
If I find the right plug and then we can get going.
Okay.
Before we get going.
I can look this up myself, but I see make list.
What do I do with it?
What do I mean?
Well, it's a project description.
Isn't it?
See make list that.
Does that translate into a handy compilation of the whole project?
Easily.
You lost me there.
Okay.
Please.
Please wash.
Do you know what a see make list is number one?
Now you're fading.
Maybe this is rubbish bear with me.
Oh, sorry.
My mic.
Sorry.
You were saying your mic.
I was saying you know what the see make list is, right?
A see make list is basically a recipe for to produce a see make file from a complete mistake.
Right.
Okay.
Okay.
And of course see make being a system.
If you're familiar with the contact.
You broke up that.
How did you do that?
I managed to move away from the router as far as possible.
That's quite.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let me.
Let me change locations once again.
You moved into the fridge.
Yeah.
We closer to the beer.
No, that's not quite normal service.
I must quite get there.
Okay.
You're struggling with some stupid open source code base.
No, no, no, no.
No, it's just a.
A dated generation bunch of software written a C++.
It's got a bunch of see make files with it.
I just want to see kind of quickly compile it without having to spend too much time.
I'm dissecting all this stuff really.
But anyway.
Okay.
That's fun.
With see make the answer is more than likely to be no.
Okay.
Why?
Unless the people knew what they're doing, which is sometimes the case and sometimes it isn't there.
Well, you see all these new build systems require a little bit of hand holding every now and then.
Especially if the code.
I mean, you have Q make you have see make.
Ninja you have measure on that is goes on.
Anyway, that matter.
So as I said, it's probably.
It's going to take some time.
Right.
Unless it complies out of the box, which is hardly the case in my experience.
Seems unlikely.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fair enough, fair enough.
That's fine.
Also see how I get on the.
Welcome to Linux in last series one episode 16.
The one with account and the questions.
All right, let's do this again because I'm.
Okay, that's going to be.
Welcome to Linux in last series one episode 16.
The one with account and the questions.
Welcome.
How is life down in Transylvania?
Well, the blood supplies are running thin.
Actually, they're running thick because it's quite cold here.
Let me just check.
What I have in the.
In the keyboard.
Oh, okay.
Sorry.
Cut, cut, cut, cut, cut.
The intention was there, but I used your name rather rather.
Oh, let's do it again.
Okay, okay, okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
Rowling once again.
Oh, we see.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry.
Cut.
Yeah.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club,
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under creative comments,
attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
