Episode: 3363
Title: HPR3363: Electronics podcasts I listen to
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3363/hpr3363.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 21:57:07

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3363 for Wednesday, the 23rd of June 2021.
Today's show is entitled, Electronics Podcasts Eye Listen to End,
is part of the series podcast recommendations it is the 20th show of Archer 7-2
and is about five minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is, I go over the four Electronics Podcasts Eye,
I'm currently listening to.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by Ananasthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Aniston Fair at Ananasthost.com.
Music
Hello Hacker Public Radio.
This is Archer 7-2 and today's episode, I bring four podcasts that I listen to.
The first podcast is from the Hacker Day website.
And the subject is chiptunes in an RCA plug or doing a floppy drive,
a $50 CNC and wireless switches.
In this podcast, Hacker Day editors Mike and Elliot will discuss
hacks from around the internet.
3D printed linear rails don't sound like a recipe for a functional CNC machine
but there was one this week that surprised us.
We were delighted by the procedurally generated music from a
three cent microcontroller inside of an RCA plug.
The clever flexible PCB may be the coolest part of that one.
There's an interesting trick to reverse engineering Bluetooth
comms, avandroid apps by running a VM and echoing to wire shark.
And we look at what the buzz is all about with genetically engineering mosquito
experiments, experiments taking place down in the Florida Keys.
The next podcast is from a site called embedded.fm and it's a site dedicated to
the many aspects of engineering.
They talk about how and why and what of engineering usually devices.
The site includes a weekly audio show created and hosted by Alicia White
and Christopher White. I guess include makers, entrepreneurs,
educators, and normal traditional engineers.
The show that got me interested in this podcast was on number 371,
All Martian Things Considered.
We're engineering camera team lead from NASA
is JPL which is Jet Propulsion Laboratories
and who's also a Martian photographer. Spoke with with the hosts
about low power systems, cameras, clouds, and dust, dust devils on Mars.
And in their show notes it says the best paper for learning more
is NASA's JPL site and it shows a link.
The next podcast on my list is the Ampour Electronic Spodcast.
It's hosted by Dave Jones from the EV blog
hosting from Sydney, Australia, and Chris Gamble from contextual electronics in Chicago, USA.
They discussed the world of electronics designed in an hour long
ish weekly show recorded live without adding our mute button.
We're joined every other week by guests through the electronics industry.
The Ampour is a non scripted off the cuff show that usually airs
every Sunday evening US time recorded earlier in the week.
It's the largest and most respected electronics oriented radio show.
Discussion ranges from obvious electronics to the state of electronics industry,
components, circuit design, and general on and off topic grants.
The latest show I listened to from here was number 539, The King of Trash with Big Clive.
He has a YouTube channel where he tears down
cheap toys and has a commentary on how they are constructed.
The subjects that stood out to me were his production editing style,
the amazing technology and professional and studio lighting.
The short and life cycle that's built into LED lights
and also Tesla's feeling LCD screen which turns out that they only plan to have it
useful for five years.
The next podcast is related to the previous one.
It's called the contextual electronics podcast.
This podcast is a video and audio podcast that post twice per month.
They discuss more on more than how electronics work and talk to guests about
why building them, why are they building them in the first place.
They cover topics inside and outside the field of electronics
and try to bring more context to the field.
The latest episode I listened to was Mix Media with Becky Stern
where they interview Becky who is an artist and a content producer.
She is an artist who works to combine the makerspace and electronics
and her most recent project was Zodiac and Breudery.
She is an also an educator who teaches a class in electronics
and the School of Visual Arts in New York City.
She is a product manager at Instructables.
Going back to the embedded.fm podcast
which is one an episode that I'm only part way through
but it was still interesting is they interview Sarah who is a kinetic artist
and some of her projects include building a robot army
and I'll leave a link in the show notes as to where the
parts can be either purchased or 3D printed out.
I hope you enjoy all these podcasts as much as I have.
Thank you for listening and remember to support Free Software.
Bye.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org.
We are a community podcast network that release the shows every weekday
Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast
then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hacker Public Radio was founded by the digital dog pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly,
leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself
unless otherwise stated.
Today's show is released on the creative comments,
attribution, share a like, free dot org license.
