Episode: 3301
Title: HPR3301: K S P Kerbal Space Program! (Game)
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3301/hpr3301.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 20:28:36

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3301 for Mundi, the 29th of March 2021.
Today's show is entitled, KSP Kerbal Space Program.
Game, it is hosted by operator and is about 36 minutes long and carries a clean flag.
The summary is 400 hours into the game I talk about how to get into Kerbal Space Program.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by an honest host at com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hello everyone and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio with your host operator.
I'm talking to you on a new little gaming headset steel series number 7.
It's great. I can plug in my laptop, USB-C docking station and my PC.
And the only thing I have to do is turn off the headset and it will route everything to the speakers.
Both my laptop and my desktop.
And then if I turn on the headset, it routes the headset to my whatever.
Because I have the actual USB plugged into the USB switch.
So when I use the USB switch, it switches to the PC when I want to control the PC.
And then the audio goes to the PC.
And then when I want to control the laptop, it goes to the laptop.
It's actually pretty cool.
But I get audio from the laptop and I get audio from the PC at the same time with the speakers.
When I'm not using.
So it's just audio everywhere and it's great and I love it.
But that's not what this is about.
This is an episode I've been working on.
Content I've been working on for Kerbal Space Program.
This is going to be ad hoc.
So I might kind of go all over the place because people were requesting
kind of those requesting episodes.
So I'm going to do this one in prompt 2 to that request.
There's probably more that I can talk about.
But it will probably be covering most of everything.
So this is going to be on Kerbal Space Program.
It is a PC game.
It's not a review.
It's more of a how to.
How to use it.
How to make it work the best for you and the caveats and all that stuff.
Kerbal Space 2 is coming out eventually.
And it works.
Multiplayer type of thing.
You can't do multiplayer.
Whatever.
But anyways, it's a space simulator and it's probably one of the most
fun slash interactive slash learning things.
My six year old loves it.
He's built rockets with like several stages.
I'll be at you know, wrong stages and maybe missing fuel or whatever.
But he actually got a rocket into space with with mechgeb.
So I'm here to help you on your on your journey for that.
So when you start out, it's got training and whatever.
And you get the training and you get the rocket and you go, um,
there's there's several modes.
There's, um, there's a sandbox mode where everything is unlocked
and nothing calls to any money.
You can do whatever you want.
Then there's a science mode where you just have to unlock.
Already on it.
Get the unlocked science, um, as you go.
But there's no cost for building stuff.
Um, so you can only, for example, you have a shipyard or whatever you build your rockets in.
You have to level that up, um, normally in career mode.
But in science mode, I think you start out with like everything is maxed out.
All the buildings are maxed out and you don't have to put money into the buildings to
to have more weight or more parts or whatever.
Um, so that's kind of the science mode.
So it's a cross between career and sandbox.
So it's a little bit of a challenge.
And then you have career mode, which is all about like earning money.
And, uh, earning science and then earning money and science.
And eventually you, uh, work out the tech tree.
Um, there's quite a few videos out there how to earn early science by creating a little rover.
Um, a little vehicle with a little tiny wheels, a three wheeled vehicle.
And then you push, push that vehicle around with a science lab.
And you can get science that'll kind of get you there.
And then there's some other techniques that you can get a bunch of science with.
But I'm here to kind of give you a broad overview of
encompassing everything because I've played the game about 400 hours now.
Um, give or take over the years.
And if you haven't played it, it's a fun game.
If you like or are interested in rockets or science or
with all this space stuff that's going on with SpaceX and the Mars thing,
I actually had to jump back on, um,
and play with it again.
So anyways, I'm going to get into my notes here if I can find them somewhere.
Um,
ah, tutu tutu tutu.
Um, so
there's two hangers.
One is for kind of planes and, uh, aircraft.
And then there's rockets for spacecraft.
Um, now if you bite through steam, they have like a steam,
kind of a steam store where you can check in and out.
Different, um,
two different craft.
And kind of get a feel for what, what ridiculous things people build.
They're not space worthy, but they're, they're interesting.
Um, but anyways, um, there's no really kind of
A to B approach.
I haven't gotten all my notes together,
but it'll be fun and exciting because
uh, there's a lot of failure and success in this whole process.
So first I started out
trying to do everything myself and do the, um,
the trajectories and everything.
So when you, you know, you have to go a certain direction.
When you're burning and you got atmosphere and weight and, uh,
thrust the weight ratio and all this math.
Basically, that has to happen for you to get into space.
Um, and especially to get to the moon or, uh,
a moon, mimimis, whatever.
Um, there's a lot of, there's a lot of science that goes behind that.
A lot of thinking and understanding how,
how curveable space works at least.
Um, but, but for the purpose of just making it easy for everyone.
Um, there's, uh, there's some components that will
make a lot of things easier and or plugins.
Um, and I'm going to kind of go over those first I feel like.
Um, or I might go run notes here.
Um, anyways, here's some comments.
Don't ever use.
Return to launch pad or anything.
Always use quicksave and load, etc.
Quicksave button before launch.
So basically I'm saying here, um, you can quicksave.
And when you quicksave before you kind of do any maneuvers,
if you get the math wrong or you burn the wrong direction or you're, you know,
you're off and in your, uh, trajectory, you can quick load.
Be back on your feet in no time.
Um, so kind of what I do is if it's super important, I'll do a save for every, um,
for every maneuver, basically.
And I'll label them as such, um, stay away from missions that are high
altitudes and low speeds, um, kind of in the beginning.
Stick with the ones that are, um, kind of like altitude or speed only.
But if you do both, it really only do both of you have expanded out that
tech tree for the aircraft, um, because a lot of them are like 30,000 feet and you have to go
like three different places and it's really hard to actually get up that,
get up to that and build a craft.
Um, and again, you can use steam to download craft.
But in general, you know, it's missing parts and different versions.
And, um, uh, I'll kind of talk about that eventually.
Um, yeah, use f12 to keep an eye on, um, physics.
So f12 will kind of show you, and you can google this.
Um, it'll kind of show you the physics of your rocket.
And when you launch and when things get out of whack, um, when you're in the hanger,
you have kind of three buttons in the right that are always off.
That should always be on by default.
I don't know why they're not on by default, but it shows kind of your,
your center thrust, your center mass, and your center of, uh, uh, uh, uh,
like air, air, whatever here, wind, your wind, whatever, uh, your, whatever.
Anyways, um, and there's some tutorials on how to keep your craft from spinning out of control
and all that mess.
Basically, you put vins at the bottom.
Most, most cases, kind of like a, uh, a dart, right?
Um, anyways.
Um, to EVA and space, you need upgrade astronaut complex.
So if you're playing the, um, career mode, you want to, uh, upgrade, um, that first.
Um, but kind of before I get into these kind of career modes, slash more advanced topics,
I want to kind of go over the plugins first.
So let me bring up my plugins here.
And I hope to god, I still have all my stuff here.
Um, I don't have a list, but I'll bring it up here.
So, Carval Space is highly configurable.
You can create your own craft.
You can create your own plugins.
You can do all kinds of crazy stuff.
Um, um, actually pulling down the plugins.
So the version I'm running is Carval Space 1.9.1.2788.
Now, the reason I do that is, um, the plugins aren't necessarily compatible with each other
and or older plugins might not exist that I want to use or whatever.
Um, so let's see installed version.
I'll sort by installed version.
I'll kind of go through here.
Um, alarm clocks, not super, uh, super useful trajectories.
Um, display trajectory predictions, according to atmospheric drag, lift, etc.
So when you're in the game and you say you're going to land somewhere on a target,
um, or your craft is going to land somewhere, uh, you see that apple lapses.
Um, it's not actually going to land there because of wind and all kinds of other factors, um,
and, uh, like the drag and lift and the ideas that is supposed to kind of account for all that.
And give you a better, um, give you a better, um, uh, better guest on where your trajectory is going to be.
Um, let's see, uh, um, module manager.
That's what the use, um, weight point managers for weight points.
Now, the big one here is mech dev.
Um, mech dev is a computer that you attach to your craft that has a bunch of things to make
all this easier.
Um, so when you're taking off, it has an ascent guidance that will help you with that gravity
turn. Um, it has, um, basically, uh, stabilization stuff in there.
Um, if you're trying to rendezvous with something, if you're trying to dock with something, um,
it takes all the difficulty out of doing that.
Now, people will say that it's kind of a cheat or whatever, but I'll beg to differ
because computers drive craft.
I mean, the guys in this SpaceX thing didn't even touch the damn screen.
I guarantee you like, they just sat there and probably like didn't do anything.
And I'm probably over exaggerating.
But in general, it's like, it's a computer screen and they went off into space and came back.
Like they weren't like doing math and writing things down.
And I'm sure they had to learn all that and to do all that.
If the computers failed and they probably could do it and they probably did do it.
Just in case, I don't know.
But uh, for all its purposes, computers are flying the spacecraft.
Let's don't, let's don't, uh, let's don't pretend that's not the case now.
So mech dev is basically that computer.
I allow you to do all these complex things and a much easier task.
Now, what you can do is work backwards to that.
And that's how I do is I'll, uh, I'll use mech dev.
And I'll understand how it works.
And that helps me understand how to do better trajectories and maneuvers.
And once I see mech dev do its magic, sometimes, no time to me.
Sometimes not all the time, but generally I can tell when it's, um,
when it's, uh, how it's doing what it's doing.
But sometimes, you know, some of the maneuvers mech devs does.
I don't quite understand how perfect or how it gets its math.
And, you know, I'll try to do something on my own.
And then I use mech dev and it does it with like a ridiculous amount of, of less fuel, um,
anyways.
The other big one is science alert.
If you're playing in career mode, science alert will tell you, um,
you can set throttles for how much return on your science.
So when you do something for the first time, you get a bunch.
You do a second time.
You don't get as much.
You do it a third time.
You don't get as much.
And eventually, like three or four times in,
you don't get any more science.
So you can kind of set the throttle and alerts you whenever you're in a new biome.
So they call them, they separate it out into biomes.
So water, land, sea, shore, uh, planes, or whatever.
And each planet or moon or surface has its own biomes.
And you collect science and each biome that counts as basically a whole new place
where you can do stuff.
So, um, it's really advantageous to have that in career mode when you're trying
to unlock science.
And I did it pretty legitimately.
Towards the end, I'll say the, the career mode, I sort of cheated.
Basically, what you do is you take a bunch of, um, very, very expensive parts.
You put them in the hanger and then you take out a bunch of, uh,
take out a bunch of contracts that have like upfront cost and upfront payout.
So maybe it's a 200,000 credit payout and you get 80 upfront or 75 upfront.
Well, what you do is you take all these contracts that are really expensive.
You put a bunch of expensive parts in a hanger and then you cancel the contracts and you get
you lose a bunch of money if you don't complete a contact.
Contract, you lose money and then some.
Well, when you're basically bankrupt, you can't go in the negative.
So basically, when you take a bunch of contracts,
you can go in the negative and not actually go in the negative,
you just zero out and you can then take more contracts out.
So towards the end, there was a final upgrade to, uh, one of the buildings that was like a million
or 1.5 million and I did not want to grind these missions, um, because you can take, uh,
tourist to space and you can get a decent amount of change.
Maybe.
And it's kind of a grind to do that and I knew I could do it and I was familiar with it and
I just didn't have the time to do that.
So, you know, I've got, I have a kid and family and I've got stuff I have to do.
So, uh, towards the end, I cheated with that.
But anyways, um, other than that, I played it all legitimately.
Um, sorry, another plug-in is stage recovery.
Um, and I'll try to, okay, uh, let me write some notes.
Remember, I keep some show notes here.
So, I'm going to do plug-ins, again, plug-ins, uh, list.
Um, AST props, I'm not sure what that's for, docking cam, not so much you don't really need.
Um, minimum ambient light, basically kind of cheats and gives you light on the dark side of
them and or whatever.
Um, curvil engineer is definitely across the board something you need.
Curvil engineer will tell you the statistics and everything about your flight and where you are.
So, if you're on curvil and you build a rocket, it'll tell you what stages there are.
The thrust to weight ratio, which is very important.
And then your delta V, which is also very important.
So, like, um, there's a map out there that looks like a subway station.
So, you can set curvil subway map or something.
And it's a subway station of sorts that tells you uh,
subway map that tells you how much delta V, which essentially, we're like of a better term,
gas in power combined sort of, um, thrust to get you somewhere.
So, say I build a rocket with 5,000 thrust.
Well, I can probably make it to Minimus and back if I know what I'm doing and I do my stages right.
But if I have build a rocket with 2,000 thrust and then on the second stage,
it's only got like 500.
I'm probably not going to even make it in in low worth orbit, depending on what the
mass is and all that stuff.
So, there's, there's math, there's thrust to weight ratio and there's delta V
and knowing where you're going and where you need to go.
You have to plan all that out and figure it out.
And I probably have as far as like calculating with with with engineer,
curbal engineer, it probably took me, I want to say, at least 20 hours of gameplay to build a rocket.
Almost like the first try or second try or third try, um,
and get it where I need it to go.
So, this is by, by no means this is not a game of like, it's not an easy game,
but it's a, it's a game that you can, um, you're always learning more.
And, you know, you think you're going to build a rocket to do this and it takes forever.
And you, you get it up there and you forget to attach satellites to it.
So, then you start to have like a checklist of like, um, okay, do I have crew?
Do I need crew?
How much crew do I need?
How much electricity do I need?
Where am I going?
Do I have signal to the planet?
Am I, do I need a bigger satellite to get signal to the planet to control my craft?
It's, it's unmanned.
Um, and all these things, you start to realize when you're building a rocket
and then after a while, you know, you kind of have your list,
and you kind of know how much delta V need to get and how to build rockets,
and you have your science unlock, you can kind of get to where you're building rockets fairly easily.
But I, I mean, I'll tell you, if you tell me to build a rocket to go to a certain planet
and back or wherever, I will spend at least, at, at the least an hour or two hours
building that rocket to make it, make it go where it needs to go.
Now, once you build some base, um, base loaders, or, um, um, they call them, uh,
basically there's a term for, if you, uh, uh, uh, lifters.
So once you build some basic lifters that are varying sizes and, and, and weights, um,
you can, you can kind of bolt on whatever you want to bolt on, and you can actually save,
pre-configure, part blobs.
So if you have a lander, you can drag and drop that into like a predefined thing,
and save it as a single object, and drag it in whenever you need it.
So you can create a rocket, and you can create lifters, and you can create science modules,
and you can create, uh, your own kind of custom stuff.
Um, towards the end is when I started getting into that, but, uh, it'll start to become clear
if you do use it that, um, once you get a few, you know, three or four rockets that get,
that you use for different various things, you'll basically have three or four base builds
that you use to, to launch stuff.
And then once you get enough money if you're playing career mode, it doesn't really matter.
You just had this like gigantic lifter that you just put whatever the hell you want on it.
Um, and generally speaking, you can get whatever you need to go into space.
But when you're starting out, especially in career mode, I mean, you gotta choose the parts
wisely, you're limited in your parts, you're limited in your science, you're limited in your
money, you're limited in your space.
So having those limitations is challenging to, to, to, to complete the contracts and get the
missions that you need to, to earn more points to get more science or whatever.
Um, chatter is very interesting.
It adds more, um, kind of ambiance, and it, it sounds childish and stupid, but definitely
use chatter.
Um, and it creates, uh, kind of, um, beeps and noises, and it says non-sixical radio chatter
between your command pods and mission control.
So, like if you, EVA, it might say one thing, or if you do something else, it might say
another thing, and it's all gibberish.
Um, but it sounds really cool, and it adds an element of the game that you wouldn't necessarily
think is pleasurable.
You would think it's kind of stupid, um, but it's actually, it's quite enjoyable.
Um, let's see, toolbar control kind of helps with like, toolbars and understanding how to plug,
that manages to plug-ins and stuff.
Um, that's pretty much it.
I mean, the big ones are mech-cheb and, um, um, curable engineer, and probably lighting,
the lighting one are like mandatory.
Like, I wouldn't let anyone play the game without mech-cheb.
Um, so that's kind of the plug-ins.
Um, I'm gonna go back to my kind of notes here, as I was kind of learning, um,
in career mode.
Um, uh, let's see what else we got.
I need an astronaut complex for us to hit the reset button and the build menu to reset all
the stages in logical order.
So when you're building a rocket, there's stages.
And each stage has whatever.
And if you build a rocket and you go back to the space station,
and back to the hanger and you tweak some things,
well, you may have pulled a stage out from another stage and messed up the order.
And then you go back to the launch pad, and next thing you know, you're, you know,
doing stages in the wrong order.
So you hit that reset button, and it, in theory, it logically does the stages out from kind of
top to bottom.
It's easy.
And we'll give you a reset, and then you can start joining the stages together that go together.
Um, I found a general rule for parachutes.
So when you're trying to do recovery, especially in career mode,
you want to hang on to every little piece in part that you have.
If you have, uh, some lifters, um, and you want to recover those lifters because they're,
you know, where they're worth 14,000, sometimes 30,000, sometimes you can,
I've lost up to 80, 80, 100, uh, on, on missions because I was able to recover, um, the stuff.
Now, you know, it's, it's, it's, usually it's not necessarily worth it to retry,
but it doesn't hurt to try.
Um, so anyways, uh, MK ones are good for about a ton each.
Radials and droogs are good for about 1.5 each.
MK twos are about good for about two tons each.
Now, keep in mind when you're using lifters, especially, um, if your, uh, if your mass starts out
with five tons, uh, you burn your fuel, that's all your weight.
So you only end up with like half a ton or a ton, maybe of actual craft that you need to,
to rescue. Um, so pretty much what I do is I put like one or two MK twos on, uh, whatever I want to
recover, um, especially if it's lifters and you're pretty much good. Um, and you know,
with that recovery mod, you'll get, uh, you'll get the, the recovered points, the recovered items in
general. Um, let's see, build a plane to do a conduct survey mission. So it's kind of a
obvious thing that I didn't realize to later. What I was doing at first was building rockets
and trying to do survey missions with rockets. Um, I think in general, you're supposed to,
obviously, build a spacecraft or an aircraft to fly different areas of space, um, to do, uh,
to do a survey missions. Usually it's go 30,000 feet, go here, go 14,000 feet over here,
go 18,000 feet over here, and your speed also has to be, you know, however many knots or whatever it
is. Um, so those are whatever, um, uh, in the beginning, if you're playing, um,
campaign, if you're missing SAS and you need to upgrade the tracking and mission control,
then level up your pilot to three or use a track tree to unlock, uh, a mod with SAS or basically
A and um, and, uh, thing to get SAS going. SAS is like a stability thing. So if, when you take
off, you have to like manually like keep your fingers on the buttons to keep the spacecraft
spinning out of control. Um, as you progress in the science and or career mode, you'll get SAS
for your pilot and or for your, um, unmanned computer thing. So it will be more stable. Um,
try to just focus on missions you can complete easily. So your first, your first thought is to
take a bunch of missions and try to do them all at once. Uh, usually for me at least that has failed.
What you want to do is concentrate on the missions that you can complete and the payout for
missions generally is not the best. Um, but you just kind of, you kind of learn and as as you go,
but depending on what the missions are, if they're not high payout missions, you can kill them
and get rid of them and get better missions. Uh, don't just take a mission because there's nothing
there to take. Um, I especially liked doing the, uh, the tour guide, the tour missions. Um,
and I had a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a lifter towards the end of the game with 15 or 17, uh, slots that I
could, I could take 17 people up into space. Um, so those were pretty lucrative. So you get back,
you get all your recovery, you end up with like a 1.5 million payout or 300,000, you know,
$300,000 payout or something ridiculous. And you do a few of those and you can pretty much unlock
all the cost stuff. Um, here's a bunch of YouTube leaks and links about unlocking tech trees. Um,
uh, good rule of thumb is to keep the ship 200 to 300 milliseconds until you're about 12,
12,000 meters so you aren't burning extra fuel to get through the lower atmosphere when you're
going to experience the most drag. Basically, you're kind of like, uh, I think it's kind of like
a terminal velocity type of, uh, fuel economy thing. So, you know, if you're, if you're in the atmosphere
and you're pushing 600 milliseconds or meters per second, you're, you're probably wasting fuel.
You don't need to be burning that hard and you can adjust the amount of, uh, thrust in the, uh, in
for the engine. If it's pushing too much, um, there's these one shot, uh, kind of boosters that
don't have it. Don't have any kind of throttle control. And to do throttle control with those,
you have to do it in the space hanger or before you launch. I think I think you have to do it in
the space hanger. So if I have a booster that sends me into like, you know, 800 meters per second
and it's just the, the ship just, we can take off and it has no load or it has no payload.
The very light payload and it just takes off. You can lower that down and get more bang for your
buck and, um, less, uh, less, uh, worrying about less drag and all that stuff and kind of be
fuel efficient is the idea. Anyways, um, for large payloads, fuel flow and, uh, sparingest staging.
So you can get, uh, ults and leak to that. So there's, there's, uh, several methods of staging
in Kerbal or in general. Um, the obvious one is, the first one is build a rocket, put your engines
in there and your, uh, your fuel tanks and roll, launch it into space and have no stages. And
you're carrying all this extra mass or whatever. So because the earth is very gravity heavy and,
you know, it's, it's ridiculous to try to get something into orbit. You, uh, want to have stages
so that when you're going, uh, through the atmosphere and trying to get into space, you don't have
extra mass and, uh, mass and, uh, and even aerodynamics to work against you. So that's why we have
stages and rockets because we just don't, we have to take every single little piece of advantage
we can to get into space because fuel is expensive and, you know, it's, it's hard to get into space.
So that's why we have stages, uh, you know, I'm making all this shit up. But that's why we have stages.
And, um, the obvious one is, you know, you have like a three-state rocket where like the main,
the main, uh, the main booster gets you into like the atmosphere, you know, past 12,000 or five,
7,000, 12,000, 10,000, you know, and then, uh, you have another one that kind of gets you into
a low-worth orbit, orbit where you, there's still drag and there's still pull towards, uh,
the sphere of influence for the object that you're trying to get out of, uh, the gravity of.
And it was just like, for herbal at least is like 70 or something like that.
And then once you get past 70, things start to get a little bit easier and then you start to
want higher efficiency, uh, fuels, uh, or higher efficiency engines. So like, um, there's ion
engines and like, uh, you can get a chain up together a bunch of the, I have a one with like five,
uh, nuclear engines or whatever, um, that are have ridiculously low thrust, like they're horrible
thrust, but their fuel efficiency is like insane. And they run up to just look with fuel and
they don't need oxidizer, I think, or they run off of something else like the xenon gas or
something. Um, anyways, um, as you go into space, as you get farther into space, you want to start
looking at the engines and see the difference between, I don't remember what it's called. It's like
in P3, in PS or something like that. So ask some kind of acronym that basically says, um, when you're,
when you're in, in an atmosphere, I guess, or with oxygen or whatever, it, it is this efficient.
And then once you're in space with no oxygen, I guess, then it's this efficient. So the idea
there is that, you know, when you're in space, you want to have these super efficient, uh, engines,
they give you a lot of bang for your buck, whatever, um, bigly in nerve rockets. Um, let's see.
There's no, so, um, let's see, comm ranges, talking about comm net, um, satellite builds,
talking about satellites, um, decouplers, dawn engines, I think this is some kind of build that
looks like, oh, a satellite build, um, and I wrote down the parts of the satellite. Generally speaking,
um, that's pretty much it for my notes. So I talked about my, my notes here as I tried to, uh,
beat, uh, career mode. I talked about, uh, mechgeb and the plug-ins. Um,
my kid loves the game, he'll build rockets and stuff and, and, and planes. Not so, I'm not so good
at building planes, obviously. Um, but mechgeb also has kind of an auto pilot that will help you land,
you know, it'll actually land at different, uh, little airports and stuff for you too. So you can
tell it, you know, I want to land at this, this, uh, airship, uh, theory, land that, land for you.
Um, tch, tch, tch, other than that, it's, take it slow, right? Um, it's, it's overwhelming the
whole, all the math is overwhelming and all the, whatever it's kind of overwhelming. Just take
it slow, do the missions, really understand, you know, the mass, the rest of the weight ratio,
delta V, and that subway picture that you need, um, the, the subway to show you how to get to
different places. Um, everybody wants to go to the moon or moon and you in, uh, go to minnis first,
it's a lot less, um, a lot less, uh, gravity and you'll get a lot more points, uh, and easier
science. So a lot of people will go to the moon first because the first thing, the moon's closest,
but actually, in actuality, it's actually easier to kind of get to minnis, which is a little bit
farther away, but it's not as much a drag and there's fear of influence for minnis is like,
I don't know, it's like 5,000 feet or whatever. Um, so anyways, um, that's pretty much it,
I guess that I have, I have like 400 hours into the game, um, I played it for like two weeks straight
after the SpaceX thing and every once in a while, I'll, you know, I'll get a itch to play it again
and I feel like I've finally, once I beat career mode, almost without cheating, um, I feel like
I'm finally hopefully done with this chapter of my life and I can help people, uh, play
Curval Space and enjoy it. Um, like I said, like 400 hours in, um, and you know, I'll get an itch
every time I see a space movie or something and it's just something about working hard to get
uh, an object in orbit or get an object where you want it to go, um, is different than, you know,
like a rogue runner or like some kind of repetitive game or something like because you're not doing
the same thing over, over you're tweaking and tweaking and tweaking and you're, oh, I forgot this,
oh, I need to put this on here. Oh, I need some RCS. Oh, my RCS is not balanced right. I need to,
to shift it over here. Oh, I got too much mass and I need to, you know, get rid of some mass or
I don't have enough signal or, um, but yeah, anyways, um, that's pretty much it. Um, if you haven't
played it, watch some videos about Curval Space. Um, there's a bunch of good guys out there that do
good videos for Curval Space and, um, that's it. It is multiplayer. I haven't played it multiplayer,
but it is multiplayer. There work on this, uh, Curval Space 2 and, um, all I can say is just take it
easy, get you a checklist, you know, make sure you got mechad, make sure you got power, enough power,
makes you got enough batteries because when you're on the dark side of a planet or the dark side of
a whatever, you're going to not have enough stuff. Um, you can do all kinds of crazy stuff like,
you know, you can fix stuff and repair stuff and you can drill for, uh, you can drill for different
types. You can drill for different types of minerals. Um, you can scan surfaces for like higher
concentrations of minerals and stuff like that. Um, I haven't done any of that. I mean, really,
I can do that in like, like Star Citizen, Star Citizen or something if I wanted to do
stuff like that. Anyways, I think that's all I can say about Curval. Um, I would just say, uh,
the, oh, the plug-in tool that I use is called C Charlie, Kilo Alpha, November, clan,
C-K-A-N dot E-X-E. And it's, um, basically, a mod manager for Curval. And again, I use whatever
that I said at the beginning. That's the version I use. It's an older version and you can
downgrade through steam by enrolling yourself into beta versions and it will let you downgrade
into a lower, even though it says, you know, put me in beta. Once you put yourself in beta for
Curval, then you can downgrade to that, whatever that version is. Um, and did most of the plug-ins listen.
If you run on the latest and greatest, some of the plug-ins won't work. Um, but in general, you know,
if latest and greatest is probably going to give you mech-cheb and space engineer thingy,
um, that's really all you need. Um, just other than that, let me check some other notes here.
Um, yeah, just Google Easy Science, learn how to build ships. Um, and if you're having trouble,
you know, with building ships, just keep watching videos on how to build ships and understand how
the engineer mod works and then kind of go from there. Anyways, you all take it easy and stay safe.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at HackerPublicRadio.org.
We are a community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast and click on our contributing,
to find out how easy it really is. Hacker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound
and the Infonomicon Computer Club, and it's part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly, leave a comment on the website
or record a follow-up episode yourself. Unless otherwise status,
today's show is released on the Creative Commons'
Attribution, ShareLight 3.0 License.
