Episode: 3891
Title: HPR3891: HPR Community News for June 2023
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3891/hpr3891.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:36:46

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3891 from Monday the 3rd of July 2023.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for June 2023.
It is part of the series HPR Community News.
It is hosted by Rito Dave and Ken and is about an hour and a half in length.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is, send in some shows instead of listening to talk about shows released
and comments posted in June 2023.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public
Radio today.
It's the Hacker Public Radio Community News for June 2023.
Joining me today is all the way from Scotland.
Hello, Dave Morris and all the way from somewhere else.
From Switzerland, hello, this is Rito.
Ah, I was calling you Retro last week or last month, the whole time.
No worries.
Rito, Rito?
Yes, yeah.
That's OK.
Very good.
Yes, this is Hacker Public Radio where I've been buttering names for the last 17 years.
It struck me this month, Dave.
This is where I normally introduce what community news is and what the HPR podcast is.
And it is becoming more evident to me that I need to go out or we as community, which
usually means me, needs to go out and be interviewed on some of the other shows and stuff,
because there's a misunderstanding or it's not 100% clear what Hacker Public Radio is.
So I will briefly try and describe what it is.
We are a podcast that releases shows every weekday, Monday, through Friday.
People might know that.
That's kind of obvious.
We also release under Creative Commons license, CC by SA, by Creative Commons by attribution
share like as a preference, although you can choose when you're uploading, which brings
me to the second point.
Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast, which means that no one person owns this, determines
dictates what it is or is responsible for it, but that also means that everybody as a community
is taking ownership to promote and help out the podcast, if that makes sense.
It's a very difficult concept to put down.
If you have thoughts on that, I'd like to hear what you feel both of you, Dave, as a relatively
new cover and Rito, as a really new cover, tips.
I don't think I ever had any difficulties with the concept, it's a vehicle for putting
out a podcast every day and lots of people contribute to it.
It's like a, like a, then it's user group, or that type of thing, or a bar camp, or things
like that, where people come up with things that they have created just shortly before and
present them to the rest of the community.
Yeah, I was trying to explain this to a chap and work and podcasting is very hot, you
know, hot at the moment loads of people are into it, so I imagine we're getting an
influx of people who have expectations of what a podcast is.
So I'll go over to Rito and find out what you think.
Yeah, when you were talking now about it, it came to my mind what you last time told
when you were at, was that, for, for stem, for stem, yeah, yeah.
Where you explain to them or how you get along with basically zero moderation and everybody
was totally surprised that you, that it would get along like that and that people would
take over some responsibility for what they are doing.
But then it also came to my mind to the large discussion about Linux in-laws and, yeah,
how then the people on the mailing list, which I haven't joined by now, but maybe I'm
I will in the future, how this was discussed there and the outcome.
So it's kind of self-regulation and, well, with you, with you, Dave and can take care
of it.
But I don't know how much time you spend on it, but from as an outsider, I think it works
quite well.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, this month has been loony notes the amount of time that we've, we've all spent
on it.
It's been, it's been something else.
However, I think actually, Dave, it struck me that we need to do an episode zero and
that's permanently in the feed that when that, when anybody joins the feed, they get episode
zero as their, as their first episode and we can go back and explain, hi, you have just
subscribed to Agar Public Radio.
Here's the whole list of all the stuff that's been going on.
So I will file a bug on that.
It sounds like a good idea, though, yeah, something, and also some written material as well, but
yeah, that's in the mic, but yeah, but we probably need to make the paths to the documentation
as clear as possible.
I think they've improved a lot lately, but you know, things that say you should read this
before you to get a full understanding of what it is, what we do.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
Now as Dave was, was, was mentioned about the writing down on the website.
I remember, I don't know, two or three years ago where I had exchanges with you when I
started to read all the texts through on the website and didn't understand everything
properly, but then you made some corrections on it and so on.
Yeah.
And it's getting a lot easier now.
I mean, as a project, you add bits and pieces and stuff and over the last month, probably
as well, talk about it now, Dave.
We've been moving off the server that we've been on for while we've been running on a
lab stack, which is a Linux Apache MySQL stack using control panel in the background.
And Josh and that one of our hosts, but also the person who pays from an honest host.com
pays for the server, wanted to move us off that plan and a lot of the stuff we were
using.
And we could basically downsize, downsize a lot of that.
In addition, a lot of the other projects, for example, BinRav has come to an end, which
is very, very sad thing and I've asked Stank to get together a wrap up show with all the
holes from that project and basically release a show here on HPR, you know, commemorating
the great work that was done by the BinRav community.
That's funny.
Go ahead.
What does that mean that the switch or the idea to go on a static website was somehow initiated
by an honest host.com?
No.
Well, we were going to do it at some point TM and then this came up and then it seemed
like the logical time to do it because what actually happened then is when we moved
to the new server, it had a new version of PHP, which was several major releases and hundreds
of minor releases updated.
The same with the MySQL database, went from MySQL to MariaDB, jumped huge amounts of versions
as did all the pearl tools, as did everything in the background, so everything changed.
So we just couldn't take the code anyway and don't put up onto the website.
So that was the perfect time to make the switch over.
Which we have done.
All right.
Great.
With a huge aspect.
So the last month has been, I get up in the morning, find out what bugs have been
found during the night, go to work, deal with issues of work, come home, plug in, deal
with as many bugs from HPR, go to bed, get up in the morning and rinse and repeat for
the last basically a month and a half now, did.
Yep.
Yep.
And we're still not finished.
Sounds like a lot of stress.
Yeah, it's just never ending.
But it is getting better.
The static website having the ability to control what is a lot better.
But then we're noticing things like all the way that the workflow that we had in place
that was based on a central hub has kind of got out the window.
We had checks as well to make sure that the audio was on the HPR server that was the primary
location.
But now the primary location is actually the Internet Archive, so that means obviously
then before we release that to the future feeds, we need to make sure the shows are posted
on the Internet Archive, so that changes the order in which we do stuff.
But it also meant that we could quickly, the code, all those static site code is available.
The PHP code, I've been going through it, it's a lot cleaner now than it was and that
is also going to be released when I get the chance.
When we have the few last remaining major issues out of the way, then I'll be posting that
up to the HPR website as well so that we have everything, all the PHP code, all the configurations.
The only thing you won't have is the passwords from the credential file.
You will have the format of the credential file, but you won't have the actual passwords.
What you'll have all the data, everything to be able to download to run your own sites.
So this means you made it to do all these updates from MySQL to MariaDB and the newest
PHP to get it up and running again.
Yeah.
It's great.
Yeah, then the static site generator just as an example, the last export it didn't work
because of the version changes, so there's been hundreds of bug fixes, which little things.
Then the links on the all the old redirects from ID, app.php, question mark, ID episodes,
ID equals 1, 2, 3, 4 needs to redirect to the static site pages and that led to infinite
loops and all sorts of stuff, but more or less got most of them.
Dave is still working on.
We still need to figure out the best way to deal with the structure of our additional
media in a show and Dave and some guy in the Internet are working on that.
I'm going to help out once I get the time.
Additional media, pictures, pictures and some people send in scripts or additional documentation.
Pictures most commonly though, so yeah, traditionally the pictures sat beside the audio on the
server, but now the audio is away on the archive, so we're trying to work out what's the
best route for getting to the pictures and that type of thing.
Sounds difficult also if you have a future move in mind or a search to bring that piece
then back together again.
Well, and also if people want to take a copy of the whole site and whatever, which is a
future view, then they don't want absolute URLs in there most of the time, so I don't
know whether we quite how we're going to handle that.
I don't think we can have completely transparent relative URLs for example everywhere, but whether
we can export things in such a way that we strip them out, I don't know, lots of discussion
needed.
So there's the idea is that we're going to, you can have the level we're at now, which
is you pretty much get everything if you just subscribe to the full feed and then you
subscribe to the comments, you get all the discussion there and then you follow along
on the mail list, you get everything there, so that's pretty much HDR, so you got the
full whack.
What we want to do is we want to be able to have it so that you can or sync whenever there's
a change, we'll have an RSS feed that will update, which will tell you that you decided
has been modified, and you can use that as a trigger to our sync from our sync server.
That will download all the files onto your local disk, now of course there's those issues
about that.
Are you going to be hosting all the media?
Are you going to be pointing to the internet archive as we do?
Or are you going to host the media like I will in my fiber connection, and the reason
I will be hosting the media is that we have it in two different places, so for some people
that might want to or sync everything and some people might just want to or sync everything
with references to the media, then you live.
You offer both options, this is and makes it then more complicated, but our sync sounds
very nice, I mean the function of our sync is really handy.
Exactly, and then on top of that, what we want to be able to do is have it so that you
can run the code yourself, so that you can download, go to get, check out all the stuff that
you need, so right now there's the PHP, there's the static site generator part, which can
generate the, pull this down the database, generates the static site, but then we also
have stuff like images and host profiles and stuff like that that also need to be replicated
down, so that's, if we have the static site generation stuff, we've got the static content,
like the how-tos for mumble, etc, that sort of stuff, plus then we've got the stuff that
can only be done centrally at this moment, which is what we're calling the hub.hacker.bqredio.org,
which it'll be the really cut down version of the PHP site sufficient to do the comments,
sufficient to do the show uploads, and then the rest, that you'll be able to download
as well, that you could have your own hub, but that's more for if you find a bug and you
want to improve it in a traditional sense, because we're only going to ever host that
in one location at this point.
Kind of a development environment. Exactly, exactly. But right now, if you notice anything
with the HPR website, you can open a bug, so that's on our GitLab instance or a GT instance,
so that's actually a big help as well. The thought of a multi-master HPR is a bit
scarier, I don't like that. A lot of this is just thoughts and there's so much work
to do. There's a huge amount of work to do, but Dave and I have had to remind each other
that we've done a huge amount of work in the last one. The fact that the website's still
up, that you're still getting shows every day, is a testimony to the work role has done
and in turn, I stay with myself busy as well. Yeah, well done. Thank you. However, because
we're busy with that, so also some good news is that we have the reserve queue, and in
the reserve queue, that's basically you saying to us, you don't care when it comes out.
If you do care when it comes out, you can also post it as normal into the regular show,
but we would really could do with topping up the reserve queue, which was formally known
as the emergency queue, and shows that go in there, what we'll do is we'll use them to
slot them into the vacancies as they come up. So if you could do that, that would be excellent.
Thank you very much. Any comments on that? No, just them. I kind of second you. I was
looking at the evening at the calendar, and yeah, it looked empty. Yeah, it looks. Yeah,
it does, because we've had two hosts pumping in shows into the queue, and Archer 72 is moving,
so he doesn't have a time to record them. And some guy in the internet is posting every
two weeks. So everybody else needs to step up, and we'd greater people could send in shows
that would be absolutely awesome, because this is a good project, and one show a year,
that's it. That's all we're asking from the host. So I'm not, I mean, we could, any of
the regular hosts feel free at any time to send stuff into the emergency reserve queue.
That's great, but for regular hosts, please come on for people who haven't submitted
a show this year, and you can use Andy's definition of a year you like. So long as it's
not more than 365 days, then, yeah, please send an initial. Okay, Dave, back to, I was just
just being the, the human robot sending, sending an email out, sorry. Back to, what is this?
This is the HBR community news, normally this takes about two seconds, but this is the HBR
community news for June 20, 23. This is where the janitors and whoever else joins to discuss
what has been happening in the last month, and actually we've been doing that, which is
basically the server move has been occupying a huge amount of our time. And if you go to
the about page and go to governance, you'll see how HBR is, is covered. And it is essentially,
if you're part of the community, you're part of the community, you represent HPR. So that's,
that's your goal. Should be number one, get other people to start submitting shows priority
number one, priority number two, submit some shows yourself. And then priority number three
is anything else that you can do to help us out. That would be great. So, Dave, can you introduce,
go ahead or? Okay, can I have a quick question? Well, back to the server move and so on,
signing up as a new user or as a new host does, does work. Yes, right now at the moment, we're
having a smidgen of an issue with the, with the emailing. We have two major problems
right at this moment. One is that the email for the commenting system, with commenting systems,
fine, actually, the email that we use for the commenting, which is working, and the email that
we're using for the, for the submitting shows is being blocked by Google. And I know why the
account, the correct account has been configured by Ron. But I just need to set it up. The other
thing is that, so what we're doing is, if you don't immediately guess a mail coming in,
it gets copied, your mail gets by default always copied to the admins anyway. So what we do is
we're just going forward that on to you directly to make sure that you get the link.
So bear with us as we work on that. This is the human robot Dave mentioned before, I guess.
That's us, we're the human robot, yes. Yes, I'm a bit distracted because being a robot and a
human at the same time can, can, can get to you. So if I wasn't recording this show right now,
I would be fixing that issue about the mail because I've just sent out a call for shows and we're
getting in people responding. So, but we need to record this because we need to keep shows coming
into the queue and this one needs to go out as well. And then the other thing is the mail list
is working and that's, I know that Ron has installed it, but I don't know what the status of it is,
it was on for a while and resulted in the server and not responding very well. So I've asked Josh
to have a look. If Ron seems to be unavailable at the moment for the last while I hope,
everything is okay with him, I'm actually getting a bit worried now at this stage.
Normally he's, he's quite active and I haven't seen him in over a week and a half.
So if anyone has word, I'd, any news I'd like to hear if everything is okay.
But I mean, we'll carry on. It's, it's, the HBO stuff is, is a hobby. It doesn't feel like that
right at the moment, but it is a hobby. So, we'll carry on. So, what did I answer the question or not?
Yeah, brilliant.
Dave, this is where you introduce the new horse. Yes, and well, it's that
deafening sounds time again, I'm afraid and we don't have any new hosts.
Wow, wow, wow. Okay, so people, priority number one, HBR, get other hosts involved.
Prior to number two, we're not talking about listeners now. Host, get hosts involved.
If you listen to other podcasts out there, where you think HBR could be promoted,
can you please send me the contact information for the other podcasts or other things or other
places, where I or somebody else can go and represent HBR and go, hi, this is HBR, this is what we're
doing. This is the project blah, blah, blah. So we need to start getting a little bit more into
people's faces as well. If you're going to, if there are events coming up, like Linux Fest or whatever
that you know about HBR that are barcams or are events, then can you please try and organize
that HBR is represented in some way at that event, whether it's you giving a five minute
lightning talk, whether it's organizing a booth anywhere in the, in the extreme, we will assist you
with getting stickers and all that good stuff together, yeah. So we need to do a little bit
of the old promotion, get more holes in. And also, if people are going back listening to the old shows,
can you fire off an email to the old hosts that you haven't heard in a while, say I was listening
to your show, I really missed your episodes. Do you have a follow up on this? I'd love to hear
about it. Here's the link, yeah. Sounds good. Okay, let's go through all the shows. In the last
month, starting with episode 3869, which of course was a five minute war game by Klatu.
It's some, yes, okay, it's an interesting concept, something that I would never have thought of.
I think Klatu is describing sort of making games from things on his desk, and entertaining
himself during boring times, by that means, which is great. I would probably sit and do the
one on a paper, but you know, it takes all sorts. No, you should be fixing all these bugs we have
open on HPR here. I'm trying, but I'm waiting on you. We're both thinking it.
Yeah, that was a good show. It reminded me very much of no surprise. My son, who was on Klatu's
one of Klatu's weekly games. So the following day we had Ahuka wrapping it up there in Texas
before heading home to Michigan. I really, I really feel I'm benefiting from this
RC trip around America without actually getting all the mosquitoes and venomous snakes, etc.
I was curious when he mentioned about the truck and that the vehicle is quite long, and so I went
on his flicker account as he offers the links and went through many pictures there
and was searching for that truck, and after a while I found it. And it's really a large...
Yeah, it was what I had in my head at all. It's like a pickup truck with a huge big trailer
thing stuck at the back. No one's bigger. Yes, only an American skill of it. It's huge.
I took my kids. I think I've said this before to America in 2011, and we went sort of around
California and stuff, Yosemitean. There were loads of RVs, some like that, but others which were
just sort of extremely long things about the size of a bus or a coach or something. Which couldn't
get down some roads and they had to stop in certain places and catch local transport to go places.
Yeah, it was a completely different world as far as we were concerned. Car parks, where there were
ordinary sized cars, parking spaces, RV spaces and truck spaces and so forth, which were about
third, bigger, whatever. It was just a totally different view. Now as you mentioned it,
this is like this bus, and because the bus is too big, they have at the back they tell
a pickup truck with them or something like that. But anyhow, as mentioned it, if a hook
comes along that's top picker nearby, maybe he can a little bit tell a little bit about the
truck or why he has chosen such a, this version of a truck would be quite interesting. I don't know
how long or how difficult it is to tow such a trailer he is putting on it. If it needs such a
big truck or if it is also a little bit a fable of him to have fun to drive the truck, I don't know,
it was just a little bit curious about it. I think you covered that and if you go back and listen
the first few episodes, but I didn't quite grasp at that point what type of truck it was. I think
that's more than my ignorance of American terminology for stuff. Are you thinking at the beginning
of this travel series? Yeah, exactly. If you go back and have a real listen to some of those,
he describes taking a lot of the yard and hitting the underestimate in the corner and I think
a mirror fell off or something. Oh, I got those. This is when he did the review in the end as well,
he mentioned about it that not being in a hurry would be very beneficial. Yeah, quite an
adventure though. It is fascinating to listen to, I find. Yeah. So the next day we had,
the next day would be a Monday obviously because community news and we have one comment on that.
Dave, do you want to read that one? Yeah, yeah. Dave, the link works.
Sorry people. I don't know why it wouldn't work. At the top of the page,
she can press the number of comments and it jumps down and I go, oh, this is going to work or
it's going to redirect somewhere wrong. It's awesome. I have also been there. No, that's different.
It can't be right. Oh, it works. That's great. So this was the continuation of the conversation
from originally from MacTroniac and with Rato and he says, HBR3816, high rate Rato,
spot welding looks like an excellent way to connect new cells. I remember one video where
someone used a couple of car batteries and a momentary switch and got really nice results.
Whereas these are already used cells, they will fail more quickly. I've had to replace the cell
three times recently from the 20 cell battery that I've been using about a year. The spot welding
is harder to take apart. They come that way in factory-made batteries and you have to pull or cut
them off, which usually leaves some metal still attached. This reason it's better to use sold-up
for all the cells in my opinion. That's for safety. I'm tempted to clamp my sold-iron to a cell
and leave it on maximum heat for five minutes to see what happens. Probably nothing spectacular.
Only heat for about 10 seconds or so max because I don't want to damage its capacity. The metal
of the cell itself acts as a kind of heat sink so it doesn't get as hot as a small component would
and sold-iron is a built-in melt solder. I've done over 100 solders on to bare cells without
mishap or loss in capacity. The main danger is cutting yourself while taking apart a battery pack.
The conductor strips a thin and very sharp when you cut them. Other hazards are shorting
stuff out with your metal cutter and seeing bright sparks. I once punctured one of the flat cells by
accident and it started to get hot and smoke and smell awful. I can't see that happening
with 18650s. Fair enough. Was that? Who left that comment? That was Megatroniac because we mentioned
the show that it had been commented on by Reito on the community news. Ah perfect. That makes sense.
Good to see. That's good. That was the only comment on that episode and I note here to myself
that the first next are looking very small. So I need to open a bug about that. Yeah I know
just notice that too. So yes, something's not closed to tag. I don't know. The small of, I don't
know. Yeah. It's just as we've been saying before, it's paper cuts. So just go out and then
carry on. Yeah and it's been in fairness. This thing has been running for 17 years and it's been
duct tape every single thing. And we are now getting to these issues and we're getting to fix it
and if somebody lugs a bug report, you know, we can fix it and close it and you know, that's cool.
So the next show was some guy in the internet updates with replies. Talks about the on-on news
and a few replies to shows Kevin O'Brien has come on Twitch. I really want to put
a
Retro. Please change your handle.
I'm thinking about. Retro. Can you hear me? Yeah, can you hear me?
Yes. Retro. Shall I read it? Yes, please. By Kevin O'Brien, I'm glad you're enjoying my shows.
I didn't go into a lot of detail on the older shows but I can assure I'm going into more detail
as the series goes on. Super. So this was Kevin O'Brien. So there's actually a hookah who left.
Yeah, and he mentioned. So something guy in the internet mentioned that he was following along
with the civilization too. Oh, these were civilization too. All right.
Yeah. So that's all makes perfect sense now, you see.
I think this show from Scotty was he was he read really deep into the
the sun flare. Was it this one or do I mix it up? No, we're here in yesterday. I saw a solar
I saw a solar flare. I was really how to say I was thinking about it. I mean, I cannot change it.
I cannot do anything about it. I would never really care about a solar flare to be honest.
Yes. Bonsby. Yeah. I do sympathise but it is quite fascinating and also a little bit scary
because you know, one day that as they say we could be hit with one that just happens to come
in the right direction at the wrong time and it will wipe out a lot of electrical grid and
see no chance at it well. No, there's a there's a so a debunking video recently by a
electronic engineer. I'll have to dump it out and he goes they have built in they know this
is going to happen and they've it's already built in for other reasons into the network that it
will it should not cascade down the electricity network. That said, I'm interested in solar
fry. It's from the point of view. It's very big part of the amateur radio licensing. So
people it interferes with the both. There's an ionosphere and a trotosphere. But
it's amazing. I pass my exam at all. Anyway, it interferes with the sky and means you can have
greater hops or less hops. Propagation is better or worse depending. Oh, interesting. Didn't
think about you guys on the on the amateur radio. Yeah, I haven't actually made any contacts as
yes with my license. So I would use me as reference but there you go. Okay. And then he interesting
is Scotty is about he's very much on the secure side also very very much on the secure side.
He says I think he's using just one firefox extension that he trust. That's probably not
not about it. I guess I'm on the other side right now because since you guys made the two shows,
I have increased a lot. Good. I've tried to hit a balance but yeah, I do appreciate what you
saying that just slapping these things into your browser without do care and attention is
extremely unwise. So good for that. Unfortunately, as all if the plug-in is not maintained,
then even though it may work, it continues on on and on. Even though it's not working and the
version increases, it may become incompatible and no longer will even load. Yeah, and another thing
I'm doing is as you say about the development. I look if there is a GitHub repository or likewise
on how many versions there were in the past if somebody's working on it. If it somehow sounds
legit, then legit. Okay, next day next town instance updating which was by Tojet and it was
an excellent companion to his previous episode which was if you're 3, 2, 9, 7 and I see that the
link in the show notes points to the over making all of that points. It's going to be a lot of those.
Well, actually, those are okay because they already redirect with redirecting but I have
already a bug open that I need to go through all the bodies of the show notes from the DigiPace
and fix all of these and probably no harm to just check every single link that still works and
go back to the internet archive if not. Yeah, I just clicked on that one just to see what would
happen and it's fine and it gets me to the show. Oh man, on the requested topics thing,
if there's anybody out there who knows how, I mean, really knows how moddery rise to the patchy
works, please do a series. I'm not talking about a show, I'm talking about a series. Here's how
you get the thing to work because to me, it's like voodoo. It sometimes rejects his work, sometimes
at all. It's, you've got to read the documentation in my new detail just going by the little bit I
did to help out and that because at different stages, different parts of the URL being forwarded
to the regular expression engine and unless you've read that you'll only see this bit in such
and such a case, it's not obvious at all. And the bits, it doesn't, it parses as not
linearly from top to bottom, it parses the whole thing and then acts on the whole thing. So an
entire block, mice, the first line of a block might refer to a variable that's to find four lines
below. It's, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fun. And then you copy and paste two lines on one of the
marks and the other one doesn't and there's no reason why. One needs a slash in front of the
dot and the next one doesn't. It's bizarre. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Is it, do you need all the functions of
the Apache or is the Apache a little bit too much for the, for the need? Well, we need it now because
we need to, a, that's what we have, b, that's what works with the PHP and things set up that we have.
And we also need all these rewrites because there are 17 years of references, web links from other
places that point into HP or we want them to be able to redirect. So if somebody's got their own
personal website that points to I'm a HBR host on, uh, at, uh, PHP, host of PHP, question mark,
ID equals 30 would be mine. And we want that to redirect to correspondents for such 30.html or
whatever it is. Okay, I see. I was just thinking about because I'm the Apache is the large one.
There is another one called Hayawatta web server, which is from a guy in the Netherlands, I think,
a security guy. And, um, this is a simple web server, uh, very secure, very fast. And, uh,
that was just an, uh, my, my thought about it, whether you need all the functionality and this drives
you crazy in the end or, you know, like on the, on the, on the HBR one is itself we do, but if we
start mirroring this out, then the, you know, when you are syncing the whole lot in the morning
and you pointed at your own web server, that is designed that should work with any web server
engine X or anything. Um, internet, uh, was a Microsoft one, internet explorer, I, yes. So that should
work just on any web server. So all right. And also we take what we get. So that's what we were given.
So that's what we're using. Next day, anyway, this episode, it was actually quite good because,
the update of the, um, next cloud application is, is an interesting thing that needs to happen.
I have borked my next cloud, uh, instance, and I can't get it back. So I have to start from scratch.
And, and he has a nice concept, right? Because he writes in a alternate directory. So, and it does
it during the night. So he could switch back and forth. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good idea. Yeah.
That's a good idea. Okay. The following day, we had the second to last New Year show. And again,
shout out to, uh, some guy in the internet and, um, of course, uh, HB Lovecraft, of course,
for doing the excellent, excellent show notes brilliant. I'm only partway through this one. I have
to have to admit this has been a busy month. But the, the bit I heard was talking about old computing
methods and techniques and hardware and protocols and stuff like that. Yeah. I'm looking forward
to continuing, but I'm not a chance to do it yet. So, when I read token ring, it reminds me about
rebooting the computer because of your last network connection. Yeah. That's such a pain.
token ring was all the rage at one point when I was working in computing. We never ran it at
university. I worked at, but quite a number of the did around the UK and, and, and I think
they came to hate it. I quite a lot. I agree. So the following day, we had parlance Linux season one
episode seven, just sticky bit. And this was a one of the podcasts that, uh, come up with us
during Fostem and the free culture podcast. So we had a debate about how to post the show and
we had several different options. One was that we posted as is and provide the transcript,
which we did. The other option was that we would have the episode playing in the left here.
And then the right here, you would hear the narration. And the other option was that we would
narrate the translated text. So this is, this is what we thought I don't know. In fact,
if you've listened to it, it was only, only quite short five minutes. I certainly listened to it,
but I only got about one percent of what I was saying. I haven't got around to looking at the,
the text, the transcript yet. But it was, it was nice. I quite enjoy listening to, to French,
I don't necessarily understand enough of it. Same, same. I started and, but then I, then I gave up.
But you say there is a transcript in English, you mean? Yep. The transcript turned into English.
Which, which is it in the show, the transcript where you have texts? Is it some,
so if you go to the episode page, so which is hikeopopigradio.org,
forward slash apps, forward slash HPR, 3, 8, 7, 5, forward slash. In text.html.
It'll do the index.html if you don't. And then you have text webVTT or subrib,
so those, if you download the STR file and you post the audio into the same directory,
and then you play the audio with something like it. I don't know if you'll see supports it,
but if you use MPV, then it will automatically pick up the subtitles, and then as they're talking,
the translated text will be on the screen for you. So is it in English then? Yep.
Oh, okay. Okay. You have this. All right. Yeah. What do you think of doing when I'm not
fixing bugs on the history? I'm sorry.
Yes. Does it explain how to do that, anyway? I know you just did.
Yes, it does. The line was for a model tiny language and blah, blah, blah.
And it just, it just pumped it out. And I was, I was shocked to find that it just automatically
translated it. Oh, this is French. And yeah, okay, I'll translate it in English for you. Boom.
It's an English. But what about how to listen to your audio while viewing the subtitles?
Do we need instructions for that? I just give you them, Dave. No, you dig.
It's just transient. It's going in one ear and out the other. Yeah. Well, people tell me,
I tell them, yeah, but you recorded the show. Yeah, but you can't expect me to go back and listen.
Yes, it's on the how-to page. You can't expect me to read that. It's on the front page of
the website. Oh, well, I never read that. Yeah. No, but, but, but you don't want me to send a
freaking telegram. But I think partway down that list would be, yes, have every on the show
that I'm fine. Yes, a little bug, but you do need it written down. It's certainly a paragraph,
if I would have heard. And not the, not the, you have to do it just once and you could link
to it then. I mean, at the moment, it says show transcript automatically generated using whisper.
And then it says the text and so on. But now, as you said, if there is somewhere, how to,
how to, I'll put it in there about page and I'll put it in there with the transcript.
You just need to add it to the footery thing at the end of the page and the next static
site update will spread it around the entire. Right. It's a lot of you know, and fix that.
Or do you know, we're just making the priority. We just get, when I can the point that something
anyway, I will shut up now. You're not making friends here, Dave. I'll go and see you next.
All right. Recording an episode for Hack-Up-A-Gradio,
sharing my experience as a first-time contributor. So this was the second show, I think.
Correct. Can you pronounce that? Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Even the Rihuna? Yeah, that's him. Rihuna key. He says Rihuna key.
Rihuna key? That's it. Yeah. Might say that, but what I pronounce will be completely different.
So yeah, this is good feedback because you know, after 17 years, you kind of forget stuff.
I wanted to give him two feedbacks, but my mobile was not just right next to me. One was an
interesting one from Klaatu, where he explains about the spectrogram in Audacity. Yeah.
And this is number 3698, where I was too lazy about leaving a comment, I just tell you.
And the other one is a number 3673, recording for Hack-Up-A-Gradio from 2022.
I think this was where the guy went into different headsets or phones. He used and how to use
an equalizer and such. I kept it in my playing queue. It was quite interesting.
That's Lyle. Was it Lyle? No, you wouldn't know that. Okay. I think it's Lyle, because he
gets so annoyed at me saying send in any audio. So he did a little series on how to start off and
get the best, even with poor audio and stuff. So very interesting. He then did after just two. I
was looking forward for a more, but then he then did after two. And it was really great. I mean,
he really knows his way around in the audio, I think. Can you post those links to this show, please?
Sure. I will. Just about that before I leave the comment on Riyunuki's message. I have to put
just a couple letters at the bottom in it. It doesn't matter how many. It just needs above 20.
Exactly. All right. It was just a thing which annoyed me why I haven't done it.
Hold on. Will you be able to comment? Do we fix that book? I don't think that's fixed.
We've been getting comments. So what's still what's broken?
Older comments. We get comments on the last, if it's in the last two weeks. I'll just show it.
Yeah. And older shows. Yeah. I don't know. I don't think so, because I wouldn't even know where to
begin. I'll fix that, but I'll have to first mail list and they and they robots the text robots email.
And just just as an aside, you mentioned robots. Mistrikes managed to send in his show.
Okay. Yeah, but if it's only when he's on Google mail. Yeah. But then again, I had to respond to him.
I know. We'll see. To come back to Riyuno Kiz show, he is also asking while he's recording a
dozen audacity. Hello. Sorry. I left a button when I pushed on the wheel. He was speaking about
recording on audacity. And I think there is also Todd Norris his solo cost, which makes most of the
work for you. I think it is even easier than audacity. And then maybe Dave or you can, I don't know.
He says at the end, adding metadata. Now I also add metadata to the recording. Warp is
offers comments for that. You can compare it to ID3 text for MP3 files. I don't know. Are these
taken over when you when you when you take the file to archive the door against such? Well, here's
the thing. We don't oddly enough trust anybody, because we take in audio from anyone on the internet.
And as you know, there are lots and nice people out there, but you're also only 200 milliseconds
away from every creep on the world. So we have a very robust approach to everything on HBO.
I my default assumption is when you're uploading stuff that you're trying to hack our website.
This is not a challenge to anybody. Yeah. Please feel free to record shows about your black
actually activity, but do not do it on HBO. If you do, tell us about it. Yeah. Thank you.
So what we do is we take in the audio and we convert it to raw pulse PCM files, pulse code
modulation. No format, no metadata associated with it. However, a good friend of mine called Dave
Morris has written an application called fixed tags where we pump in the metadata you upload
when you type in the show form. And we add that as metadata to all the media files, including
all including speaks, including MP3, including we have all of them get the new metadata based on
what you submitted when you sent in your show notes, which is why it's very important to submit
your show notes in the correct format. So you can save yourself and maintaining IDs,
three texts, but don't give me the two strip them out. Don't bother with strip them out. All right.
Chapter marks on the other hand, we could do chapter marks, but what's the point because
we have the intro, we've got the outro, and then we've got random in between. So you know,
I've got a last show I did was on the command. It's basically a five minute show.
Does it make sense to put chapter marks in? Don't know. And of course not. Yeah, I was also thinking,
I mean, every show we're both 30 minutes, you can think about it, but how many shows are above
30 minutes? Yeah, and then you should be doing a series. So your chapter mark one is episode one,
chapter mark two is episode two in your series. So yeah, fair enough. Not saying that I won't
support them, but also you have to think think a little bit along about what we are as a project.
If you want to do a show about chapter marks, feel free to do so. If you want to do a one-off
episode where you want to work with us on putting chapter marks into a show, work with us,
that's fine as well, but that's going to take work on our part because we will need to manually
do each of the steps that we then later will need to automate. Now, if you send in a show,
the first practical thing I'm thinking about is then the intro and outro are of different lengths.
So if you have chapter mark set for one minute and 30 seconds, when we add the intro, assuming
it's one minute, that's going to need to be changed for one minute, 30 seconds to two minutes,
30 seconds. And we're going to need to do that on the wildfile. We're going to need to find
those out to do that on the flack file, on the MP3 file, on the amorbus file and all the rest of them.
So you have the dynamic intro and this would move the... Exactly. Yeah, makes sense. And apart from that,
as you are still in the server move, I guess it makes sense not to do anything like that at the moment.
Yeah, no, I'm open to it. That's not an issue. We have had people send in by oral recordings and by
default, we whack everything to model. And that's another thing, actually, that way why we do that.
I work on the assumption that everybody knows why we do stuff, but if I have to explain everything,
then in all sort of meetings, we have a three hour HPR community show, which should have chapter marks.
Skip to when it stops waffling about this topic.
Why are we going to model it? I guess this is interesting to know what's behind the scenes.
Why are we going to model is because... No, one will make sense. Otherwise, it drives
crazy when you have a headset. So yeah, that's one reason, but also people operate machinery and
have one earbudded. So they're in a work environment and they're listening in one ear to a podcast,
and then the other ear, they're actively listening to the work situation. People on public transport
do that as well. I do that when I'm on the train. I listen to one ear to show and then I'll listen to
situation awareness around me. And also some people have are hard of hearing, so they can adjust us.
And also, starting off, bandwidth was expensive. Sending down an MP3 file was an expensive thing.
It took 15 minutes and dial up and people were measured. So why send down...
If we could just remove one channel, it turned a 15 minutes download into a 7 minute download,
and that was cost saving for people. Yeah, sure. Should we raise the maps? Perhaps, yeah, perhaps.
Are we gonna? Doesn't the server remove stuff? And then you would have to... I mean, it's not
really stereo if you have the same on both channels. Yeah, and some people don't send in
stereo, send in mono. I've had a podcast come in recently, particularly back in the twat days,
it was all sorts of... Today with a techie, it's a predecessor to HPR, and there's like 17 years ago,
all those audio was weird out. Some of them had... One of those shows was taking a cheap
headset and turning it into a microphone, which technically you can do, but it turned it.
And I thought all that was over us, but then I had to look at one of the shows that came in
in the last week or so, and it was recorded on the left channel only, and in the last six months,
I had a show in where there was a DC offset on the left channel, and the right channel was fine.
So, weird, weird stuff. So, as part of the upload process, we know... I mentioned it today before,
and that we're automating a lot of the stuff, but the more we automate, the more stuff we find
that we have to fix, because you can automate to a certain point, but then there is a point
about a humanist faster. Well, no, it's not that. It's like, I had automated it, and I assumed
everything, and now I automated it, and I take the spectrum analysis out and I look at it,
and then I listen to the show for quality control purposes. I scrub forward and back,
particularly if it's a new host, I'm checking for spam, and I tend to do that as well
after if a new host is sending in a lot of shows, then it can also be a spammer is trying to
make us normalized to the fact that they're sending in stuff that we'll just submit it.
So, I also go back, and if anything sounds suspicious, I'll give it a more thorough
view, but on every show I look at the spectrum, listen to the audio quality, and do that at
various different stages through it. So, I end up spotting mistakes, which is good, because
it's not hitting the feed, but it means that the automated workflow is becoming...
Has someone been kicked around more? Well, it is there, it's just...
I stopped the automation because something's gone wrong.
All right, and I think Dave, you have the same as well.
Oh, absolutely. We tried to work towards the automation of incoming show notes,
because they come in all manner of different forms, and trying to write something which
would recognize what show notes were written in, and then do clever things.
But I should just give it up. I do have a thing that says this doesn't look like HTML,
even though they said it is, and I spot that. But it needs me to be driving it, you know,
same issue. Which is fine. We do what I would love. All you need to do is send in once
your year. We'll do it for free. But just as we talk about, is it on the upload page,
what is the preferred format for the show notes? Yeah, apart from text.
Yeah, we might actually get rid of that, because what's the point?
If nobody follows. Yeah, that's what one point we were asking the format for the audio
that you upload. Now I don't care. I'll just take anything, and we'll see. That's on the list as well.
First things first, get the robot, the text, robots as HBR working, get the mail list working,
fix all these bugs that we found, and then we'll look at that. Sure. Shall we go to the next show?
Please, God, chapter mark here. Keep as sexy audio for you. This was good.
Oh, hold on. Did we, did we read the comment on some guy on the internet? Did I do?
Sorry, yeah, I did it. I'll wait you. So the next one is, no, it's done. It's everything fine.
Next one is keep as sexy audio review. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
And there were no comments on that, but he had me very worried because I used keep as sexy,
and apparently it's just when you're exporting your data. Yeah, which version can, it's important,
which version you use, he mentioned the version slowly and exactly several times in the show.
This is the 275, which is the fixed one. I'm running version 275, and of course I checked that while I
was on the bus, one earbudding, so did I. So now I've just checked this. I'm feeling a lot more,
I was worried there for a quick second. Thanks. You're not, you're not helping. Why have you joined
this show. I knew Dave. What version do you run of keypress? I seem to have 274.
Debian or maybe Dante, are you doing? I'm running Kebun too. Debian testing should be keep me
well up to date, but maybe there are updates that I haven't applied yet. Yeah, but it's only when
When you're exporting, so when you're exporting your database, it doesn't ask for your
two-factuals.
No, now you make something up.
This is the latest show of him.
This is where he goes through the security review, and the other one you go with for the
CVE.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Which is coming later.
I'll shut up.
Carry on.
No, I think it was a really great show he did here.
He kept some tension to it.
Are we on the safe side or not?
He did a great job on that show.
Again.
Yeah.
Very detailed and some brilliant notes.
I'm always impressed with these.
He is absolute gold to HPR.
Okay, perfect.
We need more some guy on the internet on the network that is for sure.
Going there, Linux commands together information about your system.
And this was from JWP, and I think it's my turn for the comments.
It's from FOKY.
FOKY, even.
FOKY is somebody else.
One command to get them all.
Very interesting.
I will save this in a folder of HPR shows I will listen to again, but everyday use this
is one of the commands that gives me all the information I want, and the command is
INXI.
Never heard of it.
A show, FOKY, about INXI would be excellent.
And this is where Dave goes, oh, FOKY, I already did a show on this.
No, I don't know these things.
I went, oh, I've never heard of that as you just did.
So I went and looked in the repo, and there it was, so I installed it, and it's actually
really nice.
It's quite a fun thing.
I'm really played with it much, but it definitely looks good.
INXI?
You installed?
Yeah.
Yeah, but you have to install it.
It doesn't come usually with your distribution.
I usually use LSHW just to get an overview of my system.
Again, you need to install it.
LSHW.
LSHW.
And yes, I did.
The hardware thingy.
What about the, he has on the list here, which are not familiar to me, is USB utils and
PCI utils.
Have you ever?
Yes.
Yes.
And are they any, I don't know, do you really need it?
I mean, I have LSHW, I see whether device is recognized or not.
And just, well, yeah, I didn't look into those, I don't think I have them.
And some of these things come in as bundles, don't they?
And the name doesn't tell you necessarily what's in them.
I think I've probably dismissed them as being that type of package.
Yeah, I don't know.
I think LSHW is part of USB utils, or that was my assumption.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
I need to drill down properly and be sure.
I guess I should check those comments here as well.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Everybody has a different approach to get around the system.
There is not just one way to roam.
Yeah, it's, I just checked, LSB, LS, USB is part of the USB utils package.
So I already use those.
Thank you.
Mm-hmm.
I tend to be using NeoFetch quite a lot.
What does that do?
Sorry, my key, the key was pressing started to do with anything.
Yeah, it's just a thing that people like to display on their desktop, or in a window
or whatever.
It does a summary of various factors about your machine, and it does it in a pleasant
way that with the logo of the operating system that you're using, you'll see it a lot
if you go and look at the sites that show people's desktops and things.
Yes, it reminds me about Conkey.
Yeah.
I think.
It's often the other side of the desk from one of those, yeah, yeah.
But it's just an updating thing like Conkeys, but it's just a useful thing.
I sometimes, I forget what model of CPU I have, you know.
It's an i7, but it's years old, so it's one with a small number at the end.
It's just useful just to go and have a look to the moments of what it is.
Absolutely.
Yeah, true.
I find myself sometimes, I have no clue what kind of graphic card I have inside as long
as it works.
Yeah, yeah.
But the day you might come where they say, well, this is not going to be supported anymore.
So you could be going, oh, I'm safe, I'm safe.
Yes, exactly.
And shall we go to the next show from Dave and Mr. X, I think.
Yes, please.
Two creepy, two creepy uncles sitting in the car park.
This is special, sir.
I'm going to wear that at the end of this series and absolutely definitely cool.
What is it if, how do you say that in English?
If some detectives sitting in a street and just all day long, that's what they are.
Two cool carps, you know, star skied hutch, I think next time we're going to hire a white
van and to the wagon, that would be, that would be a lot of special stuff.
It's not good for the audio Dave, Dave, I've heard that some people really, it is really
recommended to do a recording inside the audio, inside the car, because you have a lot
of stuff around it, which helps.
It does help quite well.
I put my microphone, my Zoom H2N on the dashboard area and we just talk into that.
Actually, I've got a boom arm recently that I can fit to my steering wheel, would you
believe?
I was wondering about that.
So you have one microphone on a, and then you record it on your mobile or how do you
do that?
No, no, I have a Zoom recorder, which records to an SD card and it mounts on a tripod mount
and I have one of these rip off Chinese manfrotto arm things that you can fit tripod devices
or lights or whatever to think.
So there's got a clamp on it, I clamp it to my steering wheel and let's get in between
this.
Oh, well, it probably also looks suspicious, but it works, anyway, it's fun.
So I'll read the comment to this one.
Yeah, go through it.
And it's from Kevin O'Brien and he says, Dr. Campbell, he says, I've also started tuning
out Dr. John Campbell and many of the reasons you mentioned, but excess deaths is indeed
illegitimate issue because of various reasons you cannot rely on death certificates and such
as a measure and such as a measure of the cause of death.
So yeah, I'm sure that's right.
I think that we're probably pointing to the conspiracies that have come out of that fact
more than the fact that death certificates are not necessarily as detailed as you might
want in terms of statistics that, you know, this person died from pneumonia, but they
had pneumonia because they had COVID.
And it is logged as a pneumonia, but it was actually created, it was a situation created
by the COVID-19 disease, you know, those sorts of things, I'm not really following this
up to any great extent, but there's certainly lots of conspiracies around this.
Oh, yeah, it's not dangerous at all.
Look, this guy died of pneumonia, it wasn't COVID at all.
Those sorts of arguments have been, I've certainly heard.
Yep.
And the man himself had an episode the following day, installing Google Nest Thermostat.
So he actually added an addendum a bit after installation, I noticed that the AC would
turn on, but not no cold came out.
So I called a professional, he verified that I installed the thermostat correctly, but
I've got to turn the breaker back on for the condenser unit.
Yes.
We've all been there.
Have we all been there?
He is.
He's not working.
Go and check.
No breakers.
Yes.
There is no power.
Oh, man, the number of hours.
But it was interesting, I had today, when I went through the show notes, I had a look
how such a Nest Thermostat looks like.
I had no clue about it.
Yeah, I saw a big cloud, broke, tore down on, and yeah, they're interesting.
Well, I mean, it's basically a remote control switch, because you're not changing your thermostat.
You're just adding a little bit more smart stoot.
Yeah.
And I know that people here were buying them three or four of them in different zones
in their house, but the way Dutch houses are built, there is no zone.
There is one zone and everything is open.
So, you know, it's basically, you turn it on, turn it off according to a, yeah, fine.
Whatever it's, it's a remote control switch is what I think it to be.
That's fine.
The next one was X-plane VAT Simulator 2022 from the operator operator.
Yeah.
And operator, yeah, he, you know, this is a flight simulator and he's got a whole
go scripts about setting it up and playing with it and all people who really get into
these flight simulator things and car simulations and stuff.
So not something I'm into, but yes, good information here.
If one, if any of our listeners are hopefully contributors are into it, then here's all
the information you need.
But how to say, I mean, I mean, I mean, nowhere doing things like that.
But the one I always hear is the Microsoft flight simulator, which is by the way developed
in, in France, as far as I know, by a large team.
Have you ever heard of this X-plane 11?
I was the first time I've heard about it.
Or is this just a plug-in or such?
No, X-plane 11 is a flight simulator.
I did look that up and made a note about it, but that's the end of my knowledge.
Okay.
So I guess we are all not user of such a hardware.
I think we've revealed our ignorance very well.
Yes, yes.
Sorry operator.
It includes a universal platform, Mac, Windows, and Linux, worldwide scenery, 11 high quality
aircraft with immersive 3D copies, free internet, optations for all versions of 11.xx, including
airport improvements, when you purchase a digital download edition and receive a confirmation
email with a private key, and it is available for the measly price of $29.99.
That's cheap, I guess, compared to Microsoft flight simulator.
I have no reference one way or another.
It's not something that I am into.
It's just $29, I mean, I guess.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's within the bounds of busking if you're, if you're, it's not a lot to have, but it's
a lot to want.
Okay.
That's what my mother says, and she was very right.
It's very profound, yes indeed.
Yeah.
And usually when I remember that, I'm in the not a lot to want zone, I'm going, anyway.
Next one is from Platoon, alternatives to the CD command, I guess.
I was sleeping when that was running because when I was looking through the, through the
text, through the show notes, I couldn't remember hearing it and I thought I have to listen
to it again.
Did you guys follow up on that?
Yes.
No, I heard it and I listened to it and rewinded several times because any time Platoon does
one of these shows, it's going to be interesting and different.
And I was going, CD, why would you be doing anything different to CD?
And then it's not necessarily CD, it's the usage of CD.
So you know, for, for example, that you set a big, long directory, you know, my work
git repo.
So you might says WG or equals path to my work, Rick Gipo, and then you can go CD, dollar,
WGP and get to it directly, and then various tips about, this is kind of shortcut that
you mentioned out to a certain directory, you know?
Yeah, just how you can navigate the file system quicker, rather than having to CD space home,
D-I-L-S, CD-TEM, L-S, CD work, L-S, CD project for L-S, CD, you know, notes that you
would have, you know, shorter ways of going into that.
So you could use the history command and then go, you know, CD and that entire path is listed
there under line three.
So you can go, exclamation mark three, enter, and it'll jump to it.
He also gets the set option, dash S, auto CD, which allows you just to type TEMP.
And if it's not a command, it'll assume you want to CD into that directory.
All right, then I have to dive into it because it's worth listening.
Folderize, when I reorganized, I thought, I was at some point where I thought I do reorganizing
it, and then I thought, I don't have to find that out myself, there were other smart
people who already did that.
And there is the seven folder order structure.
They say a human can easily remember a seven deep.
Then you only go seven to seven to seven, three times.
And if you calculate that or multiply those, you get quite deep in it.
And well, you can extend it if you want to do that anyway.
And so I was wondering how this one gets along.
But what also came to me, well, came in my mind was, I use a software called HSTR, this
is like if you hit on your keyboard, control, and R, you usually get into the, you can find
out what is in your history file of the bash.
But HSTR is like on Stereoid.
You really get, you can search, you can have favorites in it, and so on, and it makes
life so much easier.
So I, yeah, and if you hit CD, by the way, you don't need any tilde behind it.
If you hit CD, you're just going to your home directory.
That's it.
Okay, stop wasting shows here on the community news, go record this, you can put this one
into two, then we have two shows at least.
Yeah, go do that.
Yeah, yeah.
I also do that.
That's the thing I don't do.
I was listening to this, and I've been to most, visited most of the things that Clancy
was talking about, because I started on Unix, various Unix's, Sanos, Ultrix, ASPU X and
so on, and that was all there was, which is great.
But now, and I did a show on this, I'm using a thing called Zoxide or Zoxide or Zoxide,
which keeps a history, which keeps a record of all the places I've been, and ranks them
according to a number of visits.
And it's got a fuzzy findry inside type Z, which is the shortcut off to it, an alias,
I think, and just put in the last component, and even a piece of the last component of
the path.
And it gets me there.
Or if it can't get me, though, because it's ambiguous, it'll say, you mean this and all
that one, and so forth.
I wanted to try that one, now that you mentioned it, I remember your show.
I don't need any of these other methods, I feel.
I mean, the history is it's old, it's slugging off.
Clancy, show me.
Thank you very much.
No, we're just talking about opportunities.
These are valid and entirely wonderful.
I use push the impop div all the time, though, because I'm in a directory, and I've got
sub-directories, so I don't want to do a change directory to those directors.
Push D will get me there.
I do the thing like set a correct simling or something in there, which is always, I always
get confused about how it makes sim links in a sub-directorie from the parent directory
or several layers above.
So I go into it, push D into it, make the sim link, then pop D out of it, and I carry
on as before.
That's, I do that a lot.
But you're not just going to CD space dash, we'll bring it back to the previous directory.
Sure, sure, sure, but push the impop div, I could be in the middle of doing the thing
and go, oh shit, I should go in that one, and I do a push D to the other one, and then
I pop D back to where I came from twice, and I'm back there.
I like the stack, the stack features of it.
I did a show on this.
I know.
I told you, you poop, food, you said, why would anybody want to use that?
Yeah, because by the time you're in the pop D directory, but you have to push D, so
you're screwed.
Oh yeah, yeah, if you get there with that, if you get me in the wrong order or anything
like that, then you definitely do do, but as a concept, I think it's a nice one.
So I've flawed that one.
I'm going to move on to our emergency show, which we are running out of, we will have
no more emergency show, by the end of this week.
How to demonstrate the power of condensing steam by microwave, and I was going, okay?
But this is actually a cool one, and I did not know that this is used in steam trains
to do the initial wind movement thing.
Neither did I.
Neither did I.
I was surprised.
I was always thought, I thought it is about pressure.
I was like, yeah, absolutely cool, more shows than steam engines.
Yeah, I've heard people mention aspects of this, because there's something to do with
the air that goes through the coal and then heats the water, as Mike was saying.
But I'd heard people mention this, I didn't actually realise what they were talking about
until I heard this, and it's amazing, yeah.
More, more, please, more.
Thank you.
The following day we had the last New Year show, to which Kevin O'Brien commented, pin
story.
I love the discussion of password and pins.
I have a story about that.
My first degree is in history, so when I set up a particular pin, I took the date from
a historical event because no one would guess that.
Most a year later, I had a forehead slap moment when I realised the four digits also matched
my wife's birthday.
Oops.
Oh, gosh.
But I'm really listening to that one because I flew over the notes and I had a lot of stuff
in it that was of interest for me, and I think this one is really a nice one.
It's really worth listening to it.
They have some really nice chats in that one.
Yeah.
It's cool.
And the notes really help.
Where was I in this?
If you are, I mean the long shows, it really helps just orientate yourself from the whole
thing.
I haven't actually heard this one yet, because of HBR, it's okay, I can add your comments
to it so that we can cover it on them, but because of that book, you better do that
with the next four or five days.
That's looking for a tear in here, these are great.
Next one is again a French version, I guess, huh?
Yes.
The episode of Papa Manchaud Podcasts, I met with the veterinarian of the library.
You said that very well.
Excellent.
Of course, Wist, don't you get to learn French and German or something?
We should, but I guess reading plus minus is everything that's left.
This was one where I had to refer to the translation text, which didn't do as good a job.
And I've noticed that it repeats the line sometimes, but sometimes that's because they've
stopped talking for a period of time, and there's music or something else.
And then it keeps repeating the same line over and over again until the start talking.
One of the, I don't know if they were a mumble or something.
One of the contributors had an echo when he spoke.
I wondered if the echo was giving Wist for a headache.
Yeah, it gave me a headache.
But I need to
This one was quite followable because we're talking about PHP and security and stuff.
Less security, dealer PHP, I'm not criticising, please don't think I'm pulling the piss
out of your accent.
I'm making the point that it was possible to follow along, because
There's a lot of English words in A19, that's what I'm saying.
Yeah, I've found the same.
I listened to it all the way through just because it was quite nice to hear a bit of French
again, and I'm just desperately trying to understand it, which I, you know, my learning
of French goes back a good 50 years or more, so yeah.
So the next show was another one by operator, and it was about a lightsaber customisation
with the new pixel profile things.
Listen to you guys, based on the title, what did you expect?
Zing, oh no.
I thought he was going to cut his leg off, but I think
So I listened to it, and while he mentioned it, I would tell me if it's wrong, I mean,
I'm not an English, but he mentioned that he will put in some links where you could
look at it and what it looks like.
Now I'm not sure, did he really do that?
Is it this new pixel?
Yeah, the working working in the future feed, but they are just downloading it now for
that very reason.
Okay, then I have to look at it again.
Oh, is this thing on the wall that you put on the wall, I guess?
No, it's a lightsaber, you know, and it extends and it lights up.
It's the real thing.
But Neopixel is that a trade name for?
No, Neopixel is RGB LEDs?
Yeah, from the I think that's from the Wattlabs, the LED with the fingernails.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, it is.
That's it.
Yes.
All the product, the reason I say she's the LED with the fingernails is all you could
tell, like if the product has got, you know, for scale reference, somebody's holding
it at the hand, and then she's got lovely designs on her fingernails, sometimes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, she's amazing.
But yeah, I've actually bought Neopixel's in the past, I've got a Neopixel ring.
I still haven't found to use for it, but it's really fun to play with.
Yeah, people put them on the camera, so around the lens, so you can get a light, but
who has cameras, he says, I don't know.
So, yes.
That was a good show.
I liked it.
Yes.
It shows tend to be very pull-up chair, this is what I happen to be doing right now.
The next one was from Tatoo, on Sunday, 27th, and it's a command that you should know
for new cloud events, and I pity some of these guys who come from Windows and all of
a sudden they've got all this CLI stuff to do, and everything's a bash script, and, you
know, looking at some of the Kubernetes stuff, you just go, right, so what they're doing
is you check out from gate, and then you run a bash script, you put it into a docker container,
it pulls down via curl, it goes, and you go, it's duct taped together, but yeah, fine,
it works.
I added the show notes with links to all the things I see.
Yeah, I see that, that's very good.
Very well done, but even sometimes if you know the comments, my MP3 player was well corrupted
itself while playing an MP3 file, and I tried to, it mounted this read only, and I wanted
to change that, and then the command line is really handy, because it wrote to me, look,
I'm not going to change anything here, it is read only, and I wanted to switch it from
read only to read and write, and it said, I'm not going to do that, you can be pseudo,
you can be whatever you want, I'm not going to do that.
And finally, the DOS file system check, DOS FSCK, I had to run it through all the menus
that is coming along, and it was, thank God, finally able to fix it.
So what I want to say, not always just, it is not always just enough, but it helps
you as it gives you more information than a, would you say a graphical interface, most
probably where it was just telling you, it doesn't work.
Ah yeah, I get to point to get to point to, you get someone for at least, yeah.
So that was a good show actually, I am adding that to a little compendium of stuff for
the cloud, I've been DevOps guys at work, as a good here, use this, the other day I
give him, I give one of the guys a link to tattoos, get using post-it notes, sure, which
I actually have on my list, if somebody could do a video to associate with that, so listen
to get using post-it notes.
And as tattoo is talking, follow along with the post-it notes and just video that and we
can upload that along with the git, along with that episode post-it by tattoo.
Okay, and this is the one, and the next day was the key pass XC, CVE, which I felt wasn't
that big a deal, but how is that about that?
Well, thank God it is not really a big of a deal.
Yes, I was worried.
But on the other hand, was I really, cause, you know, in order to get access to my key
pass XC, you need to be on my machine, and I'm going to be a lot more worried than...
I agree.
Well, it's good that he had to, I mean, it was very nice, I mean, at the beginning of the
monfit holders, I basically, how safe it is, just a couple of weeks later.
Yeah, there was good service from Scuddy.
Excellent.
And then the following day was my show on proving that you can learn something from
people who use Macs about the COM command, C-O-M-M, which is...
Thank you for that.
Because my file browser in KDE, I have the function to compare files.
But just lately, I had a situation where I had the files in different folders that I wanted
to compare.
But they had the same name, so I didn't want to, I was just lazy, you know.
Yeah, and I guess with this function, you can put the folder, not what you call the directory,
structure in it, and it would be able to compare it as well, even if they are not in the
same folder or not.
You can compare two text files, so you can pipe the, you know, the list of files into
text file 1 and pipe the list of files into text file 2, and then that's it's job done.
You need to sort them though, if that's the key part of this needs to be sorted.
But in that case, what you're trying to do after my experiences of the last month, you're
looking for KDeerStat3, KDIRStat3, and that will compare directories for you and files
inside them.
Check every file and tell you what files are missing from a directory, show you if they're
the same or not, if they're not the same, then you can click on them and see what the
differences are, and you can merge them as well.
Did you say KDeer or is this KDE?
Yep.
KDIRStat3, KDIRStat3.
And this is the directories' rupture to compare, it's a smidgin ugly, the UI, but if you're
in a situation where you need to do that, that's the situation you will accept ugly.
Sounds good, it's good to know, it's such a tool or really any.
Now, if you're comparing two directories with a whole goal of big media files in it,
it can take a while because it does an MD5 somewhere, something comparison.
Yeah, or I had a situation where I have an external device on USB, and I had this directorie
rupture on my computer, and I had to make sure that it is exactly the same on the other
side.
Yeah, it's good for that.
It gives you a lot of confidence, two directories are identical and you get that pop-up.
And if warm, fuzzy feeling inside.
Yeah.
Okay, the last show for people who met it this far, I applaud you and asked the question,
why didn't you record a show while you were listening to this?
You seriously could have recorded a show in the amount of time that you've wasted listening
to us.
I mean, it's not.
It doesn't look like you're saying anything important here, all this information is available.
So you're saying use the community and use it as a clock, just to time your show recording,
yes.
In fact, you've recorded a series in the amount of time we've spoken on this show.
You're not wrong.
Oh, I think you're here to be sure.
Okay, episode three is nine zero, and I see the bug has taken out next, which is probably
a good thing.
But at least now I know that we have come to the end of the shows for this month.
And this one was lessons learned by Hookah on the trip.
So that was actually, yeah, it's good to sit down and think about stuff.
What could you have done better?
Normally I go, oh, cringe, cringe.
Why did I say that?
Why did I do that?
That's my life.
Yeah.
I should never think of that again.
I should never think about it.
Yeah, he had a good, he made a good point there.
He said as an engineer, well, not only as an engineer in some companies, they say you
have at the end of a project, you have to do this, it's a review thing, although nobody
will ever read it.
He's very honest about it.
But then he says, just doing it, pardon me?
Yeah.
You know, nobody ever reads it, but yeah, I had to chuckle when he said that, but even
doing it, he says has an effect for the people involved into the project, well, for whatever,
maybe the next project they do together or not, that's a good point.
Yeah, that is a good point, actually.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
That was it for the shows.
Is there anything else we can't go through the mail list because the mail list archives
are done?
No.
There's no missing, there's no previous comments to read, and we've already put a cause of
the bug that we can't put the list on.
I don't think it was, it wasn't deliberate, obviously, but please, please, honestly, it
was not.
But we also had an AOB about stuff that we've already talked about, so I would say there's
nothing else to do, really.
Let's see, still work to the main database has been moved, static size has been written
by Ron has been used to generate the new website with a few exceptions.
Remaining direynamic features show common-centric that are provided by PHP interface, which
needs to be open-sourced.
Outstanding issues of the mail and the servers at the moment, show submissions need manual
and intervention from the janitors, and the HPR or mail list is not working at the moment.
The way in which new shows have been processed, we had to change, so containing pictures
is not just worked out properly, and we need to talk about that because, yeah.
Yeah, but I think we're closer than when I've been aware.
And the thing about it now is that we're now maintaining an asset database, so if we need
to have a different thing for the internet archive versus the HPR website versus dual
bubs, PHP or Mirror, that we can't, I prefer not to, but, and one of the things about
the other thing is I also wanted so that somebody can double-click on the index.html file
in the root, and the entire website will work at least, you know, the static parts of
it will work.
So, you know, if you click on the H for host, H and H for public radio now goes to host.
Thanks to whoever did that, there was a bug request, and they should get credit.
I can't remember who it was.
Yeah, so that should work on your local file system, ideally, if we can.
Maybe for the next community news, we should do a quick look through the events and the
issues on the repo, because the show is obviously too short as it is.
Well, yeah, yeah, we think about another, and make sure half an hour, we do, we just
round it off nicely.
I feel like some of us have gone, yes, another four-hour show from HPR, great.
I could maybe pull together a summary or something like that.
Yeah, I was hoping that the RSS feeds are a bit funky.
For me at least, I found that in Thunderbird, they don't work, they fail silently, but if
I log in somehow, then they work.
So you need to be logged in in order to get the RSS feeds, which is a bit weird, in Thunderbird
at least.
All right, I've not seen that one, but I'm not gone looking particular with me.
Yeah, and I don't want to be reminded of all the open bugs, because...
I'm so glad you did.
We should close some, I think we can close some, but we...
Yeah, I'm sorry.
I'll tell you about that.
I'm sorry, I don't trust you, Curial.
Just to say that we, there are some that probably could be closed.
And if there's things that follow on from them, then maybe it should be made into new bugs
or...
Yeah, exactly.
... or something like that.
And we also need to move them from the HPR generator stuff to the main website and
then only open them.
And maybe we're currently opening bugs and ROMs, HPR generator one, for stuff that doesn't
even have anything to do with the RSS feeds at this moment is, you know, the upload process
is all PHP, so there's nothing to do with ROMs, good work, it's my crappy bugs.
So maybe we should move the bug reporting to that, and I had hoped somebody was going
to be able to help me out with a about page, but they're not going to be able to do it
because the pay is too low.
I mean, yeah, I couldn't be low, I really couldn't.
Oh, it's a hundred times more than what I'm getting, as I said, there you go.
Right.
Tune in tomorrow for another exciting episode of Hacker Public Radio.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
Hosting for HPR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and
our syncs.net.
On the Sadois stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
