Episode: 3873
Title: HPR3873: Nextcloud instance updating
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3873/hpr3873.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 07:03:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3873 for Wednesday, 7 June 2023.
Today's show is entitled Next Cloud Instance Updating.
It is hosted by Toad Jet and is about three minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
This summary is Automatic Updating of Next Cloud Installation.
Toad Jet again.
Been a while since I put a podcast up and I heard Ken's call for shows.
So I figured I had to get one done.
This is a follow-up to a previous one I did.
Talking about how to automatically update your next cloud surfer itself
and not just the applications.
I had a previous episode for updating the applications
and I'll have a link in the show notes for that.
A couple things about my environment.
It's a headless server.
It's running Next Cloud on Fedora 38.
Apache web server.
Next Cloud runs as a Apache user.
And apps are being updated according to the previous episode.
Episode 3297, which is automatically update Next Cloud Apps via Cron.
So I wanted to keep my environment up to date
without having to deal with it all the time.
The server itself is backed up and so I'm not worried about one of the updates
breaking things because worst case I can go to one of my backups to restore that.
So what I ended up doing is setting up a Cron job.
Similar to what I did for the app update for updating Next Cloud itself.
The couple of key things was I was reading through the documentation.
Found you had to do special things to enable the ACP command line updates.
And you also had to schedule for no interactions because you're not able to interact.
You're not able to be there while it's running.
I've got a copy of the Cron job in there, but my Cron job is set up.
So it has mails to me the results of whatever it does for the updates.
It also has samples in there from my Next Cloud update or the Cron job
for the Next Cloud that's running the updates that are running for applications
and then the updates for the Next Cloud itself.
If you look at the timing on there, I was careful in the timing
because I wanted to make sure that the update for Next Cloud completed
before it did the application updates.
So it's running at one o'clock in the morning on Sundays
and the application update runs at five o'clock.
So the one o'clock should be done, have everything applied and be completed
before the application updates occur right afterwards.
This happens, like I said, once a week.
It sends me an email when everything is done, letting me know all's gone well
or what's went wrong.
So hopefully this will be helpful for you
and if all of this will be documented in the show notes.
Thank you.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio
at Hacker Public Radio.org.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts,
click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com
the internet archive and our syncs.net.
On this address status, today's show is released under Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License.
