Episode: 3635
Title: HPR3635: A short podcast on a nice tool called system-monitoring-center
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3635/hpr3635.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 02:33:36

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,635 for Friday 8 July 2022.
Today's show is entitled, a short podcast on a nice tool called System Monitoring Center.
It is part of the series What's In My Toolkit.
It is hosted by Jaron Baton.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is.
This is a short podcast on a nice tool called System Monitoring Center.
Hello people from HPR.
This is Jaron Baton again, back since a long time of absence.
This time was a small, very small podcast, but nonetheless I hope you enjoy it.
I would like to talk about a little Linux desktop tool called System Monitoring Center
with dashes in between the words System Monitoring Center.
I found it recently.
I forgot where article URL I don't know.
Anyway, I found it.
It's on get up.
I'll put the link in the show notes, of course.
It's a GUI tool for your system performance and metrics that could be of interest.
Now you probably say, no, I'm not interested.
I'm using top or I'm way more advanced.
I use H top.
Well, yes.
But what do you do about I.O?
Ha, got you there.
All those terminal tools are nice as they are, but I.O is difficult.
There is I.O. stand, of course, but that doesn't really relate it to anything.
So System Monitoring Center, OK, so what is it?
Well, at the top, it's a GUI tool and at the top, it's got one, two, three, four, five,
six tabs called performance, processes, users, startup, services, and system.
And the performance one is the default one that's open, and that one also contains vertical
tabs.
So it's got a system summary, which is basically sort of a speedometer of your car, which
shows CPU load, RAM usage, in percentage, swap usage, in percentage, and the read and
white speed of your I.O.
And also the download and upload speed on your network.
And there are subsequent vertical tabs, CPU, memory, disk, network, GPU, and sensors
that you can all select to really drill down on what is happening.
So if you see your disk performance going up, you can move to the disk tab, and you see
a list of all the devices on your system, and you can select one and then see the statistics
for that one.
So if we leave the performance tab and go to the processes tab, we simply see a list
of processes, we could optionally see that in a tree view, but you can also right click
on the process, and for instance, you select to terminate something, you know, that's
something that happens sometimes.
The user's tab shows you a list of users that you can basically only see info off.
The startup shows you the processes that are all selected during startup to run.
The services are the ones that are, well, services, of course, that are running.
And the system tab, horizontal, horizontal system tab, is the one that shows you a nice
system overview.
You know, uptime and the host name, et cetera, et cetera.
So, well, that's basically it, it's a very nice graphical tool, and I can recommend it
to everybody to download it, run it on your system, and well, I wouldn't be surprised
if you become so enthusiastic about it, that you make a podcast about it as well.
So anyway, this is a very short podcast, I know, but that's basically the news I have
for this thing.
So I wish you all have a nice day, and see you later, bye-bye.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, and Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, click on our contribute link to find out how
easy it really is.
The HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our
things.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International
License.
