Episode: 3768
Title: HPR3768: Jeep Ignition Repair
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3768/hpr3768.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 05:09:14

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,768 for Wednesday 11 January 2023.
Today's show is entitled, Jeep Ignition Repair.
It is hosted by Stash AF, it carries a clean flag.
This summary is Replacing Ignition on my 1999 Jeep Wrangler.
Hello Hacker Public Radio, today I'm your host, Stash AF.
And today I'm going to be sharing with you some recordings.
While I was changing out the Ignition module on my 1999 Jeep Wrangler TJ,
the problem I was having with the Jeep was every time I would turn the ignition, absolutely nothing would happen.
Didn't click, didn't do anything.
I tested the battery, I tested the starter, I tested the alternator, all three of which I have also replaced.
And it turns out that the Jeep Wrangler of that particular model has a weak point in the ignition module.
So it needed to be replaced and that turned out to be the problem.
So here are the recordings of me removing and then reinserting those pieces.
Okay, so to start with, I need my standard Phillips screwdriver.
Remove the three Phillips screws from underneath the steering column.
There's one, there goes, there's two.
Now it didn't quite get it.
There we go, that's two.
Alright, the third one is a pain in me.
I forgot I have to take the front panel off from underneath the steering column in order to get to that third screw
because it's right in there. There it goes.
There we go, and now the screwdriver is biting.
Alright, so now the panel's out exposing the underside.
Oh man, now take my T6 screwdriver with a security.
And I remove one silver screw from the left side of the exposed area.
And then the two from underneath.
There are little stiff, so I need to give myself a little bit of leverage here.
Turn my screwdriver into a T-handle here.
Thank you, I fix it for giving me the tools to work on my Jeep.
Drop the screw.
You got to hold it to make sure it doesn't pop off because there is a spring inside.
And then to remove the ignition cylinder, put the key in and turn it.
A couple of clicks and then there's a button on the underside that I can depress and push out with my screwdriver.
That comes out, and now the rest of the ignition assembly will just come right out.
Alright, and there went the screw, good thing I was holding onto it.
Alright, and that's how you remove the ignition cylinder on a Jeep TJ.
Alright, now to reinstall the ignition.
There's a little plastic piece that sticks out the back.
You have to make sure that that goes in very gently.
You don't want that to snap off.
That tells the ignition module that the key is installed or that the key is inserted into the lock.
It's going to be very careful when pushing it in, don't over force it.
I apologize for the sounds of jet engines and the background.
Oh crap.
Oh, I just lost a piece.
You know, these whole spring loaded things are very, very tricky.
Let's see what we can do.
Alright, let's get this thing back in and receded.
Here we go.
And then it just clicks in a little bit.
Alright, and then slides up and in.
Alright, to keep it from moving, I'm going to reinstall one of the three silver screws I removed earlier.
Just kind of hold it in place.
If your screw just slides on in, it's not fully seated.
Let's try this again.
Slide up on in.
I apologize for the background noise.
That's just my phone going off because since I'm out at my Jeep, I'm using my phone instead of my laptop to record this.
And I realize it's probably more than what you all need to know, but I just picked up my dad from having his port of cath placed.
So I've got family members texting me for updates on that.
Okay, so there's a silver plate that has a divot in it.
Got these things dirty.
It goes into that little divot and then a dimple that comes off the bottom of the ignition.
Make sure that that spring is in there.
Alright, there's one screw back in and the other screw.
Let's get the screwdriver sit back up for a T-handle for a little bit extra force.
Gotta make sure these screws are tight.
And then before I put all the screws back in for the front plastic cover and the underside of the steering column.
Let's get the key back in, which of course that's not lining up correctly.
There it goes.
Let's get that back in.
Alright, climb up on in here, key in, key forward, brake, clutch, life, it works.
And that's how you reinstall the ignition cylinder on a Jeep TJ, the 1999, the 1999 model.
And what I didn't include at the end of that was the reinstallation of the underside cover for the steering column and the kneeplate that I had removed earlier to get to the third screw for the underside of the steering column.
So, that is just one part of my adventures with my 1999 Jeep Wrangler. Have a good day.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBR listening like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, then click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is.
Hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our sings.net.
On this advice status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
