Episode: 3932
Title: HPR3932: Short introduction to inxi
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3932/hpr3932.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 17:32:45

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3932 for Tuesday the 29th of August 2023.
Today's show is entitled Short Introduction to Inzy.
It is part of the series What's in My Toolkit.
It is hosted by Falky and is about seven minutes long.
It carries a clean flag.
The summary is Falky gives the show about Inzy that Ken wished for.
Hi, this is Falky.
Ken wished a show about Inzy from me and I was very surprised that he and they didn't
know about Inzy because for me and many others it's a everyday tour.
If you are on the Manjaro Linux Forum, the first thing you have been asked when you
have a problem is to write inzy or inzy-f into the command line into the show to get information
about your computer.
If you only write inzy, you get CPU, in my case dual core, Intel core, i5, dash 3320m.
Parenty is minus mtmcp minus and speed means max, it's 1,875 for me, 1,200 and 3,300
megahertz, a kernel, 6.4.11, dash 1, Manjaro, x86.64, up, but up time, 3 days, 2 hours
and 50 minutes, yes, I'm doing suspend, memory 2.92, 7.58, so it's 2.92 gigabyte of 7.58 and
that's 38.5% and then you have storage, 1.82 terabyte, 38.7% used, if you have prox, that's how
many process are running right now, 247, you have the shell, the shell and you have the
inzy version, 3.3.29, so you see you have the basic information about your running system,
but often you want to see more of what's running, what could be the cause of the problem,
so you take inzy minus dash f and it's a big f and then you could get, oh no, I don't read all
that for you, but you'll get the information I gave before, you get the machine, what type
it is, which system you're running, which version, in my case, the thingpad T530, you get
a battery, CPU, graphics, audio, network, Bluetooth, drives, petitions, warp, sensors and then
the last info, which is processes, uptime, memory, total, available memory, used memory,
the shell and the inzy version again, and you can get even more information if you take
a little x behind the f, then you get, for example, in the battery also the walls,
the minimum you can have, the minimum you need that is running, and so on and so on.
And if this is too much, you can choose a certain area in the information you want to know,
and there it's best, you use the manual, so you can type man, inzy, and there you'll get all the
different options you can choose, only one example, if you take inzy, dash b, a big b, you get the
battery, and if you get the idea of the battery, in my case, bet zero, what charge you have,
so in my case it's 20.1, what hours, and I have 57.4%, and the condition of the battery,
that's especially important if you have a laptop like me, so I know my battery
has a condition, condition of 35, of 73.3, what hours, so it's nearly half the condition
the battery had from the beginning, and if you take an x there, you get also the walls as I said,
and you get which model is, in my case, Sanio, some more, some more 45, and 1023,
and the status, not charging, because I have set my laptop to only load when it's under 40%,
and only up to 80%, now I have 90, I had 80 before, yeah, that's round about what you use inzy
for, it's to get information in a very fine way, because you have also coloring here,
you see, if you have this with battery, you have blue on my screen, and blue ID,
and then in white, bet zero, yeah, I use dark pins, so when you otherwise should get a black text,
it's quite text for me, yeah, so yeah, use inzy, if you want to know such things,
and as I said before, on many forums, it's known, as the Monroe Linux forum,
once I was on the Linux Mint forum, there they also had inzy as the main tool to get information
about the system to find arrows or bucks, yes, that's it, goodbye!
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio, at Hacker Public Radio, does work.
Today's show was contributed by a HBRListnet like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording podcasts, click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is,
hosting for HBR has been kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive, and our syncs.net.
On the Sadois status, today's show is released under Creative Commons, Attribution 4.0 International License.
