Episode: 3971
Title: HPR3971: RERERE: How to make friends.
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3971/hpr3971.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-25 18:10:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,971 from Monday the 23rd of October 2023.
Today's show is entitled Ari Ari Ari how to make friends.
It is hosted by some guy on the internet and is about 36 minutes long.
It carries an explicit flag.
The summary is scotty and mugs chat with friends about how to make friends on the internet.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
I'm your host, some guy on the internet, also known as Scotty.
Today I'll be speaking with a couple of friends over on Smite
and we're going to be discussing the topic how to make friends
internet addition. Why don't you guys introduce yourselves.
My name is Chase. I've been playing games online for heck 20 years.
Like you said, we're in the middle of playing Smite with some friends right now.
And Daddy, go ahead.
You go ahead, Daddy. You go first. I'll go ahead.
I'm Daddy Kakes. I do have been playing games online for about 20 years and made some really great friends.
I am Marcelo and I've been gaming. I'm 49 so I've been gaming since I was about 18 years old.
I'm just going to do the math on that.
Well it's a pleasure to have you all on the platform.
And with our wonderful topic at hand, how do you make friends?
So who wants to step up to the plate first and discussing what qualifies as a friend
and how do you determine that a person meets that qualification?
I'll go ahead and start. So it's funny because it kind of changes as you get older, I think.
But when I was younger, I used to play with my friends from school, stuff like that.
Well now I'm 35 years old. I have a job. I work 60 hours a week.
So I don't really have this friends anymore. I mean, I still like them, but I just never see them.
So they were my gaming partners and now it's strangers like you.
And you just meet them just by playing games and you know, you have a good game and you want to
have another good game. So you're like, let me invite this person, you know, my friends list
are something and then it just kind of starts something and then they bring their friends.
So it's kind of a snowball. You know, or if you're in a game and people are goofing around
and it's just something different and you have fun and you send them an invite, it really just kind
of figures like that for me. I don't really go out looking. Yeah. Anyone else? That was pretty good.
I like that. Yeah. I agree with a lot of that. You know, usually it's it starts with somebody
who plays really well in a game and has a sense of humor a lot of the times. You just kind of build
on that in a gaming together, talking like we have been tonight getting to know one each other
and playing really well together. And everybody having a good team attitude is extremely important,
not playing like a douche. I don't know about you guys, but I have three kids. You guys have kids?
Yeah. I have two kids. So I can be a kid to the park, right? You can you can make friends with
the other other parents. Yeah. But as far as like if you don't have some type of vice or some type
of way to do it, it's not like when you're a kid, you can just go, right? Oh, what just happened?
All right. So where we just left off, someone was discussing having kids at the park.
Oh, yeah, that was me. I think I think that was pretty much all I wanted to add is that you need
something to kind of be the mediator between you, make it a new friend and games work out great.
You guys brought up some very interesting points there, some nice dynamics. What I heard that I
want to dig deeper on. One, we talked about age being one of the factors, you know, when you're younger,
and more active, you're out and about. There's more opportunities to have friends. And as you get older,
life, your priorities change, your choices of friends may change.
Also heard about, you know, having children and how children can be sort of like an ice breaker
into engagement with others. So am I right on that? Yeah. And I'd say with the kids, kind of,
you know, things have changed in the last 20 years. And, you know, most part people play games nowadays.
It's just people play games. So it's weird because like my online friends have, most of my online
friends are family, like my son plays, my other son plays, my wife plays, my mother plays.
You know, so it's now it's kind of transition to, hey, I'm leave friends. I mean, I guess online
which is kind of weird. But it just seems like that's kind of the age nowadays. You know, back in the day,
you know, my dad, he ain't going to play a game. His dad, no way. They weren't going to play games.
So I think it's just changing over time. That's very true. Yeah. Absolutely.
I do believe that it has changed as far as the generations because I mean, I would, I would think
let's say 60 years ago, how human beings used to interact mostly built around the job,
right? Like everything that you're doing is happening on the job. And then you, of course,
have meetups and things outside of the job. And you just kind of roll with that. As technology
started getting added to the playing field, suddenly dating transition from being, you know,
the usual school or work as your dating pool to now online is a part of the dating pool.
And the same for friendship as well. You can now expand your reach to more individuals.
So naturally, people just started welcoming it. And then one of the other things I want to point
out, there was all the stranger danger back in the day as well, right? Like don't talk to strangers,
all that kind of stuff that we used to kind of promote. Now today, we talk to strangers every
single day on the internet. But to touch on that real quick. So I think you bring up a good point.
So stranger danger, right? I think that it's kind of been a negative thing as well.
You know, if we didn't have computers and online, kids would be out playing in their neighborhoods,
riding their bikes, things like that. So I think it's kind of taken a toll on the kids. I mean,
my kids are not in an eight. They can one can ride a bike kind of. The other one can't. It doesn't
want to learn. They're not big into sports. Not saying ever kids like that. But it's definitely
different. And then when you do events, you know, everybody's got this feeling that no place is
safe, but it might just be from everybody, you know, staying home. No one goes out. No one does
anything. You know, so I think there's two sides. So do you believe in your life when you make
friends with others and what you observe from others? Do you believe that it's more dangerous
to make friends today than it was, let's say, 20, 30 years ago? I don't think it's more dangerous.
I think that, you know, I think people just don't want to go out of their way. It's easier
just to get online and play a couple of games and get off and not have to deal with anything,
to be honest. Just convenient. Yeah. I do that. So what about you, Nadi, being the one of the
females in the conversation, I don't know if mugs can hear us or not. What do you feel about
making? Okay. So mugs is still here. What do you feel, Nadi? Is it more dangerous for you to make
friends as a female, rather online or offline? Being a woman, there's always a certain amount
of risk with people online and in person. You know, unfortunately, we live in a very dangerous
world. And so you just got to kind of, I don't know, feel people out a little bit to get a bad feeling,
block a much easier to block them online than it is to block somebody in person. I'm glad you
brought that up because it does show that the online relationship does have qualities that the
real life relationship does not. So in a work setting or just a social setting in real life,
if someone becomes obnoxious and won't leave you alone, you can't really just mute them.
Whereas online, you know, you have controls at your fingertips, things you can do to well make
your experience better. Yeah. And it's really, you know, in person, some people just invade your space
and in appropriate ways. You know, you don't have that online. If you somebody's messaging you
constantly and bugging you, just block them, delete them, you know, off your friend list. It's
no big deal. But in person, you can't do those kinds of things. And in person, you don't meet
them to the abyss. Yeah. But the other thing though in person, you don't meet people from halfway
across the world. Like I have an entire group of people that I game with that are in Canada,
they're all French Canadian. You know, I never would have met them in person because I've never
really left the States. So that's got that to consider too. That's one benefit of meeting people
online. Yeah, when I discussed this with Mugs the other day, we had a little joke. I asked her if
she, you know, had to ban people because one of the most common ones is when guys find out
you're a woman, it is almost like this instant, hey, you want to go out, you know, nonstop
heading on your kind of thing. It happens. Yeah. I, you know, people process type of lines all the time.
And a lot of times that it is hard to press people online or in person when you're a woman,
because you just never know somebody's intentions. No, I'm going to ask the guys here about this.
I mean, I kind of feel like I know the answer, but it's fair to always ask you guys have any trouble
with women nonstop hitting on you and, you know, constantly. Oh, I can't keep them off of me.
It's like all day. Nope. I'm a 90s guy. So things are way different back then.
If I could say one, one thing just to touch upon what you were talking about before is that,
you know, when you get a feel for someone, you can decide if they're compatible with you. You
know, it doesn't have to be a relationship. I think having online friends and just reading people
online that kind of skill that that that most of us take for granted of feeling people out.
That's going to get soft because we're not getting a feel for people in the real world. I think
that's a very valid point. That's going to get soft. And I think that gets worse. I mean,
it doesn't have to be messy in it. I agree. I agree with that. Yeah. Because there are people that
are just kind of shut in and don't leave their houses. Don't go out and have groceries delivered.
You know, and their only contact is with other people online. And that's not entirely healthy either.
Yeah, it might be a little bit safer. But I really don't think that that's healthy. We're social
creatures. We need to get out. We need to go and engage in activities and be around other people.
I want to challenge that thought for just a second here, just to see how interesting this topic
can become. So you say that the skill of being able to, you know, feel someone out. Kind of
tell rather not this is an individual you want to continue a relationship with or or even build
a relationship with as a friend. We may lose or have that skill diminish because we've taken
our lives more online than, you know, past years. I would argue that in ways because we're
exposed to more cultures, more ways of life, it has broadened our horizons and allowed us to
experience more. And that has made us benefit. We accept more now because we were exposed to more.
Now that that's a two-sided coin. Of course, we're exposed to a lot of bad as well. But I don't,
I don't believe we lost the skill. We're just applying the skill in a different area.
I can support that idea that we lose skills on behalf of the fact that as you grow in school and
you see your friends and you mix with people, you learn body language to be really good readers
about body language. And you don't have any of that online. None. Only what they say is truth.
What they say in the mic, you have to trust is truth. And somebody can tell you, oh yeah,
and be crossing their eyeballs. You don't know that. Cannot see the body language. And by reading
body language, it is a thing that you do get better at, you sharpen it, you know, it is a skill.
And that can be lost via the net. I'm glad you chimed and see this, this is excellent.
This is a point I would have never have thought of. She brought it up. It's fantastic. And I believe
she's 100% correct. There's all these little things that we don't necessarily see during the
conversation. And when you're face to face, you don't, not only are you reading body language,
you're also, I don't know about everybody, everybody's like this, but I'm very much
reading the energy of people, you know, and just if something's off, then, you know, you feel it.
And you know, well, there is a lot to be said for eye contact. That's you. Yeah, I agree.
So you're saying that you sort of draw from the vibes of the person after giving off sort of
a negative energy or a very static, harmful sort of energy, something that irritates you,
you kind of pick up on that and make a determination off of that. Yes, I do that a lot actually.
It is huge. I can agree with that. I know not everybody's like that, but sometimes it's
developed from the way you've grown up. Do you think that that skill can be applied online?
You can hear a tone. A tone sometimes, like one guy I gained with, just, I don't know, he was just
kind of strange to me and then come to find out. Later, he was arrested. They found his hard drive
full of, he was running a server, you know, so I mean, it does translate to online. It does,
but it's filtered. Agreed. Yeah, I agree with both of those points. With that situation,
I'm going to bring up an infamous individual from the past, Ted Bundy.
A lot of people met him and thought that he was just your everyday average guy. In fact,
I mean, he could have been a role model to many and this is meeting him in person talking to him
and just even after he was arrested and in jail, people who met him in jail still felt like he
was a very likable guy, even after knowing what he'd done. But how many times have we heard that
about serial killers or, you know, people who couldn't have children? Oh, it was just a nice,
normal guy who lived down the street, you know, and they didn't get any bad feelings and weren't
really paying attention. And that later it turns out their serial killers like Dumber,
same thing, the night stocker, look at how many women approached him after he was arrested
and convicted. He had girlfriends like, you know, well, that is true, but you still can lose
those skills that you acquire and have brushed up and sharpened over say 10 years. You can
lose some of that when you're not out in mixing with looking eye to eye, you still can lose some
of that. But again, even if you do because you're spending all your time on the computer and you
have virtual friends, so to speak, it's real people, but they're online. If they are, they
they usually do not have your address or personal information, those type things. So online does have
a safety net there. The serial killer does not know where you live or know you personally.
But online friends are also different than normal friends. And what I mean is like,
if I went to school with someone for 12 years and let's just say I didn't see him for two weeks,
I know I'm going to see him again and talk to him and hang out. But online, you know, I might talk
to mugs every day, you know, obviously she's my mother, but if she wasn't, I might talk to her every day
and then she stops playing smite and plays, you know, who knows Halo and it is banish. Like
when friends in real life don't really tend to do that, it's like, well, more of a slow phase
and online, they can just hoof. It's kind of, you know, crazy. But also online, you don't know
if somebody you're talking to is somebody you know in your real life, just in passing. Yeah,
I mean, that kind of thing happens all the time. Somebody could be targeting you through
your online gaming accounts. And you might not realize it because you're not close to that person.
You've only met them maybe in the workplace or a friend of a friend or something like that.
And you've given enough detail about yourself for them to find you online. And you might not
realize that they're targeting you and that you know that you've met them. That's very true.
I'd like to introduce a couple of other elements here. One, I like to introduce the military
where we have friends and family and lots of loved ones who are here one moment and then they're
they're gone away for long periods of time the next moment. Yeah. And how we have to maintain
that relationship with them. I'd also like to introduce long distance relationships. Even before
the internet, we used to farm relationships with people and then expand that relationship across
states or even countries. How do you guys feel is it with those bits of evidence that even there
wasn't the internet, we still managed to maintain real relationships with other individuals that we
could not see every day. Well, I think you have touched on that when he said in real life,
that happens, but it's more phased. Yeah. It's not a cut quick. I'm going on some other game
who knows for that person. Right. I mean, like in a lot of times it's this family like, for example,
my cousin Joey went in the military for a couple of years and I didn't talk to him every day like
when he when he was back home, you know, I talked to him every now and then, but when he went in
the military, I probably went two years without talking to him. And he lived in the same state
not far away. But when he came back, you know, it was like, hey, welcome back, you know, like we knew
we were going to see each other again. Same thing with friends. It's just different.
You know, it's hard to kind of explain that, but it's just it's just different. You feel almost
like you have a commitment in real life versus digital life, I guess. One of the things that
that plays really heavily nowadays and sort of keeping up with people and keeping in contact
as social media, you know, Facebook is a huge way of keeping up with people that aren't part of
your everyday life. In military, a lot of times, you know, there's space time or WhatsApp or
you're communicating through sending packages and things like that to them. There's so many
different ways to contact people and stay in touch with people versus, you know, back in the 90s.
We didn't have cell phones, you know, we didn't have social media. A lot of people didn't even have
computers and internet in the 80s and 90s. I think it's harder to lose touch. Let me turn it around
a little bit. We discuss making friends. Now let's discuss what what is it that makes a person
not a friend? So you meet an individual rather online or in person. What is it that an individual
does that triggers your ability to say, nope, not this guy or not her? I think one of the weird
things about online friends is it's very easy. I might play one game with you, right? My
place might have a good game and I friend you. I'm your friend all of a sudden, right? One game
and I'm your friend. I played with you for 20 minutes and I'm your buddy. And then you play
with, yeah, right. And then you play with them for 20 more minutes. You're like, oh, this guy's
really a jerk. He has a bad attitude. What was I thinking? Okay. And now you got to, you know,
weasel out of it somehow. Hey, I got to get offline. Whatever. Then you block them. Whatever.
But it's just it is kind of interesting how that rules out. Well, I can also say I lose friends
on the internet because I get mad when we lose. And then I get grumpy and I can understand,
certainly understand people don't like that, you know? Well, it also kind of goes back to what we're
talking about earlier. Like he said, you know, you play a game with somebody you friend requests them.
You've known them for a few minutes. You play a couple more games and you go have voice chat now.
And sometimes guys get it inappropriate. You've right off the bat. And that is one really quick
way to lose a so called friends. Yeah, Mugs brought that one up the other day and I jokingly
made a note after she said it. I was like, note to self. Do not hit on female the moment you
learn she is a woman. It happens so much. She'd be surprised to be really shocked. Oh, I can
believe it. There were other points that was brought up as well. There's the okay now that they
understand you're a female. Now, if you do not let's say play nice with my with me hitting you
and you flirting with you. If you don't play nice about this, suddenly you're the bad guy,
right? You're you're this and you're that. And you know what? Let's now let's attack her. Let's go
after her. She's bad. Mugs was telling me about how she chose to have a a neutral name that did not
suggest sex at all. Like that name could be construed as anyone online because it just made it
too difficult to have them, you know, any sort of a good time when people can easily identify you
as a, you know, just instantly you're a woman kind of thing, you know? Yeah. And you know, my
screen name now he takes the only reason why I mean, it's obviously good feminine. But it's a
nickname from my gaming buddies. And that's the only reason why I use it. But no, I mean, I'm all
for, you know, like a unisex screen tag like mugs, you know, because some men and boys can get
incredibly inappropriate really fast. And I'm not saying all guys are like that on here because
you guys obviously aren't, you know, we still continue to game with you guys. You guys haven't been
inappropriate or rude in any way. You guys have actually been really, really polite. But there are
some out there that are the complete opposite. Now for the, for the men here, I got to ask,
when you come on the mic and others hear that you're a guy, do you experience any difference
when they know that you're a guy? I mean, do women treat you any differently when they hear
your voice online or do other guys approach you in a different manner when they hear your voice
online. I don't think so. I don't think so because it's just so common. I don't think most gamers
are guys. So it's just just the other dude. Now the women just, I just got to fight them off. But other
than that, it's fine. I see my, my band, my block list, it's all females like 2000. Can't keep
that. He's privately sending you messages.
Yeah, there's no difference. What's that like, you know, to just not have any kind of fear or
hesitation when you're out and about or gaming online that you don't have to put up any kind of
guard. Um, I couldn't tell you what it's like. It's normal. You know, it's, uh, yeah.
Well, I will, I will say this about it though, even though you don't necessarily have another guy
that will instantly hit on you there or or or or a woman that would hit on you, there are other
dynamics that we haven't really discussed because we don't have others here to speak for it. But
I have spoken with individuals that were in in same sex relationships and they've they've exposed
that, um, often in the past mostly when they would would speak about their relationships
or their preferences, they would come under assault immediately from mostly guys. And it would,
you know, they were being hit on by guys, but they were just being a verbally assaulted by guys.
So they got attention just not not that affectionate kind of attention. It was more, more assault.
I was just to say, unfortunately, um, truth is, this is a lot of guys are homophobic, you know,
that's just something we live with what we deal with. Unfortunately, I will add to that people
don't want to hear about your sexual preference, rather you are same sex or, yeah, I mean,
why do we have to hear about on either way, any slide?
Mm-hmm. I agree. So one of one of the things that I would introduce in this situation never
mind the person's preferences, but the attacking, if if there is any difference or there's a
conversation of any kind where it doesn't have to be the sexual preference, it could be a football
team, for instance, or just anything, you know, you like dodge, I like forward that kind of thing.
What's what's with the aggression because there's a difference?
Well, I'll be 100% honest. You know, I'd say in the last eight years, I mean, I've seen,
you know, you know, people that are gay, lesbian, trans, whatever. And I've never seen them attacked
and I'm being wholeheartedly honest. I have never seen anybody attack. I feel like, you know,
maybe they feel like they're being attacked, but I personally have never witnessed that.
You know, so I can't really speak to it. I mean, I honestly have never encountered it.
Well, as like he said, you know, forward versus dodge, people get really aggressive and competitive
and cross lines just over something as simple as that. And I don't understand it. It's like, okay,
you like forward that person like dodge, who cares? You know, it's not something to get aggressive
or violent or be crappy to another person over. You know, your preference, it doesn't matter.
Do you think the anonymity plays a part in it? You know, your online, your real identity is not
in jeopardy. So if you behave in a certain way, it's not going to stain your perfect reputation
in real life kind of thing. I used to be the case and people, you know, said, oh, that's what the
internet was invented for us. You could bash people anonymously. But now we're seeing people
getting revealed publicly on social media for things like that, which is a good thing, I think.
I mean, if you're going to be a crappy person, you know, it should be put out there,
especially if you're attacking people. I would actually explain that a little more clearly,
because I don't want to read into that. But could you elaborate more on what you mean by
you should be put out there? Well, I mean, if you're anonymously attacking people online,
cyber bullying, things of that nature, I think that, yeah, that maybe it shouldn't be put out
there on social media. We're seeing, you know, the so-called Karen's revealed and things like that.
People are losing their jobs or things that they said online, you know, I think it's kind of
two-fold too, man. Like, yes, okay, let's say they get attacked, but also like, I feel like I have
to walk on egg shells when I know that something someone is, you know, different or has different
whatever, you know, it puts pressure on me because now I'm on my tippy toes the whole time on what
I'm saying and how I'm talking. Well, I don't say nobody has the right to advertise
their sexual preference unless they're with people that they know really well and it's a close friend
and you know that you can divulge your personal stuff to that person. If you don't have that
connection, you are out of line bringing up your sexual preferences or even sex, really. You know,
a small joke when you know the people are well enough is fine here and there, but no, I don't feel
it has any business being brought up in a group of players. 30 years ago, sexual preference,
money, religion, politics, politics, all of what you just said was applied to those things. You know,
you don't bring them up unless you're in like company or you're with people close to you. Those
discussions were all kind of taboo and unless you really knew the people and knew what their
preferences were and it didn't just apply to their sexual preference that it applied to
whether we're public inter-democrat or you know their Christian or Catholic or how much money
they made. All of those things that used to it used to be rude to talk about with people.
Their business was their business but now it's all out there. It's a good topic because what he
brought up like what we're talking about is, you know, if I've known you for, you know, say three
days, you know, maybe that's longer than some people know people on the internet. You might know
someone for like we said one, two matches. So we really don't even know these people and now we're,
you know, like you said, making jokes or who knows what we're saying and we don't know our
audience at all. But I think also people get too easily offended over things. Yes, I agree.
Uh-oh. It wasn't like that. You know, I'm Gen X. It wasn't like that then. You know,
if you had a problem with somebody, you just avoided them. You moved on. You didn't attack them
and berate it. There's this feeling of hypersensitivity that's been taking place.
And one of the issues that I want to bring up, whenever an individual felt like they've been
wronged, there's kind of like this movement that has been, they call it cancel culture, if you will.
Yeah. So it's like this need to raise an army and destroy on behalf of someone else's hurt feelings.
Yeah. I remember, well, I'm pretty sure all of us, all of us has heard about, read about or
seen movies based on events that took place long a long time ago and like, you know, somewhere
out in Europe and England or whatever, where people would scrap on entire suits of metal,
you know, basically a sedan worth of metal. And for the honor of their king or a fair maiden,
or whoever, run down the street with the sword and cleave someone to death. Yeah. How is that
any different today online when, well, somebody's honor was tarnished to, you know, get the army.
Let's go, you know, we're on foot now. We got to go take someone out.
I would say it's a very good point, a good, good thought process, but this isn't, you know, the
1600, 1700, 1800s anymore, you know, we're more civilized, you know, we're not going to get the
beat brawler stick out and start going to town. You know, there's a way that we should do and
don't do things. I think that's kind of, you know, where, where evolution has went to and
we're trying to backpedal a little bit. Now, where, where it used to be, there was a lot of
physical because that's just the way they, they did it back then, you know, you, you strap on
the long knives and you went to work. Today, though we're not physically attacking a person,
I want you to stop and think about the impact of imagine a guy who spent his entire life
building a career. He's made it to just this very wonderful place in life and things are going
great. He's able to see his kids grow up and somebody pulled a tweet from 10 years ago,
used it to crash his entire career. Now, he's lost his job. He's at an age where it's not going to
be easy to transition. And because the everything's online is kind of like permanent,
there's no place he can really go where people will not have heard of this thing that's being
thrown around. And now it's not just, yeah, not, now it's not just his life. If he's the bread
winner in the household, think about it. There's, there's other lives attached to his that are now
negatively impacted. There's college funds and things that were once figured out that may no
longer happen. So, do you guys really think that happens? I mean, it would have to be a pretty
bad tweet like you have to find out that person was probably still is, or you'd have to find out
that person actually murdered people back in the day. I mean, just a, but that's not what they're
doing it over now, months. They're, they're doing it over so-called racist tweets and comments.
No, they just have in heart, but I don't think, I don't think one tweet from that many years ago,
you're going to lose your entire job. I think there has to be more come with it, more come out,
more to the picture. I don't really shouldn't be that way. But unfortunately, we've seen it happen
recently. Yeah, I don't think it's anything we can control. We've kind of let the government go
to this. We've let society get to this culture. Yeah, you know, we let them rule everything
right now. You know, we've seen it happen with multiple celebrities. So, when your internet
friends come to you and say, Hey, there's a bad man over there. Let's get him. You're not ready
to strap on the sword and in enough iron to look like a, a small sedan and run over there and
cleave him. No, no, that's high school stuff where you all gang up for elementary or no,
at any time. Anyway, the group you have here, we all just make our own minds up about, yeah,
people always in that way. Well, guys, I know we're all ready to get back to playing some games.
And if ever in the future, you guys are willing to have another conversation with me. I mean,
I would love to do it. You've all been wonderful. I would like for you guys to introduce yourself
once more before we exit the episode here. All right. Yeah, this was Chase. Again,
appreciate the opportunity. I really enjoyed the conversation and looking forward to a few more
games. This is mugs up. And I've been on another podcast, but very interesting conversation.
This is Danny Kakes. You know, thank you for having me in two posts. I'm really great questions
and situations stuff that I think really needs to be talked about. This is Ma Sialo. And thanks
for the opportunity. Have a nice chat with you guys. And we're out of here. Thank you guys for
listening to Hacker Public Radio. Hit on over to HPR anytime you like. Check out what the community
has going on. And if you enjoy it, I mean, maybe you'll join us and begin uploading your own shows
in the future. But until then, we're out of here. This is some guy on internet signing off.
You have been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio does work. Today's show was
contributed by a HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of recording a podcast,
you can click on our contribute link to find out how easy it really is. Hosting for HPR has been
kindly provided by an honesthost.com, the internet archive and our syncs.net. On the Sadois
stages, today's show is released under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
