Episode: 3021
Title: HPR3021: HPR Community News for February 2020
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3021/hpr3021.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 15:19:00

---

This is Hacker Public Radio Episode 3,021 for Monday 2 March 2020.
Today's show is entitled HPR Community News for February 2020.
And as part of the series, HPR Community News, it is hosted by HPR volunteers
and is about 55 minutes long
and carries an explicit flag. The summer is.
Call for shows is open.
Ken and eventually Dave discussed the shows.
Media and development plans.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by An Honesthost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code HPR15.
That's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's Honest and Fair at An Honesthost.com.
Hi everybody, my name is Ken Fallon and you're listening to another episode of Hacker Public Radio.
Today, HPR15 News for February 2020.
Before we begin, I want to tell you that there is a call for shows at the moment.
The queue is very low and we need people to send in shows.
As you may or may not know, Hacker Public Radio is a community podcast network
and even though you hear familiar voices from time to time,
that doesn't mean that you're not supposed to be sending in shows.
You are, in fact, your supposed to be becoming a familiar voice here on the network.
If you have never sent in a show at all,
now would be an excellent time for you to introduce yourself to the community
so that we know who you are and that we can fill up the queue.
So, unfortunately, Dave is around,
but he's having some connecting issues
and therefore I am going to do this myself.
At this point, Dave would normally introduce the new host.
So, there is a new host this month and that is Mono Chromic
and we would welcome you to our network.
Thank you very much.
So, this, as I said, is the community in NewShow
where we give you a summary of the things that we've been getting up to in the last month.
And we take, use this as an opportunity to go back and have a look at all the shows
so that all the shows get some room and we can go through the comments.
So, the first show that we're going to be talking about is 3,001,
which was the community news for January 2020.
And we must have said anything very important
because there was no comments in that show.
The final, the next day was the World of Commodore Episode 8, a vote of thanks.
And Windigo says,
thanks for the series found all of the world of Commodore episodes you submitted to be very enjoyable.
I don't have much experience with Commodore's or that era of computing.
And hearing that community is currently able to achieve is fascinating.
Thanks for a wonderful series.
And I think that echoes my sentiments as well on that show.
And so, speaking of series, the following was community news or sorry,
the New Year show part before put up by Kevin Wischer.
And in this one, we had, yeah, you ran them taking over.
And a pathetic explanation as to where our missing episode is from the book club,
not looking at you.
And full key wrote dark reader.
Thanks for the recommendation for dark reader.
It's really great.
I just wish I could work on it.
Sorry, I just wish it would work on all the about pages to really shocking
when you suddenly get hit by brightness.
So what is referring to there is one of the tips they had where you can theme every web page.
And dark reader was one of those things.
So the next day was our own Dave.
Dave Morris fixing simple audio problems with a dusty.
And this is actually a interesting one.
It isn't as ever, Dave has nice show notes and they're complete all show notes.
But he basically does noise reduction, high pass filter amplification and truncated silence.
Basically, if you're doing this on an audacity, you're pretty much doing 99% of hot
the mere mortals here on hprd.
So this is a very good one to listen to.
So I hooker continued the following day with is activity pub paving the way to web 3.0.
And this is the conference that he's reviewing held in Prague.
And yeah, I caught this was this quite interesting from a this whole semantic web point of view.
So that was pretty pretty cool.
And I am enjoying the series as ever.
The following day was operator with a show that hijacking the auxiliary input of your car.
Very complicated and complicated show.
Well, it was really great to listen to taking back ownership of your car and basically how to wire in.
I don't know.
I don't have a car.
So I did in days of your, but no, not anymore.
But I can completely understand how something could be extremely frustrating.
But he's had a good.
This is the true sense of hacking a system to make it do what you want.
So shout out to him, no comments on that episode either.
And also no comments on photography 101, the following day by Paul cork, where Paul.
Sorry, a bit of a cuff and Paul goes through the, yeah, really basics of photography.
And I found this fascinating to listen to.
And not not just from from the point of view of explaining basic things like what focal length is and ep stops and stuff like that are.
But also giving tips on, you know, as a starter, if you're starting off in the hobby, this is basically all you need to do.
Set it like this and then you can develop from there.
So great, great episode.
And there are more of these.
And I am looking forward to more of them.
You might think it a bit odd to be doing photography on a radio, essentially an audio medium like HPR, but no, it works.
And episode five of the new year show and is lots of war stories and North says these two guys should get together more often.
What fun wondering conversation from two interesting people.
So when she gets these two together on a regular basis, are they could start their own HPR series?
Interesting listening.
I could not agree more.
And there's a HPR channel of mumble details are on the HPR website as to how you're going to do that.
So if you two guys want to get together, I personally would enjoy listening to even more of this great stuff.
I must say I really enjoyed the topics on the new year show this year was very little repetition of the same stuff and interesting topics the whole way great stuff.
Then we had Linux in laws season one episode one.
It's a podcast about on topics on free and open source software.
So there's a there's mail list discussions about this.
But I had the comments, which we'll discuss later.
I put in the comment they mentioned about setting up a mobile server.
And as I just wanted to point out again that we have a mobile server.
HPR has a mobile server for the greater podcasting community.
And it's on ch1.teamspeak.cc and port 64747.
So ch1.teamspeak.cc port 64747.
And in there you can simply create your own room and record your own shows.
So making this a lot, a lot easier all around.
Peter Mortison said the predecessor Linux in laws.
Ha ha ha ha.
The successor to Linux outlaws 2017 to 2014.
And end dot Wikipedia dot org Linux, which is Linux underscore outlaws.
How many will get that reference nearly six years later?
All the listeners for which the closing of Linux outlaws left a gaping hole in the podcast landscape.
And then Chris says Linux in laws at Peter all will be revealed in a future episode soon.
Stay tuned.
Then the following day was a show by Andrew Conway.
Fast and first impressions, which I found interesting not just from the point of view that.
Andrew and I were there together, but it was his first.
It reminded me of my first impressions to fast and.
And it was a very good episode.
I'm going to send this on to the fast and organizers so that they can.
Have a listen to this operator again.
This time, Linux is hard a rant with Intel graphics where he's gone over his.
Some very good tips about GPU and CPU information.
Not 100% sure how much.
Uses would be but stuff like HDD temperature will tell you the temperature of your drives.
The different types of system info that you can have LSPCI basically he's got a whole range of.
Useful debugging information.
That people are going to be wanting to know, have you tried this?
Have you tried this?
When you're debugging hardware issues actually.
So the following day, we have a sample episode from some people I met at.
Weakipedia button, which is a Swedish language podcast about Wikipedia.
They've they occasionally do English language summaries.
I spoke to them about getting some, you know, basically putting them on to the free culture podcast page and they have done that.
So that's flash tips 21 environmental variables.
And I see Dave here has gone back and unrenamed it from flash a NATO.
So I'm amazed that that survived as long as it did.
And this one was environmental variables and Dave seemed to think that environmental variables are a thing of the past.
But as it turns out, they're exceptionally hip and trendy now in the Docker and Kubernetes sort of arena.
So that is how you're supposed to pass in all your variables.
So CRBS right.
And so that's how you should bang after all these years.
I finally understood how you write your best scripts.
Thank you.
Dave replied writing ox scripts.
Sorry on how you write an ox script.
Dave replied writing ox scripts.
Glad the episode was useful in case you missed it.
There's a series called learning.
And HPR which you can find it.
There series 94.
This has been restructured from for publication and open source.com of those.
The next day was another popular one kind of struck an old there was a headless raspberry pi streaming server.
For playing music under John's pillow word about disturbing his better half and basically jungles to the steps of doing that.
Be easy said that he's going to be trying this tonight.
Thanks for the show.
I will be trying out MPEG123 on one of my pies tonight.
John replies still streaming with URL update.
Thanks for the comment.
I hope the pi plus MP3 MPEG123 suits your needs.
Mine is working perfectly after about a month, though I had to update the URL of one of the streams.
I love my pie review.
Dave, I can, Dave.
Dave has just joined the channel.
That just took me forever to set my damn laptop up to do this because my desktop is not playing board at all tonight.
I'm not 100% sure Dave that I've pressed push to talk for each of these segments.
So there may be some that we have skipped over.
Do you know what I've done this?
When I've recorded on my own I've forgotten to do this now to go back and start over again.
It's not just me being the silly old part.
That's good.
No.
No.
Okay.
Well, um, do you want to, do you want to continue?
Whereabouts are you?
I'm at John Colbe's episode 3014 and I'm reading, uh, I've just done comment two.
Is this the laptop that you want that I'll come?
It is, it is.
But it's only got one screen.
Why didn't I get one with two screens?
I'm not used to.
I usually got two monitors and I've got some stuff on one or some stuff on the other.
I'm having a hell of a job jumping around and finding where everything is.
So I don't even know where John Colbe's episode is.
I sent you a letter.
Okay.
I know I'll continue reading on.
Beezy says there's an issue with MPG123.
I tried MPG123 with remote stream and found the following problem on Ubuntu 1910.
URL must start with HTTP and not HTTPS.
Or else it looks to play a local file and you get an error.
File access error code 22.
If the stream redirects HTTP to HTTPS, your stream should play.
If it doesn't, you may be out of luck.
For instance, I pick a random podcast on iTunes and it fails to redirect on the other hand using a file from HPR works just fine.
Okay.
I'm caught up.
I think.
Yes.
So John says HTTP not HTTPS.
You're right.
I found the same thing but got to mention it in either the recording or the show notes.
So far all of the streams I've listened to work with the HTTP prefix though.
I seem to call the command line VLC, CVLC, can play streams with HTTPS but I may be wrong.
I'm on my phone at the moment and can't verify.
So that was that.
And then the following day we have activity pub conference.
The schematical social network.
I've just mixed up the comments for the shows here cause I was saying.
His previous activity bubble was the semantic web on which I am a particular fan of the semantic web app.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
As usual with the hookers things I really need to go and dig deeper.
I just got so many brilliant links here and I keep.
I leave.
I listen to them.
I leave them and think.
Oh yeah.
I was going to check.
And of course I don't.
I want to go and dig deeper.
I want to dig deeper.
I want to go.
Okay.
I will make a mixy tube, cluck and friends again, operator coming in saving the day and they look like a very nice little.
Kid to put together not one that I would recommend for starters.
But any stretch of the nation because.
These things require some fairly serious votes just to get them to work.
Yeah.
Yeah, it looks beautiful thing, but 40 something bans.
but of course it's USA only to ship it to the UK would be astronomically expensive.
But wow, I was drooling when I saw this. It looks really funny too.
Very, very. It looks really old-school stuff. I really like this.
He was lucky to have somebody local who could help them out with troubleshooting the issues as well.
It's definitely not a thing to learn on this, as you said.
And the whole business about lead-free solder.
We don't know. That has spread the word that lead-free is the thing to use.
I know people again won't tell about the lead, but it's such lead-free stuff.
It's so dreadful. It doesn't flow. It doesn't stick. It's an awful product.
I had some through it away.
So the following day was a second in what probably will be a series on photography by Paul,
developing black and white film. This was more a soundscape than anything else,
but it was really interesting to following it. Follow along.
Yes, yes. I like the way he did this with all the ambient sounds and stuff.
That was great. I thought I was tracking along with him there.
And he's using one of these Patterson film tanks, which it's got a spiral in it that you feed
film into in the dark, and then it ratchets and moves the film around.
I have one, though, unlike Paul, I must admit that I bought it and I never used it.
I was going to try and develop a colour slide film, what do you call that,
a reversal, which is very, very hard to do. I was always too nervous to do it,
so I never got to it. I did lots of practice with film loading and all that stuff.
He was saying that he wished he'd bought a typical changing bag. It's a black fabric bag with two
sleeves in it, which you unzip and put the film and everything in, and then you put your arms
down in the sleeves. So you can work in ordinary light and then do everything inside this bag.
I have one of these. It's one rather wonderful thing, and I've practiced with it so many times,
I've never actually developed it, so I'm in awe of what Paul's doing this.
Some of those photos are very good at this site, though.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Next one. This is a great series, if that's what it's going to turn into.
So the following day, we had encrypted edit by Plattu, who does password store,
and there's some scripts to use G new privacy card to take some files and basically decrypt them to
RAM. I thought this was interesting, but I'm wondering why you just just need something like
Kipass X or Kipass XC, which I've taken to use it. Well, yeah, I know I do this. I use Kipass X
for everything and sharing the database between systems is the thing you should really do. I haven't
quite got myself coordinated enough with it, but yeah, I know I was intrigued just why he was where
he was. I think you may have explained it way back when he did the first and these for the
count of the life of the number five. I did like his explanation of doing this encryption decryption
editing stuff and potentially leaving debris all over the place, which would be traceable if anybody
got all of your machine and did forensics on it, which you know, that's a very significant
thought if you are, you know, take me laptop through customs and people are wanting to
put around with it and stuff. Yeah, and I was kind of wondering why, why then would you roll your
own solution? Because, you know, if you get a solution from guys who are developing us, you know,
with more experience and more eyes, developing your own solution would not be the best approach.
I know, I know, intriguing though. I, um, yeah, very, I went from listening to this to
quick look to see if there was a bin plug-in. I know Clatter would be discussed with, of course,
me here's a bin to do this, I probably will. But there is, there's a bin GNU PG and it's a plug-in
but where you can edit the file and encrypt it, create a file and encrypt it through it or open
up an already encrypted one, and you can encrypt it in multiple keys so you can make a list of who
you want it to be fuelable by. So, um, so that, that seemed to me quite a nice thing. I probably
actually used that from time to time. I'm going to need to share files with you, however. Yeah,
actually, but don't be a bad idea. Yeah, it looks, looks, it looks like good. It's not the most
wonderfully put together plug-in. It's a little bit clunky but, uh, so it seems to do the job.
Okay, um, move along. The following day we had Linux in laws episode two, uh, rundown from foster
and there were no comments on that one. Yeah, so validating data in Haskell for the hard core
out there. There were a few, um, Haskell people around, uh, foster and I made sure to drop this series
to anybody I met. So, you took a different approach in the show basically rather than going to
to in depth into their, uh, code itself. Uh, he basically gave us some, uh, explanations around us.
So that's pretty cool. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I thought that was good. I, um, didn't do what I
used to do and listen while reading his notes because his notes were always very comprehensive.
So I'm a little bit, uh, at the loss with this one at the moment, but I'm gonna catch up. So, uh,
other comments that we missed, uh, whereas, uh, on Daniel Pearson's show, sqrl, secure, quick,
reliable login. And in the community news, we had asked Ahuka to give us some feedback and he
has done so saying, thanks for a very good presentation on this exciting protocol. I hope this does
guess taken up by major sites. The old username, password stuff is not nearly secure enough
that this could be a major upgrade. Yeah, cool. Um, Paul Quirk did a show, did show 3000 for us with
the show plan three project. And uh, Ahuka commented on this. Um, he said, I love this. I previously
supported a similar effort by Kimiko issues, Ahuka to record royalty free versions of Bach.
We need more of this free, we need more free culture. Can't, can't, can't, but agree with that.
And McNallu also agrees. Gréish Sussi. Excellent show. Well, love Chopin. I don't know what sort of
accident that was supposed to be. You must have been studying the way the man speaks at both
them. That's all I can say. I mean, getting it wrong. Sorry. And then it's very,
indeed. So let's move to the mailing list. It's been a busy little week. Um, I sent off the,
I love free software. Somebody spam me. Um, but it's fine. This one was about sending off a letter
of thanks to developers on Valentine's Day, which is kind of pretty cool. And if you missed it,
don't worry. You can continue. You can fire off an email. It's something you should do from time
to time. So there was a fair amount of activity on that subject on the Fediverse, I noticed,
on mass done. And so it was, it didn't go. It wasn't ignored in general. Well, that's a great idea.
So I want to read the next one. It was about HBUR 2009, which was a low-fellow members of HBUR
community. I'm writing today because I'm concerned about episode three thousand and nine,
which seems to me like a clear case of syndication. First, in the title in ex-outlaw season one,
episode one, and the fact that there's no mention of HBUR at all in the show. I had a discussion
with this, with Ken about this, and I understand that the circumstances to justify the presence
of the show on HBUR, but I am concerned that this kind of episode doesn't really belong,
at least in this form here. With another title, I'm properly acknowledged in the recording.
It would be fine. I'm curious to know what the rest of the community thinks. As I'm pretty sure,
I cannot be the only one who feels this way. I replied to that saying,
Yali, first, thanks for getting in touch, and then sending this to the list for review,
because I'd ask you to do that. It is important that our community questions the decisions of the
generators, HBUR is entirely community-driven, policy decisions, and proposals are discussed
in the mainly list, so I put a link into there. At the time, I checked their site, which was empty,
and I also checked the license, which is Creative Commons. Therefore, it was safe to post it as a
sample show. I also sent them the email below, which I asked them about. Are you planning
and hosting your own podcast and stuff? When I was at this stand-up boss, Chris, I spoke to Chris,
and it became clear that their website and feed was not active, so they're posting them exclusively
on HBUR, so we're bootstrapping the show for them. Once they have everything ready, they will move
onto their own feeds and become fellow show members of pre-culture podcast. Preestence for this
was Mix in the Shell, and Sigflop with Uberly Hacker Force Radio, which actually was a spoof
if I recall, and it falls under dedicated sharing knowledge. So, Honki replied, saying as a person
whose podcast in the next podcast had several appearances on HBUR, I am all for using HBUR as a
springboard to spread the word about other podcasts, and believe that as long as the subject matter
of the podcast is of interest to hackers, it meets the criteria. Yannick says, I guess I
expected a little bit more recognition towards HBUR for the help in launching the project HBUR
is about sharing, and I feel there's more about using the sharing because if, as long as the
subject matter is of interest to hackers is enough, then why not do plain syndication of stuff
that's of interest. And that one went, ah yes, to which I replied, back in, we covered this back
in 2012, November of another time, we had one day dedicated to a syndicated show, syndicated
Thursdays, as you might remember, Dave. Then stuff started to pick up, and then we didn't have
any more slots available, and we were basically posting syndicated content, and basically we
kind of got a lot of grief from people because why are you posting their shows when you're not
posting my shows and stuff like that. So, basically we then went to, we're only producing stuff
for HBUR, and if it's creative common stuff, we will publish it, and we'll put it in a sample
episode, so that's pretty much how it goes. I'm not really sure what the Linux in laws are going
to do. I thought that they had said that they were going to move to the raw and feeds, but
their website is now up, but it seems like they're going to continue posting them on HBUR.
I'm not really sure. No, no, they did seem to imply that in the second show that they would like
to continue posting my HBUR, but I'm not quite sure that they appreciate the means and
acts of that decision. Yeah, from a physical point of view, they won't be able to determine when
the shows come out, because as I put out the call for shows already, everybody listening to this
episode will be busy uploading shows, and we will have a flood of shows for the next three months
people. I'm looking at you. Yes. And therefore, I'm simply being able to pick a day two weeks
time, and then expecting a show to come out, might not work. So there you go. Shall I read what
Taj said? I share, or do you want to read what Taj said? Yeah, sure, sure. Taj says I share the
same ideas as several of the previous posters. There's someone who is definitely bootstrap to
podcast from HPR, and it's, I think, some amount of syndication is a valuable tool. More than a
couple of the three culture podcasts, podcasts out there have done the same thing to either get
established or get some promotions. As far as syndicating episodes of another podcast, I
also don't really mind it. I do think there should be at least some limits the number of episodes
over a period of time. In the past, I think this has been handled well. If a podcast is wanting to post
episodes more regularly and establish time limit, we as a community should help them establish
their own hosting fee. For example, Urandoms, and my podcast site and feed costs less than
one US dollar a month, but I'm sure we're more than happy to help anyone set up the same
situation. I think there's a way to support new podcasts being initially created using HPR
and then using the community to help them become self-sufficient. The word incubator just
says me talking sort of came into my head as I was reading that. Anyway, back to the email,
as far as attributing and acknowledging HPR, while I think it's a nice gesture that's appreciated,
I would not categorize it as necessary just in my two cents. Nigel Beza said, obviously,
there are no prizes for guessing the inspiration of this new podcast viewed in isolation. I'm
quite happy to give this new podcast on this and as a means of getting its existence publicized HPR
is probably above the medium. The fact that we are discussing it now proves that the principal
works all the same. I think the correct method would be to use the HPR show as a container
with introductory content by the producers in addition to the podcasts itself. It seems to
recall at least one precedent for this approach. I would not object to HPR being used this way for
first editions of new tech-related podcasts. However, if the same approach is attempted for future
episodes, then I think it should be resisted. Otherwise, HPR will run the risk of becoming
hijacked as a distribution medium and that actually ends. Thank you, Nigel Beza, and that is actually
what I'm concerned about most. Yeah, yeah, good point. Because if four or five people, if five
people do that, 10 people decide to release the shows and do that and release every two weeks,
then that's the cue is full. I think we then would be better moving people to HPR media
and they had the podcasting to be at Beza.org at one stage, which was exactly this to help people
get their podcasts up around. I'll fire off an email and see what the guys intend to do.
Do you want to finish off with Ben or Brian? Was that the one you mean?
Yeah, that's the one, Brian. Yep. I do not feel a need to mention HPR within an episode.
There is an intro and outro. As Ken pointed out, it was exclusive and created common.
So it does definitely meet the rules, but my concern with it is not necessarily that
the posting and stuff. It might generate bad feeling among other podcasters who would feel like
if they had released their own shows via HPR, they would have got an instant audience of
a few thousand people rather than having to grow your own. And having to deal with that here as
admin or as the janitor is, is the issue that I'm a little bit concerned with. So I think the
approach of if there's creative comments podcast, new creative comments podcast absolutely we want
to hear about them and you post them. And then between the HPR or intro and outro, you hear their
podcasts. That's it. We have had Linux in the shell in the past, but truth be told, Dan
and I did discuss that with us here at HPR prior to that and it was discussed on the mail list
and it was a community decision if I recall. I can't remember correctly, but Dan definitely
had posted lots of shows to HPR and was a founding member of Hackabock Radio from the Linux
stuff net anyway. So he, him and his daughter were even hosting their, Josh had their own domain name
was run on the HPR server, so that was a little bit different. But yeah, okay. We'll see how it
pans out. So we had HPR and social media. Shall I read it? Highsables. I wrote it. I'll read it.
Hi, all. At first, then we put a chat group together to more effectively communicate with
the participants there. The group then expanded to come to cover some who are following along at home.
Say hello, Dave. It was great. It was almost like I was there. It was actually quite cool because
we were asking Dave was busy over there. It was, yeah, yeah. I think I might have watched more
the time that things were going on. I was watching more talks and stuff than you guys,
because I was hopping about through the streams and watching things. And I did actually see
there was one, the end of one talk, saw people standing up to leave. And there was JWP
heading out. So it felt like I was there, you know. So you didn't wait.
Well, you saw more of the shows than I did. So I'll talk to you later.
So I'll continue. Since there's been a discussion as to a more free type of communication channel.
So a hook is episode one zero. So a hook is series one zero eight. Sorry about this. I'm all
off. Are almost host Marshall almost put up a snicket server? Is that how you plan to start?
Yeah. And some of the other foster members are testing a HPR general chat channel there.
It is a new XMPP server based off the Prodacy code. And the main benefit is right now it's
ability to work across multiple devices and start to chat with your phone and the sync to
cross all clients that are signed in the account. Registration is on FOS, is closed chat.
Very good. FOS ch.ad. See what you did there is currently closed at the moment, but you can
connect to general groups dot chat. FOS chat using your XMPP ID while we figure out how to do
registration. And I go and say your thoughts on this in particular and HPR on social media in
general will appreciate you want to take the next by John Springs. Yeah, yeah, it just takes me
while to click through. Come on Dave. Yeah, this laptop is so slow. So sad I bought it now.
John Springs said before hosting something new, have you considered using matrix dot? It's an
IM project which is managed and maintained was recently adopted by Mizzoula to replace their IR
scene network and previously was adopted by the KDE project and the French government.
They were all camp as well. I spoke to them. They were just close to us. They don't need to be
out there. I've interviewed them, Dave. Yeah, you go to see your pen attention. Yeah, what about
after this channel called HPR? Yeah, I remembered my conversation. If people want to
self-host their own home server, they can access the rooms via federation service and they're
also bridges into many IR scene network if that's a desirable option too. Also, the fun and giggle's
matrix was developed by a telecom provider to sort off a place sit and search you can then
voice the video calls including VR video calls over matrix two. It's actually very cool.
There was a talk at I'll camp about not the last one, one before the scheduled one. I think
it's quite a great presentation about it which got a lot of people very interesting.
And Brian says there is a matrix room HPR call on matrix.org as it happened to which I replied,
give an ugly link to it. Thursday, December the 7th, 2017, tattoo created and configured this
room. Nice for the tattoo. Do you want to read tags as well? Yeah, it takes me a while to
find the thing. Be, move my mouse and secondly, get my brain in gear. Anyway, tags says just by two
cents as far as social media. Really, the only two requirements I have for joining any social media
moving forward are that it is false and that it's decentralized. As long as something checks those
boxes, I'd be all for trying anything. I know a lot of my interactions on masters are now essentially
just interactions with HPR books. So something more centralized might be nicer people,
you just want a place to hang kind of like old cars. The planet was back in the day. I was not
aware there was a matrix room for HPR and I'll definitely be checking it out. I've only had limited
experiences with matrix books, the experiences I have had have been good. I'm not heard of
snickered before today. I do miss xmpp though. And Gorbato says, I run privacy myself. Looks like
I'll be migrating over to snickered. I also wasn't aware of their matrix room. Are there plans to
make a page with this information memory at the top bar at community button? I see on cast plan
if mentioned, has there been discussion on ways to follow users over to there? I think at the
bottom of the page, we drink to Alcast plan on registered, which is not very useful for someone
new to IRC. I've been on the Binreb IRC servers for years. Do they still run their own IRC
servers with HPR channel? So the Alcast plan on registered, if you don't log in or not authenticate
it, you get put into this unregistered thing, which I agree is not very helpful. And I think
there's a lot of people on other social media things that are not on IRC, but the matrix has the
ability to, the matrix science is the ability to go to IRC on free node. And I wasn't even aware
that Binreb had their own IRC server or that there was a HPR channel there. So, there you go.
So, Snicket. Snicket's quite good, but I was using Gajin, I've known GAJM to connect to
Snicket because I had used that years ago to connect to Google Talk. And that was okay.
And I can't remember what else I was using, but yeah, but matrix, I was using Riot on my phone and on
the web client on my desktop. And it's got a lot of good features and it's obviously being
developed quite rapidly. So, certainly, yeah, certainly seems pretty good. I ended up wanting to have
less places to talk, but now I'll end it up with more places to talk. Yeah, yeah. I felt that it's
probably worth checking these out in anticipation of there being a process of even migrating to the
one that was best. And there does seem to have been a little bit about people being moving away from
Snicket to some degree. And I think Andrew McNallow joined Matrix a day or two back saying,
I noticed everybody had disappeared from Snicket. So, here I am. Well, something to that, but
so, no, imagine that's going to be the future, but it's hard to predict. I don't know, evolution
is going on. Yeah, I did like the Snicket more because of the freedom of the clients. There's more
XMPP clients, but on the other hand, everything has moved now to a web API, which Matrix is using.
So, possibly Matrix will be able to bridge the two, or will be cool as if there was a way to have
a matrix bridging to both and that way you get everything in the one that will be that's
basically what I want. Yeah, I don't know the answer to that, but I've seen discussions with people
said, how does it bridge to X? And the answer seems to be, oh yes, there does seem to be either
something already or something being worked on, but we'll do that. So, to look to have potential.
So, there was a call for shows. We're very low. We have a few from Mahooka sitting there in the
queue, but that's submitted some series. And we need shows. We've got enough for next week,
but after that we're out. Yes. And just to remind everybody, if there are no shows, we are going to
shut down the network. That is the promise that I made. There are no shows in HPR, then the project
has ceased, and we shut it down. Yeah, there's no point in syndicating other people to hand their
content and trying to keep it going. People are supposed to submit shows. That's the plan.
So, submit your shows. Thank you. And if you don't know what to submit, the first show is
Hi, I am Rachel. And this has been listening to the HPR for years. Never thought I should send
in the show, but now here I am. And here's my tech history. And then we will definitely ask you
for more shows. That's how it works. It's not a burden sending in shows. Is it Dave? I don't think
it is. I don't know. Well, well, tomorrow is episode is the exception. Well, yes, it's not.
It's you pick up a recorder. You say what you have to say, and you press send. And then you go,
oh my god, it sounded my own boys. Yes, we all do. But yeah, come on, get over. Yeah.
Okay. Kevin Mischer said that the audio quality is a better version, but I didn't see the
version. I asked him about it. Yeah. Yeah. I think he's he's developed a better version, but I'm
not sure where where it is. Yeah. Okay. Well, we need to ask him that. Kevin, send us a link.
I did want to mention in one of the discussions on one of the social medias. And this is there's
now a bit of a problem because I know and they on the HPR channels and we need to bring
commons or basically discussions from there into this community news show. That's a whole point
to the community news show. So there has been a lot of discussions and one of the most interesting
that related to the community was I was putting out the idea there. Should we when somebody
posts a comment to the HPR website, should we post that to our Twitter feed like we do for when
shows get submitted to the feed. Should we say there's a new comment, you know, Dave has left a
comment on this episode or Bob has left a comment on this episode. And I never for a moment thought that
that would be an issue, but some people floated the idea that comments are not public in the same
way that something on a web page is public. What do you feel about that Dave? Well, the
the comments on HPR are as public as the shows, aren't they? Exactly. They're attached to the shows.
I don't know. I mean, the fact that a comment has been posted rather than the actual contents of
the comment would be, I mean, because if you're not posting the shows, it's just posting the fact
that there is a show and it's got a title and it's over there. In fairness, I think the point
was about posting it directly to Twitter. So putting it into our Twitter feeds, putting it
out to our RSS feeds for Twitter and Fediverse and all those places, hey, there's a new comment on HPR.
For one thing, I think it will, right now if you follow the HPR feed, it's a bit like a, it looks
like a bot is releasing it and it doesn't seem to be alive. Like it's one post today and
you show has been released and this is the show, whereas getting feedback in comments might be
something that people would like to have coming out to their Twitter feed or their Fediverse feed or
whatever that there's something trending on that they might actually want to comment about. I don't
know. But if there's privacy issues associated with that, then yeah, I'd like to, I'd like to hear
about it. What the things he's feeling is on that whole topic. The comments are not particularly
identifiable, are they? I mean, you can put it completely wrong. But a comment to a show
on the show, on the same page as the show, is a different entity than a comment, an entire comment
about a show that on Twitter, that nobody's actually knows anything about because it's not on
Twitter, but links to it are. So I don't know whether that's a, that's a particularly valuable
Twitter thing. Yeah, no, no, no, that's just, just random chitchat from me, that's all.
And some other stuff we have, yesterday, there's been some activity, Yannick and the love
Dave, Dave, the junior, have helped us to set permissions and stuff on, on the development sites
that are at GitLab.ananasthals.com. And if you're interested in the development of the new,
the new, more distributed version of the HBO web presence, then feel free to come and join
in the form that is to be had there. Yeah, whether we want to be sort of doing a quick summary
on these community news shows, I don't know, depends. Well, I have things moved forward, I guess,
but it might be worth something, it might be worth considering. Absolutely, dot nore if there
is a whole loss to say as yet. No, we just did some stuff, but maybe as we get further down the road,
something about the stuff we did would be, would be an interest. Yeah, there's no code up there,
as yes, it's just, we've met two repels, HBO front end and the HBO back end. And the, well,
the whole thing about this is I don't really know where to start, but what I've decided to do is,
I'm going to, in the HBO front end, I'm going to manually put in the HBO website as it's rendered
now. So basically a, a mirror of what you would get, both instead of using the database that
each of the pages would be in slash episode slash, if you're one, two, three, four, or whatever.
And then the backend stuff will be where the postgres database is and the tools necessary
to interact with the postgres database in order to, and the templates that would be
form the HTML webpages. And then when that's running, the backend would push to the front end
and the front end, you point a web server to it and then you've got the HBO website. Yeah.
Now both the backend and the front end will be totally open to anybody to be able to get
pulled and pull it down. So if you're interested in the, in just getting it up today,
local copy of the HBO website, you just do a get pull every day and the modified files
better on the HBO website would be down on your get repository. And you can just point a,
a web server to that and you've got yourself a copy of the site. And if you want to
act as one of the worker nodes in a janitor nodes, janitor nodes, then you pull down the backend one.
And then if you've got credentials to push up to a hbr website or you wanted to run your own
mirror of a hbr website, you could do that as well. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. I'm sure there's
there's going to be interesting issues to consider along the way, but the principle of it sounds
so pretty good. Yep. Okay. By anything else, Steve? Do you want to talk about the tags? Yeah.
We had a, we had a flurry of tags this month. Gordon Miranda, who committed in public to
add the tags to his shows, so he didn't have them having been hassled by tags, tags, that's wonderful.
Just go around the recipes and have some of it. He did contribute his, the said tags.
And when to go who likes to listen to older shows and add tags, which for which we're eternally
grateful. And some geese are called diverse in total. Sixteen shows this month. We're
gradually moving forward. We're just under six hundred or about to go under six hundred
needing attention. So slow. Excellent. Well done, Dave. Well done. And of course, the whole point of
this front end back thing is that you could check out the one of the pages and then submit fixes
and stuff and edit your own tags and edit your own shows and push them back. Don't know exactly
how that's going to work, but the ability to fix things on your own show notes, I think it would be
very, very, very popular. I think people have asked for any tags over the time I've been involved
with HBO. And it's, I mean, I'm quite happy to fix them for them, you know, gives you something to
do. Yeah, sit here in these endless hours of being returned and stuff. But Robert did, which
for you laptop. But yeah, it would be great if you could go and do that sort of stuff. Whether,
whether you want to go and edit somebody else's show, it's time to get into some some territory
that's to get a little bit more complex, but still the ability to have. Yeah, there's also the
question, should you be able to edit your own show, you've released it under the Creative Commons,
that version is now out there. And yes, you can take a coffee and modify it, but should
you be able to go back and edit it? It would be a religious question. There would be a history that
said a really, you said, you know, it was black. Now you said it's white. So, you know, which is true,
but it's more of the case of you've made some, some silly mistake in a bit of COVID you've
submitted and I really need to fix that because it looks so stupid like that. And also this
doing this in GIT gives you the first complete blame history for what has happened on the page.
So, exactly, yes, yes. Potentially we could even get to a day where, you know, somebody
submits a show via a GIT push. Anywho, that is, that's the plan. Whether we get time to do it or not,
this is not the question. A lot of busy people are involved, busy doing other things, not from me.
Let's see, anything happening on the scale 18s coming up, two weeks time on the 8th,
open source 101, IDI 2020, never heard of it. Postgres Kampf 2020, and the Susa Kahn was on
open Susa Summit, that's at the end of next month. And QKahn and CloudNate of Kahn EU on
the 30th, that might be interesting indeed. Okay, are we done, dude? I think we're done. Okay, cool.
And apologies to anybody if I missed your show. I'll make an order while I'm listening to
us and if I missed anybody's show, apologies and we'll cover it next month. Yep, yep. So to
leave you in the lurch running, running, running, running Debian testing seems like a good idea
one time, but there's a sort of process where Debian seed crops are operating system and then
gradually things get them, so get cleaned up again. But during the, you know, the Crap Don stage,
thanks. Merci, I'm afraid. Anyway, okay, cool. Dear, I'll edit this and send it on our
pauses. All right. Okay, great. Tune in tomorrow for actually, well, we'll be an exciting
episode because I spent long enough editing of Hacker Public Radio. All right, bye. Okay, cheers.
You've been listening to Hacker Public Radio at Hacker Public Radio dot org. We are a community
podcast network that release the shows every weekday Monday through Friday. Today's show,
like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself. If you ever thought of
recording a podcast and click on our contributing to find out how easy it really is, Hacker Public
Radio was founded by the digital dog pound and the infonomicom computer club and it's part of
the binary revolution at binrev.com. If you have comments on today's show, please email the host
directly, leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself, unless otherwise
status. Today's show is released on the creative comments, attribution, share a like, 3.0 license.
