Episode: 3094
Title: HPR3094: Holy crud! I have a kinesis advantage 2 keyboard!
Source: https://hub.hackerpublicradio.org/ccdn.php?filename=/eps/hpr3094/hpr3094.mp3
Transcribed: 2025-10-24 16:37:26

---

This is HACO Public Radio Episode 3,094 for Thursday 11 June 2020. Today's show is entitled, Holy Crud.
I have a Kinesis Advantage 2 keyboard. Quote,
it is hosted by Sig Flop and is about five minutes long
and carries a clean flag. The summary is,
Sig Flop does a review of the Kinesis Advantage 2 keyboard.
This episode of HPR is brought to you by AnanasThost.com.
Get 15% discount on all shared hosting with the offer code
HPR15, that's HPR15.
Better web hosting that's honest and fair at AnanasThost.com.
Hello everyone, my name is Sig Flop. That is Sig Flop is in a slobble
and yearless thing to another HACO Public Radio.
In this episode, I'm going to review the Kinesis Advantage 2 keyboard,
which I got maybe like a week ago and I've been using it ever since.
I was like, well, I'm not going to do the review until I get used to this keyboard.
And so I've been typing out for a while for like a week or so.
And I went to my laptop and tried to type with my laptop and I realized that I'm used to the Kinesis now.
One thing is the backspace is on the left, which is kind of weird.
And so when I was using my laptop, I noticed I was kind of searching for that backspace.
So yeah, I'm pretty used to it. It's a basic, you know, it's a USB keyboard, just USB head.
And there are these key wells on the left and right.
And that's where your fingers go.
And then where your thumbs go for both hands, there are buttons.
Commonly used buttons like space, enter backspace, and control, alt, and whatnot.
And yeah, I've gotten used to it.
The plus equals key is on the left.
I'm used to having it on the right, kind of where the backspace key is.
And I use VIM a lot.
So the escape key is actually on the top where the function keys are.
There's the escape key and they all look different from the other keys, but it's still really satisfying to push.
This is not a membrane keyboard or anything like that.
It's mechanical mechanical keys all the way, which is pretty good.
I can hear you can kind of program aliases where you have a key.
And that would equal a number of key presses.
And so there's a button called program on the right.
But I don't think I'm going to use that quite frankly.
And so yeah, I would say it takes a couple weeks to use too.
The keys aren't staggered as they are on typical keyboards.
They're straight up and down, but I didn't really notice that that much.
And yeah, I think that's it.
I can't really think of anything.
Anything else to say really.
Oh, listen to this.
Okay, can hear this.
That's the sound.
This little dark sound when you hit your cap saw key.
Which is good because sometimes I accidentally hit the cap saw key.
Let me just type something in here.
The man on the telephone will never let me.
And do you hear that?
It's very satisfying.
So thank you everyone.
Take care and enjoy quarantine.
Bye-bye.
You've been listening to Hecker Public Radio at HeckerPublicRadio.org.
Our community podcast network that releases shows every weekday, Monday through Friday.
Today's show, like all our shows, was contributed by an HPR listener like yourself.
If you ever thought of recording a podcast, then click on our contributing
to find out how easy it really is.
Hecker Public Radio was founded by the Digital Dove Pound and the Infonomicon Computer Club
and is part of the binary revolution at binrev.com.
If you have comments on today's show, please email the host directly.
Leave a comment on the website or record a follow-up episode yourself.
Unless otherwise stated, today's show is released under a Creative Commons
Attribution ShareLight 3.0 license.
